 It drives me crazy that we're all trying to live the protocol life right now and that everything needs to be optimized. What we think is this shiny, perfect solution really doesn't withstand a person trying to get out to school, go to work, manage a sick family member. It falls apart. Dr. Rachel Pajednik, she's a respected expert researcher, global speaker, thought leader in nutrition and exercise science. She's an expert on the health benefits of physical activity. Currently serves as the director of scientific research to restore hyper-wellness and is a faculty member of Stanford University. We abdicated a spot in this science communication space for so long that we allowed the people that are literally driving us crazy, saying wacky wild things to own the space. In these past three years, what have you been researching and what have you found? Has anything surprised you? Rachel, welcome to the Ready, Stay podcast. Thank you so much for having me. I am thrilled and humbled. Well, we have no idea. We're such fans of you and your work. We were lucky enough to meet at an event that Stacey Sims put on first. And then we both, you and Kelly and I are part of the Stanford Lifestyle Medicine Group. And so we've been, you know, our paths have just been crossing. And I've really noticed what a good job you've been doing, you know, getting out there on the internet and on to podcasts and just trying to sort of communicate some, you know, real evidence-based, specific and practical health information and sort of try to cut through the noise. So I'm just going to start with this opener question. If you could delete forever one piece of health information that is pervasive on the internet, what would it be and why do you think it's harmful? Oh, there are so many things. I mean, what to really choose from. I think the biggest problem with what's going on in the internet right now without sort of, you know, really pointing out one particular piece of advice or another is that there's this idea that there is an answer or that there is a protocol. It drives me crazy that we're all trying to live the protocol life right now and that everything needs to be optimized because, first of all, that's not the way that we live our lives. But second of all, there's almost no data to point to a very specific diet, exercise regiments, sleep hygiene protocol out there. And I think this is what's making people so crazy and confused is that they constantly feel like the message is changing number one and number two. They secondarily feel like I can't do these things and I certainly can't do all of them. So if I had to change what's going on in the wellness space right now, I'd say everybody just relax. There's too much information and not enough data to be honest. I love that. And I want to just highlight the fact that we try to remind people that the human brain is the most sophisticated structure in the universe. Attached to a physiology that's equally as complex in a psycho emotional, you know, ecosystem that's really complex. There's a lot going on and every day I coach a Division one team over at Berkeley. And what you just said is so highlights the fact of what we think is this shiny, perfect solution really doesn't withstand a person trying to get out to school, go to work, manage a sick family member, have to cook from it just it falls apart. And so what we have is this sort of shiny nuance and then when it actually meets the real application when someone's what are they doing day to day? It does. It feels like I've watched TV and now I don't know what to do about that. And I think you make a really good point, Kelly, is that athletes are often looked at as the epitome of the protocol. They've got this perfect training plan and they show up every day and they execute and if you execute, you're going to be able to show up on game day or race weekend. And it's all going to pay off. And if you actually work with athletes, you know the variation day to day stress, sleep deprivation, the changes, you know, if we're thinking about women, we've been talking about hormones a lot lately. Those are all factors that have to be dealt with every single day and no protocol or training plan is ever executed perfectly. You know, we just had Ben Bergeron on our podcast, Great Coach, and he said, you know, in this industry and he was talking more fitness, but I think it really does relate to fitness, health, wellness, whatever, you know, whatever this, you know, broader industry that we're all in is. And he said, we need a lot more yes and kind of conversations. You know, there's just too much of this like, there's one way to do things. It's this protocol idea you're talking about. And not only is that not based on reality or evidence, but it also just doesn't fit well into people's lives. So, I'd love to hear a little bit about your personal backstory. It seems like you work in this intersection of research, coaching, performance. I think you've really moved into sort of being a science communicator, translating science and evidence and, and, you know, explaining that to regular people. Tell us a little bit about how you got to this point and sort of what are you actually doing every day. It's another really good example of how everybody thinks the trajectory is very obvious. It's actually quite circuitous in life. No way. You just, you were like, I'm going over there and it's just a straight line. So I'll give you the TLDR. Basically, I started out doing my training in Boston way back in the day, exercise physiology. I was a personal trainer, ended up becoming a strength coach. Did some really cool work with some teams out there and really was going down the route of human performance and decided I wanted to go back to grad school. I was actually teaching at the time and couldn't really find a good program for human performance, but stumbled across a really neat lab at Tufts called the Nutrition Exercise Physiology and Circle Penia Lab. It was led up by a guy named Roger Fielding and they were looking at older adults and muscle and I was like, I want to look at older adults. I really want to do, but now it's a good talk track because I can always say I've been studying longevity before it was hot. Yeah. But what I realized is when I, you know, spoke to everybody in the lab is they said, Rachel, if you understand where things break, then you can work backwards and look at, you know, an optimized body. And realize where those intervention points are and where things start to go wrong. And it was a light bulb that went off in my head at the time is you don't have to study human performance or healthy aging because it's all one spectrum, one arc, if you will. And so muscle became the tissue that I was studying and I continued on the very traditional academic track. I did a postdoc. I became a faculty member at a university in Boston. I was on the tenure track. Was that Harvard? I did my postdoc at Harvard. Yes, I did. I just, I like to just put it out there, you know. Yeah, I did, but I did my PhD at Tufts and that nutrition program is actually one rank higher than our. There we go. Go Chambos. It's anyone's kind in the back. Yeah. Um, so I, you know, I was on this really traditional route, ended up moving to Vermont during COVID because everything got shook up. And my husband is actually an athletic coach and he got a job offer out here to coach at Stanford. He's one of the rowing coaches here now. And he was like, Rach, what do you think about blowing it all up and moving out West? And I said, great, but I actually don't want to work full time in academia anymore. It was kind of getting challenging for me because at the time I was studying things that are really hard to study. So I started out looking at skeletal muscle, as I mentioned, and different supplementation strategies started out with vitamin D. Challenging to study because vitamin D is hard to study. But then I started looking at CBD. And this is where things got really interesting. I at the time was in Boston and I wanted to give CBD to a cohort of people because I had gone to get a massage at a studio that was owned by the quarterback of the football team at the time. It was the TB12 studio and the massage therapist gives me this oil and she says, oh, there's CBD in it. There's so many good, wonderful recovery things that CBD is doing. And I'm like, interesting, what is it? It really recovers your muscle, reduces inflammation. I thought it's interesting. I'm a muscle researcher. I've never heard of this before. And so went and dug up the literature and realized that there really wasn't any data on it. At the time there were two research studies. One was in guinea pigs and one was in dogs. And started to go down this path of can we study these things that the wellness industry seems to think is doing all of these wonderful things for us. But really there's very limited data. And when I went to my IRB, that's the ethics committee, they were like, no, you can't get that. And I was like, you know, they have it in a massage oil right down the street and you can buy it at every gas station. Right. That's crazy. Yeah. And so started to go down that route and trying to cleverly figure out how to study these things that you were not allowed to give to people because they were in this federally gray regulatory zone. At the time, the federal government was like cannabis and hemp are illegal. States were like, no, just kidding. You can do it. But the IRB was not allowing me to do it. Move to Vermont. Same story. I was trying to study CBD. They wouldn't let me give it. I tried to study cold therapy. They wouldn't let me do it without a physician in the presence of the cold, even though my students were out jumping in the freezing cold river in Vermont and nobody cared. And so when I got to Stanford, I actually took a faculty appointment at Stanford in the Human Biology Department and the director of education at Stanford Lifestyle Medicine. But my primary role now was actually pivoting to industry. Because I was offered a job with this company called Restore and then the chief science officer where they called the up and they said to me, look, we want to spin up a lab. We've got a lot of therapies that have an absence of evidence. We're making a lot of claims about them. We're kind of under the flashlight of the FDA and the FTC because we're a pretty big company. And we want to actually put our money where our mouth is and get a really good, highly qualified scientists to come study our stuff. And if you had known me three years ago, you would have been like Rachel would never have taken that job. Literally never. She was the myth buster way back in the day. But I was offered a job and I went for a walk, as we do when we're trying to work things out. And I was listening to a podcast. And it was a podcast where people were kind of railing against the wellness industry. And I said, you know what would be great is if one of these wellness companies would pay for the research and actually hire a scientist to investigate their therapies. And I was like, hey, okay, weird, okay, weird. Universe. Universe. So I took a leap of faith and I said yes. And when I had my final interview with the CEOs and the founders at the time, I literally said to them, I want it in my contract, but I am not here to rubber stamp your shit. I'm going to do good science. I'm going to do it the way that I know how to do it, which is from the very top. And you need to deal with whatever the data actually shows and says. So their credit, they said, that's exactly what we want. We want to be transparent. We want to basically put a firewall between what you're doing and what we're doing kind of in the development and R&D side. And so that's where I've been in the past three years is transitioning from this really traditional academic route into kind of a role of a Trojan horse in the wellness industry to see if we can bring some good data and communicate some good science to people that are really just trying to help themselves stay well and get better. So tell us what in these past three years, what have you been researching and what have you found? What and has anything surprised you? So the we have four or five papers that we've published in really good journals, very similarly to the way that I would study in my lab in academia. We looked at one for cryotherapy, which had very little data and inflammation and showed over time that cryotherapy does seem to have a signal to reduce inflammation. We looked at this was very controversial. We looked at compounded GLP ones to see if we could use these therapies that the time a couple of years ago were the alternative to these prescriptions that were really, really hard to get to see if the weight loss would be the same. And I study skeletal muscle. If we could preserve skeletal muscle through a really strong coaching program, which we were able to do. We are looking at some B vitamin derivatives. You've probably heard NAD and N.R. We just had the very first manuscript ever published on IV and R because somebody had to do it to figure out if it was safe. Number one, so that was the paper was to understand safety parameters. So we're kind of poking holes in a lot of different places where people are accessing their wellness care right now. I love this on so many levels. And one of them is very difficult to take what we're learning in sort of science and sort of rigorousness and veracity of approach. And then you have this partner who coaches mutants. And you know, you really get some insight into what those kids hear, what they see and how difficult it is to translate the lessons that we know are legit into fundamental biology and performance biology. And we love performance as a laboratory because you really do see that when the margins are small, we can see effects and we start to see inputs and outputs much differently. Because it low loads, low stress, low biologic imperative, you can kind of do whatever you want. The body is very tolerable. But at the high levels, we have mutants who like it really does matter if it makes a difference. It makes a big difference. When you are now sort of thinking about science communication, because I think that's got to be the place where this really became important to you is like you have this, you know, partner whose life is. I mean, Julianne was a rower at Cal Go Bears and you know, no rivalry there at all. But you know, how do you start to also realize that traditional academia has not done a good job of translating because it's easy to be like, well, in this community and I'm like, OK, well, what are we learning from Stanford and how do we transmute that because that hasn't been part of the directive of science and communication. I think the first. In fact, it's kind of in the opposite. Like it seems like that's changing. But I remember talking to Jessica Nurick and she said when she first went out and was she got slammed. Yeah, that she got slammed by her fellow scientist as like it's, you know, it's below you as a scientist to be on the internet doing this communication. Yeah, and I want to hear sort of how you think about this evolving role. But one of my friends, Greg Cook, who have functional movement systems, said, hey, if you're not the local expert in movement in your and you're a professional, you know, you're a professional. And you're a professional person, there will be a local expert emerge and that person probably has zero training and is very bro science. So you might as well step into that role of expert. It's something that I think about all the time is, yes, when you come up in traditional academia, flirting in these circles is very frowned upon and being active in these circles is kind of shunned. Because we talked to other academics, that's the way that we've been trained in we don't say words like boost or optimize, right. But that's what the general population uses for words. And so I think just as a really good job, Jess Nurick does a really good job of this is making complex nutrition policy is kind of her stick really accessible for people to understand. And it's something that I recognized in myself years ago, I told you I was a teacher I actually taught middle school for a couple of years. They were awesome. I loved it. But this idea of early skills development of taking complex science and making it really simple like can you make science understandable for a middle schooler. And that's kind of the backbone of science communication in the world of wellness is, can you take this really complex science and make it easy for people to understand. And so that's the sort of start of where I frame my science communication. And then Kelly to your point, which I think is really important is if we're not here as the experts in this space. Somebody is going to fill that vacuum. And that vacuum is already massive. Right. We abdicated a spot in this science communication space for so long that we allowed the people that are literally driving us crazy on our social media feed every single day saying wacky wild things to own the space. This episode of the ready state podcast is brought to you by a vitality blueprint. You know what? There's two features here around vitality blueprint that are important. Number one, you finally have a place to bring all of your blood work, your historical work into one spot that will analyze it. And I think that's really cool because you're like, Hey, I got this. I got all this information and I, you know, I make stretching videos. I don't understand. I must be skating this right. And so suddenly I have someone interpret it for me, which is a great, great piece. And I think the other thing that's so key that we talked about for years and why we're such a fan of doing this kind of performance in regular blood work is that it's not just your results today that are important, but it's tracking the trends over time. And so one of the amazing things about this platform is not only can you get your blood work done comprehensively, but you can also add in and upload other blood work and really start to look at your trends over time. Which is the thing, right? It is the thing. And the last thing I want to talk about, which I think is so unusual is that like we're complex systems of systems, but vitality does a really good job saying focus on this first. This is your big constraint. Like if you want to start to move the needle, start here on these behaviors and that's really radical. Otherwise we know, I mean, we ask people to do two things. We're out. Yeah, you can do one thing, improve this one thing. Yeah. And usually when you get blood work, it's just sort of like it just goes into the ether, but actually to get this really comprehensive protocol of what to do. And in my case, my protocol wasn't a laundry list of 700 things. No, no, no. It was like two or three key things, key changes and things that I could do in my lifestyle that could potentially make a big difference. Sign me up. If you want to learn more, go to vitalityblueprint.com and use code TRS for 50 bucks off any vitality plan. If we had been here the whole time, we might have had a fighting chance, but now we're making up ground and it's really hard because I say this all the time and short of a few people, scientists suck at social media. Like they're really bad at it. When they try for the most part, it's like a really, you know, proper infographic and it's like people like swipe, ignore, boring, right? And we need to figure out a better way to crack through and get good information to people. And if that means using words like boost or optimized or longevity, that's the space that we need to really figure out how to translate what we know to be true based upon the evidence. In a way that people, real people can understand. And I think it's so complicated because, you know, and we, Kelly and I are like pro doctor all the time and we appreciate how challenging it is in our current environment for doctors to, you know, in 10 minute appointments to give this like That's generous. And so, you know, you know, people who actually understand the data aren't in the conversation and, you know, I'm sure it's very frustrating and maybe what will motivate more scientists and physicians to get online is, you know, the amount of people who must be coming into their office and saying, hey, I learned this from Instagram and that from Instagram and, you know, them having to spend a lot of time dispelling misinformation, disinformation from their clients and patients. So I just, I think it's so awesome you're there. I have to give a shout out to the Stanford lifestyle medicine group. It seems like that group is at the cutting edge and more and more of the physicians and researchers in that group are, you know, really trying to get out there and appreciating the sort of be in at the longevity and wellness conferences and get on to social media and, you know, it may take a little while before, you know, before it's the norm and not the exception but it seems like it's trending in the right direction. I was going to say even the step that Stanford took to say, hey, there's no more geriatric medicine. This is how we treat people or their lifespan health span just sort of starting to say, hey, we really have a place here and sort of to begin that conversation. How if you're a young clinician, you're a young researcher, how do you begin to think about science communication. I mean, we took, we were worthy of the appropriate when I started making videos about people caring for themselves in range of motion and pain, just that alone. My entire industry was like quack, like this is crazy. And it's taken, you know, almost 20 years for now I am, you know, working with the APTA. I'm invited to speak like, you know, it was at first Kelly was like, you know, in the traditional physical therapy world, he was like, you know, the pariah and what is he doing and he's giving away all this proprietary information. It was weird. So I remember just thinking, well, this isn't serving the people I'm working with. I have to do a better job of taking this and transmuting this so that people can do it on their own. This has some agency. Where should someone start thinking about this, this aspect of translational research or application, because it is daunting. Like, you know, what it's like to be a young underpaid undergrad postdoc. It's not like you're like, Hey, in my free time, let me just start this other side hustle. It's a lot. Science communication takes a ton of time because you do have to figure out how to make nuance really accessible for people so that they understand without losing the important details. Right. And so I think that is just in general, whether you're young and just starting out or really seasoned and trying to get into this game. It's a real challenge to figure out how to rewire your vocabulary in order to get this information across. Now, as far as getting started, I think one of the things that you really need to recognize and we all need to kind of come to terms with and you highlighted it just a second ago with your own experience Kelly. Is this idea that there is a really pervasive friction between these two worlds of traditional healthcare, academia, research, and where real people live. And so one of the things that I think about all the time is how can you have a foot in both worlds and really think about bridging the gap here. Because as you also pointed out, people are going to their providers and they're not getting the information that they want and need and it might not even just be like, hey, you know, what does this peptide do or should I put a red light mask on my face or like should I use a PEMF mat, right, which is all the kind of like fringy stuff that's going on in the wellness space. It could just be like, hey, is this like, should I be eating saturated fat? Should I not be eating saturated fat like really simple stuff that people want to know. And what I find frustrating is that the healthcare space operates kind of like within their own confines and they've been trained very purposefully to stay within the guardrails, right, like do not color outside the lines. And that's very frustrating for people because they live on the margins oftentimes. And so when you go to your doctor and they say, oh, well, that's probably not going to work for you. That's not what the data shows. People leave and they're like, what the frig, like what should I do then. And the other part that I find frustrating in the healthcare space is kind of a lack of curiosity of what people are actually doing in their day to day. And oftentimes people will say, I'm doing this, taking a supplement, doing this particular exercise regimen. And the doctor will kind of be like, well, why are you doing that? There's no evidence to support that. And I have to say as a supplement researcher, and I've been researching supplements for almost 20 years now, I find that lazy. I'm throwing a little, throwing a little stake on the ground. Here's a little Barb. We know that there are plenty of supplements that work, particularly for, what did you call them, the, our athletes that like see the 1% mutants, particularly for the mutants, right, where like, they're looking for that tiny edge, right, they're looking for, you'll appreciate this expression. Juliet is the, the bow ball over the line first, right. And that is real, and that, that does work. And so I find that really frustrating on the healthcare side of the house. On the wellness side of the house, I get really frustrated in the absolutism and the answers that they are so convinced are correct. Going back to this idea of protocols. Oh, if you have this particular condition, this is the answer. No, 100% no. And this is the problem and where people get confused is that person X is saying this is the answer person Y is saying no, no, no, no, this is the answer. And person Z is saying everything you've heard up until this point is wrong. You know, your physician is wrong. This person is wrong. And people are like, who the hell should I trust? My doctor doesn't know what I'm talking about. The wellness industry is telling me 6000 different things that I should be doing. And people are left in the middle navigating for themselves. And I find that to be putting these two worlds together. The most frustrating thing overall is that the real human beings that are truly trying to seek care, and mostly in the case that we're talking about preventive care. How do I keep myself healthy for the long span? I really left navigating all of these conflicting messages from people that they're trying to trust. And at the end of the day, they're turning to self experimentation to baby guru in their life that they kind of attach themselves to. But at the end of the day, most people are really just frustrated and confused. Are you saying serial anecdotal empiricism is not as regressed as we like? I don't know where that just came from. One of the things that we discovered is we almost had to create a whole different lane of performance therapy. Yes. That we didn't wait until the person's shoulder was so bad that they couldn't occupy their role in their family, couldn't go to work, couldn't do their job, right? Like medical emergency level. And that was where we were. Most people are having these interventions around tissue health, inflammation.  swelling, pain, loading, all those things. And we, Juliet and I finally just kind of were like, okay, this thing doesn't exist, let's go ahead and just create a different field, where we're looking at observable, measurable, repeatable phenomena. And I think this is where so much of the science communication needs to go, is like, what are the objectives that you're actually looking at as a person? Because I feel better, I'm like, that's cute, you know, that I really, I believe you, but can I see your why this change? And I think one of the things we figured out was that early on when we wrote Supple-Eppard, there were really like just two things we could measure. And one of them was your range of motion, which all everyone agrees was relatively the same, within let's say five degrees, right? And then we were like, and wattage, and power, and output. And so we could measure those things, and we could say, hey, these things got better when you did this, let's continue to repeat that. And I think that leads us back to one of the problems with health is like, how do you measure health? And how do people measure brain fog? And all of you know, cortisol burnout. And when you're thinking about these things, do we need to recognize that we just, maybe our traditional medicine models don't serve us because they are really managing complex disease, which happens for humans. And that we almost need another track, help us understand, are we misusing sort of our traditional science kind of, and wellness and health, and what the hell should people be tracking? Because if they can look at SAO2 and blood pressure, we can expand that and just say, hey, this is normal for everyone. Yeah, I think you're putting such an important and fine point on where these two worlds should and need to overlap is what is the data that we should be collecting? And I think that I love that you said it's observable, measurable, and repeatable, right? And it's not just kind of like a one-off or a weird claim, cortisol, spikes, right, which is kind of like the marketing buzz terms that everybody's saying these days. And so when I first got to restore, one of the first things that I did is I looked at a lot of our intake forms and they were asking really good questions of our clients that were coming in. There was a health history forum, there were questions around lifestyle and diet and everything, and I said, well, where did you get these information or where did you get these questions from? And to their lovely, amazing credit, all the nurses that I was working with was like, oh, well, we just made them up. And I was like, okay, cool, because A, you were first thinking about, we need to actually capture this information on our clients because it's really important for them to be able to track themselves over time. But we can actually make this a little bit more sophisticated by bringing in some validated tools that are and have been shown to be observable, measurable, and repeatable. And we know that they can then compare to the other science that's in the literature right now because they've been used by scientists and actually shown to measure what we think we're measuring. So I think that is one of the first things that we can do in the wellness space is start to integrate tools that actually make sense and have been tested to actually capture the information that people are trying to capture. And I will argue in a way that's actually comparable in different systems. So for example, if you think about the way that we are all tracking ourselves day to day with these wearables. If you were to wear an aura, a whoop, and a garment, and you were to track your sleep, they all get pretty good and close within 20 minutes or so of how many minutes of sleep that you get in a night. But if you were to actually compare the sleep zones that they are measuring, none of them are measuring those zones correctly or repeatedly. So you can't compare your aura to your whoop and you can't compare your whoop to your garment. They're all measuring something totally different. And so if you were to look, for example, at your recovery score in the morning, which is what so many people are using, your whoop might tell you, hey, it's good to go. You're great today. You got all, you know, 90 minutes of deep sleep and your aura is like flashing red, like go take a nap. You're in the danger zone because it's measured that you've only gotten 40 minutes of deep sleep that night, right? And so this is something that I think is super important that you're getting at, Kelly, is we need to find a common diagnostic suite so that we understand like, is this actually working? Is it working in the real world? And is it truly observable, measurable and repeatable so that we can see our trajectories over time? So that's something that I'm working on in every aspect of my life right now is I have a diagnostic set of tools that I have created and we're working on creating this big data set at Restore. And every single time I consult and talk with these other companies, I'm like, can we standardize the way that we are asking questions so that I can go out and say, oh, you're using an aura or you're using a whoop. Oh, I can see like, yes, this is actually accurate information and you can trust that information as well so that you can track your changes over time. But that's not the way that the world is in the wellness space right now. What you just said just blew my mind and I'm like, yes, you know, that a true model and if we're trying to model human function, it has to be, you have to explain current phenomenon, you have to be able to predict future phenomenon and this is it, you have to be able to communicate that information across platforms. Otherwise it's not a model. What it sounds like is we don't have a unified model for the body because we're so diverse. You'll appreciate that I've had all of those devices and which one did you trim it if you're the best? At times I wear them at the same time and but then I will always like cast away the one that is giving me the worst scores and conclude that like that one is wrong. I mean, think of me as like your average user and I'm like, well, my aura ring has been telling me I'm not doing well lately, but my garment has been saying I'm crushing it so like I'm not gonna wear my aura and then if my garment starts going downhill I'm like, I better put my aura on tonight because things don't look good for me over my garment. I mean, literally this is ridiculous. She's never said this out loud. Yeah, I do that. I'm like, which one is gonna be better for me and make me feel better about myself, which is totally insane, right? That's not data and it's not anything. So, okay, so... Can I just tap in really quickly about like kind of like the alternative version of the healthcare? Cause I think it's really worth comparing these two worlds is when we think about the diagnostics that are on the healthcare suite, if you will, you know, let's look at blood, for example. There's a really standard panel of blood that you might get. It's, you know, your A1c, it's your fasting glucose, your triglycerides, your cholesterol markers, maybe some inflammatory markers. And here's where things get kind of problematic. I think on this side is you have a range of what's normal and what tends to happen in the healthcare interpretation of these diagnostics is as long as you're in the normal range, you're good. What they're also not doing for the most part, there are some physicians that are doing better at this, is tracking change over time. I'll give you a really good example. So let's say you're 25 years old and you go and get your blood work done and your A1c, which is a measure of your glucose metabolism, is somewhere around 5.1, which is really good. It's very normal. And then you're 35 and you go to the doctor and now it's 5.3, still normal. But you're still printing in the wrong direction. You go in your 45 and it's 5.6. You are borderline now for insulin resistance and eventually trending toward type two diabetes, but you're still in the green. And it's probably likely that you saw a different doctor at 25 to 35 to 45. And so that trend never gets caught. And now you go at 55 and your A1c is at six and oh, hey, now you've got a diagnosis. When it probably could have been caught at age 35. And so this is a problem of using really traditional diagnostics is they're great and they're great for cutting and creating thresholds for a diagnosis of a disease. But oftentimes what we don't see is this trend over time, which I think the wellness industry is getting better at even if their tools are not yet refined enough to really capture and compare. And let me give one more example. Juliet may or may not have had a traumatic birth and received 12 blood transfusions at one point. Just call it a blood bag. But I remember distinctly where the physician's like, well, you're not that anemic and you were at the very bottom number of the reference range for like, and I was like, that has nothing to do with the fact that you're an athlete, you're a superstar. Like you had no ferritin, you had matriculitis, like that of someone who doesn't have blood. And the thing that you just said about the trending also doesn't say about that didn't match what the physicians had didn't actually match to its experience, right? Around, hey, I don't feel very poppy. I was a division one rower and I have a huge aerobic engine and I don't feel like I can access it. So real quick before we move, how do you we think about that problem? Because then I know that's functional medicine and putting people into these ranges, but that range goes in both directions where people aren't catching that or we don't know you well enough or hey, that's good enough and is good enough the place for my primary care. But if I'm interested in performance, I should have a performance physician. Is that even possible? I think it's possible. I think a lot of doctors, especially after working in the lifestyle medicine space for a really long time, which is kind of adjacent to the functional space, a lot of doctors are really becoming disaffected with the system, right? They didn't get into medicine to type into an EHR for 15 minutes while their patients kind of like rattle on and they have to ask them all these questions that are in the check boxes that are. And that was an electric health record, everyone. EHR. Yeah, sorry, electronic health record. So I think a lot of doctors are also getting frustrated with this system. The good thing about the healthcare system is it's repeatable and consistent, right? So if you go get your A1c done at one doctor, you can trust that the test is comparable to the other doctor. The problem is the communication starts to break down. And to your point, Juliet, like, okay, if you're at the lowest level of all of these markers of iron homeostasis and you're normally somewhere in like mid to high level, you might have been flagged as normal, but for you that is not normal. Very disnormal, yes. Yeah. And so I think this is where we have an opportunity to bring these two worlds together and start to use the diagnostic tools that we know work and are repeatable and feed them into the sort of continuous real time devices or apps or whatever it is that the industry is creating so that people can actually start to see their own trends over time, keep track of them in one place and have that point of communication consistent so that if people start to see things slipping and sliding, they can rely on the metric that they are seeing and also then go seek care when they start to notice that things are going sideways before they end up with a diagnosis. So that's where I think the wellness industry shines is this idea of hyper personalization. We're not there yet, but we are trending in that direction and I'm really excited about it. This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Momentus. You know what's super cool? What? Caroline Saret takes a protein shake to school in the morning. I have one, that's one I'm gonna call peak father. Yeah, and I think what I'll say here is that aside from all of the technical benefits of eating enough protein, one of the key things is actually finding a protein powder that you like and taste good. And I think that's one of the amazing things about Momentus protein powder. I mean, I'm obsessed with the strawberry, but Caroline, our daughter, will mow down the chocolate protein like it's her job. Yeah, and I think I can't stress enough that you and I have the protein test. Can you put it in tepid water? Yeah. It does taste good. But imagine you shish it up a little bit. Maybe add a little piece of banana in there. Yeah. And then she's like, whoa, I've got some micronutrients in here, dad. But I have a sneaker creatine in there. Collagen. Dude, it is a delivery system. She has no idea. She has no idea. She's never gonna listen to this, but I am secretly sending my daughter out prepared. And what's nice though is, you know, kids have low drive to eat breakfast anyway. Then at least I know. They're supposed to still be asleep. That's right. In her first period, she's got 40 grams of protein down. And I'm like, I don't know what's gonna happen at lunch, but it doesn't matter. Yeah, but the key there is it is a really tasty protein powder. We could call it the Caroline line. Like just the fact that like, will Caroline eat it yes or no? Like, you're like, Mikey likes it. Dude, you, those of you who are old enough to understand the life commercial, Caroline is that person. Yeah, so if you're looking for a tasty, easy to drink and mix protein powder, this is the one. Skadeesh. If you wanna learn more, go to livemomentis.com slash TRS and use code TRS and save up to 35% in your first order. Hey, if you're enjoying the show, make sure you're subscribed wherever you get your podcast. That way you won't miss any of the new episodes we drop. Plus, it really helps other people find the show. So hit that follow button now and let's get back to it. Yeah. Yeah, and I was just gonna say, I mean, there's a lot of fringy stuff that Kelly and I are not fans of, but just because we've tapped into this blood work piece. I mean, we really got on this. We actually really started working with this very early independent blood work company, like way back in 2012. And Kelly and I actually really started doing more regular comprehensive blood work, sort of outside of the traditional medical care system and starting to see that like, if you can actually start to track trends and changes and maybe make some alterations in your lifestyle or your medications or whatever you're doing before things start to go south, like it really can make a big difference in your overall health. But it is interesting to see over, as you were talking over the last, let's just say it's been 13 or 14 years, Kelly and I have gotten comprehensive blood work from, you know, five or seven different independent groups. Then we've gotten tons of blood work within our traditional medical care system. And you're right, none of it is in, like there's no single source. So I could go over into my one medical and see some years of trends. And then I could go back into my Kaiser for some years and see some trends. And then, right, but there really isn't this like single source of truth. And so from a blood work perspective, it is interesting. I just never thought about it like that until you said that, that we really don't have a way because we all are changing insurance and trying, you know, we get something from this company and that company and right, there's no way. So, you know, maybe that's a business for someone right there, but anyway, I guess, you know, one of the things I love about your work is how practical you are. And that's one of the reasons I love following you on Instagram and, you know, tracking all the work you do. And again, I know that you're not someone, and we all I think are sort of critical of like this. There is one protocol, but I think there's some basics we can all agree on. And I guess my question to you is what are those basics? And then I would also sort of add to that, if there are some things we should be tracking on the regular, what would those things be? That's a great question. I like to think about the foundations and then the fun stuff as big levers and little levers. So, if we think about the big levers, these are the obvious kind of unsexy parts. Oh, like money with these. Yeah, it is. You gotta move your body. You have to eat a diet that is mostly healthy, mostly gonna be unprocessed foods, sometimes M&Ms because life must have joy. Seriously. You need to get a sufficient amount of sleep in a pattern that makes sense for your body. You need to find a way to cope with stress in a way that works for you and your schedule. You need to surround yourself with people that are really supportive and loving and have relationships with others. We know that that's becoming such an important component to the human experience. And if you can start to really dial those big levers in, that's gonna have the most, what we call in science, effect size. So, when we think about the magnitude of the outcome, these big levers are gonna make a huge difference. They're gonna have, if we were to measure it statistically, a large effect size. Then you can start to sprinkle in the fun stuff, right? So once you've got those big levers pulled, we're talking about perhaps some supplementation that might enhance your performance or your brain health or touch on some issues that you're dealing with. You could refine your exercise so that it is specific to training for a marathon or training for a powerlifting event or a high rocks event, right? So when we think about the overall trajectory, if you can really focus on those big levers, get those under control and then have fun and play with those little levers, you're gonna feel confident because you're actually coming back to those same patterns and behaviors over and over again, which is kind of soothing to the soul rather than sort of like responding to every shiny object and things that spin. And you're also allowing yourself the curiosity and the creativity to find those kind of sprinkles on the cake that you have baked that work best for you and for your body. And so as we think about the sort of foundational pieces, that's the way that I like to frame it. And then as far as things that you want to test, a lot of these wellness-y tests, as we talked about, are kind of experimental at this point and not particularly repeatable. So the things that I really like are the basic blood work panels, right? Particularly around metabolic health, check your A1c, check your fasting glucose, check your triglycerides and your cholesterol. And yes, without going down this rabbit hole, your LDL cholesterol matters. Please get it tested. It is an indicator of cardiovascular disease risk. Maybe more importantly, a low HDL is important for cardiovascular disease risk. So please be careful in the biohacker, bro science world, please get your LDL checked. And then on top of that, some really simple things that I like to measure are resting heart rate, first thing in the morning. So if you are consistently at a resting heart rate of what's called at 55 when you wake up first thing in the morning and three days in a row, you wake up and you're at a 65 or a 68, something's going on there, right? It could be that your sleep is poor, it could be that you're over-trained, it could be that you're getting sick. That's a really good indication for you because it's a measure that is consistent and repeatable in your own body. These other metrics, things like HRV or we talked about the different sleep stages or the sleep zones, I'm not completely convinced that they are an indication of anything right now. If we look at HRV in particular, it changes a lot based upon a lot of inputs that you could manipulate. Like, did you have one extra glass of wine the night before? Did you stay up too late? Did you have a fight with your partner the day before? That's all going to affect your HRV. But what we don't know yet in the literature is whether that affects your future performance. That just doesn't exist in the literature right now. Like that data is an absolute absence of evidence. And in fact, in some cases, this is really fun. They looked at war fighters that were flying planes and they've actually showed that those that had a lower HRV, so poorer HRV, actually flew better the next day. And one of the hypothesis is that they were appropriately stressed out, that they knew that there was a really important and consequential event in their future. And so they had the butterflies. And the war fighter said, I like to call it butterflies flying in formation. Right, like they were ready for it. But their body was stressed out and that's okay because we know that stress heightens arousal and they needed to be really on point when they were flying their planes around. So stick with the basics, even with the diagnostics. If you get those dialed in and you really learn your own body and you can follow trends over time, you can start to see very clearly where things go wrong. And I can, can I just go? Please go ahead. Well, I was just going to say, this is more of a comment and then I'll let Kelly ask his question. But thank you for saying that about HRV because we actually coach real people. And right, and that's also could be a whole other side conversation, the intersection between like all this talk we do and then the reality of coaching actual humans. But I would say in our group, our STARAT system program, the biggest source of anxiety when it comes to tracking is HRV. So many of our clients have what they consider to be poor HRV, they can't seem to improve their HRV. And it is this, it actually becomes a source of anxiety for them because this wellness, influencer world is telling them that like, HRV is the thing. And again, this is not science, this is my instinct tells me that like from what I see over all these years that there's not, doesn't seem to be a ton people are able to do to really massively influence it. It seems to be very genetically based. Like I trained with this woman, Margaret, her heart, she's 57, her heart rate variability is like 100 every night. She's just like a mutant. And then, I don't know. So it's just, I thank you for saying that because I do really feel like it's this metric that we don't at least have good protocols for figuring out to improve or control. And it does actually cause people a ton, the people who are tracking, it is causing them a lot of anxiety that it's poor. And it's poor in a lot of people because usually the people are tracking are people in their like 40s, 50s, 60s who are peak job raising kids, stress, busy life. And, you know, it's just not awesome. I'll just tap in really quickly. Can I do? Can you ask you a question if you don't mind? When many of the groups and the athletes that I work with, we actually recommend to them, especially at peak performance times, that they stop wearing their wearables. And there was actually, I believe it was the WNBA, they said, don't like do not wear your wearable before big games, before championships. Because what happens is you wake up in the morning and you look down at your watch and you're like, oh God, I am not primed to do my thing today, right? I'm not primed to show up. And what it does is it, before you even put a foot on the ground in the morning, it biases your brain to believe that you're not able to perform at your own peak at every, you know, the peak that you have been training for every single day. And so we actually recommend that you don't wear those wearables at times that it matters. And I'm actually working right now with a group that's trying to help the women's USA cycling team start to track their progress and nutrition and, you know, align their diagnostics with their training so that they can dial in and dial out training based upon where their body is. And one of the suggestions that we had from one of the researchers at UC Davis, Keith Barr, is he was like, you know what we gotta figure out? How to create an app where when they turn it on first thing in the morning, it asks them how do you feel before they get to see their score or maybe they even don't get to see their score because the feeling that you wake up with is much more powerful for the way that you are gonna perform later on in that day than the number that might arbitrarily have tanked your HRV or, you know, your readiness score or whatever it is that you're looking at. And so if you can bias your brain to be like, hey, I feel great. And then you open your score and you're like, all right, whoop, does not think so. You might be able to kind of overcome that initial negative bias, but that would be my suggestion as well as far as like a trackable piece here is, yeah, there's all these, you know, objective diagnostics, but you can also think about subjectively waking up in the morning and just frankly asking yourself, how do I feel today? And that's a great way to start the day. We, Kelly and I developed this scientific test a long time ago that we ask ourselves, do we have a desire to train? It's real, it's deep science. And because we both have a strong desire to move, you know, we're like movers, we have a strong desire to move. And so if anything, we're gonna override that when we shouldn't be, when we should be resting. And so we started asking ourselves like 10 or 15 years ago, like wake up in the morning, don't look at our devices and say like, do I have a desire to move today? And on those days when we just are like, oh, I have no desire to move, we actually listen to that. And it's, you know, it's not scientifically validated, but it does really seem to work for us. We should validate that, it would be really fun. How do you feel? What? Whoa, whoa, whoa. I just wanna highlight the wisdom that you just dropped. That was exactly what I was gonna just circle up on. And, Great mind. You know, I just had a conversation with a woman who is very high level player, captain of our international team. She's on her way to European championships. And she's like, okay, I think I'm interested in your watch, but I'm worried it's gonna tell me I'm not recovered. And I was like, we don't, it's a training tool. You know, we don't look at like, oh, your bench press went down, you're gonna not be able to play. I mean, it's just, that's, it's crazy. And I just love, love that, that. And I wanna highlight for everyone the real world application of being on a team with real people. And I don't mean just in sports. I mean, like, you think about your group, that person has a sick baby. That person has a sick parent. That person just jet lagged. You still gotta show up and do the thing. And I think that's, you know, almost weak. We almost call it like plausible deniability. We're like, wow, it wasn't, you know, my metrics weren't good. I'm like, turns out you had crap genetics, crap coaching, crap preparation. But you know, you have to show up and put that, you know, bow ball over the line first. And it doesn't, it's agnostic about how you got there. And I just love that reframing because it is hard to take this personal information. And here's the rub, translate it into something that I can do because I'm like, okay, what did you do about it? Well, you still ate two bags of gummy bears today for dinner and you, you know, you, and as all the things you said, all the big leavers aren't getting pulled and you're just measuring crap. 100%. And that's the part that I think with all these diagnostics, that we kind of like loop it all back is like there's such opportunity here. And then there's also such a cavern to fall into if you're not really careful about the way that you use and interpret that. There's gotta be a, like this, I think it's like orthorexia, orthosomnia, right? Where you start to worry about your health and you start to perseverate on your sleep. There's gotta be a disease where you worry about worrying about the sleep. You wanna know something really interesting? There was actually a report that Lululemon put out in 2024 where they were talking about the global state of wellness. And they found that the vast majority of people that are concerned about their wellness are also kind of like making them sick over the concern about their wellness. It's kind of like the rexias that you're talking about here, right? Is that like there's wellness rexia here with being so concerned that you are opti...  amlodimizing, and that you're doing all the right exercising and that you're exercising hard enough and you're eating the right diet is actually a vicious cycle for people rather than a virtuous cycle in many cases. I like that. I love that. Yeah. Okay, so I know that you maybe, I don't know if you're trying to retire your role as a myth buster, but I would like to see, maybe this can be a bit rapid fire on a couple of topics. The first one, and I know you just wrote a great sub-stack article on this and you can get on the internet on literally any day and you're like, yes, you should do more zone two and zone two is the source of all longevity. And then it's like, no women shouldn't do zone two. And I mean, it's the zone do thing is like, it's one of the questions Kelly and I have to answer to a lot in our own coaching and working with people. So, you know, can you give us a sort of rapid fire? Like, how do we think about zone two and you know, if we don't do it perfectly, are we all gonna die? Yeah, 100%. So I am an aerobic athlete for the most part. And I wrote this sub-stack that the headline was basically most longevity influencers have no idea how to actually train because they're all using this idea of zone two. Good clickbait. Good job, scientists. I love it. Yeah, yeah, I'm working on it. So, like, most people are talking about zone two, like it's some magical, like mitochondrial unlock. Like, sorry, I'm like giggling over this now, but you train people like zone two is it's the place where you practice your skill. It's the place where you get your body really used to the motion, whether it's running or cycling or rowing or swimming. And you get really good at it there. You start to train your base so that you can work harder in the future and your form doesn't break down and you are able to push out into zone three, zone four, and in some cases zone five without getting injured, without, you know, overtraining. And I just, it makes me giggle that this has become the biohacker, like, aerobic exercise. And the other part that's really funny is zone two is not even the best training zone for mitochondrial growth or efficiency. Like, if you want to increase your aerobic capacity, you actually have to train higher. And so I, and then, and then Julia, to your point, like you've got all these people being like, oh, but women shouldn't do zone two because they're already aerobic animals. And like the whole thing, it's just like, dude, just go for a run. Like, that's what you need to do. You're a rec athlete at best. Yeah. Like, let me just be clear, everyone, like, I know you think you're legit, but you are not legit. And don't worry about the zone two. If you're not even training hard three hours a week in the first place. Okay. And then my next myth, but this is next and last, next and last. I think you also wrote a sub-sec about this. You know, what do you say to people who are like, well, I read that there's lead in protein powder, so I can't eat protein powder. Yeah. How do you approach that question? I bet you get it as well. I do get a lot of nutrition questions because that's kind of one of my tricks, particularly with the lead in protein powder. You know, that was a bit of a sting operation for sure, where, you know, people were going after these companies and really trying to, you know, bring them down at some level. I do think there is utility in some of these testing protocols. I'm trying really hard not to use that word. You do want to get, you do want to take supplements that are third party tested, right? That is really important. And the thing that was interesting about the protein powder is that I don't think it translated very well is the reason why the ones that flagged really high in lead did is because they were highly concentrated plant proteins. And lead and other heavy metals occurs very naturally in soil. It's not nefarious. It's, it just lives there and it gets sucked up in some small amount into plants. And so when you hyper concentrate anything, that is going to hyper concentrate everything that is in that particular, you know, original form. And so I think about this for greens powders as well is that you're concentrating a lot of the things that you want. And you're also concentrating potentially some things that you don't want. And so I actually think it's good that they're tested and make sure that like the stuff that you don't want in there isn't in there. And honestly, the supplement world, this is another podcast. We're going to get another hour for this is, you know, it's, it's pretty unregulated and you do need to be careful out there. So make sure if you are taking supplements, even if it's something as simple and benign as the protein powder that you are, just double checking to make sure that it's been tested, that what's in the bottle is actually in there and that there's nothing else that is contaminating it. Shout out on the NSF for sport. We're here. Yes. NSF for sport. Yes. Great one. This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Element. We just had on the amazing Dr. Rachel. Well, actually on this episode, we're having on having on. And one of the things we asked her is like, Hey, could you give us an idea around a personal experiment that you can run? Yeah, on your health. And she said, you know what? Something I do with all my students at the university, she's like, the course, this nutrition, I haven't changed one thing. And they do it for like the whole semester. Like, she's like, do this and then run this experiment and see number one, how it impacts you, probably positively. Number two, what prevents you from doing it? Right. Like it starts to, she says it's future proofs, future proofs yourself. So here's what we're going to say. I want you to wake up, maybe have a coffee. Yeah, run this experiment. And then I want you to drink an element in the morning. Yeah. And it doesn't need to be 14 weeks. Like try this for one week, seven days. I don't think you're getting enough water first thing in the morning. I think you're going to pay for it later on in your tissue quality and your, how you recover and how your joints feel the brain fog. But once you've had that coffee, I want you to commit to drinking an element that's going to, it's going to easy to suck that water up. You're going to replace salts. Like it, and then if you don't drink water again for the rest of the day, I still think you're, hey, it's not me. I'm talking about you. I'm talking to you. That's true. But the bottom line here is run this experiment and I guarantee literally text us. Kelly, start at the right estate. If you don't feel better, you'll be shocked. That's an email. You will be blown away at how much better you feel when you'd have some tasty water. Yeah, run this. Run this mini experiment on yourself. And, you know, one of our feelings is that in order to actually do this, you want your water to be fun and taste good. So if you're going to run this mini experiment, add some element to it, do it for seven days and then let us know how you feel. And your friend, Beth, put us onto a, she's like, try hot element. That was years ago. It changed my life. So hot element. Right now, if you order through our link, you can get a free sample pack of elements, most popular drink mix flavors. If you want to try a party in your mouth, there's always the sparkle route. I'm fine with that too. Go to drinklmt.com slash TRS. We literally drink it every day. By the day. This, I know, goes sort of against this long game that we're saying, but do you have a challenge or behavior that people could engage in and do a micro experiment for a week? Like, I really love, I'm like, hey, run one experiment at a time. You know, Nick Gill, who is the director of performance for the All Blacks says this, like run a little experiment. Drink some more water this week and see if it changes something like cost nothing. And it can be subjective joy. Like, hey, I drink more water and X happened. You feel better. I'm into, turns out that humans that feel better tend to do better. And they certainly play better. Do you have something like that that you could help us just run a little mini experiment on? I love this. And I actually do this with my students. So I have them do a nutrition class that I teach. I have them do one tiny change around their nutrition and they could pick anything that they want, but it has to be small. So it could be drink more water. It could be add one fruit or vegetable to the day. It could be one. It could be make sure that they eat breakfast in the morning. Like, whatever it is, choose the thing that you are looking at yourself and being like, that's probably something that I should pay attention to. Pick that and then do it for they do it for the full semester. So it's a good 14 weeks. So it's longer than a 30 days, but I like the 30 day cut off. And the part that I think is really important is yes, pay attention to the things that are going well. Yes, I feel great. I'm I'm you know, I'm hydrated. I my brain fog is going away in the afternoon. But also pay attention when things start to go off the rails so that you know what to prepare for in the future so that you can essentially set your future self up for success. So let's say, for example, you want to drink water, let's say eight ounces of water more every single day. And you find yourself. I'll use my students as an example going from class to class to class to class to class. And you get to the end of the day and you're like, I haven't had any water to drink all day long. Recognizing that a that's a pattern that you need to break. But B, what can you do in the day to set your future self up? Let's say tomorrow for a, you know, I carry a water ball, auto with me or I when apple in my bag or something. Exactly. So it teaches you how good you feel when you hit that behavior, but also teaches you to recognize the moments when things might go sideways so that you can preempt them. And the phrase I like to use set your future self up for success. I love that. And I think that just sort of circles it up so well with what we started with, which is this, I think overarching idea that there isn't necessarily there's some important principles that we discussed and basics, these sort of big levers that we all need to follow. But there isn't really one, a one size fits all perfect protocol that everyone should be following. And part of figuring out what is going to work is doing these little self experiments, because what exactly works for you from a training and nutrition perspective might not work exactly for me or for Kelly. And I do think part of it is this sort of self experimentation and then sort of accepting and realizing like these are the things that work well for me. And then you can put that against objective data. My bone density is going up. My muscle mass is going up. Right. Then we can say, all right, you know, it's different kind of input. All roads lead to Rome, but a lot of roads don't go to Rome. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Okay. So be water rose can drive you straight into the ocean. Exactly. Be careful. Okay. So our last question we ask all of our guests is help us add something to our infinite shelf. And that can be a book, a show, a piece of music, something you're enjoying listening to, watching, reading that we can share with our audience. Obsessed with favorite book. Anything. This is an excellent question. Um. I think one thing that I really enjoy and this is, uh, I guess it's something that I've always done is really try to have a different, um, genre of book than you would normally have in your day to day. And for me, this is hilarious. And I can't believe I'm admitting this on a podcast right now. This is, I feel like you guys would fall into this category with me like, oh, I lean in toward the health podcasts or the health books. Suple leopard is obviously on my, um, on my bookshelf. But I also find that having kind of just like trash reading around is we are here for it. For five brain. Not call my sci-fi fantasy trash. Yeah. Okay. So what's your favorite trash reading? Is it deep end? Yeah, I can. Yeah, I fourth wing. I, I call it a brain candy. Um, yes, by the way, amazing movie. Yes. Great. Uh, yes. Um, fourth wing was really good. I really liked that one. Um, I also am into the, um, the, uh, kingdom of, of roses and thorns. There's always like blood and ash quarter thorns, roses, blood, and roses. Thank you very much. Yes. So my, this is terrible. My, um, internal name for this genre is, is dragon smut. Um, I like that. Well, we know all those books. We know all those books. Rachel have them all at our house because our daughter Caroline has been really into that genre since I don't know, she was 10 years old and has read, I mean, she has read every single pot. And I'm always like, do all your books always have like a rose and a thorn and an ash and a court and a crown. And we didn't even have to talk about birds and the bees at all with her. Because she was like, Oh, I've been reading books about this for years. So, so no shade coming from me at all. I'm, I'm, I'm a pro reading and whatever it is, I'm here for it. So I love it. Um, I'm glad that you dragged that out of me because I wasn't going to say it in the very, like you could probably see the struggle in my face. Like, do I actually tell them that this is what I read? But I will, I will say in my defense and science is my love language. So I will, I will wrap it up with this is that there's actually some pretty good data that shows that reading nonfiction is really good for your brain, especially if you're kind of a straight line spreadsheet thinker like I am, because it unlocks creativity and it allows you to kind of like disassociate from the, the day to day part of your life, which is quite good for your brain. I'm not a brain scientist, but that's what I read. And that's my confirmation bias for my, uh, I love it. I love it. I'm, I'm for confirmation bias that is around smutty dragon lore. I think that's so good. Well, um, you know, total honor and pleasure to have you and you know, keep doing what you're doing out there on the internet and your sub stack, um, and tell people where they can find you, follow you, learn more about your work. Uh, thank you so much for having me. This conversation I think is so important for real people. And I'm very grateful for the platform. Uh, people can find me at Rachel Pagednik on the socials, Rachelpagednik.com. I keep it pretty simple. It's kind of a complicated spelling, but if you start typing it into Google, it should be the only ones pretty unique. Yeah. Awesome. And you, and just shout out to your sub stack as well. It's great. Um, if anyone's looking for great practical and evidence based, uh, thinking around this health wellness longevity space, it's a really great place to go. So enjoy it. Thank you. And last, I just want to say to talk of bulls is not the same thing as to be in the bull ring and good job being in the bull ring, talking the talk, communicating to us mortals, you know, and trans translating this experience and all of this information into things that actually make a difference in my life. I really appreciate it. Uh, I'm so grateful and we need more people in the arena. So let's go. Let's go. All right. Thanks again. Hey, Kelly and Juliet here. If you're ready to feel strong, move freely and have a body that's built to last for life. We've got something special for you. The star ed system. It's our 12 week strength and lifestyle training program. We designed it so you don't have to guess what works anymore. We blend strength, mobility and recovery into one smart system that actually sticks over 12 weeks. You'll train with us and learn from our expert guests, build strength, lose the stiffness, wake up with more energy and finally feel in control of your body again. If that sounds like your kind of move, go to the ready state.com slash system to apply. We'd love to help you show up stronger, more capable and ready for anything life throws at you. Let's make it happen. We'll see you inside.