 One of the things that we can do to solve a lot of problems in the lower extremity, from the back, to the hip, to the knee, is to improve and restore normative hip rotation. So sometimes the rotational capacities of the hip, right, internal and external rotation, end up sort of being an afterthought. Like, yeah, maybe we're doing some 90-90 on the ground, but ultimately we've gotta keep an eye on how this hip joint articulates because it not has a lot of problems in the lower extremity, and having access to the lower extremity, and having access to the lower extremity, and having access to these ranges of motion actually diminishes our movement choices and the strength and positions, even isometric control and ultimately power of that system. And when I have to go around big primary engine problems, right, we've got the spinal engine, we've got the big primary engines of hip and the shoulder, when I'm having to work around that, we're gonna have to use the knee and the foot to sort of accommodate and that just puts us in potentially less advantageous positions and certainly gives us less options to generate force and less kind of movement solutions. Plus, oftentimes when someone's coming in with back pain, one of the first things that we're trying to do is, hey, let's just start crossing stuff off the list. And one of the ways that we can make a more stable pelvis on femur is have a femur that rotates so that my short hip rotators of the femur actually can sort of stabilize the pelvis on the femur. So let's define what we're talking about. And let me show you a couple ways that we think about maintaining this so that you can just either work on it clearly and in a defined way, or you can potentially integrate it into femur warm-up and play. So as we're starting on rotation, let's define our terms. Now, we are interested in rotation of the hip through all ranges. Like, I need to be able to twist my body, get my torso over my base of support, a whole lot of things. We know that we should be chasing 120 to 130 degrees of hip flexion. So when the knee is in line, not this super wide squat, but knee in line, I need to make sure that this knee can come to 120 to 130 degrees. People are starting to get that. We use bands, that's why we do step-ups, etc., etc. We like to assess, and it's pretty normal to assess the hips rotation in this 90 degrees when someone's on their back. Ultimately, we want to be able to see this as a correlate for the real thing. And I see someone doing something wonky in their squat, and I'm thinking, hey, I wonder if that's a rotation problem. This is just a quick way to assess it. Now, again, I want to have rotation when the leg is moving towards more extension or even inflection. I should still have some rotation when the knee is coming across the body, like a pitcher winding up the throw. We start to see that motion. If I'm going to kind of take a big step, that knee starts to come to this other hip. We oftentimes are seeing, though, that athletes do not have any clear rotation here. So when the femur externally rotates, the leg comes across. That's external rotation, even though it feels weird because the foot's going towards you. Internal rotation of the femur happens when the leg spins out. Now, oftentimes, what we see is that we can get by with just some internal rotation. Do I have some? So what we'll see is that we tend to assess this in sort of chunks. Here's your external rotation chunks. And normative in this 90-degree position is about 45 degrees of external rotation. That allows you to do a lot of things. It's crossing your leg, figure four, pigeon pose. There's a reason why we spend a lot of time working on this shape. But in this 90-degree position, without lots of twisting and compensating by the hip to solve this problem, like we see in 90-90 on the floor, this purer should at least be 45 degrees. That means that if I'm going to chase a rotation window of 70 to 90 degrees, I've got to have a good chunk of internal rotation. And most of the time, we see that athletes are stiff when they get to about zero, which means that I'm not going to, number one, be able to move and create the stability through a whole bunch of movement choices. Yes, maybe I'll be fine on the elliptical machine. But more importantly, what we start to see is that the hip doesn't be able to rotate. And that means that I can't quite create the stability of the femur into the pelvis. Oftentimes what happens then is to solve that, the hip comes proud a little bit. The joint just translates forward. And then I buy myself some space, but I end up missing this chunk of rotation or of hip flexion now, and certainly hip extension, because that joint has sort of stolen from Peter to pay Paul. It's going to become proud. It translates forward a little bit. And then now I have a little bit more rotation. But now my hamstrings have gotten longer functionally. Again, I've lost some of these other key ranges. So when we assess this, we just let the weight of the femur do its thing. But when we're really assessing it, we load the femur into the back of the socket. And then this is where we really start to see the difference here. And this is why people oftentimes when they're doing 90-90 on the floor, hey, I'm getting some internal rotation, but that leg is way out. It's just you're solving a mechanical problem by jamming it into the ground. When we actually put the femur into the back of the socket, we're like, oh my lord, this rotation window is none. And this can be a driver of a ton of hip dysfunction, can be a driver for a lot of knee pain, and certainly can be a driver of a little back pain. And again, what we're looking for is a rotation window of about 70 degrees here. Now, let me move the skeleton for a second. And what we'll see then is if you needed to just test yourself, again, this isn't even a great test. Why? Because the femur in this position isn't really being loaded through the joint. It's being loaded sort of through my ischial tuberosities. But I should have some internal rotation. So here the leg is spinning out, and I'm a little bit stiff today. This is a snapshot of me cold without being warmed up. I've got some rotation. If I was jammed here, and again, not twisting my body to solve that problem, or letting the hip come forward to solve it like we would see in 90-90, I should easily hit 30 to 45 degrees, and I should have some in this kind of hip self-assessment position. If again, if I'm trying to be very clear, I'm always pushing my athletes towards more normative range. And as soon as we have some, we can start to really have a lot more movement kind of solution optimization. So let me show you some of my favorite ways to noodle on restoring this key rotation. Sitting on the ground is an easy way to be noodling these positions without equipment, without sort of complexity. And certainly, I have my leg in some internal rotation here, and some external rotation here. But notice that my line, my femur, isn't really in line. It's out to the side. And this isn't where we're sort of missing internal rotation. Now I'm getting the stretch. The femur is sort of doing whatever it needs to do to have some internal rotation here. You'll see that most people are not bringing their leg fully into internal rotation position. It puts a lot of gapping force on the knee. And even right now, my butt is off the ground. Because I shouldn't have 90 degrees of internal rotation here. So this can be useful if I'm watching TV, at least to be touching some of the proximity of the shapes. But our experience is that people who still do a 90-90, or even all the kind of classic Samba drills that we see, you know, moving through space, this is a great way of working on maintaining some rotation window. But sometimes we may need a little bit different loading. But at the very least, this we'll call level one. So level two might be, hey, I'm going to do something that looks a little bit more formal. There's a reason why crawling was such an important aspect of sort of modern humans. And I mean like proto-humans, maybe not the last hundred years. But we used to spend a lot of time on the ground working. And when we're on the ground putting weight into the knee, it pushes that femur back into the socket. One of the first things that we do when we're doing manual work on someone is to try to get that hip recessed a little bit. Or maybe the term is centrated, makes you feel better. That if I'm a little bit proud, then I can get some more rotation, but I miss some things. So I'm really interested in setting that and getting some kind of that posterior capsule mode. The same way we might do a kind of classic swimmer stretch. I'm trying to mobilize that posterior capsule to restore rotation. So one of the ways that we can do that is to go ahead and just put a pillow down under the knee and get all my weight driving through the femur here. And this has been our classic hip capsule mobilization. What I like about this mobilization, and then we put it in Supple Leopard a billion years ago, one of the first modes we put out into the world was that I can get this nice 90 degree range here. I can get all my weight and I can bring this knee under my belly button. So I'm into that little bit more tighter sort of joint tightness position. And then from here, I can just hang out and imagine that the femur is going to come out my butt, that the line of force, that vector is translating through the line of the femur. So I don't need to do a pigeon. Now I'm collapsing and I'll get a stretch, but I'm not really getting the pure rotation that I'm after. So in this position, I can use my other leg and I can work on that internal rotation. So the femur is rotating inwards here, as you can see. And then I can pin that leg and I can do simple isometrics here where I'm pushing against this foot, pushing against this foot. And I can just bind, bind, bind, do some external rotation, contract, relax. I can do a long 30 to one minute isometric here. And it's a safe way for me to get loading through the femur, plus remind myself that I need to get some rotation. I can also drag my pelvis around the femur the other direction. So here I've wound up the femur internal rotation. I can block that. And then I can really reef back with my body and then build a lot of force here where I'm pushing this foot into this leg and just blocking, blocking, blocking. And then I can even move around a little bit and see if I can find this position of restriction. Because one of our keys here is to mobilize the position of restriction. Now, in classic sort of ready-stateness, we borrowed some of those ideas from Brian Mulligan using a band to distract the hip. And we figured out that sometimes when we add a lateral distraction or a lateral band vector on the hip here so the band is pulling off to the side, I can sometimes access a little bit more range. And it doesn't take long in these isometrics to load the tissue, to normalize the tissue, where we do start to see changes. And your test and retest, which we showed you there, just being able to internally and externally rotate the leg, should radically improve. And what you'll start to see is that when you're doing things like squatting, you'll start to have more access to the rotation. You're still going to have to create a force through that rotation to be able to create a pelvis that's stable on the femur. And don't worry. Again, you can turn your feet out a little bit, but what you'll see is that the more you have access to this rotation, the more you can solve a movement problem, maybe stiff ankles, stiff adductors, whatever. I'm jumping and landing in a strange position and you'll have better access to your shapes. A quick test on this is if I stood up and squeezed my butt really hard right now, what you'll see is that the glute you just mobilized actually has better traction. It can grip better. Also, if I try to create rotation here, because I just worked on rotation and restored that, I'm going to have better access to the rotation of the hip. I can create a lot more torsion on this side I just mobilized, the other side, and we'd expect that. When we restore position, we restore function, and we improve position, we improve function, which means that I can start to turn my feet out and I can still have a ton more power in this external rotation mode. And I suggest that you give this a try. And what you'll see is that this leg will still be able to create an isometric force into the ground when this leg starts to decay a lot sooner. Where all of a sudden, I don't have any power here. Here, I can still create some rotation. So level two is to throw in some joint capsule modes. Maybe that's just one or two minutes, some isometrics, especially if you're going to do something that rhymes with deep hip flexion, squatting. You're scrumming. You're sprinting. You're on the cycle, and you need to really get that hip to be able to work and have access to this rotation window. Now, I'm going to show you a couple ways I love to work this into my warmup so I don't have to do these other things. One of the goals of all our strength conditioning programs should be to keep an eye on our movement, our normative ranges, access to tissues, possibilities that our brain can access so that we can solve novel movement problems, right? That's what sport is. That's what life is. Strength and conditioning in the gym just can't be about physiology. It also needs to be about restoration. So again, one of the questions that we have always struggled with is helping athletes figure out when the hell they're going to do all this stuff. So one of our favorite drills comes from Yami Tikkanen. I'm sure that it's a derivative of a Gary Gray concept. Yami Tikkanen of the training plan. And it's called the 27 squats. And the template is very simple. We're going to squat with the feet straight. We're going to do a squat with the feet out because I certainly don't want to just default to my arches collapsing. I want to be able to keep that arch engaged and that ankle in the middle and active rotation. And then I need to be able to squat with my feet turned in. And what we see is that this is a position that is going to be required if I'm throwing. So if I'm throwing a ball, if I'm jerking, if I'm going to cut and plant, I need to be able to turn this foot. And certainly if I'm going to be walking on some weird surface, I want to be able to have that choice. And what we see is that oftentimes as soon as people go into any hip flexion, this is the only position they have access to because it's really the only position they ever train. So here's something you can do. In a simple pattern, let's just say I perform a squat and I'm going to turn my feet out and do that same squat without collapsing, right? Still maintain the arch. And I'm going to turn the feet in and now I'm not going to have access to the same depth, but I still, I'm going to keep the ankles active. I'm going to squat as deep as I'm available. I'm starting to work and start to see that this rotation isn't just at the hip. It's also at the ankle and it's also at the tibia. I need to have access to some internal rotation of the tibia. And in this position, the ankle is very wound up, the knee is very wound up and the hip is very wound up. This is a very closed pack, very tight position. But I still want to be able to access these shapes. So again, foot straight, foot out, foot in and then we start to play with that. So we have a regular tandem stance, a right foot forward so that my foot is just roughly even with my other toe and I'll do the same thing. Foot straight, foot out, foot in and now I'm just saying, hey, I'm not always going to be my strongest in these positions and shapes, but I certainly want to have access to them and I want my brain to be able to push and generate force and stability and safety in all these shapes. So, with the right foot sort of in line with the left, my squat is as deep as I can. We always say, can you play volleyball here? This is a weird shape and probably not one you're going to win any squat contests with, but one you should be able to access. Turn the feet out, solve that weird movement problem for me. Start to feel that in different places. Turn the feet in and do the same thing and you're going to find, wow, I'm really bound up on this left ankle back here. I can't even squat that deep. I'm certainly not as deep as if I just loosey-goosey everything up. Then we do the same thing with the other foot. Foot straight, foot out, and foot in. Again, what we're trying to say is you might have a position in which you're going to win the gym off, deadlift, best squat possible to you and your physiology that feels work, that works for you, but I want to make sure that you have choices and this is a way of maintaining range and this is important particularly if my sport isn't just recursive bodybuilding in the gym. No shade, but remember that we work with a lot of people who have to do training so they can access better swim positions, better shapes, and being able to have a choice in this rotation means that my swimmers or my water polo players can do better or my running backs can cut or my pitchers can throw. So, we call this the 27 squat drill. So, you've got three squats with the foot straight out, in, three squats, right foot forward straight out, in, left forward straight out, in, that's nine and then we can start to play with whip and so, ultimately, this drill can be applied at any whip, at any shape, right, you're super bound up here but the idea is during our warm ups let's go ahead and start to restore some rotation so that when we come back to our strongest position even if that's feet slightly out, we're within that 10 degree window, 15 degree window we can create a ton of torsion, a ton of power in this low power movement I can choose a position that allows me to generate more force and better stability. That's the magic. The second option here is during our warm ups we love to do a lot of rope flow and one of the reasons we love the rope flow is that as soon as I start engaging in just even some double hand classic loops or even single hand forward loops notice what position I'm in because my torso has come over I've created a lot of internal rotation of the femur because I'm moving my torso and my pelvis across the body which leads me to wind that up. So what's nice now is that I have this wonderful way in this long lever position because this is not that different than working on some of these rotations and this allows me to hit some of these rotations with speed to be able to work on managing these rotational issues and tie that rotational capacity into a whole bunch of interesting upper body shapes. Whether I'm just doing classic PNF as soon as I'm doing this PNF stuff and I start to say make it weird I'm having to ask my body to side bend rotate and add this rotation into some much more complex movements. So the next level besides spinal engine is saying hey how can I start to access some of the chain in this spinal engine so that I'm not just looking at side bending rotation flexion of the torso but I'm starting to add these complex movements to the hip so that my athletes can solve some really interesting movement solutions or movement problems. These are two ways you can quickly start to add this in and ideally you're playing some frisbee you're catching you're playing spike ball you're moving laterally it's one of the reasons we love throwing medicine balls it's not just about rotation of the torso it's about having access to being able to internally rotate and externally rotate powerfully over my pelvis or dissociating my lower body from my upper body if I'm going to catch a football. Bottom line what we start to see is hey do I have access to this Nordic range? Do I have a 70 to 90 degree window? I've just done a little bit of hip rotation I should expect everything to change this gets a little bit better that's way better I feel looser and the bottom line is my body functions a little bit better. Remember we want to expand the gym beyond just straight physiology into how do I restore how do I create more movement choice how do I have better coordination with resistance that's good strength conditioning see you next time you next time