Back to the project today. What we're thinking about is how do we shar you know that work for you? How do we improve that? For example, one of the kind of most common ideas that people know for the president of course we know externate mobilization back the for example, the proximal tissue, the high tissue end up being much much stiffer than maybe some of the lower tissue. So by the time I've got in there, I'm hitting the lower tissue. I don't ever start to have a conversation with Think we add the band on steroid. So I put the band in that cross my leg and now this position I probably got and then I pull myself up as I go. But in this position that that hip is being pulled in the corner of the cap I'm after. So even though I'm not a very flexible person in this position I'm coming up. capture most of what I'm after because that band is really adding force. So I am able to capture the hip. try this today and then start to get some of that thinking about hey what is the position of emphasis and then how do I mobilize that position of emphasis externation easy to improve the quality adding that band really really makes a difference in the quality of that mobilization I think it makes it much more effective makes it much more timely you don't have to change the game all right so here's another idea this is homework number two and literally most of the think about how do I put myself into a position where I'm having an issue or identify that position where I'm having a tra issue. A lot of end up sitting for long periods of time. This hip flexor mat undoing of the leg kind of sandwich back and forth. Now we're going to put the leg into fction. We're only going to take this piece of the capsule here. This piece of this m Get on the peanut. You need to be on the peanut. The two lacros together. I want a little bit of a narrow roller. This thing works fine too. Could be a little tiny piece of PVC, something like that. But the difference is I'm get my full weight instead of working his tissues. I'm just open my butt and I'm just going to pull my foot up. And now I'm really on that side. A big mass right here. And then I'm just going to roll over and see if I can't completely sink in. So this is pretty groy. And you're going to you start to peel that kind of flexor mass off that PFL tensor fascelata it really starts to wind up and you find some ugly bits and if you want to internally externally rotate the leg in this position that's fine you'll find that piece and uh you know go hunting but I want you to do some kind of big flexion bring that knee up rolling down on basically trying to peel that one piece of that high hip flexor off the bone and once you hang out there you can retract relax and sink And you'll find that this really allows for much more internal rotation that leg unwind into that glute. As you end up in this compressed position where this tissue is maxing loaded as I squat wide or pull wide, you'll find you have a little bit better hip function. Last idea kind of in this in this notion that we were taking at first is if I can use a band to uh kind of improve. One of the things I was pulling sumo today and I was getting a little funny thing and uh what I realized was that you know I was in this kind of wide position hammering these adductors and I was feeling it tight in my groin bits and as soon as I just decomplicated things and went back to hey let's really apply understand what's going on at the single joint in this classic position where my belly is tight I'm folding forward I'm trying to be nice and wide quads on and I'm trying to get my chest to the ground this is highly uncomfortable brutally uncomfortably. So, so if I take the band here and get a little distraction force in that hip, then I can actually wind up and have a much better position. You can see that I can get much further on this side than I can on this side. So, by biasing that hip capsule position, I'm able to get into a much more effective middle splitter or start a conversation about middle splits without that feeling of horror and tear. It's a little bit different. It's not mobilizing kind of necessarily in the same direction, but by kind of unimpinging the hip, I end up with a much better effect. And this is a real way to start to open up that hip comfortably and start to kind of camp out forward. And the difference on the side to side, not having this one on this side is radical. So definitely switch sides. Thinking that classically, how do I control a single joint or work on that restriction of the single joint? That's it. Good luck on this. Bye. That's going to be several Wolverines worth. Talk to you guys tomorrow.