Hey, welcome back to Mobility Wad. We're going to add two pieces today about talking about shoulders. We've uh we've we've done messing around with the band. We've worked on some flexion, external rotation. I'm going to give you another tool for that. Anytime you're pressing or push-ups, you know, we've got to be able to kind of press and maintain a good externally rotated position to make make sure that that shoulder remains strong. So, here's here's homework number one. It's a nice tie into the lats and it really biases this rack position or pressing position from the shoulder like when I'm upside down on the rings doing a ring push-up. So, here's what's going to happen. You're going to go elbows together. This can be done on a high surface. I'll show you on the high surface first. Elbows together. I'm going to slide my hands apart as far as I can. I'm going to back up loading trying to get my arms up over my face. And that's kind of load that flexion. And then I'm going to apply the tensioner by going arms out. The tendency is my arms to slip out. Fight that knee. So, hand elbows together. Start to push back. That'll wind you up and then hit that tensioner going into this position. Oh, it sucks. Can you contract? Relax here. Hang out. Try to accumulate three or four minutes in this position. Contract. Go out. Bias the flexion position. Bias the external rotation position by basically sliding your hands out and and then uh extending your elbow is what creates that extra rotation moment. What are we mobilizing? Anything that's blocking that position. You guys are going to suck at that. Take a look at this. Get on my stomach. Do the same thing. Elbows together. I can back up. Oh, and this might even hit some different corners because uh you're laying down. You can't cheat as much with your thoracic spine. And I'm going to apply the tensioner here. Really get those hands apart. Explore. You can even have someone block your elbows or block them between two plates. And then hang out there. And you're going to find that there's almost like a hard block. And that starts to feel capsular in nature. It's the external rotators coming on tension. So, that's homework number one. Homework number two, anytime we're in a dip position, uh, when that hand comes back, remember that there's usually some kind of extension, internal rotation combo. So, I'm more interested in um, as we've done before with the high pull, can you pull and keep the shoulders back and down? We see a lot of times an athletes arms come forward or into this high hang position, that shoulder comes forward. If I'm on the ring in this position, that exposes me to a lot of dysfunction. What I want to do is try to keep that shoulder back in the socket as far as I can and still maintain some of these internally rotated positions without rotating and coming forward. I want to spot that in my athletes. One of the tricks that you can see, and this isn't a movement, this is a coralate for a movement, right? And it's not as good as the real deal. Elbows to the side. You should be able to keep your shoulder back and almost get straight to the ground. So, you'll notice I'm missing a few degrees. One side's a little more than the other side, but if you're here and your shoulder starts to come up, you have a real problem. So, this is your finished position. That's a horrific problem. So, we're going to go elbows here. This is going to be our test retest on this business. You should be able to easily press, keeping the shoulder in contact with the ground and press almost to the ground. Okay, here's how we're going to stretch this or mobilize this. I'm going to bridge my bit up, bridge my butt up, slide my hands up underneath my back, keeping the shoulders pinned, and then I'm going to slowly lower my butt, adding that internal rotation piece. It's horrible. It's gritty. This is the worst. This is one of the Kelly Starts goats. I despise this position. I feel very vulnerable here. So, I'm going to go ahead and just contract into my back. Trying to keep the shoulder down. You'll notice my right shoulder pops up a little more than my left shoulder. That's the side of the canoe I paddled on for a bunch of years and that's that capsule is always tight. So reset reset those shoulders back. Don't just let yourself cheat into those positions. You can actually have a friend come down and pin your shoulders. Start to anchor down. Only two stretches today. Two mobilizations. I want you to hang out in this and I want you to hang out in that kind of flexion external rotation position and uh work on these capsule pieces. Oh, come on out. Oh, shake it out. And then uh you can even do the retest. See how it happens. Any difference that you can see absolutely automatically better position. Thanks very much.