Hey, welcome back to Mobility Project. Today we're talking about going overhead and someone's going to die. No, I'm just kidding. Here's what we got going on. We're going to work on overhead positioning today. Remember how simple this is. If someone's having a problem overhead, hey, it hurts to put my shoulder up. What are you doing? Mobilize at the position of restriction. So, if this is my painful position, I walk over. I stick my hand in something that looks like distraction of the joint. And then notice that my default position is internally rotated, which means palm down. That's no good. I need to turn the wrist over and try to get myself into a tight close pack joint position of the shoulder and hang out here. Get tight, tight, tight. Release. Keep taking up the slack. Hunting those corners. Keep working those end corners. Arms straight. Head through. Good body position. I kick my leg over because it ties the whole lat, which is all the way down here into that whole complex. So, it allows me to tap into some ugly corner bits that maybe I just don't get right away. Even 20 seconds of that business, one of these guys overhead squats 300, the other guy does not. You get the idea. Second piece, as my arm's over my head, sometimes this little rotator cuff muscle called the subscapularis right underneath here limits the excursion of the arm joint, the head of the shoulder to come forward, which means I can't fully consummate my overhead position. So, what do I do? I lay down once again in that position. Arm out. Go ahead and find that little tasty a nugget of something in there. Dog nugget. Thanks, buddy. He He's sensing my pain. Jupiter, help, boy. I need to find my overhead position. You get the idea. Let's go ahead and roll back and forth here. You might catch some of your lat. You might catch some of that subscap. A little softer ball is is maybe nicer here. But the bottom line is don't let your arm go numb. If it starts to feel tingly, you're obviously not just on a muscle. You're on something that's really important. Last piece. Ball. First rib. Get on top of that thing for a couple minutes. I load that ball up right into that first rib. Ah, it's driving down. And then I'm just going to press up and over and try to eliminate the strut. So much of the kind of high shoulder pain we get is a function of this first rib blocking the elevation of the whole arm and the whole scapula. So if I get that thing out of the way and driving out the way as I go up, mobilizing with movement, reach up, press into those different corners, I can really clear that thing out and subsequently you can really make some change. And it's that easy. We'll see you guys tomorrow.