Hey, welcome to MAD Hangout. We have two I'm just going to come clear. Two of my besties on today. These guys are family to me. Um they're the aunties and uncles to my daughters. They they hang out with my wife. These guys like we go on vacation. I want to hang out with these guys. So, of course, that automatically makes them awesome because they're part of my family. But more importantly, what they're doing now um and a current project that they're on sort of merits talking about in real in real time. And I want to we brought him on today because I think there are some lessons and some some ideas that can make the rest of our daily lives better. And it's such an inspirational amazing story about this incredible couple that we were like, "Hey, we've got to get these guys on the M1 Hangout." So, let me introduce two of my besties. This is Jenny Lab and Marcus Brown. Thank you guys for joining us. Now, thank you for having us. Hang on one second. So, let me just set this up so people know how awesome you guys are. So, Jenny Lab is phenomenal collegiate athlete extraordinaire. I came to know her as a primarily as a CrossFit athlete originally. She's a games level competitor, a super jock, and uh that's sort of how we we got hooked up initially and and ended up in the sort of the same universe as sort of chasing this performance dragon. And then and I will just go on record of saying that Jenny is one of the most mutant friends I have. She's such a mutant that like I think she doesn't she has a third lung that we'll talk about eventually because it's it's she doesn't have a leg, she has a lung. Um and then her partner Marcus Brown is one of the the Americas and the world's best uh and foremost freestyle uh freestyle skiers, but I would say slalom water skiing athletes. Um he's been a top 10 ranked superstar for ages and ages and ages. You might have seen his stuff on Flowoint. He has filmed for us in the past. He's an extraordinary uh cinematographer and filmmaker and boat designer, ski designer all around. And and frankly, don't take this wrong way, Jenny. I may have used you to get close to Marcus at some point, but now I'm realizing that I'm using Marcus to get close to you. So, um welcome to the show, you guys. I know. Welcome to the show. You guys are so glad to have you on. Um, so let's just frame for everyone what's about to go down in five days because this is a big deal and this is the impetus for coming on and having a conversation. Um, so let's see if we can you set us up to talk about what's about to happen and then we can get into some of the nitty-gritty about there's Juliet walking around the background like a pro. uh get get into the uh the nitty-gritty about training and and and and how some of the lifestyle aspects of things that you've been working on have influence the training the training has influenced your lifestyle etc etc. So I'm going to give you guys a second just to take the field and and make an introduction about why we're here. All right. So, um, in 5 days I am going to start running across Colorado, 500 miles over the Colorado Rockies about a little over 32,000 feet elevation gain and I think 27 feet elevation drop um to raise awareness for epilepsy and um hopefully raise a little bit of money to help find a cure. Um, it's near and dear to my heart because I have I was going to say like a this is an incredible disgusting event. I mean, it's so far and and everyone knows that I'm an endurance athlete. So, um, I really appreciate you guys, you know, needing to do this, but and and you were just about to get there when I interrupted, but you know, I've known you for a long time and watched you as a professional athlete, high level athlete, as as good an athlete as I know with this thing that's sort of in your back pocket that you you kind of casually throw out EP epilepsy, but like talk about what this is and what what's going on. Well, um, basically epilepsy is misfiring in your brain. So, um, that's the easiest way to put it. And it affects people in all different ways. I have what's called simple partial seizures. And when I was eight years old, I was diagnosed. I was, uh, flipping around on the monkey bars at school and all of a sudden face planted in the gravel and got up because I was super embarrassed and didn't want anybody to see and started spinning again because that's what's good for you to do. And just played like like nothing happened. And it happened several times. So eventually I went home and said, "Mom, something's going on. Like I keep falling off the bars and I have this weird feeling in my arm. So we went to the the doctors and after several tests was determined that I have epilepsy." And simple partial is one one variation. Um and I just have constantly in my right arm there's this this tingling sensation. And the easiest way for me to explain it is that it's uh like you you hit your funny bone. doesn't really feel like that, but that's probably the easiest way to to to for everyone else to kind of relate to it. And it's there all the time. And I after being living with this for 25 years, I don't really notice it unless I'm talking about it. Um, so lately planning this event, I've been feeling it a lot. All of a sudden, my arm just starts doing weird things. What do I do with my hands? Whose hands are these? Yeah. So yeah, I uh I've I've uh spent my life with epilepsy and I've one time when I was 14 years old, I had um a grand mall seizure which are now called tonic chronic and that's the time that most people think of when seizure when they think of seizures and that's where you fall to the ground and shake and lose consciousness. So I I do have those but my medication controls them and my lifestyle controls them to where I just have this this sensation my arm and I didn't say this when a seizure actually comes on for me the sing the sensation increases and I just can't use my my right arm for anywhere from 30 seconds to a minute and then I go about my day. I haven't ever lost consciousness with with that one. And she's she's lucky that she can control the grand malls that you know the big ones with medication. very lucky very lucky this um you know it's it's interesting that I know you as you know in in the codery of best athletes that I know like when I if you ask me about an immaculate athlete who's really good about mechanics moves well eats immaculately you know your training and positions are good you have maybe one of the most fierce aerobic engines I've ever seen I mean I'm pretty sure your hermatocrit is like 50 all the time. It's like it's like you literally were something I know you were like I was born in Colorado at like 20,000 feet and I just happened and I I have a third ventricle but you know a lot of times this would be a you know being a diagnosis of this you know the the reaction of the person would be really to be fearful and yet you really went you know deep into as athletic and as fierceness as you know as you could you know can you talk about just this as a ghost as a child, you know, what that meant having this lingering over your head and even the impacts of the medication dialing that in and out. I mean, I've seen you switch medications and go fetal, you know, and deal with that. Can you just talk can you talk about what like sort of what this looks like in the back of your head uh as an athlete and even as a young athlete developing and did that drive you or what what happened? Can you just talk about that a little bit? I think Yeah. So, I am so fortunate. I have a family that is absolutely amazing. And I don't I don't know that for most of my childhood I really knew that anything was wrong. I mean, I knew that I was that I had something that I had seizures. Like I knew that was but I didn't ever I never was told from my family, the people that actually mattered to me that I couldn't do something. And it wasn't until planning this event that my mom told me that she's been terrified my entire life. So that's how precious she is. And she's been scared her whole life and never told me. But um yeah, I I from a young age have been competitive in in sports. Um and yeah, there were side effects. I mean, the medication is is the worst thing with this for me. It's the worst thing with this this disorder is you just feel like crap. I don't really know what normal feels like, I don't think. Um I mean, I remember playing softball when I was in fifth grade and I was seeing double. That's really really hard. really hard to go hit a ball when you're seeing double. I'm like just hoping for the best. Like which one do I swing at? But um yeah, I think that I'm kind of going off on a tangent, but the it never has inhibited me from doing what I wanted to do because I didn't let it and my family didn't let it. So t talk about that for a second because there are some things about you. You're pretty rigorous in your training. You're not you're not a maniac person that just drives yourself into the ground and breaks. It's not who you are. like you I would say you have a you are a brilliant high level coach. You have an excellent movement practice yourself. You're you're active almost every day of the week and you play you also do sports, right? You actually do other sports besides barbells and muscle-ups, right? But, you know, can you could you talk about some of the lifestyle things that you've discovered that really are part and parcel with being a high level athlete? Because, you know, some of the things that you do to I think help mitigate some of the effects of of this disease also are the things that I should be doing as a human being trying to protect myself in the long haul. Can you you talk about the things that have been really successful for you? Yeah, for sure. So, I think just like you said, active every day, but paying attention to your body. So for me, I have to pay way closer attention to my body probably than the average Joe because I don't increased stress is not a good thing for seizure activity. If your if your body is taxed um beyond beyond a good place, that's when when I start having seizures, right? Overheat over o over o over o over o over o over o over o over o over o over o over being overheated, that kind of stuff. So I've had to pay really close attention to that. But because of that, I think I probably am really really smart with my training as far as not overdoing it because I do listen to my body and stop when I need to stop and push when I feel like I can push. Um, be more specific about that. Like what like what what are some of the tells? Give give me the granular like how do I know when I'm cooked? Not because your training volume is actually very high and has been very high and it's not like you got there overnight. I mean, you have been training for literally decades, right? But can you talk about some of those things? How how do you know when you're feeling like you're you're getting cooked or when it's ready to go? I mean, for you, what does that mean? For me, it's a lot of it's lack of motivation because I'm a very motivated person. So, if I start feeling like, ah I have to go get in the gym and work out today or like that's not a good sign. If you're if your brain is taxed, then there's a good chance that your body was taxed before that. So, um that's a big one for me. I would say she's very motivated for for instance, the years that she Why is he here? the years that she made it to the CrossFit games as an individual, she was training by herself. Almost probably 99% of her workouts were by herself, trying to train and compete with the best in the world. So that gives you a little bit of insight at how just how motivated and driven she is as an individual. And so if she within that context is like, "Hey, I don't feel like working out today." Then you know, she's probably pretty burned out, you know, and pretty cooked. Yeah, I like that. You know, we we talk a lot about people desire to train is a big one. You know, one of my the guys who programs for me, Brian McKenzie, you know, uh whenever I do my omega wave or I track some of my heart rate variability, some of these other things before I get any score, he asks me to evaluate my thinking, how do I feel today? What's my desire to train on one to 10? And literally, it it's pretty powerful. Now, after training for so long, I have a pretty intuitive sense. I'm like, man, I'm burnt. I don't want to train. or you know I just feel sleepy but I feel like I can train. Those are different feelings but listening to that has been really really a powerful tool and does actually match up really really closely with with what all the data says about my my recovery and I really appreciate that because I think people aren't listening. they feel like on Tuesdays I squat heavy, on Wednesdays I run, on Thursdays, you know, and it doesn't and irregardless of training volume or or the lifestyle. I think this is a really really powerful tool that you should develop. What what is my body feeling like today? And actually developing relationship with your coach. I mean like how are you feeling today? I mean, I think that's one of the most powerful things that the coach athlete diet is not going on is dude, how's it going? Are you cooked? What's happening? Yeah. No, I think that's that's that's really important. And Kelly, you mentioned that I'm a strength and conditioning coach, too. That's what I do for a living. And that's that is the first conversation I have with every every client or member that walks in the door, say, "Hey, how you feeling?" And if they're saying tax and their program is something crazy, then the program changes. And that's for coaches and athletes. Know that a program is just a piece of paper with some words on it. Your body is your is your program. So listen to it and adjust accordingly every single day. I think, you know, Go ahead, Mark. Sorry. But there's got to also I mean, let me go with that, too. You also have to know how to push. Like, so there you gota you got to know where that red line is. If your goal is to be competitive and you're always just, oh, I feel like I could just take a nap today, so I'm going I mean, you've got to learn you've got to learn how to push through some limits. And you have to learn you have to fail to know to know where your body can go before it fails, you know? Is that the right way to say that? Yeah. off topic, but one thing that that Jenny has is probably more than anybody else I know is very attentive to is is her exposure to nature and her exposure to like things outside. And I think that plays into that stress piece where as an epileptic she's become hyper sensitive to stressors in her environment and maybe negative, you know, stress input. And so she's naturally or what and you know indirectly migrated in her life, you know, her lifestyle to want to be outside, to want to be running, to want to be mountain biking, want to be hiking. I think I think that above all else for me is something that really stands out with what she does with her training. She's not always just pounding and pounding, whether it's training for this 500 mile run or it's training for the CrossFit games or it's training for soccer, whatever it is. Um, she balances that piece pretty well, I think, more than most people I know. Or you take it to like if you do have to pound that day, you take it for me, I have to take it to some place that I that I want to go. And for this is another kind of side topic, but with with epilepsy, fluorescent lighting is really really bad. A lot of gyms have fluorescent lighting. So for me, I oftentimes take my training if I'm training for the games or if I'm just doing some strength training for this run, like I'll I'll go and take it outside outside of that fluorescent lighting because that's not usually a good stimulus for me. Not good to have a seizure when you have a barbell over your head. Not a good idea. It only the those fluorescent lightings are only like a million cycles per second that you know that's bad. You're supposed to do a lot of spinning then stare at the thing. Um, you know, it's interesting. You talk about an organic way of, hey, sort of, you know, of regulating stress. I think people don't have a very good program. I think we're really good at going from 0 to 60. You know, we have a million drinks, pre-wad, exercise hard, kill yourself, jack 3D, extreme, have 15 espressos, right? But we don't have do a very good job of coming from zero from 60 to zero. I think, you know, a value statement there about being in nature. I mean I think there is a lot plenty of research about saying hey look people have you know nature deficit disorder syndrome they don't go outside but but there is something to the fact that you're saying hey that I notice that you know one of the ways that I mitigate stress is is being outside and are there other cues because I think that's a really important one that you know people aren't getting enough non-ex exercise activity and they aren't just sort of subjecting themselves to the things that they need to do including vitamin D you know you know I know a lot of plenty of executives who get up early in the dark, go train, go back home, and they literally haven't been outside. They're like vampires with big deadlifts, you know? So, you know, do you have other ways of managing stress? Seems like that's an important piece for you. Yeah, it's a huge piece. So, yeah, I think um I mean, we talked about being outside in nature, but one thing for me, my my two little yellow labs are my my pride and joy. So, spending time with them, um I've taken some changes in my life in the last couple months, which have been awesome. And one day I was laying out in the grass with my yellow lab Ziggy and I just was laying there and I thought I'm like, man, I'm like I don't remember the last time I literally just laid and enjoyed being with my dog. And so I think that we you got to take a break from life. You got to take a break from the crazy, whatever that is for you. If that means you're reading a book or you're hanging out with your dog or you're sitting sitting on the bench at the park, whatever it is, take a moment to just be and just let your brain go where it wants to go. And I I don't know if that's a form of meditation, but for me, I think it I think it might be. Um I've been working with um a woman through Invictus, Heidi Furon. She's amazing, and she's gotten me to get a little bit more into meditation. I just downloaded the app Calm, which I don't think I've actually made it through an episode yet because I fall asleep before it gets to the end, which I think is kind of the point. But but yeah, just letting your brain stop for a little bit and or let it go where it wants to go whether rather than focusing on something all the time that meditative practice is uh you know I can speak to Juliet and I have if you asked us you know what is one thing aspect of your physical culture itself that you'd want to change given that we feel like we leave a little bit of crazy life and two daughters and work things plus training is I say we we definitely say hey we should we wanted to meditate and we're now in month three of a physical breathing practice. Yeah, you know that we we fell in with Lear Hamilton and he was like, "Hey, you've got to do this." And um and we do it every morning or when whenever we can fit in the day, but it's about 12 to 15 minutes of a mechanical breathing practice that for me has felt like it's the meditation I've searched for my whole life and and really has been I mean pretty transformative. I feel like, you know, this is it's a big powerful thing. And what I can tell you is that however you get there, you know, when I track my data on omega wave and heart rate variability and central nervous system readiness, lately I've just I peg the green. I mean, my central nervous system is ready to go because I'm spending time on this other side, which means that I can work harder, which is a little bit counterintuitive. If I chill out, I can go harder and more often, which for me, I like that, you know, because I feel like I get a good bang for the buck there. And I I think that's that's an important piece. And the honestly the older athletes and the the higher level athletes I know this does factor in. I love hearing that from you. That's killer. It's balance, right? That's what it's all about is balance, right? Let me Yeah, balance is like the pendulum swings one way and you're like, "Ah." And then it swings the other way and there's that moment as you're hauling ass through the middle that you're in balance. Let me ask you this. Um, you know, you you have a good movement practice. Um, it's CrossFit based. It's completely I know your training is really really good. Um uh there's a nutritional aspect to this about inflammation around this that I know plays a part and can you talk about some of your nutritional strategies because I mean that that's one of the issues around this. I re I see all the oils that people are taking and all this thing about trying to manage some of the systemic inflammation. Talk about your experience as an athlete with nutrition and the way that you mitigate some of the seizures with this. Yeah. Yeah. So, I've been I've gotten actually quite a bit of ridicule from the CrossFit world and from the competitors that I that I eat paleo. They're like, "No, you don't. You can't eat paleo and compete." And I'm like, "Well, actually, I do." Like, paleo isn't necessarily low carb. It's just smart carb, right? So, um yeah, I've been paleo for I mean, I was really strict paleo for probably three years and then I've had to to um I've just felt a little bit better with a little bit more carb in my diet. Um, what carbs are you using that for slow resistant? Yeah. Yeah. No, it's like sweet potatoes. We're doing some white potatoes now. Those are the the main ones. Squashes right out of my garden. Um, pizza. Pizza cookies. No, I'm just kidding. It's all low sugar, right? But it's real food. And I think that I think people can get too crazy with diet. I think that they can get absolutely nuts. I've never weighed and measured one thing in my life, which I probably probably should eventually just so I can get an idea, but I I think I go more by by feel for myself. I know my body better than anybody else. So, I go by feel and I know I've played around with it enough to know that I need to um to be to train like I train. I have to have a little bit higher carb to feel feel the energy that I I think everyone has shifted in that direction for sure. No one is saying, "Hey, you know, we can't put out the work volumes we're doing without without feeding that." And even in Glassman's original, you know, eat enough carbohydrates to exercise. I think we just didn't there were no guidelines about that. Well, how much carbohydrate and what kind of carbohydrate? I think that's a big deal. So, what you're really saying is there's not a lot of grains and and I don't think I've ever you've seen you really eat sugar ever. Maybe once, not much. Maybe. maybe twice in like the years that I've seen you. But you know those ideas do do you eat dairy? No, we've just started doing a little bit of raw raw cheese. Um I actually was just over in Scandinavia. I just got back last week and they literally everything there has dairy in it. Like I couldn't eat if I didn't eat dairy. But I noticed usually when I eat dairy here, I get really bad stomach aches. And I didn't have any stomach aches. And talking to the the people over there, the locals are saying, "Well, yeah, everything's grass-fed." So, um, she asked if the if the meat was grass-fed or the dairy and they're like, "What do you mean?" Like, if we just kill the cow and then we eat it. I'm like, "Oh, what a concept." So, no, I don't eat dairy very much. Um, just this last occasionally it's in there, but I do notice mucousy stuff with that, you know, which isn't isn't good either. So, um, I would say most of the time no dairy. How long did you eat this way in high school? Because I I think it's interesting like and do you feel better now as this highest level around sort of symptoms with this eating regime that's that's different? I literally survived in college on Pop-Tarts and Easy Mac. I don't know if you know what Easy Mac is, but it's literally it's microwaved. It's like the cardboard. I don't know what it is, but I survived on that. I don't know how. I played collegiate soccer at that. Um, no, I definitely feel way better and I'm leaner and I'm stronger and I'm perform better. Everything is is way better. There's I have a there's a lot of science with epilepsy in a ketosis diet um that it helps control seizures. So, my my goal when my life settles down athletically um is to to try and it might even actually be before that try a ketosis diet and see how I see how I do on that because there if I could get off medication that would be the number one goal. this stuff is the the neurological medication is the is a is a trip man. The backstory is that you that she hasn't said yet when you it's like any any disorder when you live with it and you have to be medicated otherwise you can't function like a normal human being that that wears on you and and her whole goal like I can just see it's just this this hope that that's bubbling up that she can someday be free of medication. you know, certain things we like to put in our body like caffeine because it makes us feel good. We're okay being addicted and being dependent on that. But when it's something that you don't really have a choice over, it's a totally different animal. And that's that's I think her motivator for some time experimenting being able to see if you can get off completely because it it wears on you. You know, I can relate to that a little bit. You know, Juliet had thyroid cancer when she was 19 and uh they took her thyroid out and she takes thyroid every single day and you know having enough thyroid getting a script like having had you know it's always a thing you know like she doesn't take thyroid it's not like you know she you know something bad happens like she will shut down. So, but that thyroid has been, you know, it's like a thing in our life all the time around, you know, and and if you've, you know, ever woken up and been in the same house as Juliet, you know, she's slow to start because there's no thyroid in her body when she wakes up. And it takes at least, you know, a cup of coffee and a, you know, a good, uh, electrical start to get that diesel running. And it's been, it's interesting to be around that and know a little bit of what you're saying just because that, you know, it's always, do I have her meds? Is she she, you know, do we have do we travel enough? Do we, you know, we have to swim by the store? And I I think it, you know, people lose track of the fact because Juliet's so high functioning that sometimes, you know, there's this underlying thing that she manages so well. And, you know, and if you're around you, you don't even know necessarily. Again, I think the only time I've ever saw you was when you were changing medications and you were titrating up or down on a new dose and and literally you would be in a ball shivering and then you would come out and be like, I feel great and and good enough and let's do a ski water ski run. And you water ski and then you go like and then like you would you shiver down and then you wake up and be like, hey, we trained and then you'd be like, where's Jenny? She's like under the blanket on the, you know, so um you know, you're pretty stoic about it, too. You know, there's I'm probably going to I haven't really said this to anybody, so I'm just going to go ahead and throw it to the entire world here on this uh little hangout, but um I probably have done something pretty stupid, but it's worked out for me. Um since I since that last titration when I changed medication, I went in I I was not functioning. I mean, I wanted to sleep all the time. I didn't feel good. I couldn't train. Things were not good. And so I went and I talked to my neurologist that I had just started with a new neurologist here and I said, "Hey, this medication just can I haven't had a seizure this entire time. Can we back off the dosage a little bit because I'm just not I'm not doing well in life." And he said, "No, absolutely not." And I said, "Well, what if we work more with diet?" And I I changed to a ketosis diet and we start tapering off. And he said, "No, I'm not willing to do that." And I said, "Well," dude got fired. Dude, I got fired him. I was like, "Uh, thank you for your time. I don't think you're the doctor for me." And I pieced out. Um, and then probably not the smartest thing I've ever done, I decided on my own without telling a soul, not even Marcus, that I was going to start titrating off my medication a little bit. Um, because once again, I know my body more than anybody else. And I I was was smart with how I did it. I took a little bit at a time and um, I'm currently at a quarter of the dose that the guy prescribed me and I'm still seizure free and I am not tired all the time and life is way better. He was pissed when I told him. Well, I understand, right? But I know it wasn't smart. I'm not telling him don't go do that. Please don't go do that. But but but what I just so clear, you know, um you are still on meds. Second is that your nutrition is really really tight. I don't think people realize that like you are, you know, when you're you're a ninja and not like an overt ninja. It's not like you you shove in everyone's face. It's just like you just don't eat that those bad things. When I come to your house, there's nothing fun in your fridge. Um and like and that's sad for me. And then the you know the third thing is that you really do you're up on the training and you got you're pretty regularly and you do mean you do the things that you know you have to do to manage this. So just want to point out to those folks who are listening. Okay. So here you are you have decided you sat out a CrossFit games cycle for uh an injury that been lingering and that was very old. Um a little bit of a neck pathology stuff. and and what I saw you do is suddenly say, "Well, you know, I'm an brilliant endurance runner." And I don't think to date you'd ever done anything like this where you sort of put yourself out there and were vulnerable. I know you've talked about with Reebok about epilepsy. I think I know that, you know, you you represent and you kind of have talked on behalf of epilepsy and children and athletes with epilepsy. This is the first time you've ever said, "Hey, look, you know, there is this thing I need to talk about and something I want to raise consciousness about." talk about like what was the trigger that got you to decide to run this 500 miles and raise money and awareness for absence because it's pretty amazing and we'll make sure all the links to your site and what's going on live because the videos are great and I mean I feel like I wish I was doing something awesome when I watch this and I wish that I could run 500 miles. Thank you. Do that Kelly you can join me every step every step of the way. It's only a couple steps. You'll be fine. Um, no. So, in March, I think it was, Marcus and I were just flipping through through Netflix and we got on found a 30 for 30 on a guy named Terry Fox who um was in the 80s. He was a Canadian that was diagnosed with cancer and had to have his leg amputated. And he decided that he was going to run across Canada from east to west to raise awareness for and money for for cancer research. And so we watched this documentary and I Marcus pretty powerful. Super powerful. Yeah. We don't want to give it away, but it's it's good. You gota you got to watch it. 30 for30 Terry Fox. It's amazing. I think it's called In into the Wind. The dude's like a national hero for like I had no idea. Some of my ski buddies from Canada, I talked to him recently and he's like, "Dude, I had no idea you know Terry Fox was a Canadian hero basically." So yeah. So he So Marcus and I looked at each other that night and I was like, I got to do something. Like I don't know what it's I've been talking about it. It's time. I'm going to do something. And then life got in the way and I started back to everyday stuff and didn't really do anything about it. And I had this huge huge huge life shift. Um, and we were driving to Colorado to go see my family in June. And we were driving from Durango up through Silverton up to Silverton through Mullis Pass. And I we actually have a picture of when it happened the second I looked at Marcus and tears just streaming down my face. And I said, "It's time. I'm going to run across Colorado for epilepsy." And I'm going to start crying right now. And he said, he looked at me and he said, "Okay." He's like, "Let's let's do this." And so I got to Colorado a couple days later and I called Brian McKenzie and I said, "Dude, uh, it's I'm going to do this. Can you help me? I don't know how there's there's that that's when it happened right there. That's when I just decided Well, when you're out in the middle of like the the wilderness with your two dogs, anything can happen. I mean, that's like, you know, anything I mean, anybody can run 500 miles and that happens. So, yeah. So, I've never No, I've never The longest I've ever run is I ran a marathon in 2006, I think it was. And that's the longest I've ever run to date. I still haven't in my training, I've only run 15 miles with Brian. And I I uh I don't know. I don't know what to expect. I have no idea what to expect, but it's been the last two and a half months of planning this thing. The running is going to be the easiest part. The running I mean that's going to be the the the part to go do. The planning has been absolutely exhausting, but I'm honestly People keep asking me like, "Are you scared to run?" I'm not. No, I'm not scared to run. really nervous where my brain's going to go for 500 miles. How many days how many days you guys think this is going to take you guys? I have it set up for 30 days. Um I'm not trying to race it, you know. I'm just trying to trying to complete it healthy and um or healthy as you can after running 500 miles and and do uh I have a bunch of PR events. So, I'm going to the CrossFit community I reached out to. There's eight CrossFit gyms along the way that I'm going to be stopping at and doing little little uh PR events whether I guest coach or just tell them, hey, this is what I'm doing. Please, please help and see if they want to run out of their town with me, which there's been a lot of response for that. And I'm I'm doing a really big event on October 4th at Sopras CrossFit in Carbondale. Um there's a group of people Michelle Kenny, uh Pat Burke, Michelle or Emily Erom, and Becky Collinsman are all coming up from Denver volunteering their time to to do a an event there where people can come and and be a part of their workout with them. And we're doing a silent auction and then there's a neurologist coming to speak and pediatricians coming to speak and it's just it's it's people are coming out of the woodworks to help. And it's it just shows you how amazing people are innately. People want to just be good and help, you know. Well, I think what you're seeing is that, you know, that is an absolute truth about people, but people need uh, you know, it turns out that like snowflakes don't form unless there's that ion, that crystal, right? Dust particle. Yeah. You have to have some dust particle. And so, you know, you have to have that silver iodide or whatever is in the air to to start the start the process. And you know, and I think what I love that this is, you know, it's not it's personal, you know, and it's in your wheelhouse and I think it really it shows a model that, you know, it's easy to do this and go push yourself and rally your community around, you know, your own your own business, you know? I think it's it's fantastic. Are you running north to south, east to west, west to east? How how's this going? South to north. South New Mexico border to Wyoming border. There's a lot of balance that way. Isn't it easier this way? It's a lot. Like it's all I actually was the plan was to go east to west and I was looking at the calendar and no offense to anybody that lives in Kansas or the Denver area but I was like Marcus I cannot run for 200 miles through the planes like I can't do it. So if you if you do once you do go to labalife.com there her calendar is clickable links for each day and you can see the distance the elevation gain and loss and then obviously the location she's going to be at. And that's labal life or labal life. Life like like l i f. So l a b- a wife.com. Yes. Yes. And it literally gets me gets my heart racing when I go through the calendar and look at each day and like see the mileage and the elevation gain and loss. I'm like wow. The first three days are pretty much marathon days. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know how to plan this stuff. I just put on paper. It looked good. Let me ask you this. So, it's not like you don't have an enormous aerobic base. You're a regular runner. People just don't know this about you. Like, one of your secrets, I think, to your CrossFiting and general physical preparedness and capacities that you always maintain in a big aerobic base. Like, you're one of the most aerobically fit athletes I know as as a background. Even for someone who's like who also can clean and snatch and front squat, it's impressive. You also ha are strong enough and your mechanics are good enough. So it's not like you haven't been spending, you know, better part of a long time making sure the tissues can tolerate this. Can you talk about because you haven't reconstituted this from scratch. It's not like you're a TNT runner off the couch running a marathon and and facing some of those things, but train twisting your training into a single sport and into a high volume single sport comes at some costs and there are some lessons. Can you because what we'd like everyone to do on the planet is keep a ready state. That's always you're always fit, you're always strong, and then go wild and then come back. You know, get a get a wild hair, go wild, do something, come back. Can you talk about your experience shifting your training into a single mode and and some of the lessons and feeling things? I mean, being a a long-distance runner, I mean, we know Dean Carnasses, we we we've talked to plenty of endurance elite runners, but it's different when it's you when I think of you as a kind of a power endurance athlete versus strict endurance athlete. Yeah. Um, yeah, it's been I mean, when I started working with Brian, it's only been two and a half months. Like, I haven't really I wouldn't say that I've really been training for 500 miles. I've just been training to get my tissues ready for for 500 miles. Um, but I there's been I mean, I've lost strength. That's going to happen, right? So, I' I'm getting like two to three days of of gym time and the rest is going to be has been running. But, but I love the way that Brian programs. It's not a typical what people would think of endurance. I'm not going out and just p pounding out mile after mile after mile. I'm actually doing interval stuff. I'm doing heart rate stuff. I'm I'm paying attention to to the quality of movement if with running, not just going out and and pounding the the And this is this is Brian McKenzie of I am unscared.com, right, of of CrossFit endurance. And you you can follow him at I am unscared. And I have to be honest, you know, Brian programmed for me for the Machai race and I've he's been programming for Juliet's team for Mikai race. Juliet's out there doing like 10 like brutal four-minute PE. It's not easy. It's not just like low for long. I mean, it is really hard, ugly training, but just different than you think. It's not like 20 miles, 20 miles, 20 miles. Right. Right. I mean, you don't you don't you don't have to and you don't want to do that. I mean, when I trained for my marathon in 2006, it was mile after mile after mile after mile. I had Achilles stuff. I had all sorts of injuries happening because it was just about the volume, not about the the quality of the the programming. And it was uh not good. It was not it was not good. It was not sustainable. So, there's there's a couple things about his programming I think that I know about you. One is that it does respect your time. It assumes that you're very strong and move well, right? And the the competency around that is important, you know, but also it's not four or five hour runs all the time. Like you can actually work a job, you know, you can maintain some strength and speed strength, but you're, you know, you it does still big time respect your aerobic capacity. And you know, when I do 10-minute brutal pieces, I did like six 10-minute pieces yesterday. Like that's not nothing. That's you're spent, right? Yeah. You're I mean, you get more you get more bang for your buck for sure. I mean, it's if you ever think about doing any type of endurance stuff and you don't know where to start, I would strongly suggest I'm not trying to just to pitch this, but he Ryan's great. He knows what he's doing. And even going to CrossFit endurance if you if you need to have something if you just want to start working this, go to CrossFit endurance because it is more of the interval the interval type workouts that are going to make you make you better but not break you down. What have you noticed about so tweaks in nutrition? I hear you say I'm having eat some more carbohydrate to support this. Um I also hear you know in there have there been any like is you focused I mean even a 10 week you know you 11 week block of of really just kind of you know narrowing down have you found like you know I've lost some strength but that's okay or what are some of the other things that you found out about you know what it looks like to be a runner? Well, yeah, I've definitely lost strength and it is okay, but at the same time, like I haven't cleaned. I had a shoulder injury, so I haven't really done any Olympic lifting. And I went out there and what was it last time? I don't I mean heavy. I don't know. The last time I cleaned probably since Yeah, maybe something like that. But I went out and I I cleaned 195, which for not doing it like that's not a huge drop in strength, you know, and I probably could have done more. So, I think our body remembers, right? You're you're not going to lose a lot from that. Um, one thing which I I haven't really said before, but when you run or when you have one single modality like that, you're not you're not working through a full range of motion ever. So, one thing to keep in mind is if you are going to just turn into a runner and do that single modality, you can't forget about you can't forget about your strength training. You can't forget about doing a full depth squat a couple times a week. You can't forget about doing a full push-up, getting your guy getting your your joints moving through their full range of motion so that you don't lose lose function of the joint. You're speaking to my like you're you're just saying that for me. You're just saying that for me. Yeah, that's only She doesn't do that at all. You guys are about to embark on a month. The the amount of the people and support behind this project is big time. Yeah. You're raising money. I can make a donation. All the links I need to know. Labalive.com. That's all I need if I can find out. Links to the epilepsy. Where is all of this goodness going? There's a You're going to raise You have incredible videos on there. like my daughters have seen them like they're in you know I mean it's it's really fantastic but you know you are raising money where's that money going it's going to the epilepsy foundation the national epilepsy foundation which is a phenomenal organization that's been around for for decades and their their goal is education and research. So um I they let me choose where I want my med where I want my money to go to and there's different avenues and I chose education and research to help find a cure. Um, and they're very good about getting the money where it's supposed to go. So, trust them on that. Um, I've just become a athlete advocate for their athletes versus epilepsy program as well, which is a huge honor. They uh the the president flew out literally for lunch one day. He flew out to Chico across the country to come say hi and um just a good good group of people. So, that's where that's where the money is going. So, it's there's a link on on labalife.com. I think it's under donate. I think there just a tab that says donate up there that you can plug and play. The goal is $50,000. That's my goal. So, we should be um we should be trying to update people on the fly as we go. I'm going to be kind of traveling along um following, filming, taking pictures. So, her Instagram andor website will have updates. Um and give us those links. What are those links right now, guys? Yes. So, Instagram is just Jen Laboth. Jenn L- Aba B- A W and Facebook is Jenny Laba. And then um her obviously website's lab.com, labal life. And then CrossFit also is uh going to put together or I'm going to put together for CrossFit a three-part series. So down the road after the event happens, you'll be able to kind of relive this whole before the event, the prepping, the planning, the whole event, and then the aftermath. So, you know, I I ran 50k once and I don't want to relive that. That's no I was just going to say I'm like I don't really want to that was awful. That was disgusting. We're gonna sugarcoat it. We're going to sprinkle sugar on top. Um I just want to say you know I know you are a private person and very humble and I feel like the the transformation for you switching to becoming you know you've never said hey I'm not epilepsy I'm more you know it's not even it's not even a factor I think you could you could be one of your friends not know even know that you've been dealing with this since a child. Um I mean you'd be a terrible friend if you know that but you get you get the idea. you don't put it it's not it's not it's not prominent and I think this to switch and sort of become an advocate for it you know does represent sort of that next level you're saying hey look I you know this is something that I've dealt with and I can inspire people with and I'm really proud of you guys and I'm going to say obviously Jenny for you to say stand up and sort of become an advocate for people and show people that you know what's possible and that you know how you've lived life as a model and and Marcus is you know as a spouse living with someone with epilepsy sometimes people don't understand the inherent stress or or the load on the person and and when you read Wired magazine had recently had an article about a young girl who suffered from epilepsy. I know you guys know this and just the load and the fear of her mother not knowing if she was just never going to come out of seizures, you know, and that the kids were seizing so often that they just couldn't even, you know, get through the day. And when they dropped down to only 30 seizures a day, they were so stoked because they could actually interact. And you know, and Marcus, I really as as a partner to someone with, you know, uh, chronic disease, you know, you are just such a stellar stellar example of the spouse relationship and and it really is a shout out to everyone who's a spouse or a loved one who helps manage that because it really is is a community and and the the the load on the family is big deal. And the fact that you also can then, you know, talk about this and this is why I really important to have both of you guys on because you are the second half of this adventure. This adventure, you know, is is really allegory for the support of the DIAD or the family. And I just want to, you know, hats off to you guys because it's such a big deal. And I really just respect the two of you guys for how you talk about this. Jenny, for being the person, Marcus, for really for being the surrogate for all of the people who live with, you know, live with people and take care of people with chronic diseases. It's really amazing. You guys are such studs. Thanks. Means a lot, dude. For sure to hear that coming from you because, you know, you and Juliet kind of have a similar dynamic and that's that's a reality for you guys as well, you know, and but but on a different topic, what you touched on living with epilepsy, like she is not she's not a type of person that's going to be like, "Hey, I need help." You know what I mean? She's a very strong person. I hate asking for help. And a lot of people with epilepsy take that approach that, hey, I don't really want other people to know because then if they know, then they're going to worry. And if they worry, they're going to want to help. And if they're going to want to help, it's like, no, I just want to be able to try to get through it on my own. And they're always epileptics are always trying to work through it on their own. And I think that shift represents, you know, maturity, like you said, you know, being able to say, I can take this and maybe I can do some good with it. but also it was the next level for an elite athlete. And I think that's an important piece too because there's a lot of elite athletes whether it's CrossFit or basketball or football or whatever it may be that never find the way to take that next step. And I'm I'm very proud of her that she's able to take this little tiny platform that she was she was, you know, given and and grew and nurtured within CrossFit world and she's able to take that platform and do something cool with it. And I think that's for me that's what I'm most proud of that number one she's able to come out of the box and say I have epilepsy and kind of expose herself and that was that's been three years. But then two, what can I do with this? what can I do with my platform that I've gained as an athlete and and how what does it look like and like you said it takes a dust particle or you know whatever it is for snow to form and it's the same thing for humans humans are the ambitions there that the willingness is there as human beings to get behind causes but you got to have a cause and you got to have something to tug at the heartstrings before people come out of the woodwork and I think that's that's what I'm describing for what she's doing right now and there's there's no way Kelly you said there's no way that I would have I wouldn't have in 2012 put out that video living with epilepsy, but well, number one, he did the video, so it wouldn't happen. But I wouldn't have had the I wouldn't have had the courage or the strength. He's the one that that said you have to you you not you have to, but you have to do this. Like, this is this is your chance to do what you want to do to help people. And it's transpired to this. And I I mean, I can't even I can't explain how how amazing it feels to be able to talk on the phone with somebody that I don't know from New Hampshire that calls me and says, "I saw your video. I've never told anybody I have epilepsy. I don't know what to do." And I talk for an hour and a half and we get to the point where she tells me her entire life story. Like, and she hasn't told her best friend that, you know, like those are that's why this is happening. And no matter what the outcome, if I finish the 500 miles and there's not another scent gained for the epilepsy foundation or or I mean this is why it's happening. I've I mean that that's just one example for in the last last three years, the last two and a half months, there's been people that have reached out to me and told me that they've just all their stories, you know, they lost their daughter at seven years old to epilepsy and now they've developed a medicinal marijuana law in Wisconsin. Like there's just these stories out of out of nowhere that are I'm just you're not alone. Like no matter what like if you have if you have epilepsy and you can't talk about it, find a forum. Find somebody. There are people out there that are going through the same the same crap. And not just epilepsy, anything, you know, and just you'll you're going to be fine. You're going to make it. Every day she's running in the name of somebody that has reached out to her, which I think is is really cool. So very personal. Very very sorry we just went off on a long tangent, but yeah, it's it's uh this is as real as it gets. I've never done anything like this in my life and I'm terrified. Well, what I can tell you is uh you know seeing this evolution of athlete from fierce, you know, leopardist that you are, I mean, you're fierce to vulnerable makes you so much fiercer and uh and really frankly hard to be around because you're so, you know, it's it's it's amazing. Uh it's so inspiring. Uh as your friend, I'm inspired as as just an outsider walking in. And you know, shout out to just the fact that you know, brilliance and courage doesn't happen as an isolated phenomenon. It's not a solo individual against the world. It always happens in context of family and definitely as a a creative dad. The two of you guys, Marcus Brown, you uh you know, you're you're the man. I'm so proud of you. Jenny, I can't wait to see what happens. we will uh retweet and follow you along as I consider you one of my athletes. And um and I'm so grateful that you can run when so many of us don't want to. And uh we will uh carry those words with me all 500 miles. You're gonna have a moment where you're gonna be like, "Thank goodness Kelly's not here because he couldn't do this." That's what I want. Every time she every time she's walking and not running, I'll take a picture and I'll text it to you so you know. Kelly, you could be walking. You could be walking. Uh you guys, I'm so proud of you. Thank you so much. Um we'll put links in uh the show notes of this. Again, labal live, excuse me, labal life.com. Maybe I want to see Labal Live. That's like a new the new TV show about the awesome and uh you know um the what you guys are accomplishing. It's going to be uh such an adventure and I'd love to do a debrief about what you learned about going so far and so long because it's going to be uh such an interesting idea and this point is self-actualization. You got to go see, you know, you got to go find out. You don't know unless you Thanks for having us, Kelly. It's been awesome. Love you guys. Thank you so much. We will follow you guys live. You guys, thanks for joining us on the M1 Hangout. Jenny Laba, Marcus Brown, uh, you know, and I would just go on record saying I'd be I'd pay money to get uh be born into that family. Love you guys. Love you too, buddy.