Hey, welcome back to Mobility Project. Uh, recently in one of the workouts I did, lots of walking on the parallel bars, lots of dips, and man, front of the shoulders get a little bit baked. I'm not going to lie. I want to show you an idea that when we see athletes missing extension, we've talked about a lot. Extensions and rotation is a combination movement. Rarely do we see pure motions happening, extension, maybe jumping, maybe skin the cat, but usually it's a combined motion. And the tight position for the joint is internal rotation extension. If I'm missing one of those ranges, because my scapula is so flexible, it comes forward. And what I want to show you is that this is the mechanism for a lot of shoulder injury problem. We keep talking about slap tears, uh, torn biceps. People have been emailing us about bicep problems. And one of the things we need to do is be able to keep that shoulder back. And certainly, if I'm tight through the thoracic spine, this low thoracic, it makes it difficult to recruit. And if I've tilted and I've lost that that internal rotation position, we've shown you that if I'm tilted, this is the end of my internal rotation. As soon as I get myself in a neutral position, my internal rotation clears up. And that's purely scapular mechanics. But one of the things that we test on athletes or physicians test on athletes is what we call a kind of lift off the back. And it's kind of a metric of what your internal rotation looks like in extension, hand behind back. But often times we test athletes, we let them in this shoulder forward position. We hit the test off. And you can try this. put that shoulder forward into the this closed circuit, this excuse me, this open circuit faulted position where I'm not stable. And look at how positionally inhibited I am. I can't lift my hand off. That's as far as I go. Put my shoulder back where it belongs. Whoop. And I improve that function. So, working tonight on kind of getting that hand back. And let's keep it simple. Let's start by just working on some good oldfashioned extension. This would be the external rotation component. I want to really wind this thing up. And I'm just going to tension. And then let that thing go. And then I'm just going to turn away a little bit. And uh I'll start to feel this tensioner across in the front of the shoulder. And I'm going to hang out. Keep that shoulder back. Contract. Relax. If you like, you can work on that to see how that feels. Give that thing some time under tension. Change the range a little bit as that arm comes back into further extension. Bringing myself across. Turning brings that hand a little bit more behind back. And then I can also look to see if I can do the neck tie in if maybe this anterior compartment. And then once I've spent some time there, you're gonna feel a big pull. Don't let anything go numb. Go and turn the hand up and just start to wind that thing in a little hand behind back action. Right. And then let's go ahead and camp out. Look for this anterior compartment. You may tack and stretch and get tie your neck in there. But now just start to make this a little bit more kind of complex. So, what's going to happen is first I'm keeping the shoulder back and then I'm going to wind up looks like a bully stretch. My hands back there somewhere. I can start guiding that and then I'm going to really spend some time in this hand behind back position working with this kind of across the body position. And that's really going to hit some corners that we don't talk about very much. And look at the difference in my internal rotation. It's ridiculous how much extension I can get on this side. Ridiculous. That's just so quick to open up. This answer compartment looks a little bit like this compartment. So, if you want to roll this stuff out, certainly feel free. Three ideas. Let's spend some time in this position so you can put that hand in a good position and really affect powerful movements there. All right, we'll see you tomorrow.