Back to mobility project. Today we're going to do a little piece for all our homies who are having shoulder surgery. Remember that probably the number one cause of shoulder surgery is lack of internal rotation. Just keep that in mind. But when we see that happening, shoulders end up getting a little bit jacked and sometimes, hey man, maybe you just played college baseball and you just trash your shoulder a little bit. So here's a little way we can think about this. You're going to have to have shoulder surgery. You're going to be immobilized in the sling. One of the things the first mistakes that we see athletes make all the time when they have a sling on is that that sling ends up putting their shoulder in a bad position and they basically practice the delta bravo position all the time with that shoulder forward. Remember as that thing heals you don't want to set up any bad patterning that I'm going to later be ghosted. So I want to keep that shoulder back in the socket. Now usually what's happening is the surgery that's going on of course is the relation changing the relationship or repairing the relationship of the arm to the scapula. That's usually a labreum or a rotator cuff repair or reattaching a biceps tendon. And so there's some relationships you're going to have to care for. And when your physician says things like, "Hey, you can't actually rotate or bring your arm past certain range of motion that they're trying to do is protect that surgical site so that you can repair that thing." But be that as it may, there's some other relationships that you can take care of. And so your goal primarily is to think, hey, what can I do to buy slack to the tissues as they heal? So don't set up a problem. And if we think through this problem, the very first thing is that I'm going to set that shoulder back in the socket. And it usually means I need to put the arm in the back of the sling and put it in a position I can keep in practice a good position with the shoulder. That's homework number one. Homework number two is thinking, god, what tissues can I add or affect because I can't really move my arm around much except for getting it stiff. That means that I'm probably not going to be able to do a lot of the radical stretching I like. So this is where the role of kind of the myofascial release comes in. In fact, anytime we have an athlete caught in a brace, it's easy to go ahead and focus on putting that athlete into a better position by getting them rolling. So, if my leg was straight, for example, and I had to keep it in a uh, you know, an extension brace, I could roll and roll around and kind of restore sliding surfaces. Well, the same thing is true here. Very first thing it would be very easy is to get up against a wall and try to mash the be Jesus out of my pec minor, my pecs. Get on that first rib and keep this stuff unglued. especially you're going to feel underneath here the rib the collar bone here subclavius in this region. Um that's a very simple fix and literally it looks like got a sling on press into the wall and you're going to be able to unglue a lot of ugly business. So homework number one today is go ahead and spend uh a couple minutes. Let's get you into your pecs head through the doorway. Head through the block and I want you to really I'm putting my hand behind my back and you can put your hand any position you want. I find that this is the best position to really grind back and forth. And let's spend a couple minutes ungluing this. So, if you had to keep your arm in a sling, you certainly could be in this position. Number two is that this anterior head of the delt correialis, maybe even uh a little uh biceps tendon through here, but this anterior deltraialis, this tissue gets ropey and pissed off, especially if you're liver in the front of the shoulder. The shoulder tends to want to have to be buffered and that musculature gets tight. So anything you can do to grease and grind through this this place. This is also of course C4 respond corresponds to but anytime I can just get in here and roll and up and down and just kind of mash that tendon in the shoulder. Again this would not violate any of the rules that are important things that your your surgeon is trying to accomplish. That takes us kind of into the top of the neck where it's easy to be camping out putting my hand on the top of my neck working on the scalings. We've covered that before. I can work on trying to kind of get into the trap. We haven't done a good trap stretch for a while or working on neck range of motion as it relates to shoulder. So, let's go ahead and do that. Let's go ahead and add this up. We're going to exaggerate tonight. I'm going to pull the head down in this corner. What's happening is that the arm is up in flexion and it allows me to anchor and kind of catch that all the musculature that limits this forward neck flexion into this corner. So, go ahead and turn the wrist up and let's go ahead and hang out in this position. If I couldn't, I could certainly still get the same kind of effect by keeping the shoulder back and putting the head in this direction. What we don't want to do is see the neck get stiff on top of the shoulder. Then we're thinking, hey, basic ribs. Easy thing to do is to get on the ground, drive that first rib mo. So, this is what it looks like. I'm going to try to catch that first rib up in my neck. I've got my child's musha sword. It's very effective in this position. I'm going to place that in here. And because I couldn't put my arm over my head, what I can do is just oscillate and then take a big breath and use the elevating rib to breathe into here. In fact, this would be a very simple way uh for me to start to get in here if I couldn't even move my arm over my head. But if you got to keep your shoulder back, that's fine. You can just drive your feet and get that rib to oscillate in what we call the codle glide or towards your feet. This is very effective. Turn your head a little bit. It's going to pop that thing up and you're going to feel it gets tight and nasty. that elevated rib does a lot to actually limit the kind of motion of the scapula. Then last piece tonight to toy with is to go ahead and think about ungluing all the sections around the ribs. So let's go ahead and get on here and if I was still in my brace, this would be okay. This wouldn't violate and I could just oscillate back and forth. So I'm in the sling and I'm just making sure that I've got plenty of excursion in all that nervous tissue. I'm see I'm just going to lift my butt up and drive that ball onto the ground. Try to restore that motion. Also going to be able to sneak over, maybe even capture some of the back end of the shoulder joint. So the last few minutes today of the MW is that I want you to go ahead and explore head on on the side. And I want you to try to capture that spot, some of this extra rotators, the kind of posterior musculature of the of the rotator cuff. Let's go ahead and get your shoulders unglued. And again, even if you were in the sling, you could brace your shoulder and certainly keep the shoulder back and try to get some motion in some of those glued down tissues. Gives you an idea. There's always things we can be doing. Laying on the foam roller, getting in there. The last thing I want to do is see an athlete become stiffer and see all kinds of problems that I'm going to have to do in my practice. We'll see you guys