Good. Hey, welcome back to mobility project getting caught up. Here's what we're working on today. Simple idea of back pain. One of the big concepts that we over miss or overlook sometimes is that hips get tight. And when hips are tight, the structures around the hips are tight. I end up transmitting a lot of energy to my back. My wife, the attorney, would developed a reputation one time at her law firm because people would come to her and say, "Hey, I'm having back pain." And lo and behold, she would say, "Hey, why don't you mobilize your posterior chain and then call my husband if that doesn't work?" And they literally come back into the office and say, "Juliet, that was amazing. I stretched my hamstrings, mobilized my posterior chain, and my back pain went away." And Juliet Turner would come home and be like, "Is it that easy?" And I would just say, "Yes, it's that easy." So, here's what we're going to do. Two ideas today. One, if we see people, your friends, loved ones suffer from back pain. Let's get them mobilizing posterior chain. Most of us can make a reaction to, hey, I'm stiff through this posterior chain. That's flexion related back dysfunction. Hey, Bearstar, let me open that up for you. There you go, buddy. Go back inside. The second thing is that, and you can kind of relate to, hey, tight butt and hips. So, tight posterior chain, tight glutes cause all this stuff. The other thing that we see is that if I have extension sensitive back pain, I'm overextending, then that's the front of the hips. In fact, I want you to do this test at home. I want you to reach into your pockets and grab a big chunk of skin in your hips. So, just grab this skin right here. It's it's the basically the cracklings of the human being. If you're going to make cracklings out of yourself, not saying you should do that, but if you had to eat someone in the Andes, you could spice up the meal by making cracklings right here. Grab that tight. That's imagine your hip capsule getting tight. And then try to stand up. And you can see that that pretty much puts me in overextension right away. So, opening up the hip in the front and working on the tissues here on the side, specifically kind of this glute meat TFL mass here. And one of the reasons this gets tight and short is that in internal rotation extension where those pieces meet, that stuff starts to wind up. So, here's what I want you to do today. I want you to decide if you think you have a more of a flexion related piece and we're going to do two pieces or if you're more extension guy and you do two pieces. So, for the flexion stuff, pretty simple. Okay, guys. Got to keep it down. Let's get on that posterior chain. Leg straight. Load the knee first and then bring that in. Let's hang out here 2 minutes. Tight, tight, tight. Release. But today, I want you to really do some freestyling. Go over hunt to the sides. Look for where you're really ugly and short. It may be that it's way over to the side. Let's get two minutes aside there. And if you're fleshing related guy, then we're also just going to go ahead and block the leg as best we can. hand on the foot and I just want you to explore into some of these corners. This foot obviously can be up on the bench. You can do it on the table as we point out. Let's catch out two minutes. Do some free inform freestyling through here. Working on the butt. If you're extension related guy, let's turn this around. We'll throw that in the hip. Throw myself in here. Working the hip forward. Let's do kind of classic Samson stretch. Squeeze the butt. Don't overextend to get the piece. This is a broken position. Hang out. Open up the soaz a little bit. Let's spend a couple minutes on here. And then the second piece of that will be to spend 2 minutes putting the ball into your hip here. So, as you're working with people who have low back pain, you may not be skilled enough or actually working on the back itself, otherwise besides getting braced. But what you can do is work right downstream of the problem and then hang out on open up the TFL. Put myself into extension. I'm laying on the ball and I just turn my foot up to the ceiling. See how that works? That's internal rotation of the leg in extension. Couple minutes. Blow yourself out. We'll see you guys tomorrow.