Welcome back to September 28th, MWAD. It's the day where I turn 17 all over again. This day is about uh living forever. And uh if you're going to live forever and you're going to have supple, fantastic tissues, then one of the things you got to deal with is how to sleep. We've been getting some requests on Emot about where the hell do my shoulders go when I sleep. And I see people screwing this up all the time. So tonight, we're going to talk about these small details. Okay, number one, I don't care what kind of pill you use. It doesn't matter if it's a buckwheat, feather, tempropedic, whatever. You got to get enough cervical or cviacal uh support to really kind of protect your neck during the night. You cannot sleep on your stomach. I cannot repeat this enough or emphasize this enough. You cannot sleep on your stomach. Don't do it. It's the death. My wife is shaking her head. She's like a threequarter sleeper. It's the devil. And the reason you can't sleep on your stomach is that you crush down all your little cervical joints all night long. And then by closing those things down all night long, the little precious joints, you potentially trash all of that uh neural kind of gliding and opening. Nice, beautiful opening joint. So, here's what it looks like. You need one or two pillows. You've got to get enough. And if you're having a neck problem or pillow problem, what you're going to do is you're going to take a little towel. This little hand roll. It's from the office, but you get the idea. I'm going to slide it into the pillowcase. Look. Poof. I have an instant orthopedic pillow. Here's the deal. If you don't have an orthopedic pillow, you got one pillow. This is what happens as you sleep. You see how I've closed the joints now and I'm just violating midline stabilization principles all night long. So, imagine if you were at your desk all day and you did this and then your shoulder came forward because of that position. You deserve any shoulder pain that you got, right? Oh, I'm just on the phone. It's cool. We're no better. So, the problem is we get this pillow, we think we're good, and then I jam my hands up underneath to try to protect my neck. So, now I've slept like this all night long. I'm doing some weird thing trying to protect my neck. But all I need to do is give my neck support. So, I slip that little towel roll in here. That towel roll with the help of the second pillow really supports the neck on the side. And now, look what happens. It's actually ungodly, unnatural to get your hands up by your face. And now you can do something with that hand. You can I don't know what you do with this hand. You still don't know what to do with this hand when you're like hugging your wife and stuff. But this way, you still don't have a problem about shutting up and you're supporting. So the the neck is neutral midline whole night and your shoulder drops back into a good position. even on my back. When we see people have sleep on their back and have shoulder problems, their head drops back too much. Their shoulders come forward. Just like the broken head position in uh when I overhead squat looking up, shoulders come forward. The same thing happens when my head falls back into too much extension. Then my shoulders drop into a crappy position. Then I have shoulder problems all night long because I'm sleeping in the dag position. So, I've got to make sure I've got enough pillow even if you're jamming up to create a neutral spine. And now, look, shoulders drop down. If you're having a super hot shoulder problem because you're living up here in front of the shoulder, you can even take a pillow and prop it here and let the shoulder drop to the back of the socket. Almost like you're doing that recovery to the back of the socket. And this supporting the neck, letting the shoulder drop makes a big difference. So, sleeping in this position looks like you're a World War I, like, you know, Civil War veteran bandaged in the hospital, but uh at least you got a good start to like cool off the joints because sleep is when it happens. That first round of deep sleep is when you kick out all the big testosterone, all the growth hormones. So, if you screw up that cycle because your neck is tweaked, that's a problem. All right, so give that a try. Sleeping, better sleeping. Athletes that respect themselves don't sleep on their stomachs. Even you, Juliet. Okay, now take a look at this. This is a stretch to be done in TV uh in the TV room in private. Okay, so because it's a little bit awkward, it's happy baby in yoga and uh but it's also kind of called the brown star stretch. I don't think this is very cool and it's embarrassing. So you're on your back. Back is supported and the happy baby pose in yoga is you reach up and you hook your toes, you shove your, you know, your knees up. You totally do just give the brown eye. So here's what we want to do. You'll do this in private. You can. What I want you to notice is that in this position, my legs naturally drop into a position where my feet are orientated straight. And you'll notice that they are not turned out 30 degrees. If you lay on your back, that's weird. So, if your back is supported in neutral and basically or squatting, take a look. Your feet are pretty straight. That's the natural orientation. And the wider I get, my feet still stay straight. Isn't that weird? They don't naturally turn out. And it's because you're turning out because you're getting deeper and deeper trying to solve the problem. So note that's the position I can reach up, grab the outside and really can't. When most of us were in this kind of splits position, a lot of you complained of pain in the knee. Absolutely. Because of the attachments here, you can ob sometimes get a little force here that doesn't feel good. But in this position, I've taken that out of the equation and I can hit that doesn't feel like adductor magnus, but more of kind of this more proximal hip and some of that. So it allows me to roll back and forth. And if you've seen any of Herzel stuff, you know, he's got a band on his hips and he's doing this roll around. We'll explore some of that this week, too. But just hang out, shove your knees out, press your back flat into the ground, camp out, and just see if you can tear on that stuff. Contract, relax, but do it in the privacy of your home because it makes people uncomfortable. That's called happy baby. Okay, we're going to add a couple other pieces. Since I'm laying on my back already, I need to go after the ribs. So, we're going to go after that first rib. Second rib. I want to drive my shoulder into the ground. This first rib is difficult to mobilize. We're really going to go after this high rib today. So, I'm g to drive my shoulder to the ground and then come up at an oblique angle. And as this arm comes up, that second rib, that first rib needs to descend. So, if I'm here, it's not very painful. I can just do my normal business, but I really want to get some pressure going into that first rib. You can feel it palpate. And then I'm going to just oscillate my arm into different corners. This is really, really painful. I'm not going to lie. I don't care. Pain makes it beautiful. All right. So, we're going to play with this couple minutes. We've addressed the pillow. We've got a few minutes there. Last thing that we're going to go on tonight, just some kind of odds and ends, is that I want you to think about the anterior compartment. Someone people I've been talking about complain about shins, shin splints, and they they're like, "Hey, we think it's just pulling off of the bone." But we want you to go ahead and think about stretching and mobilizing the front of your shin. So, it's an easy way to kind of camp out. We spend a lot of time in the posterior compartment. Let's go ahead and wind this up and get in the anterior compartment. And look, that's not really important position for me, especially as I try to point my toe and get into these nice hollowed positions. But if I'm tight and short here, my calves are working hard and this anterior compartment isn't going to be uh kind of working optimally. So point the toes and just go and spend some time really opening up that anterior compartment. It's almost like the fighting positions and spending some time even sitting here is uh going to undo that too. All right, happy birthday uh to your neck and pillow. This is the start of not sleeping on your stomach and uh and uh we'll see you tomorrow.