Hey, welcome back to mobility wad. Today we're talking about kind of making sure that we account for joint capsules when we deal with uh kind of soft tissue systems. It's a real mistake when we start thinking of only in terms of fascia or only in terms of trigger point muscle therapy or only in terms of joint or leaving out motor control. We've got to make sure we're kind of thinking about all those things. And today's mobilization really highlights that. We're going to talk about this piece of the groin that's really hard to get right where soaz comes out. Iliacis blends in. There's this big ugly mass of tissue here. it gets really short on our athletes and limits being able to extend the hip pulls me into extension these lower segments. And one of the things we're finding is that as we've gotten moved our athletes out of this economy of being here and into the economy of adjusting for neutral spine, we're finding that this area of the pelvis is a little bit tight. Now, one of the things we got to know is that we always apply a band mobilization basically in the opposite direction that the limb is moving. So, the limb is moving this way. I'm applying a band perpendicular to the the long the long bone in the opposite direction basically. So I know that's complicated. The issue is that we've got to account for what the joint capsule is doing. So this is my new favorite way to get in here. One of the things we found is that we've highlighted this before in the past mobility wad is this frog basically allowing us with the back upright. And this is really the end of this position where we see problems with the lockout being able to create extra rotation. So basically we're just going to mobilize in this position. A lot of athletes have a hard time finishing in a sumo and this is the way to get in there. So, I'm going to do taking the band. Got a little bit too light a band here, but you'll get the idea is that I'm going to hook this band up the inside of my groin here. And then what's going to happen, you just suspend this. We even use a green band at the gym on Jesse. We use a big black band. But now the the band is applying a force right at the hip capsule here upwards. So, I'm going to just take a a weight, block this out with my butt squeeze. And here's the key idea. That butt squeeze supports the joint. So, I squeeze the butt, anchor down with this uh with the weight here. Bam. Pulls the hip into the clean position where it needs to go. And then I apply the tensioner with the other leg. And you got to keep the the butt squeezed on. I'm telling you, this thing for me is the holy grail of oh my god, my groin is being attacked by aliens and I'm not loving this. So, I can contract, relax, but I want to keep that get tight, resist, but I try to keep the butt on. I know it's difficult to kind of differentiate those two pieces, but by adding this band, we really account for this difficult aspect. And this is really the most exaggeration of extra rotation of the leg and abduction. And then really adding, you may need a second play here. A super friend could stand on this and press out, which is exactly what I was doing to Jesse. This is a recommendation. Don't necessarily do this and then expect to stand up and be extraordinary. You're going to stand up and feel wa a little crippled, but you're going to find that you can create a much higher external rotation torque. And at the bottom position, you're going to find this really opens up and allows for a much more upright position. My right knee is further back than my left knee now simply because I opened up that corner and quadrant. Give that a try. Two, three minutes aside. Maybe save it for afterwards or make sure you've definitely warmed up beforehand. Talk tomorrow.