Hey, welcome back to mobility project. Uh, we've been on a bender of compression tack and flossing lately and we need to kind of consummate this idea, tie some concepts together. Now, look, one of the problems is that these are sometimes hard to get. This band um we're getting these at jumpstretch.com is about, I don't know, what is that, an inch and a half wide, something like that. Um, it's pretty long and the problem is if you don't have one of these, what do you do? because you cut yourself off from a significant source of of compression. So, today we're going to do a couple things. One, first is I want to show you what I've done is I I stopped by my bike local bike shop and I grabbed some old bike inner tubes and I I've experimented with this a lot and sent this out with a bunch of our tactical athletes. This works great. What I've done is I cut out the stem, split the inner tube in half. So, I actually end up with two compression bands here and then so cut it in half and then split it down. And then you end up with a pretty good length strip. It's a little bit shorter than we'd like, but it's still pretty long enough. It's util utilitarian. It's made from 100% rubber, non latex reaction. Now, take a look. If you if you want to use that, that's great. What I'm going to do tonight is go ahead and use the real deal, the real McCoy, and we're going to make these more available recently. But what I'm going to show you now is we've we've tacked the hamstring or excuse me, the calf, the quad. I'm going to show you a couple fixes. Now, we've used the ball. We call that the floss bomb. This is called the super flossing. I think we're just going to have to call it that. And what's going to happen is that a lot of times the tissues of this proximal hip of the high hip are really hard to mobilize. It's hard to get a ball in there up in your grundle up kind of in the in the adductor mass. Now all this adductors come in. These are kind of your medial hamstrings. Peectinius soaz comes on here too. And it's hard to get this. A lot of the experiences that happen, especially in athletes that are cycling, they report some kind of high hamstring feeling. And we don't know if it's soaz, we don't know if it's high mass, if it's kind of high hamstring. It really doesn't matter. The areas that it's hard to get to. This is really kind of circling up those ideas. So, here's the first piece tonight. You're just going to wrap that up high up in the groin. Kind of take it around. And then I'm just going to apply keep applying the stretch over the tissues I want to change. And that that inner tube tire works great. Don't be afraid about doing that. In fact, stop by and get a bunch of inner tubes. Show people how to fix themselves. That inner tube is a is the utility. It's the lacrosse ball of mobility. And then I'm just going to come back around here, make a few wraps. Don't worry, I'm not tourniquating myself. And then what's going to happen here is that I can do all of my normal flossing things. I can I can even actually deadlift and warm up. One of the things that we're finding is that our athletes who are having tack down tissues are doing their normal warm-ups and then during the course of the normal warmup expressing the movement in its kind of best form, we're seeing big changes. Now, let's see if we can tie a couple ideas together. So, I've got the the band high up in that hamstring, and then I'm going to go ahead and add my normal flossing routine, which puts the hip into an ideal position. Boom. So, I've got the the hamstring tacked and I'm just going to floss back and forth with the band pulling and approximating the hip into the good position. This two for one is insane. And I really get that tissue pulling past that kind of restricted compression band. Unbelievable changes. You need to experience this for yourself. If someone has that proximal hamstring burn, that high hamstring thing, this should be your go-to to fix that. Second piece. Hard to get some of those internal bits. Put that hip in extension. And now, oh, you can open that up. We can do all the flossing that we're doing here. Opening that hip. And this is a really excellent way to kind of hit some of that soaz pectinas stuff that comes on tension that we typically don't think of it as tension until the hip comes in extension. So here, oh man, I've just tacked that. Opening up that high hip. It is brutal. Brutal, brutal. Working on keeping the the leg straight, internally rotate and press through. Pretty amazing. Make your own band. Quit messing around. Two, always combine techniques. Flossing with compression flossing equals super flossing. We'll see you guys tomorrow.