 ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities, ubities Traveling bacteria that can do all sorts of horrible things to us in our body and our heart and our brains and elsewhere can all be controlled with good dental hygiene. The ADA did a survey. They said three out of ten people brush correctly. Three out of ten. Should we be brushing our teeth once or twice a day? White teeth aren't necessarily a measure of your oral health. Do you think oral care is getting better or getting worse? Dr. Kenny Brown, welcome to the Ready State Podcast. Thank you. Thank you. Excited to be here. We are really excited to have this conversation with you. We were lucky enough to meet you recently at a conference we both went to. And I just had this moment as I was watching your presentation that we have had so many, a breadth of so many different kinds of experts on the Ready State Podcast talking about all things health, wellness, longevity, human performance. And yet we have never had anyone on to talk about oral health, which Kelly and I both agree is such a critical part of our overall health and longevity. So I'm just going to start it off with you often say that the mouth is the gateway to the body. Can you unpack that a little bit for us? What does that actually mean? And how does that connect to our overall health and longevity? Right, right. So the very basics of it, which we all can understand, is one is how we consume food, right? So whether we have teeth, are we able to chew our food? Are we able to digest it properly? That's a very fundamental, basic thing. Then we can go a little bit deeper and say, well, where's the start of our gut? We're learning a lot about where our gut is contributing to our immune health, you know, all sorts of things, right? Where do you think the gut starts? Our mouth, right? That's the very beginning of the gut system, right? So when we think about those like just anatomically, like it's extremely important. Now we can go even further and say like, okay, well, the mouth has a ton of blood vessels in it, right? For some of the medications that we try to absorb the fastest, we deliver underneath the tongue, right? For patients who have maybe heart chest pain or anything like that, or even sometimes drug reversals, right? Like narcotic reversals underneath the tongue. So the absorption is really high. I say that to tell you that, okay, well, the bacteria in our mouth can also penetrate our bloodstream, just like those medications can. And so those travel throughout the body. And we're starting to really see, and this evidence is starting to come out about the not just correlation, but the causation of the bacteria in our mouth and how it affects our brain, heart, lungs, gut, reproductive system. Is this why, we'll get in a little bit more, but is this why, for example, sometimes people have prescribed antibiotics before they have a dental procedure? Because we're trying to protect the heart or some other thing. Am I getting that right? Yeah, exactly. Exactly, right? So historically, we've had patients who had either cardiac issues or a knee replacement or a hip replacement get antibiotics prior to a dental procedure so that we don't cause a bacteremia. A bacteremia means bacteria enters into the bloodstream. So that we don't cause a bacteremia by cleaning someone's teeth or doing a filling that then goes settles on that, whether it be the valve or the actual implant, like the hip or knee, and then cause an infection, right? Because those are not supposed to be there, right? But they do travel there by way of our mouth. Now, you are, I'm just going to flex on you, you're a Stanford-educated oral and maxillofacial surgeon. So you get into this and you are managing very, very diverse issues. The jaw is one of, it's self-organizing in the womb. It's crazy that it doesn't basically have any attachments. It's, you know, it's a huge aspect of how the neck stabilizes itself. The short neck flexors. Like, as you said, it's primal. It's a broken jaw. It's a huge, huge stressor on an organism, right? How do you go from doing things like cleft palate operations and reconstructions after trauma, which I think there's a question that we're going to ask. Yeah. How do you go down the rabbit hole of suddenly talking about biome? You know, like, explain that sort of story for us a little bit. Because I think it's really interesting that you're at the apex of what's possible, giving people their lives back and their faces and their jaws. And then you're like, hey, we should be thinking about this from a systems approach, this holistic model. Yeah. I think it's a great question. And I think, you know, surgery is very rewarding because you get to fix something with your hands, right? Like, and it's a very, like, okay, you either finished or you didn't finish, right? And it's a very satisfying. It's very linear. It's very rewarding in that nature. But, you know, one thing that really, like, stuck with me is scaling care, right? It's like, how do I, one-on-one is great. But how do I get to, like, one to a thousand, one to a hundred thousand, one to a million, one to a hundred million? And so that's really what kind of got me back into, okay, well, why are a large number of the patients ending up with me, ending up in my chair? And if you go all the way back, it's just basic hygiene, right? So it's like all of this could have been prevented if we just took care of the very beginning. And that's, so that's one factor. The other factor is one of my first pages in the hospital was with the medical ICU. So I get a page and, you know, every, every department has their number. So you call them back. I'm like, why is the medical ICU paging the dentist in the hospital, right? Like, I'm not really getting it here. And so I would call them back and they say, this patient, I believe he's like 40s year old male in the medical ICU with a brain abscess, right? And so he is fighting for his life, right? I'm like, okay, so what do you want me to do, right? They're like, well, we've searched everywhere. We can't find any source of infection. We believe it's coming from his mouth. And I was just like, what? That's actually super good medicine. That is like the fact that someone's asking that is pretty astounding. Yeah. And it's one of those things where, you know, when you're in the residency, when you're in the hospital, you're in an academic setting, people were asking like about these rare, you know, what was seemingly rare or what is seemingly obscure, right? Because we're really like living in the text, living in the literature in some of those environments. And so that's where the question came was like, okay, so can you take a look in the mouth and do an exam? Look in his mouth, periodontal disease, plaque buildup, like you name it, right? It was a disaster in there, right? And that was the only thing that they could tie to the brain abscess, right? And then when you go and culture these infections, that's where we start to see that connection between oral health and overall health. Because you actually culture the abscess and say, okay, what bacteria is here and where else do you find it, right? And that's, it's found in the mouth, right? So not only do you have that in the brain, you have that in the heart, you have that in the gut, and you're tying all these conditions to this bacteria that's only found in the mouth, right? It would be different if you had like some sort of infected toenail or something like that. You're like, oh, yeah, oh, hey, it came from the toe or whatever, right? The bacteria that they're finding in some of these infections and some of these disease processes is only found in the mouth, right? So that's where you get that causation as opposed to correlation like, oh, well, you know, because I think the first reaction is to say, oh, well, if you don't brush your teeth, then you probably don't exercise, right? So therefore, you have a high likelihood of having diabetes or obesity or something like that, right? They try to correlate them. But it's different. Whenever you say, okay, well, if this person has poor periodontal disease, their glucose shoots up, and now they become uncontrolled, that's causational, meaning that the mouth is relating to that issue or causing that issue or contributing significantly to that issue. So it's so interesting. I mean, there's a thousand questions that I could ask sort of drilling down here, but I think before you do that. Before you go, hold up. He just like, this is my greatest fear in the zombie apocalypse. Yeah, yeah. Kelly's greatest fear is dying of a tooth abscess in the zombie apocalypse. He's like, it's not going to be the zombies. I'm just like, you just spoke to my greatest fear. And you're just going to gloss over that? Sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Are you okay? I'm all right. I feel better. I feel better. So it seems to me you've at least suggested a few times that many of these things, especially these traveling bacteria that can do all sorts of horrible things to us in our body and our heart and our brains and elsewhere, can all be controlled with good dental hygiene. And I guess I think maybe people do think they know what that means, but I'd like to actually go through what you think that actually means. And maybe bust a few myths here. So should we be brushing our teeth once or twice a day? Yeah. So twice a day. Which one? Twice. Twice a day. Two minutes, right? With an appropriate amount of pressure, with an appropriate motion, with an appropriate angle, right? Most people don't realize there's this much technique when it comes to brushing your teeth. And the reason is, it's like, okay, well, I need to do an angle because I need to make sure I get down in the gum line, right? The gum line is like, that's like the holy grail, right? We need to make sure that that is clean, right? Two minutes, the reason we get to two minutes is because that was determined to be the adequate amount of time that someone could spend on each tooth in each section to actually remove the plaque that they've accumulated over the past 12 to 15 hours, right? So that's where we get that. But pressure is important because if we don't have the right, if we don't have enough pressure, then we're not going to do anything. If we have too much pressure, then we're going to start causing gingival trauma, gum trauma, right? Gum recession. We're going to start to have sensitivity and things of that nature. The motion, right, is also in a thing because like, okay, well, we can just, we don't just want to rub it in, right? We got to actually remove that plaque and disrupt the biofilm that can be causing, that can be attributing to this plaque accumulation and bacteremia. So all these things contribute. Now, we haven't even talked about flossing, right? If you, the ADA did a survey and they did, they said three out of 10 people brush correctly. Three out of 10 brush correctly, right? And so when you look at numbers, I think like, how is this possible, right? What's going on? One out of 10 floss, right? One out of 10 people floss. One out of 10? One out of 10 people floss. And that person was lying, let's be honest. And that person was lying. And that person was lying. So that's just brushing, right? We haven't even talked about cleaning your tongue. We haven't talked about flossing or getting routine cleanings. So we haven't even talked about these other aspects of maintaining good oral hygiene. Okay, well, let's start to get into those. So I want to start with this flossing thing because about a year ago, we had this actual debate inside of the Ready State office because I can't remember who it was on our team said that they brush and then floss, which blew my mind because to me, it's like floss and then brush is how you're supposed to do it. And we had this deep debate within the race. It was like 50-50. You're always in front of your next meal. Come on. It was like 50-50. And so we actually reached out to a friend of ours who's an endodontist named Anil. Shout out Anil. And he was like, well, either way could work. Honestly, the best thing is just to floss. But what is your, you know, let's put this to bed here at the Ready State office. Like what order in which should you brush and floss? Yeah. I think your friend Anil is right in that like, hey, just getting people to floss, period, is like a big win. 10%. That's fine. With that said, I am a floss before brush. Here's why. So when you floss, you're actually removing stuff from in between your, that are stuck between your teeth. And then when you brush, you brush it away, right? Versus it kind of being just like slightly dislodged or stuck in the gums. So it's meant to be like, okay, I'm going to take this stuff out from the debris out and then brush it away and then rinse it off. That's the reason why I say floss before brush. Okay. I love it. What about mouthwash? You know, mouthwash has for the longest time being considered an ancillary and it was kind of like this finishing touch. It was like the, it was like the spray of fresh air once you've done, once you're done cleaning, right? It's like the Febreze of the mouth. The Febreze of the mouth. And, or, you know, like you hang a little air freshener on your car. Your words not mine. And so that's, that's what I'm going to do. That's what has been considered. However, for a long time, mouthwash has contained alcohol, which is actually just detrimental to your tissue. It just desiccates your tissue. It just dries it out. It burns. So you make it, makes you think that something is happening and you get that strong menthols. You're like, oh yeah, it's working and it's fresh, right? But it's actually just burning. Desiccating your gums while that's happening? It's just desiccating your gums. It's not really doing much. It's just desiccating your gums. So, you know, is it a critical part of the oral hygiene routine? Not necessarily. Now there are mouth rinses, which are more therapeutic in nature now, right? We've, there's been a lot of development around that. Ones that are truly bacteriostatic or bactericidal and, and, and healthy for your microbiome. Look. I got two more on the hygiene thing. Keep going. Keep going. Hammer away. A few more hygiene things. One, uh, main, like regular toothbrush or electric toothbrush. And if you have an electric toothbrush, does that slightly improve your pore technique? Like, are you going to get a better clean even with pore technique with a electric toothbrush? And then should we be brushing our tongue? Uh, uh, first of all, absolutely brush your tongue. Um, there's, you know, your tongue is a shag carpet, right? That's really what it is. So if you think about all the crumbs and all the things that you eat, it just kind of just sits in there and just hangs out. Uh, so definitely clean your tongue. It's actually the number one cause of bad breath is, is the tongue. Um, uh, and the tongue has some wildly amazing things. Like it could tell you about your systemic health and macronutrients, micronutrients, like really cool stuff. Um, so that's, that's one thing on the manual versus, uh, electric. It really comes down to technique. There are some people who are meticulous with the manual and then they'll outperform. But that person will also be meticulous with the, with the power toothbrush or electric toothbrush, right? The electric toothbrush was designed to just help us get better motion and, uh, more friction as far as like where you were brushing your teeth. But again, you still got to make sure you touch all the surfaces. You got to make sure you have the right angle, right? Cause if you don't have those things, just because it's electric doesn't mean that it changes that aspect of the technique. Okay. Bear with me, Kels. I got a couple more. I'm in for the whole ride. Okay. So you're in LA, uh, and you know, there's just, you know, people have some real white teeth now. So, and half my Instagram is like, you know, different ways in which you can whiten your teeth. Um, and then there's highly abrasive. Yeah. There's charcoal toothpaste. There's all these teeth whitening things. Should teeth be crystal white? Yeah. So what's your take here? What's like, how do we have like the whitest possible teeth, uh, without basically scraping off all of our tooth enamel? Yeah. Look, it is. Yeah. A lot of the whitening products are pretty damaging to the tooth, right? It's like, it's like a acid washing the surface of your teeth. Um, but you know, it's kind of, it's kind of what we do. It's, it's kind of a societal norm. Um, I think that bleaching or whitening your teeth is safe as long as you're not sensitive, right? The minute you have sensitivity, you know, like, Hey, something's going on here. We need to stop this. Um, there's a reason why you can't get the whitening product on your gum tissue. It's like, you got to kind of ask, why, why can't I, why can't it touch there? Well, cause it starts to burn it. Right. So we've got to be just thoughtful about what we're doing. Um, but white teeth aren't necessarily a measure of your oral health at all, at all. Right. White teeth doesn't mean that you have a healthy mouth. Um, a healthy mouth doesn't necessarily mean white teeth. So we got to make sure that those two are separate, um, in their, I guess, classification. Um, you know, there's been a couple of times where I've had athletes who've had strange sort of inflammatory issues with some joints and we go through all of the questions and we're really curious. And oftentimes I ask them, do you have any root canals in your mouth? And there has now been, I don't know, 10 times where I've found occult issues in like this knee, this elbow. Forget about them. I mean, I have to cut you off. Like there was this point where Kelly was actually having like chronic ear infections, chronic ear infections. And a friend said. No, no, I, yeah, I, I went in. Yeah. But a friend said you have to get this panoramic, like a regular x-ray in the dentist. And by the way, we don't know what we're talking about. So correct us if we're wrong, but the regular x-ray wouldn't show this, gets a panoramic x-ray. Turns out he's like completely harboring this gnarly infection in his face. Gets his, I think you had to get an implant and literally hasn't had an ear infection since that day. Yeah. I was only two millimeters from my sinus. That's fine. But, uh, it turns out, uh, when we've asked them to do this, there's been this really interesting correlation of asking for them to get a panoramic x-ray. To follow up and having these old dead teeth in our mouth. How should we be thinking about that? And because one of the things I want to make clear for this, everyone listening to this is they should care because it's about having a healthier gut, a healthier system. We want to make the case that it is worth it up, not just to not have, keep your teeth, which is important, but that there's our huge performance advantages to not be chronically inflamed and kind of kicking that bell a little bit. Just overall health. So explain number one, how should I think about these root canals? Number two, sort of make the case for a performance sort of offensive way of thinking about our mouth. Yeah. You know, root canals have taken quite a bit of scrutiny, uh, as of late, uh, because of, yeah, yeah, you're right. It is a dead tooth. There are organic materials still alive. There's still a ligament around the tooth that's alive that helps you have sensation. Um, so they have taken quite a beating, but I think the, the bigger thing with the root canals, it's like, are all root canals bad? No, not necessarily. However, what happens is like you say, say you get a root canal and then you get a crown on top of it. What, what happens is you're basically kind of insulating this, this dead tooth and it can harbor so much bacteria, right? So it becomes this like silent killer that just kind of brewing and brewing and brewing like your, like your specific case. You probably never saw any color change of the tooth. You never saw anything like that. And, and, and your sinus and your specifically your upper jaw gives so much room for this to grow. Right. And so it was just kind of like eating you from the inside out and you don't ever really know because you don't have the same sensation on that tooth anymore. Right. So it can be a, a tremendous source of inflammation and infection without you even knowing or before it's too late or was causing these debilitating symptoms. And so that's really what, what root canals got a little bit scary about is like, okay, well, how do I make sure that this is not causing me an issue? Well, that's where that routine checkups, routine x-rays can play a role. Or now with implants, it's like, you know, it is a very viable option. Now I'm, I'm slightly biased as an oral surgeon, but like, you know, if get, if you get the tooth out and you're still able to replace it too, so you still have function, it still maintains your bone and your, your facial structure. So you don't get like that sunken in face. Right. You're still able to chew. It's quite phenomenal on, on the ability of a, of a, I guess an implant to restore that your function and your form in relation to a root canal. And just, could I just ask, practically speaking, are we right about, you really can only see this with a panoramic x-ray or if we are going in for our regular, regular dental checkups, like would this get caught? My dentists were saying, looks great. And I insisted on a panoramic. They were like, oh my gosh. Like if we have root canals, should we be like getting a panoramic x-ray once? Like what's, what would be the, the way to just make sure we don't have like a bone eating infection underneath our root canal as part of our normal dental hygiene? Yeah. I mean, this is, yeah, I think, I think a panel x-ray is, I mean, we take it on everybody. And when I practice, we take it on everybody because it gives the most comprehensive view of the hard tissue. Right. Now, as a surgeon, we go even further and we take a cone beam CT scan and that tells us even more. Right. But yeah, just one of those little x-rays, a lot of times you miss the top of the tooth. So you can't even see what's happening at the very tip of the tooth. Right. Because it's hard to get up there. You know, those little things when they take those x-rays. And so it could be brewing in there. And you, like you said, you don't even know. Right. And you have this crown, this very white and opaque crown that you can't see underneath. So you don't even know, like, is the tooth like kind of like changing colors or rotting? Like what's going on under there? Right. And you don't have any nerve anymore. So it does not, the tooth itself is not hurting, but it's hurting the surrounding tissues. Okay. So the follow on that is, you know, we are, we, the internet is full of people saying, hey, let's reduce this inflammatory load. Right. It seems to me that you're indicating that this mouth is a pretty good place to start in terms of having a healthy gut bacteria, healthy mouth bacteria. Like how could we make the case that better oral hygiene might do things like improve your HRV? Can we make that kind of conversation? I think, I think, you know, scientifically the way that we would just do, we would start to lay the groundwork is like the inflammatory markers, how much inflammation is going on in the mouth. And I think it's important that like for, for the listeners out there, like if you have bleeding gums, like when you floss or you brush, that's presence, that's sign of inflammation. Right. If you have any tenderness or any like kind of swelling in there, sign of inflammation. The mouth is like, quite frankly, an open wound. Right. It's just an open wound that the. Yeah. And the Chinese practitioners have been looking at the tongue for a hundred years, thousands of years. Exactly. Exactly. So it's a, it's a significant source of inflammation that we should be paying attention to and that we should, that matters. It really matters. And like, it's not just the dentist, you know, telling you that your mouth, your teeth matter. It's now cardiologists, neurosurgeons, neurologists, OBs, right? Right. There's a, there's a significant tie between periodontal disease, gum disease and low birth weight baby and preterm labor. Right. Again, why? Inflammation, bacteria traveling down, right? Down to the uterus and causing these issues. Right. So this is it. And I've, this is not just from the hospital setting. This is actually payers talking about this. You're talking about like insurance providers talking about that. They see, they're like, you know, it's real when they're like, okay, this is about money. When the money's involved, then you're like, oh, okay. Yeah. I've also seen internet, is this internet hype or is there, or is it, are we still just at a correlation versus causation, but that there's starting to be connection between poor oral health and dementia? Yes. Yes. Same thing, right? Like it's, again, it's like, just think about, you know, every organ, every piece of our body needs, needs blood supply. Right. So, but if we constantly are having bacteria poison our, our bloodstream through our mouth, then it's going to go everywhere. Right. Whether that's to your brain, again, to your heart, to your joints, to your ears. Right. Like it's going to go everywhere. So it's like, you've got to take care of that, that open wound or else it can just run wild. This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Momentus. And you know what we're so stoked about? Let's go. Pre-a-teen-cheese. Look, I, back in grad school, ended up looking at barriers to adherence. It keeps people from doing what they say they need to do. And as soon as you put one dumb step between you and an elite behavior or a good behavior. You're never going to do it. You're never going to do it. Yeah. It's really hard to do it. That's what Momentus just did. They just made a, like, this, the most amazing, tasty, lemon-lime, like, sweet tart, smarty-flavored, like, awesomeness that you can, like, it's, you know, five chews are one gram each. And, you know, we had this really interesting conversation today. We had a member of our Star Earth system talk about how he actually doesn't tolerate digestively creatine very well. And it's a super small percentage of people who don't tolerate it well. But there are some people. And apparently one of the ways to combat that is just to take small doses at a time, which is why the creatine chews at one gram each are so awesome. You can just spread it out over the day and take five grams throughout your day. It is tasty. So easy to get kids to get their creatine in because you're like, ooh, special treat. You may be walking past and be like, you know what? I'm just going to have one extra. A few extra five grams wouldn't hurt me. One extra gram won't hurt me. Yeah. A couple things, too. Crea Pure is the gold standard. Made in Germany. Not sketchy. Not washed in acid. Like, it is the way. It is the way. Whatever creatine you're getting, make sure it's Crea Pure and also NSF. Yeah. Like every Momentos product, NSF certified. You know why all the creatine gummy bears on Amazon aren't NSF certified? Because they actually don't have any creatine in them. They don't have any creatine in them. All of these creatine gummies, because it's not stable. You can't put it in there. So all of those gummies are just candy and not gummies with creatine. So we looked at that. I know Momentos looked at it and they were like, we can't do it. It's impossible to do. We created the chew. And we've been working on this project for 18 months. And last thing, they're great for travel because there also are, of course, creatine travel sachets, which are great. But, you know, sometimes you can just dump a bunch of these in a little baggie and take them traveling with you and so much easier to get your creatine in on the road. It is very clear. Creatine is one of the things that everyone can benefit from for your brain, et cetera, et cetera. And now you have plain powder. You have lemon, which is amazing. You have sachets. You have sachets. And wait for it. You can go ahead and have the chew. No excuses, people. It's so good. You go to livemomentous.com slash TRS. You can use code TRS and save up to 35% on your first subscription. This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Element. And guess what season it is, Kel? It's hot. Element season. It's our favorite season. Oh my gosh. I tell you, I've been running hot lemonade, hot lemon lime, and hot orange. And it is- Wait, I also really like hot lemon lime and raspberry salt. You like combine them? No, I just like both of those. I was going to say, I know I've been married to you for a long time, but that's a psychopath. Yeah. I like them all hot. What I love is, instead of reaching for another cup of coffee, I literally start drinking this. And I know I'm getting hydrated. It's entertaining. It's warming. And Beth Dorsey would love it that I'm having a hot beverage in the morning. Right? That isn't just- It's true, having a hot beverage. Isn't so dry. Element also has all these flavors that are designed to be hot. Yeah, yeah. They don't have to be like chocolate, chocolate mint, and so many other flavors. We do off-label stuff. That's our channel. Yeah, but we go off-label and we use all of the traditional flavors as hot element. And what's so awesome is we do find in the winter, we don't drink as much water just because we're not as hot. And we find that we don't just actually get enough hydration during the day. And if we just have a hot element and we bring that to the office with us- Yeah, put it in my big-ass Yeti bottle. We drink so much more water. And it is delightful. And even when it's kind of just cooling down a little bit and it's not just molten, it is so good. And I think that there is some magical to that, especially when we're trained real hard still and maybe not out of salt. This is the drive. Because I think you're right that oftentimes the heat that triggers us and suddenly we're like, oh, you know, it's fine. Just like kind of sipping on like a tasty, lemony, yummy tea all day long. Performance tea. Performance tea. Element tea. Element tea. Oh, that's what we did there. Right now, if you order through our link, you can get a free sample pack of Element's most popular drink mix flavors. And of course, you know what we're down with, a party in your mouth. Try sparkling. Try sparkling. Go to drinklmnt.com slash TRS. Say it, Jay. We literally drink it every day. Every day. So we had some friends that were dentists. They were UCSF dental students, actually, when they were members of our gym like way back in the day. And they said that it's sort of hopeless. Like for the people who don't floss, if they don't floss by the time they're adults, like all hope is lost. Because they'll never floss? They'll never floss. Is that what you mean? Well, then they were just saying like in their practice, they don't even tell people who don't floss to floss because it's like a failed experiment. Is that like, is that true? Are we really, is it really that hopeless? Or can we, is this a habit we can learn as we age? Or, you know, it's not looking good at one in 10 of us actually. Yeah. No. No. And especially for those liars out there, the one you said, right? Yeah. Maybe it's like 0.5. Yeah. I don't, look, I don't, I don't have the viewpoint that it's hopeless. You know, as much as we're talking about the correlation between the mouth and our systemic health and how bad it can be, I think that the solutions can be fairly simple. One, I don't think anybody should ever give up. I think we can learn new things. I think we can reprogram. We can reprogram ways so that we can make sure we take better care of our body, right? Like I'm sure even in, you know, in the physical therapy where you got to kind of reprogram someone's gait, like, hey, or the way they land or the way they jump, right, so that they don't have any injuries, right? So I think we can reprogram. So I'm not as bleak on that. But I will make a strong case for innovation, right? I think that as for so long, you know, it's like you come to me and I tell you what to do. You need to listen. And if you don't listen, then sorry about it, right? But I think what we need to do is like, isn't that what makes us human is our ability to innovate, our ability to think, our ability to care. And I think innovation in itself, excuse me, innovation in itself is a form of caring. And so if we can come up with better ways to take care of our mouth so that maybe someone doesn't have to put that string on their fingers and snap it between their teeth, right? Like then, you know, I think that that's where innovation belongs is to solve issues just like this. Okay, so we're going to get to that because you are working on some innovative stuff. But I still need to hit you. This one, I fear that your answer is going to make me very sad. But what is your take on gum? Gum? Yes. Well, okay. Remember, he's a surgeon first. Just remember that. Well, look, if there's sugar in the gum, then... Yeah, no. I mean, that's a definite no. But just, you know, let's say sugar-free gum is the gold standard. Raise your hand if you eat sugar gum. Who eats sugar gum still? I mean, you still see some people that eat that. Juicy fruit? There's still people who do it. Zebra strip? Come on. So there are gums now with like better ingredients with xylitol, which is a remineralizing material. I'm sure we've all seen this neuro gum out there. It's kind of going pretty viral. It's almost like an intervention in some ways. No problem with gum. The issue is for a lot of people is TMJ disorder, right? Is when they start chewing that gum and they're just working that jaw and just working. It's like grinding and clenching. You can't contract that long and not expect to have any symptoms. So, you know, it's just like any other muscle, right? This is a whole muscle complex that we need to make sure we take care of. So aside from the sugar itself, we just got to be thoughtful about that chewing. When we have people complain of neck pain and we see thoracic outlet and a whole bunch of things, one of the batteries of questions that I ask them are, do you have any piercings in your mouth? Do you clench? Do you grind? Does a co-sleeper report any of these things? And it's amazing how people don't think about some of those behaviors impacting sort of chronic tension in and around the neck, limiting range of motion, limiting, even clamping down on some of the neural structures exiting this neck to the brachial plexus. We really, you know, as we sort of work through complex problems, sometimes we also say, well, do you sleep with your mouth open? And I'd love for you to talk about sort of this mouth open, mouth breathing versus nasal breathing as it may affect drying out my tissues, this sequela of things down the road. Would you talk about that for a second? Yeah. Now we're getting to the other side of oral surgery and it's airway management, right? When we think about the posture of our lower jaw and how complicated that is, our tongue, how large it is, where it's positioned, the soft tissue of our palate and where it falls and lays, especially when we have obesity and things and that soft tissue starts to compress, we're compressing our airway, right? The airway is the, it fuels our brain, right? We need to fuel our brain with oxygen. We need to fuel all of our system with oxygen. And we have these sort of issues. We start to have these detrimental symptoms down the line. And so I think, yeah, it is often underlooked, even in children, believe it or not, like adenoids being like this huge and touching, whether it be chronic allergies, whatever it may be, right? Or like some of the diets that we have and our kids aren't breathing. There are some really interesting studies about delayed reading, right? Like so people, so kids not being able to read and, you know, by basically by a fourth grade, right? But when they take a certain subset of those, they just have these huge adenoids. They just can't breathe. So then they can't sleep. So then they come and just sleepy and then they can't learn, right? They can't read. So it has nothing to do with their, like, you know, developmental capacity, their intelligence or anything like that. It's like, they just can't breathe. They can't stay awake, right? Because they're, they keep waking up throughout the night. You know, chronic, chronic, like many, many times a night gasping. And as a parent, this is a perfect time. I don't know how many times I made my daughters cry trying to brush their teeth, but I'm going to go with a lot. And there are times you're like, I'm out, like, good luck with your teeth. You know, I mean, you're on your own child. How, what should a parent do? Because I want this to be part of the language of, hey, I'm raising a kid. As you said, these getting adherent, learning these behaviors. We, our family values flossing as like a family activity. We have, and shout out, this, this, this podcast brought to you by Twinline Placker. I do always wonder if, like, is Georgia actually flossing off at college? She is flossing. Is she actually doing it? I think, I think if Georgia even sleeps or eats a fruit or vegetable, we've won, right? That's true, but. She even attends class. I don't know. But think, how do, because this is an innovation thing. When the electric kid toothbrush came out, and we're old enough to see that first generation, I swear the efficacy of our brushing got better. The, you know, adherence, it was just, it was one less struggle. Like, I wasn't putting that finger brush on my, trying to scrub my toddler's teeth. Like, come on. Like, there's got to be technology out there helping us out. Walk us through some of that and how important that is for kids. Because I love when parents are like, huh, I wonder what's going on with my kid's airway. Can I go in there and listen? Just being aware of this as a parent. And we're not trying to freak everyone out, but this is also one of the things you should be able to look out for. Yeah, you know, it's just about paying attention. I know it's a whole other thing. It's another thing that as a parent we've got to pay attention to, and that's hard, right? But it is important, and you're not going to win every battle, right? And so no one's here to put shame on you for missing a brushing test or two of your child. Like, it happens. But we do need to pay attention because it doesn't matter. Even though those teeth fall out, right? Infection in a baby tooth can affect an adult tooth, right? So they're not just throwaway teeth. They actually do serve a purpose. They serve a purpose with spacing for our jaw development, for our arch development. They actually are tied to the adult teeth. So there's a lot of things that we want to pay attention to there. Brushing teeth for kids is an age-old struggle. The best thing that you could do is just make it a whole event where everybody is doing it, right? Where now it's cool. And that's the best that I've seen. But I think we still need more. I think we need more innovation around especially our children and helping them take better care of themselves in an easier way, right? Like I said, we're not trying to pile on here. That's not the purpose of the discussion. The purpose is to say, hey, this is real. We need to pay attention. How do we move forward from here? I feel like Ted Lasso potentially did more for child oral health, the scene where his niece has those terrible tonsils that are so gross. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. That was so cute. I think that's got to be the best. Wait, I've got to – can I get in here real quick? Yeah, do it. So it seems like there is an explosion of mostly young people but honestly I've seen quite a few adults using Zins and vaping. And tell me how – I realize those are two totally different things. But can you talk a little bit about how those things impact your overall oral health, your health generally? There was a switch maybe five or six years ago where our hygienist started screening us for oral cancer. I saw that switch happen where they were like, oh, you're not – I always get a gold star because I'm a flosser. But then they started looking in my mouth for lesions and feeling some of my adenoids and some of my lymph – to Juliet's point, this is a new thing where we have seen – I mean even vapes haven't been around that much. There are massive amounts of Zin usage among young people. And I mean we know that nicotine is hugely – like it's a vasoconstructor. It shrinks down all of the blood flow in the mouth. And potentially that seems like that's less of a good thing. Am I wrong? Yeah, that's exactly right. A lot of times what we see for Zin users or someone will say, why are my teeth sensitive? A young person, why are my teeth sensitive? Like where are they sensitive? And they say at a certain spot. It's like, oh, hey, what's going on up there? Like nothing. Like I was like, do you brush harder up there? Like what hand are you? Like what's going on? What's going on? Right? And until they then disclose like, oh, that's where I hold my Zin. Right? And a lot of times what you're seeing now is gum recession in the areas that people are holding that Zin. So when you talk about vasoconstriction, so that's basically like killing the tissue. So it just shrinks back and shrinks back and shrinks back because it doesn't have blood supply. Right? Or the constant irritation of the particles and materials in that patch or pouch is just constantly irritating. So the gums just run away, run away, run away. You can't grow that back. Like that's gone. You could try to do grafting. It's very difficult. And it's quite painful and expensive. Like you can't just grow like gum tissue back just like that. Right? We haven't gotten there yet. And so you're seeing, you know, teen, late teens, early 20s need gum grafts and all this kind of stuff. Or in some cases even loose teeth. Because what happens is as you consistently irritate that spot, it's the same as having gum disease. And your bone also starts to retract. And then the tooth becomes loose. It's like, what are you doing here? You're losing teeth because, you know, you have the Zen patch. What about vaping? That's why smoking is safer, Lisa. What about vaping? Yeah. Vaping, you know, I can honestly say that like if we haven't seen, I have not seen a huge like new correlation of oral cancer or anything of that nature specifically around vaping. In general, smoke and heat are just not good for the oral cavity, not good for your airways in general. And so that's just a very general thing. But not necessarily worse with vaping that I've seen any evidence of. And really we're actually... The Zen piece is something that's dear to our heart because we work with a lot of young athletes. Zen has been normalized by the wellness community. Nicotine is a nootropic. And suddenly we're seeing people being addicted to very high levels of nicotine. Double 15s, multiple times a day. It's pretty profound. And we're not thinking in this long term. I remember there was... I worked in the burn unit at St. Francis and they were talking about some of the things that they learned with these new grafts that people were getting is that when they started grafting people, some of the soldiers would go out and have a cigarette. And a single cigarette would cause that graft to de-adhere, basically kill the graft. A single cigarette because of the high CO2s and the microvasculature that was just establishing was toasted. So they got rid of... They were like, you can't smoke if you have a skin graft. And that was the connection for me. And I would just add that I don't think it is a great thing that the wellness community has done by rebranding nicotine as a neurotropic, making it sound cool and scientific. It's still nicotine and it's really gnarly. So that's just a weird thing that's happened. Yeah, isn't it? It's crazy how you went like... It's like, okay, it was like big tobacco, right? Going and, you know, say no to smoking. But then they just went... Then they just took the opposite round and said like, okay, well, just get rid of tobacco. We'll just go straight to the source of like what we're really selling is nicotine, right? And we're saying, we're really just selling this, right? And we'll just give it to you straight. So it's wild how that's developed. But yeah, I agree with you. Like we need to make sure... And I appreciate you guys and the work that you guys are doing because I think we need to make sure that with all this information that's coming out, even how AI is distributing the information because of where it pulls from, is that we still maintain a level of scientific integrity and honesty around these topics. Because if not, everything, you know, it's all based off of sales. Everything will be a problem or everything is a supplement or everything is good for you or everything is bad for you, right? Like we just got to make sure we're careful with that. And I think sometimes our patients, our customers, our clients are overwhelmed with all these things. And so we got to be responsible about guiding them through these journeys. So far we're saying this radical ID should floss, should brush twice a day. Maybe don't use Zins. Maybe take some care about how you actually brush. This is big oral care right now. Okay. So you mentioned this a few times and we were really excited to talk about this with you in person when we met you. But you have been working on some innovations in this whole, you know, oral hygiene space. I feel like there's been a lot of innovation. Waterpik? Yeah. I mean, maybe Waterpik and maybe the electric toothbrush, but that's been around for a real long time. So tell me what you've been working on and, you know, give us a primer. Yeah. So what I, you know, what I was kind of talking about earlier was like innovation, right? And going back to how do we care better for ourselves? How do we care better for our patients? And when I think about, okay, why are people failing at brushing their teeth? You know, some of the statistics are like 47% of people in the United States have some form of gum disease, right? Some studies will show up to 90% have gum disease. Yeah. Some will show up to 90% of people have some form of gum disease, right? Or certain populations, especially in the elderly population. And when we look at why people are failing, it's like there's two things, time and technique. Either they're not brushing for two minutes and they're not having the right technique. So one of the like primary things I was like, okay, well, how do we deliver that time and technique for them, right? We got cars that drive for us. We got AI that thinks for us. We have a lot of things that do a lot for us. Why can't we do, why can't we get this for us, right? So that's where we came up with the Pheno Smart Brush. The Pheno Smart Brush has the technique built in and it's all designed around the mouthpiece. The mouthpiece has the right angle of bristles. It's sized to fit you using, just using a selfie. So you don't have to go to the dentist to get an impression. It's sized to fit you. It has a unique motion to make sure that you actually get in the right motion when you're brushing your teeth. And by having the full mouthpiece, you actually get to touch, you know, your gums, your soft tissue, your tongue. Or excuse me, not your tongue. Your gum, the insides of your teeth, the biting surface of the teeth, the outsides of the teeth. So you get everything really covered all at once. Therefore, allowing us to brush your teeth in only 20 seconds as opposed to two minutes. So it's about taking things away that make it easier. Like you're kind of investing in taking better care of yourself by actually taking things, making it easier, right? This is a Reels Instagram toothbrush. This is the like digital short of toothbrush. People are so ridiculous that like two minutes twice a day is too much. Poor technique. But now we're like, no, we can do it in 20 seconds. I appreciate this so much. And I think as a younger clinician, I'd be like, what's wrong? But now I'm like genius. Because really, you know, my doctoral work was looking at barriers to adherence. And we have to think in these terms to solve these public health crisis. Let me ask you, do you think oral care is getting better or getting worse? That's a good, that's a really good question. I think in, I think it's getting better in that I think more people are starting to understand how important it is to their overall health. So that I think is kind of this feed forward mechanism. I think what we will see over the next five years or so, the same way we saw, as obvious as it sounds now, walking being a critical part of our health, right? And then we had the Fitbit, right? And then sleep, the way that that has come and like now has become a critical piece of health. Like if it was all of a sudden, right? You know, it's like, I think that we'll see the same thing with oral health. I think we'll see the same thing with, you know, with each of these things and how they're contributing and their importance. I think that the technique, I think people actually practicing good oral health is actually getting worse. But hopefully in combination with the awareness that that begins to now follow the improvement cycle. And, you know, and I, you know, I pray and I hope that Fino is the advocate in that. I feel like Fino is an advocate in oral health and overall health. And the fact that we should make these things easier for, you know, create systems and create ways that our customers and our patients can do better for themselves, right? Compliance is a huge issue in all of our worlds, right? And so how do we get people to comply better? I think we can design ways to help them comply better in their busy lives. One of our friends, just I was going to say, this compliance adherence piece, she is a brilliant coach. We've known her forever. She was having knee pain playing pickleball and she just did this thing called the couch stretch. And it changed her life. And she's like, wow, this stuff really works. And I was like, isn't that interesting? Brushing your teeth actually works. Wait, I have to ask because, you know, not only does Fino allow you to brush your teeth well in 20 seconds. That's F-E-N-O. It does a bunch of other cool stuff. Yes. So could you talk a little bit about that because that's what we talked about a bit at the assembly. Yes. I was very intrigued by what else it does. Yeah. So, okay. So beyond brushing, then we've got to think about the other aspects of like where oral health is and how do we treat people better. And that's access to care and awareness of the mouth, right? And so what we have on the device is there actually is a scanner on the device. And it'll scan your mouth. And we have a computer vision model. So we use AI. We leverage AI to be able to give you insights in what's going on in your mouth. So it'll look at your teeth, gums, soft tissue, and tongue and say, oh, hey, there's something that could be going on right here. Right? We'll continue to watch it. It'll follow you along the way. Right? So we'll continue to watch it and see if we need intervention. Right? We want to be able to connect it with the provider. So you can say, oh, yeah, send this to my dentist. See if they want to do something. See if they want to send me a prescription. So when it comes to awareness about what's going on in your mouth, the brush is able to do that. So we're able to combine behavioral data, if you're brushing, how often you're brushing, with the clinical data, the image data, to tell you, okay, here's what's going on. And we'll continue to add more things. We even offer a salivary microbiome kit. Right? So we can now tell, okay, you have these microbes in your mouth. And so you're a higher percentage of getting periodontal disease. So, hey, you're brushing once a day. So we really need to make sure that we dial it in here. Right? So we can create these customized solutions based off just some simple observations that our AI is able to kind of compile and deliver to you. And we believe that that's the next level of care. Right? It's like creating access and awareness about why this is important. And so when you think about, okay, like, okay, let's say I have some gum inflammation. It'll actually not only tell you, like, okay, here's what's going on. Here's how bad it is. Here's what you can do about it. But also, here's why this is important. Meaning that here's how it's been shown that this is connected to heart disease. Right? And it'll show you a study. It'll actually give you the report on how the two are connected. Now, it won't say that you have heart disease. It's not meant to scare you in that regard. It's just meant to anchor that, hey, this is important. This condition is tied to this other systemic condition. Let's get it taken care of. That makes total sense. And it's just so cool. And we got to see it live, too. And it's just so tidy. Think about, you know, the problem with your teeth is you cannot brush for a day. You say, you know, you talk about that. You're like, yeah, I'm just going to brush tonight. I went drinking, whatever. You do not think in a single brushing incident, whatever. But you don't think about how those things add up. And what's going to happen? What was that movie where Meg Ryan goes back and she switches places with the old guy? Remember that? And she starts obsessively flossing her teeth. And he's like, yeah, because you're going to miss your teeth when they're gone. It's so hard for humans to be thinking about a behavior today that's going to impact me in 10 years, 20 years, 30 years. Yeah, preventative is always hard, right? Preventative, proactive is always hard. And that's why, you know, making it super easy, that's where that 20 seconds comes in, right? So if I can create something that's easier to use and then it's also better. But like, you know, as humans, we're looking for convenience. We're looking for fast. We're looking for easy. So let's deliver that to you while being better as well. So for those of us, you know, who maybe can't access a super high tech tool like, you know, yet. But one of the biggest takeaways for me in this is that for those of us who actually are brushing twice a day, we're doing a sucky job. And do you have any resources or places you could point? There's got to be like a two minute YouTube video or a video somewhere about like, you know, let's all take a minute to like actually figure out the correct way to brush and do a little self-assessment on that. And it seems like that's one of the biggest things. Like, can you point us somewhere? And let me add in, should we go back to the public shame where we had to eat the dye and like your teeth roll? Why you had to like, it would bind to the plaque and you walk around, you have one tooth and everyone be like, you're like your one tooth. You remember that thing? Do we need to go back to this public shame? I think that was a sucky job. Actually, that's actually how we test the efficacy of our device, right? Is with that, we call it plaque disclosing. And it's actually very powerful. We had one woman in our study. She took great care of her teeth, right? Her teeth were really nice. She was a good brusher. She was very intentional. She took great care of herself. And when she did the plaque disclosing tablet, you're right. It was one section. Bam. Like completely purple. These like tooth and a half, right? Complete purple. I'm not lying. You didn't do this? You didn't get shamed as a kid? I've never done this. You just had to chew this tablet and it would just light up all your dirty teeth. Yes. Yes. And so when she did it, we were like, she's like, I don't understand why this is happening. And I said, okay, let me watch you brush your teeth. And believe it or not, it was just when she flipped her wrist, she would just kind of just miss that area because of where she was flipping, right? She'd brush on one side. She'd flip the wrist and bust the other side. And she would just miss that spot over and over and over and over again. Something so simple. Yeah. So simple. Okay, wait. Where do we learn how to brush? Where do we learn how to brush? Yeah. You can go on YouTube and you're going to get a ton of hygienists that are teaching you how to brush your teeth. Proper toothbrush technique. Now you're going to get a ton of hygienists. And God bless them. Hygienists are amazing. Taking care of us and cleaning our teeth and using those scalers. It's actually pretty hard work. And so there are very critical pieces of this health ecosystem that we should appreciate a little bit more. We'll do a little bit of that research and maybe put a couple of links in our show notes for anyone listening to this. I've actually done a lot of work with dentists on their hands. And I always ask my dentists, are you using your loops? All right, let's get you on those loops. Let's take care of those hands. Let's make sure you're stretching. And they're like, thank you. Thank you, Dr. Starrett. Okay, so Kenny, we're starting a new tradition here on the Ready State Podcast. And you're our first guest to get to participate in this. And we would like you to recommend a book, film, show, or album you think everyone should check out. And tell us why. Okay, I think I'll do a book. And I'll do Servant Leadership. I think the author is Greenleaf. And the reason, do I tell the reason or just? Oh, yes, please, please. Okay. Yeah. So I think that the servant leadership is one of the strongest principles of how we continue to care for each other. Whether that be we are in a position of leadership and that, hey, we're truly actually working for our employees, that people that work for us, that work with us, or the customers that we're serving. And I just think that in the world now, we need more of that. We need more of like, how are we contributing to each other, right? I mean, you guys know in a marriage, and I'm married too. Like, it's about serving each other more so than serving yourself. And I just think that we need more of that. And I think that's what spurred this innovation. I think that it'll spur a lot of innovations that actually uplift the human experience, right? You know, as you guys have trained a lot of people, continue to share a lot of people. And, you know, there's nothing like that person, like, feeling it themselves and then, like, you know, having that, like, revolutionary moment. Like, oh, wow, I got better. And you got to contribute to that. Like, that's almost better than you, you know, you yourself getting that experience. So servant leadership, like I said, I think it's green leaf. Awesome. Well, thank you for being our first guest to share that. Are you on social media? Yeah. Where can our guests find you and learn more about your amazing innovation and product? Yeah. So on Instagram, we have two. So one is myself, KennyBrownDDS. KennyBrownDDS. And that's all both on TikTok and Instagram. And then for Fino on Instagram, it's Fino.co. And then on TikTok, it's FinoLabs. I just want to point out, this will be the moment where kids are, like, my parents listened to this podcast and I became a dentist because I listened to Dr. Kenny. And also, maybe we could coin the term, look back and we're like, this is the start of big mouth. Big mouth. Yeah. Seriously, Kenny, I was so excited about this. I think this is just such an underrepresented. It's so easy. It's pretty easy. Such an underrepresented part of our overall health that doesn't get talked about enough. And I just love talking to you. I think there's so many very basic things we can all do and get better at to improve our oral health and our overall health. So thank you for being here. And your presentation about the microbiome of the mouth and literally, Juliet and I just looked at each other and we're like, yes. Yes. We see it. Awesome. Thank you so much. Thank you so much for being here. Thank you guys for having me and giving me an opportunity to talk about this. Hey, Kelly and Juliet here. If you're ready to feel strong, move freely and have a body that's built to last for life, we've got something special for you. The Starat System. It's our 12-week strength and lifestyle training program. We designed it so you don't have to guess what works anymore. We blend strength, mobility and recovery into one smart system that actually sticks. Over 12 weeks, you'll train with us and learn from our expert guests, build strength, lose the stiffness, wake up with more energy and finally feel in control of your body again. We're running a free seven-day in-app challenge starting January 5th if you want to check it out. The first 2026 cohort starts January 12th and early birds get $200 off. If that sounds like your kind of move, go to thereadystate.com slash system to apply. We'd love to help you show up stronger, more capable and ready for anything life throws at you. Let's make it happen. We'll see you inside.