 and people have observed that especially in the phase of dynamic weight loss, while you're actually losing weight through a calorie deficit, the resting metabolic rate slows down more than expected based on just how much weight you'd lost. But at the same time, I was reading lots of popular articles and blogs and fitness magazines that said, if you just worked out enough, especially did resistance training and cross-training, you might be able to prevent that slowing of metabolism and therefore have greater success in weight loss. And then tuned into one of the episodes of this biggest loser TV show, which was this crazy television program where people are losing so much weight. And what you see on television is that these people are doing a ton of exercise, right, of all kinds, aerobic exercise, resistance exercise, cross-training, all sorts of things. And it occurred to me, if there was ever a case where we could study how metabolism was changing in the context of a severe calorie deficit with a whole bunch of exercise, this was the group of people to study. And so I eventually was able to kind of get a couple of postdocs in a collaboration with Eric Graveson's group at the Pennington Center in Louisiana. We sent out some postdocs to study season eight contestants of the biggest loser before they even knew that there were contestants on the program. We had like the list of people who were actually going to be selected and we measured them at their homes. And then during this crazy weight loss competition and then six years later after many of them had regained much of their lost weight. And I know that there were some surprising findings from this study. What was the most surprising thing you learned in following the release of the program? There are so many surprising things actually. The one that I thought was particularly interesting was that most people had thought that, well, again, did the exercise prevent the slowing of the metabolism? The answer was absolutely not. They still kind of during this sort of weight loss competition, despite all the exercise, their resting metabolic rate was slowing by a huge amount. But we were able to show that their total energy expenditure, the total number of calories that they were burning was going up quite a bit because of all that exercise and physical activity. They were doing about three hours every day of the week of vigorous exercise. And for this entire 30 weeks or sorry, 13 weeks while they were on this wrench. And then when they went home, they kept up an hour of vigorous exercise every day after they went home before the finale of the competition. So a huge amount of exercise. But despite that resting metabolic rate still crashed greater than would be expected based on the reduction of body weight, which was a huge amount of body weight reduction. It was 60 kilograms on average over a seven month period. So 120 plus pounds of weight loss was the average weight loss that these people experience. And then the thing that was most interesting about that phase of the competition was that the people who experienced the greatest slowing of metabolism were the ones who lost the most weight. So the kind of traditional logic would go, well, if the number of calories that your body's burning at rest goes down more, then that would make it more difficult for you to lose weight and therefore you should lose less weight. But in fact, the folks who lost the most weight experienced the greatest slowing of metabolism. And that trend was also in place six years after the competition. The people who were most successful at keeping the weight off were the ones who concurrently at that six year time point were also experiencing the greatest slowing of metabolism still. And there was no relationship between the slowing of metabolism at the end of the weight loss period and who regained the most weight. So those were all very surprising findings because they kind of seem to flip the carton, the horse, so to speak, of what's happening with metabolism. Is it really determining who's losing the most weight or regaining the most weight or keeping the most weight off? And it seemed to be no, it was actually following that. In other words, the people who are most successful with their lifestyle intervention and able to kind of lose the most weight and keep it off were the ones who experienced the greatest response of metabolism. It wasn't determining the weight loss, it was a response to the weight loss. So yeah, so that was really surprising and something that was kind of totally unexpected. Do you remember when we talk about like resting metabolic rate, how many calories it rests, it kind of takes to feed your body, keep your body alive and doing its normal functions like breathing, feeding your brain. Do you remember like, is that 300 calories or 500 calories? Give us a reference if you can just so that someone can perceive what you're saying. Yeah, so well with these folks, especially when they were starting, they were obviously had class three obesity, they were all very large people and we're talking about thousands of calories per day. So your average person with 80 kilograms and these sort of overweight categories, probably 1600 calories per day for the resting metabolic rate, these folks were, I believe, somewhere in the 22 to 2300 calories per day just at rest because they were so large to begin with. And then after when they saw those changes or the response, I don't want to say slowing, but just response to this weight loss, what was there, the change or the delta there? Yeah, so there's two, I'd have to go back to the original papers, but there's two pieces to that. One is the expected reduction just because you're getting to that smaller size. So if you kind of ended up, and I don't think anyone ended up at that sort of 80 or maybe a few people didn't, but the average was not at 80 kilograms.