Hey, welcome back to Mobility Wad. Jesse Berdick on the camera. More importantly, Katie Hogan with me here as guest guest coach, guest star. Um, I asked Katie to come on because we got an email from a coach talking about uh training girls and boys volleyball at young levels and some of the shoulder positions questions, the missing ranges, how do we train it or some ideas about training and also how do we get athletes to that position you can't get there. and we pulled Katie Hogan out. She's a pretty good dancer, pretty good strength athlete. You may have seen her on other other TV shows and things. Uh, one of the reasons she's here is that she's an all-American javelin thrower. Little known uh side effect of being strong and awesome being all-American, but also she's all-American volleyball player at UCSD. Yes. UCSD. So UC San Diego. Yep. So you played started four years. And you had so much shoulder pain. Is that right? No shoulder pain. No shoulder pain. In fact, you should be able to come out of any movement unharmed at one rep or a million reps. And what you see is that a lot of our young kids, they get to they finally get to the college and their shoulders are shot, right? Oh, yeah. Totally. Freshman year to senior year, I had girls that were icing their shoulders every day after practice, every game, every tournament we ever did. Every rep they have to they feel that pain. Oh, every rep. That's cool. Every rep. So, here's what we're going to do. We're going to talk through some ideas about some training. And what we're going to use this is really thinking about the the training stimulus stimulus as a way of of just reinforcing or making the position more robust. So the we call this the missing corner. So if you go endrange flexion, go end range flexion for me. It's not good enough to just be all the way up out here. Endrange flexion is that the shoulder needs to all the way come all the way over into this corner and have the armpit forward. And this is one of the reasons that the dumbbell in a hammer position is a nice expression of what full range is. Go ahead and go all the way up. We see a couple things. Katie has her butt on, her rib cage is down. It's this last little tight bit is the absolute expression of peak shoulder and she breaking a little bit. She's not warmed up. But this position represents the stable overhead position, not out here. One of the issues is that we use strength and conditioning. It's a formal expression of movement, stability, but I need to be able to go achieve these stable positions and then kind of freestyle out, right? Because blocking, I don't block in this position. No. Right. Exactly. If you're going to go from here, you got to maintain that and reach from there. If you break into here, you're going to miss your block. You're no way your hand will get over the net. And if it does, it's not going to be strong. So, one of the things that we like about as we're training as a group is that and uh some of the coaches we think like Jesse, we don't necessarily train stabilization exercises. We don't do that because every movement that we do has a stabilization component. Exactly. So, if my athletes understand the movement principle of being stable, then they're going to be able to apply that principle when it matters most in an actual sport, right? So, here's our one of our simple tests. First one is just putting a single dumbbell overhead. We're going to use the dumbbells because you can extrapolate dumbbells into a big group quickly. So, go ahead and throw one dumbbell overhead. Got a light dumbbell here in this hammer position. Rib cage down, butt tight. We can see that she's got that full range. Now, if an athlete I load them up even with a 30, the elbow bends a little bit. That's an expression of missing range. The shoulders internally rotated. So, elbow straight, locked out. This is a position she can hang out in all day long. One of the things you'll see is that we actually have to block with both hands, right? So, if I give you two dumbbells, twice the fun, and this is a real nice tell that is the athlete able to keep the rib cage down, express overhead positioning. I'm looking for the rotation as a coach is that armpits screwing forward to make that that shoulder stable and then elbows have to be straight. So in this position with one dumbbell at a time we can just start working on basic stabilization. Does the athlete understand where the overhead stab position is? If they can get there and she's starting to decay. Come on, get up there. Okay. So simple ideas out of this are walking lunge, keeping the armpit tight. And what I'm looking for as a coach is is my athlete able to maintain that stable position without starting to overextend and compensate. Oh, and then is is it is she instantly rotating in that bottom position arm? Give me a break for a second. It wasn't 80 lb. I know. 80 LBS. OH MY. We covered this before with Jesse about how those type of things. All right. So that simple walking lunge or even waiters walks, right? But all we're looking for as a coach is not is the bar the dumbbell overhead, but is it stable? And what position is happening here? That's right. If I'm broken at the rib cage, which we'll talk about in a bit, then I'm not going to be able to stabilize the shoulder. So, I've got to create a stable chassis off of which I can create torque. Right. Double do double for me for twice the fun, twice the uh the horror. Now, rib cage is down, butt is tight, armpits forward. You see no bend in the elbows. Going to take a walking lunge and just hold that bottom position. So, there we go. Now we can really see we're challenging that bottom range. She's got to be in a good stable position without decaying and not making a bad face. All right, pop back up. Excellent. So basic simple ideas. Okay, second concept now is taking this basic shape intended being able to get all the way up into this corner. You can see that athletes don't have this. Now we can do something like a Turkish scallop, right? So go and do a Turkish scope without the weight for me. Sure. Check this out. Here's our take on the Turkish scup. What I'm really trying to train is can I get my athlete into a stable shoulder position. Ultimately, you can dissociate the wrist. Can I get them stable the whole time? So, she pushes up onto her left elbow and the shoulder stays stable. So, now as she goes up into into bringing the leg through should Oh, shoulder stays stable. We don't want to see that shoulder line. Do that again for us, Katie. Exist this time. Keep that tight and don't lose that. Go slower, slower, slower. There we go. Is this [clears throat] position Oh, she becomes a little unstable. I want her working on the limits of this motor control. Then she brings her leg up to a high lunge. Still stable. Now it's that same position again. Rib cage is down and I get to practice that stability at the range. And then she stands up. Oh, and there's that overhead position. Pull that in tight. Pulling back. Okay. So, what's what that looks like with a dumbbell. Remember, my athlete doesn't know where to go. Why am I mobilizing there? We've prioritized the movement and the motor control first. Stabilization. She stays stable the whole time. Really seeing that she understand. And then also look, I get a two for one. Is this shoulder stable? She creat There we go. Now it's in a better position. Go. Press up onto the hands. Same thing. This shoulder screwing into the ground. That that shoulder is tight. Bring the arm through. Don't lose it. Right there. FIGHT BAR. FIGHT BAR. FIGHT. GOOD. And then she can reclaim. I can slow her down every moment and keep the load light so that I'm really working on the stabilization component. And then stand back up. Beautiful. How easy was that? 15 POUNDS TOGETHER WIN. ALL RIGHT. As we get a little bit more advanced, we can do things like snatching the dumbbell. You show us that even just a muscle snatch and working on finishing in that stable overhead position and then finishing into the in the idea, right? Adding speed to challenge the position. But more importantly, come on over here. Check this out. Excuse me. It doesn't have to go all the way down. Yeah. You're not going to do a pull-up. We're not going to have a pull-up. Here's what's going to happen here is that VC basic shape of blocking, which we can talk about in a second, right? Being able to achieve a stable shoulder. We should see rib cage down, butt is squeezed, toes pointed. Carl Pal would say, "Are you in the If your toes aren't pointed, are you in a good position here?" Feel me while I'm grabbing his butt. Hey. Whoa. What's going on? Toes aren't pointed. You're not a good position. Yeah. In the air. Check. Gymnastics. Okay. So, but in the air, I see this this triple extension. Butt is tight. And what I should see is that the armpits, arm straight again, and the armpits really, really tight coming forward. So, now if we just start a little basic kipping drill, I should see trying to create global extension through the body, not hinging. And I'm trying to stay engaged in shoulder forward. So, basic kip drill. Now do that loose so we can see what the shoulder looks like. Broken elbow, bad wind up. She can't generate any force in that position. She enters the tunnel wretched. That looks awful. That's You're so good at that. Thanks. I would never do that that way. Never do that. So the idea though is I can move my athletes hands in and can they hang and just achieve the stable position and then start adding some motion out of it because it's difficult. As soon as you break shoulder in rotates. Yeah. before they even start the movement, when they're hanging there, get them to feel that how they can control the rotation. How you when you grab my arms, I can find new range there just by you rotating my arms. Now, check this out. Carl has this sneaky drill he does. Jump up and grab that with one hand. Can you do that? Okay, now can feet together, butt tight. Now relax and watch how how she unrotates. Same drill with that. Right. So when when she's soft, she end up rotates. So go ahead and see if you can put the armpit FORWARD THERE. AH, THERE'S THAT POSITION. So just creating that. That's tough, isn't it? Just creating that fixed rotation off of that and just hanging there is a good easy way to do that. Part two, what to do about it and some implications of bad position. This is the trading position part one. Good job. Down cap.