Okay. Yep. Both good and we're going. Hey, welcome back mobility wad. We got a call for an email from uh one of our leopard legion who's asking us, hey, can you talk about hypermobility? So, one of the things that's important that we understand is that if I have a theory that's correct or an organizational concept or construct, it has to be scalable. Has to be scalable from the lowest level of performance to the most elite level performance. It has to work from children to Olympic gold medalists. It has to scale across injuries. It has to incorporate all those things. If there's some piece of my integration or some piece of idea that doesn't fit that schema, I've got to discard it and figure out what's wrong with my schema. So, here's the deal. We have Gilly here who I've known for years. Super coach, head coach, super strong athlete. You were a volleyball player in college. Y. So, she's pretty awesome. Okay. So, here's the deal. One of the things that that and we've known for Gilly for a long time is she is hyper mobile. And what's asked is how do we deal with hypermobility in the mobilitywide concept. So when we talk about the hyper mobile m i l e the whole hyper mobile amongst us what we want to understand is that we have four concepts or four systems we're dealing with when we look at an athletes problem. First is motor control and what we want to understand is that we're always fixing the movement first. Now, for a hyper mobile low back, particularly where we end up running into our problems, the issue is that we usually are focusing on what we call butt and gut. And people understand this. They're like, "Hey, first I got to squeeze my butt as hard as I can." Boom. Butt sets position. Now, with the butt set position, all of my musculature tissues are going to turn on. We did mobility wide in Australia about the pelvic floor. Well, it turns out your diaphragm doesn't work very well if you're overextended or in a bad position. Your pelvic floor doesn't work very well. the body a basic basic simple principle that if you're in a bad position it doesn't work if you're in a good position it does work I call this positional inhibition so squeeze her butt hard now she's set she's organized her position now abs can brace position now this is where we traditionally have stopped the conversation but there's a third element of spinal stabilization we talk about and that's the rotation of the torsion by screwing your feet into the ground and you saw the femur come off tension do it again and come on tension that torsion in the hip come off tension back on tension. That is the third construct. That hip capsule, that rotator cuff pulls that pelvis into the straight up and down position. She's back tension off her butt. Now, now her abs have to work less hard to buffer that position. That's what you feel. And you can test this at home in yoga. They call this tadasa on standing. But really what we're talking about is that there are three constructs. First butt sets position. Now abs can brace position. And then third is poop. Pelvis is locked into place for the torsion. So when she's squatting, it's really incumbent that ah she creates that torsion in that bottom position. Go ahead and do that again. And knees out, knees out. You can see that she's not very comfortable and her knees are wobbling back and forth because she doesn't understand where that bottom position is. And so when she loses that stability through the hip, she defaults to this forward position. Hamstrings insert onto that big bone in the pelvis. And we are fooling ourselves as we think that the the hip flexors and the soaz are going to pull and resist what? The hamstrings. There's no way. Look at this girl's hamstrings. No, don't look at that's pervy. So, don't be creepy. So, here's the deal. We need to create that torsion in the hip that blocks it so her hamstrings have something off of which to pull. Otherwise, she's going to have to counter from the bottom. One of the cues that we do in the bottom, go ahead and sit in that bottom position. Shove your knees out. And then I need that toe on the ground so she can create torsion. She's screwing her feet into the ground. We shove the knee as hard as we can to lift your knees off your elbows. Boom. And now she's rock solid in that that position. And we we'll just train our athletes to be a little bit tighter in this bottom position so they feel what that's like. Go ahead and keep your knee out. If your knee comes in, we're going to kill a kick. Bam. No knee wobbles. So the first and foremost when we have the hyper mobile is that we work on motor control. Second aspect is we work on our sliding surfaces. Sliding surfaces are okay to smash. It's okay. We're looking at fascia, looking at connective tissue. As Gilly is standing here, feet are straight. She's creating 20% of her torsion. She's got 20% of her abs on all the time. Fair game. Where we take the the schema and change it for hyper mobile athletes is we don't work on joint capsules. The joint capsule is out for my dancers. It's out for my gymnast. It's out for my hyper mobile. When I have Aaylor's Danlo, connective tissue disorders, anything pregnancy, we don't yank on the on the tissues. for is we do not go after muscle dynamics. So this muscle dynamic where I take a muscle to end range and pull on the insertion is out. So with our hyper mobile athletes, their excuse from any band distraction, what we get is you better be in a good position stable all the time. Prioritize that stability and if we need to smash on something, we smash on something. So with Gilly, we work on ball gut smashing. We get our QL. We have her work on torsion and then we Mark Bell has this little fun little band he's created. He calls it the circle, but maybe it's the circle of pain. Put it on your knees. That looks like a monster band concept. And all I'm doing is queuing that bottom position. Now, let me be clear. There's nothing weak about this girl. There's nothing weak. This is not a weakness problem. This is I have no idea what my brain is supposed to do problem. This is a software wiring problem, not a strength problem. Create the torsion. Ah, now she's in a good position. She shoved her knee out harder, harder, harder. Tear that bandit apart, you coward. Come on, tough it out. Harder, harder. Now, I've got a cue for her jumping mechanics, her power cleans, and just getting her here. Of course, she can walk around, but that's the issue is that we're using this not to shove the knees out. What are we trying to do? Create torsion. Create torsion through the hip. So, the cue of screw your feet into the ground is not a cue. We want to screw the hip into the ground. The idea is you can be in a better position, more stable. All of this goes away. We'll see you guys tomorrow.