I think it's sick care and healthcare. If I'm sick, I want to go to the best hospital I can possibly find. But most people are not sick. Where do you go if you're trying to not get sick? That is like healthcare in my opinion. We want to teach people how to be healthy and how to stay healthy. It is two adjacent systems, but you're starting to see highle legit providers in this other world that are starting to get frustrated because they're seeing these problems that they can't really resolve. They can put a band-aid on it, but eventually it creates the same problem over and over again. And that can be really challenging for them. Danny Mate. Danny Mate. Danny Mate is an entrepreneur and founder of PT Biz, which helps physical therapists to not only start their own practice, but start it in a way that allows them to scale. Danny has built multiple sevenfigure businesses, host of the PT entrepreneur podcast, which is the one of the most successful physical therapy podcasts on the planet. I mean, if you decided that you were going to this is like what you were doing for your life, like was it a difficult decision or was it just like no way I see the future, I'm ready to do this. What was that transition like for you? No, I it was I don't think it was easy. You know, it's Danny Mate, welcome to the Ready State podcast. Thanks for having me. So excited to chat with you all. This is this is very long overdue. And finally, I just want to say Danny, just so for everyone knows, we've known Danny for a long long time. Danny and I were basically teenage punks together, walking shirtless in the beach in Hawaii when we we realized we were married to the same woman, had the same aspirations. You have become a phenom. I'm still stuck digging a ditch. Um, I can't believe uh that you finally have amounted to something to end up on the Ready Say podcast. You have you have been such an integral part in partner of my thinking and development as a coach and as a practitioner and as a friend for, you know, over a decade, forever. So, I'm just really excited to introduce everyone to what you're doing and how you're overturning some serious carts. And just on that note, maybe you could just talk a little bit about your origin story and your Kelly and Danny origin. Yeah, we'll set it up everyone to know what you do, but give us a high level of how you became Danny Mate in this current moment like what is your profession and then you go from there. Let's give some context. Currently, I primarily uh, you know, help cash and hybrid based physical therapy clinics, you know, really start growing scale and be able to um be able to create a a patient treatment model that that works for the provider to to not be burnt out, but also create a really big impact for the patients um that they they see as well. And um I started doing that inadvertently because uh I went to PT school in the army of all places where they taught me nothing about business uh because I wanted to be an army physical therapist as a career. That was my goal, you know. So I I go through the army's, you know, Baylor program. I get my degree. I end up, you know, being fortunate enough to get stationed out in Hawaii at Scoffield Barracks and be attached to the 25th Infantry Division for a few years. And um we got connected. And Julia, I don't know if you remember this too too well or not, but I cold called the the gym and you were in this ConX box where you guys had, you know, equipment and shirts and you picked up the phone, you know, when I called randomly uh because I was interested in learning more about like the approach that that you guys were teaching mainly on YouTube where I I'd seen some of Kelly's stuff and I was like, I got to start doing this with my soldiers. So, I called the gym number and you you actually like answered and come to find out like you know that that phone line was like rigged from the sports basement or whatever and like no one really ever answered it and and uh so so just luckily you picked up and I kind of explained what I was trying to do and he said like hey you can come and hang if you want like Kelly's finishing writing uh supple leopard so he's not going to be around and I was like cool I'll be there and you know so I I I flew in for a week I spend a week with Angel and RP and Diane and Carl and like just learned so much in in the in the week and it it I would say in a lot of ways it sort of reframed how I was working with my soldiers in particular the ability to teach them how to take care of themsel uh doing things that mimic like hands-on techniques was a game changer because there's only one of me for 3,500 of them so you know I started wait say that again one of you one physical therapist for 3500 why does the system struggle can you tell me I know It's it's an impossible job, right? And it's it's uh but what made it better was being able to be like proactive with, you know, teaching people how to move better and and take care of themsel and and just like we call like muscularkeeletal first aid, like triage themsel uh as well because there's just no way I could treat all the injuries. And um I started having a lot of success with it. And and you know, when when uh when you came out, you were teaching in Hawaii anyway. Uh you had offered like, hey, I'll come in a day early and work with the brigade. And uh it wasn't hard for me to get buy in on that. there were so many people that were super into what you were what you were talking about. So that was fun. I got to hang out, you know, for for a couple days, you know, really see what you were do what you were doing and dive into it. But honestly, I just was like very interested in becoming a good clinician. Like that was that's that's that was really all I wanted to do and had no idea that I could do that outside of the military. Um, let me stop you. Why would you I remember you were very progressive and the work you were doing, the teaching, the courses you were putting together around running injuries. I mean, you were it was one of the first times where I was like, "Oh, look at this. The army has clinicians who are independent thinking. Why would you leave that job, Danny?" Yeah. Well, if Okay, it's a good question because if they would have left me in a u you know, in a brigade position where I was in, I I might not have. Um, I really enjoyed the autonomy, you know, but when we met, you know, you had you you had mentioned that, you know, your team was growing and we were going to have other people teaching and uh that that it might be a fit for me to, you know, come on and help with that. And let me let me correct the record here. It was not it might be a fit. Yeah, we can spot talent from thousand yards away. Before you go on with that thought, two things. First of all, I totally remember you calling and I remember you coming. Oh, nice. U Yeah, I remember all that. And then two, what's the Could you just tell everyone who's not a military person, like what's the difference between being a brigade physical therapist and then whatever it was that they moved you into being? Yeah. So, traditionally in the military, there's a few different jobs you can have as a physical therapist. A lot of people are in what are called like troop medical clinics, which you can think of as like satellite clinics to a hospital, or they're in an actual hospital, and there's, you know, they're they're seeing people that are coming uh for different injuries they have. Maybe you're seeing retirees. Um, and the job that I had was it was very early on they started um putting a physical therapist into into a brigade uh which is three to 4,000 people to help with, you know, treating injuries and you're you're sort of like the in-house person that that does that, right? Um, and so that's the big difference is like they kind of put you in there and and they let me just do my thing, which was awesome. Like I actually like that a lot. I think a lot of people struggle with that because they like the structure and they want to know what their schedule is going to look like and they don't know what else to do or whatever. I actually really enjoyed it. And uh but when I when I left Scoffield Barracks, I went to Fort Benning, which is where the airborne school is, and I got attached to the clinic uh that is attached to the airborne school, which I thought this is going to be awesome. Like I'm going to see all these cool injuries. And what happened was all I was seeing was um you know, high volume. I was seeing 20 plus people a day. Sick calls. Sometimes we would have sick calls where if you're hurt instead of schedule an appointment, you come during set hours. So it would be between like 6:00 and 8:00 you could come in and and we would see sometimes 30 people in in two hours. And most of it was like you sprained your ankle, you know, training for airborne school. You you know hurt your knee running at airborne school. It was the same stuff over and over again. It was very high volume and I couldn't actually like use my skill set in any way. I was can't get ahead of any of those problems. I mean, how do you see 30 people in two hours? Two sentences with them. you you you you group them up. I'm like, "Raise your hand. If your ankle hurts, go over here. Raise your hand if your knee hurts, go over here." Like, and then you have to write the notes for that, which is a huge pain in the ass, right? So, so like it it really burned me out quite a lot. And the other thing, too, is for the ready safer at the time, mobility wad, you know, y'all had to these really cool contracts with military and as an active duty military individual, I could not actually work with the military and charge them to do those courses if if I'm still active duty. It's you can't do it. So, you know, you either have to separate and come back as a consultant or you have to say, "No, I'm going to stay in and I'm going to try to make these changes internally," which is a very hard thing to do. I love it. So, um, somehow we roped you in to teaching courses with us. See the smutty photos, the context, the cont. I look back on this with as a phase of fondness. Um, we've talked about this with a few other guests who were in the CrossFit space or sort of in the like general fitness space that I felt like there was this heyday of education. Oh yeah. And we were on we were like the tip of the spear of that. And it was this period between let's say like 2012 and 2018 where in the sort of health fitness wellness physical therapy Cairo you know massage I don't know I don't know how to expand that but there was this massive interest in learning and going to these in-person courses. And so we had this big market for people who wanted to spend their weekend with us learning about movement and mobility and mechanics. Um, and then it was interesting because it kind of died off. Actually, a lot of people think it's the pandemic, but it started to actually sort of die off. And I was I'm not sure if it was because everybody, you know, up until that point before these courses started, it was like the dark ages. Like I I always like to point out that Kelly would teach his original courses and like point to people like this as your quad. Yeah. and people started to become more and more and more sophisticated. I don't know what changed um but it was this really that maybe the internet maybe people just felt like they could get free information on the internet. I don't know what changed but it was this little period that you were definitely in with us and I look back with fondly because we were just you know had people traveling all over the country teaching and people were so excited to come for the weekend and learn and it was just it was a it was a phenomenon. It was and it was so fun. Like that's the other thing is it was it's it's really fun to go and teach when people really care what you're talking about to learn what you're talking about, you know, are like really interested in it and you see like the light bulb moments that somebody has when you talk about, you know, whatever the concept is and and we would get people that were individuals. They're just there. I mean, I would have people come in on crutches postoperatively, like, you know, they're like a week out from a knee surgery and they're crutching into my course, you know, and I'm like, I don't know if you're in the right spot. uh so just like don't do anything too intense. And then you'd have people that were like the most elite athletes on the planet that would show up, you know, anywhere in between. And and uh it was so fun to be to be able to go around and and teach, but also to meet all these other people and to teach with really smart people like the people that that that you guys picked to actually, you know, work with the mobility wad. Like they are some of the smartest people I've ever met. And to be able to learn from, you know, them, to be able to travel with them and teach with them, it's just like such a cool experience, you know. So, so that that was amazing. And on the side, I would say like my side project was my wife and I actually like we started a cashbased physical therapy clinic in Atlanta where we moved whenever I got out. Um, and a it was a huge airport where I could travel easier for for the the the jobs we had with mobility wad, but um, we felt like it would be a good market just in general because it was a pretty active city. And uh, that clinic ended up growing way faster than we thought. mainly I think because what I was doing was testing all the stuff that I was teaching and uh I was educating people locally as well on like this is why we're different, this is what we do, this is how you should treat yourself and it just sort of like it caught fire a lot faster than we thought. So, you know, that that's sort of my segue into the business side of things and we eventually ended up focusing a lot more on that and and not uh not teaching quite so much uh anymore. But I have to say like that's literally one of the more enjoyable, you know, couple years of my life where where we're able to like go around and really uh just see the see the country, see the world actually, you know, and uh and and educate people, which is just such a fun thing to do. I mean, so Danny and I have been into some crazy places together, which is, you know, it's real fun to, you know, to be sort of people show I try to tell people I'm like, hey, you don't understand. People show us their dirty laundry. help us help us sort these really complex problems and um I just want to set this for everyone because sort of in your current stage as we get into thinking about muscularkeeletal care and the revolution that it's undergoing and I'm not going to say attack but evolution from the internet and AI and everyone's an expert and you know that you have you have an iPhone in a you know in a commercial gym and you're suddenly you know an expert you go from um kind of big industrial real care physical therapy where you're working institution institutionalism. You're trying to innovate. It's the system is not really set up for that. Then you move into this this private care situation where you're you really have total autonomy to treat and manage and create the life you want. And I think you start a podcast at that time where you're you're talking about these things and some you suddenly start a little side hustle where you're talking about the business of physical therapy because I just have been I just at the APA annual convention and then I just went to the Parker chiropractic annual convention like within the kind of consecutive months and I really see that there are a lot of young clinicians and veteran clinicians who are like you know I I feel like we're constrained we're hamstrung by the current system of reimbursement of of you know how we get to treat how we get to think about the problems of taking being primary care providers you start if I get and correct me if I'm You start this little side hustle podcast and it kind of blows up in your face. Is that Yes. And that really leads you to the PT biz. Is that is that right? Yeah. I mean, for the most part. So, I had started the Doc and Jock podcast with my buddy Joe Shimonic who just one of my best friends, great strength coach, and uh we felt we're like, cool, this is an opportunity for us to talk to the smartest people in strength and conditioning. And they all say yes because we tell them we have a podcast, right? So we we we do we did that for years and we actually it got to the point where it it was you know we had a lot of people listening to it. It was somewhere between 50 and 60,000 downloads a month on that strength and conditioning podcast. And what I noticed is I we would do these sort of one-off shorter answer Q&A kind of question uh podcasts and I would get these business questions from people about cash practices. And every time I would answer it, I would just my email would be like flooded with people or my my Instagram be flooded with people asking me questions about whatever the topic I was talking about. And you know, we didn't think we were doing anything different than anybody else. Um but we'd been able to grow past myself in a relatively short period of time um w with our clinic. And uh and so I started to share a bit more information on the business side and that started to yeah obviously like grow. I think I sort of struck a bit of a nerve with people like really interested in learning that information and also I mean I think you got to look at our profession in healthcare in general it's changed a lot in the last 10 years. Um but yet it's still shitty right like it's it's just one of those things that like it it's just it's just not it could be so much better. And when we get a chance to work with people in the model that that we that we run, which is really like low volume, the provider feels like they can use their skill set to the extent that they wish they could. Um they're not limited by constraints of volume that are coming in or time. And uh the the patient feels like they're actually being listened to. They they actually have somebody that that um wants the best for them and can help quarterback their health and wellness. Uh and it's it's not tied to their insurance. And frankly, the the playing field is so much more level now, like when people's deductibles go up the way they have over the last decade, I I I mean, we're what we're talking about is is like it's the same. Like, if you want to go somewhere in network or out of network or just cash, like you may have a $6,000 deductible individually, 12,000 for a family. If if you hit that, something terrible has happened that year, right? And we're hoping that you don't. So, everybody's an informed consumer. And what we find is we get more and more people that are looking for a a more uh specialized person, a more curated sort of health experience that they're going to actually treat them like a person, not a number. And and hyper local. I mean, like that person is in their community. Totally. Which is even better, right? Because I can't go to a music festival here without bumping into who knows how many old patients I have. And I haven't even treated a patient in like three years, right? And it's so fun, you know, cuz I might not remember their name, but I'll be like, "How's your knee doing?" And you know, like I remember injuries for some odd reason. And uh and it's just super fun to like be a part of a community and be somebody that's like helping them achieve these other goals and and not saying like, "Hey, stop running. How about we figure out why you're having pain running and then let's train for a race. What race would you like to do? Where would you like to travel with your friends to go do this thing like and actually be an advocate for their health?" So that's been a very interesting, you know, change and a fun thing to do. Uh which we did locally. And then, you know, to be able to share that with other business owners. uh has been awesome because it's actually worked for them, right? When we didn't know that that we were doing anything that it was any different than everybody else. So, I'm just going to try to press rewind really quickly because uh one of the common themes we've had on this podcast is how people deal with transitions and I and we've had other folks who've been in the military and left the military. We've had a lot of athletes who've left, you know, professional athlete careers. Um, and it seems to me that your transition from deciding to leave, at least from the outside looking in, that your decision to leave the military and go out on your own, um, you know, partly working for us and partly starting your own clinic, um, looked pretty seamless. But that's just from the outside, like was that a really difficult decision to leave this? I mean, if you decided that you were going to this is like what you were doing for your life, like was it a difficult decision or was it just like no way I see the future I'm ready to do this? Um, what was that transition like for you? No, I it was I it was I don't think it was easy. You know, it's it's looking back I I don't I don't know how I could ever go back to uh you know that that career again. Um, not to say that there's anything wrong with it, but just for what my, you know, sort of like skill set is and what I what I enjoy doing. Like I didn't realize when I was at my brigade, it was like basically they gave me this little cash clinic to start. You know, no one knew who I was. They didn't know. I had to actually like go find people to come and see me. Uh, I had to go run with our brigade commander, you know, once a week to do a meeting with him so that I could talk to him about the things that we were doing and what I needed help for. So, it was it was basically like this incubated entrep entrepreneur experience. And I really liked it. And and and the military has its pros and cons. Like it is a albatross of a of a of a group. Like it's I had someone tell me one time like the military is a big ship. It turns really slowly. Uh you know, so it can be a frustrating place for somebody like myself or somebody like Kelly that maybe wants to like, you know, see a squirrel and chase it, right? Like that's the that's the stuff that I I don't know. We realize when we're that young and we get into it. Um, so but it was hard because that was um what just that's what I knew, right? It was it was my my uh my family, my uh just surroundings. Like it it was it it just was normal, right? So to go into the civilian world, it's strange. Like you can't yell at people in the civilian world, you know? You you not everybody's punctual. Uh you you know, you don't get to do some of the fun that I would get to do. like for me to get to go to a combatives training or to go go, you know, shoot at the range or to go do, you know, CQB with some of these guys or something like that, like I'm not doing that anymore. My life's a little bit more boring, but also more predictable at the same time. So, the transition is not easy. But but for for me to be able to also have a a foot in the door with the military and be able to do some cool stuff on the consulting side with what what the Ready State was and mobility while the Ready State were doing at the time was so fun because I still got to like hang with some of these groups that to be honest with you, I probably never would have stepped foot on some of the military bases that I got a chance to go in as a consultant in. Uh and they take me like credibly, you know, seriously for what I have to say. If I showed up as a captain in the army, they would have been like, "Get out of here, dude." you know, like it's so funny how that changes. So, it actually to me actually helped me help the military in an even different way. Let me um this is the perfect time. Often, uh there's this image that there's a single person doing this by themselves. Yeah. Your business partner and wife Ashley is she's been the boss of this, you know, uh your your PT clinic. She is, you know, you rope her into that. Yeah. You know, um Juliet was an unwitting accomplice. I mean, eventually she was like, "Okay, I guess I got to leave this track of being, you know, a lawyer and more importantly a you're you're on your way to being a partner." And you were like, "I'll just, you know, swing over here because you need help." Oh, God. How How was that transition? Did Ash jump jump right on board? Because all of a sudden you're like, "Hey hun, I know you have your own brain and your own aspirations, but you're gonna talk about physical therapy 24 hours a day." Yeah. Well, I I'll answer that question. But first of all, Juliet, I just I would like to know, is it hard for you to watch us just flounder when it comes to trying to be organized and like create systems, which we probably would never do. Like I imagine that was hard for you to watch as you're seeing some of the inefficiencies that somebody like Kelly and I would do because I think that's probably what happened with Ashley as well. Yeah. I mean um I I think it's right now I'm right next to you. Okay. Sometimes it's annoying. Um, the only time it was annoying for me, and I think Kelly and I have been trying for years to rebrand this, but the only thing that was ever annoying was when I would come into a room or be part of a conversation where people like would treat me as though I'm Kelly's secretary. That's the only time it would get under my skin. And, you know, there's still ways in which that kind of thing happens where people just think I'm Kelly's like side piece. So, that bothers me. But in terms of like us working together, not at all. Because I think it was just pretty clear early on. You're my side piece. Who's the main piece? Yeah. You know, it was pretty clear early on like, you know, we have different skill sets and it was pretty obvious from like day one of opening the gym that we could each bring different things to it. Um, and so in that way, like between us, it was never annoying. I think the only thing that was annoying for me was just this sort of outside looking in perception. um you know that we've been trying to correct for years like dude we're a dad we've been doing this together since day one um I know you and Ashley have been as well um and so I think that's you know and again it's it's common anytime there's someone who's a face of a business this happens and it's not you nobody's doing that maliciously but that that would be the only just to answer your question that's the only time I would get annoyed. Yeah, that's a great point. And it's not fair like that sort of like um you know it's like oh look at all the stuff that Kelly's done, look at all stuff Danny's done and and we would get that a lot and like if we're involved in like an entrepreneurs group or something like no one wanted to talk to Ashley about anything like they would just want to talk to me and they would ask me these questions about like operations and customer success and I was like I have no idea what you talk about. go ask go ask Ashley like I don't know what we do for that you know and and for her so like she was running nonprofits she had she had been working with a group called Operation Homeront and we just had our uh she had had our second child so our our daughter was 6 months old our son was uh under two you know when we when we moved to Atlanta and got out of the military so there was a lot going on there and if you know the nonprofit world nonprofit world's tough it is terrible pay terrible hours you got to be really bought in on the mission because you're basically like you know you're slightly more than than a volunteer. And um you know, for for Ashley, it when she looked at what her sort of career trajectory was was and what she was interested in, it was at least worth it for us for her to try to like take a crack at helping um grow the business. And she was so good at it, especially, you know, on the operational side of things. She's so good with people, but yet also detail oriented and can like build systems. That's Yeah, that's like a rare combination, right? Um, so she killed it and she's one of the best operators of those businesses that I've ever seen. So, so now, you know, we sold our our clinic a couple years ago. Uh, and now we just focus on, you know, working with other other u, you know, entrepreneurs. And she runs customer success for what we do with PT Biz as well as helping all these businesses with what they do as well. And it's just like such a great it's just fun to work with your spouse. Number one, I think people tell you not to and they're wrong. Like what are you talking about? We we say all the time. I'm like people are like, "How do you work with Gillette?" I'm like, "Well, don't you work with your spouse?" They're like, "No." And I was like, "You don't like solve problems or go grocery shopping or make dinners or Yes. Like you already are you're doing the hard work. We're already like you're in a partner. We we're just in we're both in an expanded partnership, I would say, right? But yeah, right. Doesn't I mean for us it would feel weird now if we went off to separate jobs, right? It just doesn't we can't even consume of it. Um Okay. So, uh, I would love to just talk a little bit more and I don't mean to throw shade on like the physical therapy industry or whatever you call it. It's a perfect product for an archaic system. Uh, but what I'd love to know is like, you know, uh, just before we move on from the clinic, like what kind of experiences and outcomes were you able to see in patients um, when you were actually able to spend a full hour with them? Um, and then secondarily, was there because I think it was early in the days of, you know, people paying cash for this kind of service. And I I want to I want to just pause here for a second because we call call it sort of insurance or cashbased is what people, but really what we're seeing is independent non-inbased care. And I just I I always so every time I hear cashbased PT, I want to be like that's really not what the impetus was. It's a it's a easy way to describe it, right? It's not the thing. And I do really feel like my own perception over the last 10 or 15 years. I mean, we we started doing that, you know, when Kelly left and he left in 2007. We just were like, "Well, I can't deal with insurance and that's too complicated and don't want to do that." So, you know, if you want to come see Kelly in the pain cave, it's pay cash or don't come see him. Right. Um, you've been in the pain. Well, I have and I got to be honest with you, it's literally I thought to myself when I got out of the military and I went to go um you know start start our clinic and I looked at these different locations and stuff like that. The only the only person I'd ever seen treat somebody that was was a non- insurancebased patient was literally Kelly shuffling around a table inside this ConX box. It was tiny and and I'm like people pay for this? You know, he's like yeah like 250 bucks or whatever. And I was like holy Uh, and not only that, I just want to tell everyone I could leverage off the walls. I still miss that today. I would push my feet up on the wall. Yeah. And get enormous leverage that I couldn't do. And and I was exactly one foot from the gym. You might be on to something. Maybe that's like something that's going to be like the next fad like stretch lab, but it's going to be people in like these little conx boxes and they're just just like you just cluster them together. All these conx boxes. Yeah. So anyway, I don't even know where my question was, but I just, you know, I do feel like there's been this huge change in mentality and I think part of it is generational where I think some, you know, maybe sort of tail end Gen Xers and generations below us are are seeing that seeing and more willing to pay cash for the kind of health care that they want. But when you started um you know, it seemed like out there in the world it was like Kelly and his con Xbox and you guys in Atlanta and we were kind of it. Yeah. And and you originally you had asked like did I notice a difference in outcomes and I and I'll be honest with you so if anybody's listening to this and they're a clinician they might be able to relate to this because when I was in a high volume setting as I got I got from my brigade I went went to Scoffield or went to Fort Benning where I was at the airborne school I was getting a a lot of people that are that are sick call for airborne school and I was getting a lot of uh people that were on their way out of the of the military. Okay. So part of that at that time I was a part of the uh the VA um process to assess range of motion and and like so what I was getting was a lot of stuff where I couldn't actually make a meaningful difference with people. Um and it really didn't like it it doesn't behoove you in any way for me to help resolve all your problems as you're going through your VA screen for your rating, right? Like so like I know kind of what I'm getting myself into with that. Like I'm mainly just documenting the injuries they've had and the things they want covered whenever they leave. But to me, that's not my world, man. I solve problems, right? So, like doing that sucked. It sucked. And not only that, but like sometimes you get people, yeah, maybe they don't want to get better. It doesn't really make sense for them to want to get better if they uh, you know, are on a profile and don't want to go to physical training. And so, you know, I started to get to the point where I was like, am I any good at this? Like, people are not getting better. I'm getting frustrated. I'm not sure if I'm making like these meaningful changes. Maybe I'm doing the wrong things. I'm telling them to do the wrong things. I'm misdiagnosing things. And uh when we got out of the military and I went into my my cash practice, I couldn't freaking believe how good I was because and it wasn't just that I was like a great clinician. It's that they were paying me to do the that I was telling them to do and their compliance was off the charts. Like yeah, if you want good outcomes, choose good. If you've taken time off work and you've paid $200 out of your own pocket and someone is giving you some things to do, you are way more likely to do them. Oh my god, they're sitting there taking notes while I'm telling them stuff, right? And I'm and I'm like, I can't get some people to come back for a follow-up visit for God's sakes. And then all of a sudden, it's like I'm getting these amazing outcomes for people. They're super interested in what I have to say. And not only that, but one thing I never got exposed to was ongoing sort of performance and wellness work with people because in the military, you're a eval and reeval machine. You're just evaluate, discharge, evaluate, re-evaluate, discharge. You write a plan out for like four weeks usually before you can get somebody back in for a follow-up. So, you got to you got to trust that your texts and your PTAs are like following through on the right things. But, you don't get to do that side of it, which I really enjoyed and I missed. So, you know, to to be able to all of a sudden now we're like getting pain resolved really fast and then it's like people are you're curious like, well, what else could we do? What else could I do? And now we get to work on performance goals. We get to work on long-term, you know, wellness changes, habitual changes and things like sleep and, you know, nutrition and and uh stress and and movement and all kinds of like almost like, you know, these dream sessions of like what do you want to do physically? And it was such a fun place to be and such a cool place to be as a business owner, too, because I had all this recurring business from people that just wanted to be super, you know, pain-free, high performance life, you know, activities for as long as they could. And that was like I'd never experienced that. I' never seen that before. But it is super It's so fun. It's like the most fun as a clinician that I've ever had. This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Element. You know what I love about Element? Let's hear it, baby. caffeine free. There is too much caffeine going into our athletes and especially youth athletes. Remember I was recently working with that team at at a university and they were like one of the women athletes is like how many bang energies is is too many in a day and I was like are you serious? Well, think about when we grew up. It was like no like we would have like one full sugar soda like once a month and then our parents would drink some like crappy folders coffee and no kids drank like no kids drank coffee at all. Like I just started drinking coffee when I was a freshman in college and even then it was like one coffee a day and now you know people and athletes alike are just drinking a massive amount of caffeine every day. We think, and we've been saying this for a while, we want to separate our hydration from our nutrition. And having a hydration solution element that is caffeine-free that doesn't have any sugar and magnesium, potassium, often times people get enough potassium and sodium. I mean, you've got all of your electrolytes there. It's very tasty. And what we're going to see is you're actually going to perform better because you need salt to kick ass, especially if you're sweating. Yeah. And I mean, I just, you know, to the extent that everybody loves that like 4:00 caffeine bump, know that it is going to definitely mess up your sleep and sleep quality. And often times we can just have even a half a packet of element at that time of day. And what we realize is we probably were just grossly dehydrated and didn't actually need caffeine. I'm going to go with hypo hydrated. We were hypo hydrated. Uh, and it feels fancy having a hot like cup of element with pinkies up is is fancy. And again, caffeine-free. You're hitting your electrolyte sugar free. This is the solution. And look, people, I want you to lean into caffeine as a poor sensing drug, but you cannot just be ding with it. Get your caffeine out of your drinks. Stop doing that all the time obsessively. Use your caffeine appropriately. Let's hydrate like adults. Like human beings. Like human beings. Thank you. Right now, if you order through our link, you can get a free sample pack with all of Element's flavors. And if you want a party in your mouth, try sparkling. Go to drinklelntt.com/trs. We literally drink it every day, every day. This episode of the Readyate Podcast is brought to you by Momentous. Let me ask you this, Jay. Do you like to eat something big before you exercise? I don't like to eat something big. However, I have been well trained to make sure that before I work out, I get about 150 calories on board. Yeah, that's I think so crucial. I think when you're exercising, right, or fitnessing in quotation marks, low intensity, doesn't matter. Yeah. The key with that though is that it that that 150 calories is just for when I'm doing like a one hour workout. If I'm going for a two or three hour mountain bike ride, I'm making sure that I wake up in enough time to eat a whole actual meal. And then you're this what we're talking about is the inter session carbohydrate which is a revolution for most folks because most people are like carbs. I think we see a lot of people who roll in fasted, which is look, if you want to suck, fine. But what my solution for them is, let's get you some fuel on board at the start of the workout. Immediately start chasing that carbohydrate in a simple way. Ideally, you have a piece of toast, some banana, peanut butter, something that's easy on your stomach and you're fueling during that session, right? But the bottom line is that this is that solution for people who one are going to go longer and b you need some carbohydrate for that high-intensity exercise. Yeah. And we also have a lot of our expert friends and nutritionist friends who are like you really need to start getting some calories on board if you've been working out for longer than 90 minutes. I totally understand like often times like gels and other sort of athletic products can be gross and hard to digest while you're training. Um, and so our recommendation is just to have a water bottle full of fuel. Yeah. You know, with you next to the pool deck, on next to the difference, whatever you do, it really makes a difference. Especially if you're talking about young athletes going for multiple sessions or or, you know, they weights and then a two-hour practice. If you're going to a two-hour practice, you better have a fueling plan in that practice. Fuel is the solution. Not to mention, it's super tasty. It is super tasty and doesn't mess with your stomach at all. It's legit legit profile. Very easy to digest. If you want to learn more, go to livemomentous.com/trs and use code TRS for 20% off your first purchase. See how being fueled with NSFcertified drink carbohydrate mix will change your game, improves your performance. And sorry, I just want to say that you know we there is a time and a place for this whole scope of care. Yeah. Right. We have drt trained sedentary people, our insurance model like how do we get them back to just base function? Yes. And I think that lens, you know, because we were there for so long really ended up coloring our profession a little bit and because we discovered CrossFit and because suddenly I was dragged into all of these high performance environments. I mean, every sport, every branch of the government, the CIA, the FBI, you know, all these Fortune 500 companies where people are like, "Hey, we're looking for an advantage and just being not hurt is not good enough." Yeah. we were able to start to swing this pendulum around to say hey I think we can also practice at this other end of the practice act right we can be at the top of our lensure here in terms of performance which really we developed and invented performance therapy which was hey we're not just going to put out fires without context but we're going to see and spot these opportunities in the physiology in the psychology in the the training and the range of motion and we're going to kind of lean into that and that's still very confusing for people because you know it, you know, it's really easy to see like well your ankle healed itself in 4 to 6 weeks you know discharge versus hey I'm trying to win a gold medal and um you know I think it took a hot second for people to pivot around to say oh there's this performance model and you know in that you suddenly are now the primary care provider for people who are looking for hey I got a little hot spot I can't I can't put out the wattage my shoulder my turnover is a little bit flow and we can reapply those you know we can apply those uh same sets of tools and when you discover that just for everyone listening it is really really fun because now we are collaborating and it's not just ministering to an injured person and look if you have your ACL you know you're going to need some lowle PT for a minute yeah well imagine the the difference is this most people go to a healthcare provider and traditionally they're trying to tell them what's wrong with them and what they need to stop doing for us what happens is Someone comes to us after typically have been frustrated by not getting what they're looking for somewhere else or maybe not getting the outcomes that they want and all of a sudden, you know, we have the time to listen to them. we have the time to educate them on really the things that we know matter much more than just like what your X-ray says or what your MRI says or whatever or this series of injections that failed, you know, because if we can't talk to you about sleep or getting enough hydration, you know, like these simple things we know help with healing, like how are we going to expect to make an internal change uh in your body if you don't have the the right things in place for that to occur? And and you cannot have those conversations no in a traditional model. I think that's what I want people to understand. 15 minutes. Yeah. You just It's impossible. I mean, just at Chyro Parker Chiropractic, someone was like, "Hey, how would I do this?" I'm like, "Well, you may have to change, you know, cuz the Cairo model is even higher volume." I said, "You may have to think differently about how you're setting up." And it may be that you have to have meetings and you have education times and you're doing small group training, but 8 minutes is insufficient. And it's the same amount of time that a typical physician is going to spend with her patient, right? She's just triaging to the next thing. And if it's I can't quickly solve this with a pill or, you know, pharmaceutical, then I I'm going to have to point you down the road. And this was the first time where we could if you wanted to spend 90 minutes with someone, you could because it's sometimes it's complex to get someone going. And you know, the other thing I just want to point out is that we found that we could start to make real change. And if I couldn't make real change in three visits, I discharged you. That's what was happening. I mean, I was we were ahead of Yeah. Kelly would sort of fire people because he's like, "Look, I have this this, you know, all these modalities that I use and I have my approach, but if I'm not able to make change like go see someone else, you know, there's other thing that he's missing or not seeing or something." Well, I think we dis So, one of the mistakes I think people make is they think the more they give somebody, the more valuable it is, right? And I used to make this mistake. So I would have somebody come in, I would rush through a subjective and I would do as much hands-on work as I possibly could and then I would give them like six weeks of programming that I would build out for them because I felt well if I just do all this hands-on work and we can condense weeks down into a day and then all of a sudden I give you this work to do on your own like you'll see me fewer times. It's more cost-effective. Great. Right? And what I what end up happening is I would get not the best outcomes for people. I would have terrible compliance with I mean imagine somebody giving you a six-w week program after like an hour of them spending time with you and just like literally crushing your your joints and dry needling the out of you and then all of a sudden you're expected to do this stuff on your own with like really no queuing or coaching none of that right and because I thought if I just give you all this stuff at visit one then it's it's it's more valuable and it's because I didn't know I didn't know what people really valued and people value clarity and this is the really interesting thing where you know years later I had a student that I I never would take students on for very long, but I would take students for like a day because I I'm like, you're not gonna be able to train any of my folks. Like, you can sit and see what I do, but I don't really want to take like a rotation. So, I would have a lot of these students would pop in for a day. And one of the students I had, I'll never forget because he spent the day with me, and I had an eval towards the very end of the day. And during this eval, this I I talked to this lady who had this chronic lower back issue. And we literally talked for the entire hour. I didn't do anything manual. I didn't even give her anything to do. And at the end of the visit, uh, we have these treatment plans that people can decide to do if they want to or if they can see us visit to visit. And she walks out and she she buys like a $2,000 treatment plan with me. And I didn't even I didn't do anything of like treatment wise uh to her at all. All we did was talk. She aired her frustrations. She's super emotional. You know, she was just really like very frustrated that she couldn't do what she wanted to do. and she'd seen all these people and it was like this this anyway it was not an uncommon story for a lot of people and he was like very confused you know he he goes I you didn't do anything like I don't get it and uh I was like yeah you don't I did a lot like that lady believes this is the right place for her and it is and she's going to make a fantastic change I promise you that right and and it's because for a lot of people they don't know why they're having pain and they don't have a clear idea of what it's going to take to get it back honest opinion right, where it's like, listen, this is not going to be easy. You're going to have to make some changes. We're here to help you with that. And I almost view myself more as like a human body consultant than I do as like a clinician, you know, because they need to educate you. And one of the most important things I can possibly do is teach you how to take care of yourself so that if you have these reoccurrences, which is probably pretty high if you have chronic issues, you know what to do about it and you're not going to freak out and then you got to go see your primary care again or whatever else. And you feel very empowered. And we know from from a standpoint of chronic pain, it's like the less you see that see that as a threat, the less pain you have associated with it. There's all this like positive stuff we can do just from talking and letting somebody talk back to us and air some of that. So, but we don't get reimbured for that by insurance, right? Like I can't say like CPT code uh long deep conversation for 60 minutes like it's I'm not going to get for that. Right. But in a cash practice, who cares? I do the hell I want. And that's what's awesome about it. Yeah. Sometimes people just need to be heard. Yes. Right. I mean, I think that's a huge thing is like people need to feel like someone has heard and been able to absorb and think creatively about, you know, often what they feel like are intractable problems and that has so much value. But you're right, there's no CPT code for that. Juliet, well, there's two things that come to mind. Number one is that Stuart McMillan was recently on Huberman afterwards and he said, you know, let's stop thinking about the body as a machine of just inputs and outputs and we should be starting to think about ourselves as biologists and we're curious about how the organism interacts in their environment and the how the organism interacts with other organisms and what the organism you know I mean so I think that that as you're saying that right this really thinking in this systems whole holistic approach there's this complex person in front of me and what does this person need? That's a high performance environment. That's a high performance approach where we look and say the limiting factor here is your sleep. The limiting factor is nutrition. The limiting factor here is X and let me bring those resources to you and you own your 50% of that. You know, sometimes Juliet makes the point that she's I'm probably just an average physical therapist. But she's like, "But you're probably the total ninja of giving people shifting low side of control, giving people agency, giving them permission to move into sort of You guys have said this in passing a couple times, but I think it's so important because you know people who it in my opinion by and large are going to go and pay for physical therapy or other health care services tend to be people who want to move." Yeah. And in many cases, and we've all seen this a thousand times in our own clinic and our own experience where they've gone into some kind of traditional medical system and again seems like we're throwing shade on it, but we understand the limitations, but have been told, "Stop doing the thing you love." And that's reasonable advice. You're doing the thing you love. That's ruined your life. Right? You can't go to back, you can't go to work because you have low back pain, right? But it's a re I think it can be really a revelation for people to come into a room where I I love that you use that word clarity where with clarity um and empathy you can give these people a little bit of hope. Yes. Well, it's it's clarity and honestly a lot of it's accountability too because one of the things that we found when it comes to people paying out of pocket for something like this, I used to have so many compliance issues when I was in the military. People would come in and I would have to I would pop quiz them on their homework exercises. I'd be like, "Cool. So, show me your homework exercises." And they would get on the ground or do some weird variation the that I showed them. And I'm like, "You didn't do this at all, did you?" You know, and and it's it's like I it's like I had to like prove that 18%. It's so But it's like what a terrible place to be as a provider. Like when when I started working with people and they're paying to come and see me, my assumption is if you want to waste your time and money like go ahead and do that. Like it's kind to my opinion that I don't think that's a good idea. I expect you're doing these things, right? And and and it's such a game changer because I think what we forget is when you have skin in the game. It's say you pay, you pay attention and you want to make a a habitual pay, you pay attention. It's everybody does it. Sometimes it's with maybe it's we need we need entrepreneurial support, right? Like we your your your friend Mike Brown, right, who does like uh who's on the podcast, he does, you know, wealth coaching and and money mindset stuff. I promise you if he says stuff for free to somebody and has that person pay them, the difference in the outcome is going to be so much better when somebody actually pays for it because now they're invested in it. They've put their energy that they store in money from their hard work and now they put it to gave to somebody else to then help them get the outcome that they want. And that is I think what we underestimate in healthcare when it comes to making these these challenging challenging changes. Now, is it perfect? No, because it does exclude people that can't afford to do some of that. But the playing field is a lot more level than people think. And it's not necessarily our fault. It's just the fact that insurance sucks and deductibles are going up and everybody has more skin in the game. Like it's shocking how high our family's deductible is. If you're self-employed in particular, I mean, for sake, like you have an enormous deductible and we go out of pocket to everything, right? Unless something terrible happens. So, uh, this is a good segue into something I want to talk about, which is the money. Yeah. Um and and not necessarily the insurance or cash pay part of it, but what physical therapists actually make. Yeah. And the the back we talk about that too. Yeah. And the backstory to this is, you know, I went to law school a few years before Kelly. Um and we have the same like three-year doctoral degree in a thing. Um, but you know, I could step out of law school, and this was, by the way, 25 years ago, and my first job could no problem be making $150,000 a year plus bonuses. And and then the the trajectory, same for physical therapy, the trajectory of being a lawyer is just up and, you know, if you stick with it and whatever, right? Like there's real money to be made, right? And I get it that a lot of people don't go into healthcare professions because they're trying to make money, but also at the same time it does matter. And I did some research at the time when Kelly was in school and got out of school. And it's like the average physical therapist in a traditional model is making like $70,000 a year. And these are in big markets. These are in like the Bay Area and Atlanta, right? So who knows what they're making in smaller markets. Um but I mean that's a huge difference, right? you're making the same time and the same or more financial investment in your post-graduate education. Um, but the I the ch the opportunity to make money in physical therapy is not good. No, I went and worked for a physician for a year and a half at a clinic that was very progressive theoretically because you could be evaluated, get an MRI, radioraph, booked for surgery, see a physio in one day. Yeah. And they started me at $80,000 2008 2007, right? And that was that was already like insane. And in that year I did the math. I made them $450,000 easy without any over that was just like easy estimation. Not the surgeries I brought in any other thing. Right. Right. And that was when you and I were like, "Hey, I think I think we should take a swing at this because we can have a lot more autonomy into this thing." But anyway, I I the question I have here is, you know, we haven't really um we've just touched a little bit about what you're doing now with PT Biz, which is you're helping clinicians transfer and grow cashbased businesses. Um, but maybe you could talk a little bit more about exactly what that means, what you're actually doing, and then what that means for clinicians, not just on this uh this, not just about what we've been talking about, which is probably a lot more job satisfaction and actually being able to better impact the clients they're working for, but also like their bottom line. Like what does it mean? And I know you have numbers because I've been to a couple of your masterminds and one of the coolest things about it is you actually are sharing um people's financial successes and growth which is really motivating and really cool to see and not a lot of masterminds do that. So I don't even know where my question was in there, but I think there's something you could talk about. I just want to say sh real quick shout out to Made to Move PT. They just opened their first outofstate uh business. I just saw that this morning, which is I'm just watching these young kids kill it and I'm like, "Wow, maybe I'm in the wrong business." Yeah. I mean, to answer, so I'll give you some context. So, uh, the what what we see comes from, you know, a couple places like we see the APA states that the average PT comes out of school $152,000 in student debt, right? 152. 152 on average. That's the last number that I saw. It might be different. Now, um, now if you look at average salary, you know, I can tell you in Atlanta the average salary for a starting physical therapist, it really depends on the setting that you're in, but I would say probably somewhere between 75 and $90,000. So, let's just for for math sake, we can say that your starting salary is roughly half what you're paying to get the degree, which is not a great exchange. Um, honestly, right? Like it's it's very skewed to the debt side and it's hard for them to to dig themselves out of that. Now, why is that? Well, a lot of it has to do with honestly how much a PT can generate. So, if I look at what an attorney can generate, and I actually just had to do this recently. Um, I sometimes we have to get involved with IP attorneys. I'm sure you you you guys have had to do the same thing. The internet's a weird place. And, you know, but my IP attorney $650 an hour, right? Uh so not a not a a small amount of money versus most cashbased physical therapists are going to be somewhere between you know let's call it on the very low end and if you're doing this you should probably work with us like $150 a visit and on the higher end closer to like 300 or somewhere between like 150 and 300 but doesn't hold a candle to my IP attorney right and uh and the billable hours that they have can just it can create a lot of gross revenue for the for the practice. Um, so they can obviously make a bigger portion of that or or a larger amount even at the same percentage. So if we see the average physical therapist is generating roughly like $300,000 in revenue in an in-et network clinic, if that clinic is trying to maintain uh what's what we consider labor efficiency ratio. So the ability to pay somebody and still have the right margin left over for taxes and overhead and uh benefits and all that, right? Front office front office stuff. Yeah. everything that goes into the business, you you really need to be somewhere in the range of like one-third or maybe a little bit more. That's kind of where we're at. So, when we look at what hamstrings uh physical therapists ability to generate income uh or to be paid more, in many cases, it's actually what they can generate for the work that they do. So, it's not as valued, especially by insurance. It's not really valued um at all. I mean, sometimes they're going to reimburse you $50 to $70 a visit no matter what you do or or not only that, what your experience level is. So you can you can take a new grad, pay them less, and they get reimbursed the exact same amount as somebody that has 10 years of experience. And this is where it's it's it's a problem for an older clinician as well that doesn't see a lot of upward trajectory in their uh in in the ability for them to make more money as they progress in their career. So why do why are people so interested in going this cashbased route and or an in-et network clinic that has to bolt on cash services? It's because there's not a lot of other great options, right? So, if we can take somebody and they can say, "Okay, if I go out on my own and I'm moderately successful, like let's say you to the point where you're seeing a 100 patient visits yourself and you're generating $200 an hour, you're generating $20,000 a month in revenue." And if you can do that in a low overhead environment, let's say you're netting 15, you know, and you could potentially double your salary even after uh other expenses that you may have like payroll tax and things. You don't pay as much as an employee, but you could double your salary at verse working somewhere else um in in some scenarios. and you could also grow that well past yourself and create a business that has enterprise value, passive revenue, uh, and and creates a team and a culture that you find very rewarding. Right? So I think the reason that we've seen so many people and to date we've helped a thou over a thousand clinicians not like a thousand clinicians have listened to a podcast like face to face bellyto belly like in the weeds with them starting you know scaling and growing these businesses over a thousand businesses a thousand over the last six even in the the people we're actively working with now just within our within PT Biz we have about 300 businesses you know and that's going to be somewhere in the range of 80 to to hundred million dollars in topline revenue combined with those businesses and probably somewhere in the range of like 75 to 80,000 new patients seen in the last 12 months. So this is like a significant number of people. If it was all under the banner of like one umbrella name of a clinic, it would be one of the biggest uh you know groups of clinics in the whole country. These are all independently owned. They they have their own businesses, their own names, they whatever they want to do. And the reason that there's so many is because the options are not great in any other way. And many of them don't want to start their own business. Me included, I didn't really want to do that either, but I didn't. want to go work for somebody else and you know be forced to see 20 people a day and and have to write all those the notes and and deal with like you know calling to get reimbur or more more visits for an ACL repair that I know I need to see longer than they're authorizing. So that's why I think it is no you got 12 visits for that ACL. I don't know what you're complaining. That's right. Yeah. You give me like like 3 months and it's like what do you expect and the retailer rate so high. So so I think what you're seeing is the reason that's trended that way and not just also in PT but in other you know uh areas of healthcare is because people want to work with patients in a more you know direct onetoone way. They want lower volume because it's less of a it's less of a burnout effect than high volume. And it it increases their opportunity, their ability to pay their student loans off, to actually like create financial stability for themsel in a career field that is so rewarding that they would take a shitty uh you know salary because it's an awesome job to have. So it it allows them to actually stay in their career but but kind of get the best of both worlds. Where do you where do you think the opportunities in this muscularkeeletal care we're starting to see play people like Darian Shaw next health create an entire parallel universe he's saying hey look let's have emergency care for pathology and catastrophe ERS are great cancer let's manage that but over here we almost need to unhook the traditional medical model and just say hey look we can talk about lifestyle and nutrition all the This other system isn't set up for that at all. It's in fact it's it's optimized to manage the car accident and I'm so grateful for that. Right. And over here we need to have a parallel system. He's not saying let's denigrate that system at all. Let's let's continue to do that. But we need to have a parallel model. Is that a little bit what we need to be thinking about here? Is that you know I've got this catastrophic model in the hospital and then I have a parallel model. Do we what do we call that? I think it's sick care and healthcare. Right. to like if I'm sick, I want to go to the best hospital I can possibly find. You know it, but most people are not sick. And I'll give you a perfect example of this. My sister-in-law is a functional med provider and she recently started her own practice. Um, and but she'd been working at Shock Trauma. She'd been leading like trauma teams and doing research like super high level, you know, ex-military nurse practitioner with like comma combat trauma experience. Like she's a badass. and she she got so frustrated with people that are coming into her hospital that are sick and and she's like, "I don't have time to talk to them about why they shouldn't be drinking so much and why they need to be moving more and why they're having these circulatory issues." She's like, "I have to solve the sick problem and then I have to hope that they find the answers because I don't have time to do it." And like in that setting though, if if you're hurt, if you're sick, what a great place to go. Like they they know exactly what to do there. The challenge is if you're like the the most of the other people who are not hurt or sick, where do you go if you're trying to not get sick, right? Like that that is like healthc care in my opinion. We want to teach people how to be healthy and how to stay healthy and that solves a lot of the sick problems by the way. Like we know if we're pro proactive with that, it can it can take the strain off that system. So I think it is two adjacent systems, but you're starting to see providers that are actually like highlevel legit providers in this other world that are starting to get frustrated because they're seeing these problems that they can't really resolve. They can put a band-aid on it, but eventually it creates the same problem over and over again and and that can be really challenging for them. So, you know, I I think they both need to be there, but I can see how people could get very frustrated in in the sick care world if they're trying to create healthcare problems. But you're using a hammer when you need a screwdriver. I mean, I just feel like I just we have to begin to educate people to say that's the wrong place to look for the sol complex solutions to your complex biology. Yes, for sure. Right. Like like I was trimming a brisket uh two years ago and I almost cut my finger off with the knife that I was trimming it with. Right. And I didn't look at it and say to myself, I must find the closest cash pay provider I can to talk to about sleep nutrition and management like of of of my stress. It's like take me to the emergency room, make sure my finger works, right? Like that's that's what I'm talking about. But like the average person, they fall down, they they hurt their wrist, they go to the hospital, they go to the emergency room, they don't know what to do with them. They x-ray it. They give them NSAIDs, tell them not to do for a little while. They don't actually do anything to resolve the problem. You know, in the in the first hand, and this is what's such a different example of like health care in the military, for instance. in the military it during sick call if you go to the wrong place like we would have primary we'd have like nurse or PAs over here we'd have radiology over here we'd have dentists we we'd have physical therapy and if you get in these lines you get in the wrong line you go to the front desk of the the the PAs and you're like my back hurts they go to physical therapy you know they're not like let's get the PA to make sure you don't have cancer first then go to physical therapy it's so you know ridiculous to think that they need to do that and it's a huge drain on the system they don't want that. They go to physical therapy. And then sometimes I would have people who actually had cancer that we would find accidentally by asking them questions about red flags and I would walk them over to the PA, right? And that's how it would work. And there was a much more efficient model to go about it. And that's not really how we do things, but that's also because people want to get reimbured for the visits, right? So we have to keep in mind that this is also that's a socialized system. This is not and it has pros and cons. Yeah. I mean it's the whole thing is just crazy. One story I want to tell you and I maybe just I'm telling you this to confirm that you're going to have work for the rest of your life in this business is that we live in Marin County where people have money. Um and we often often often are asked like hey can you recommend a physical therapist and we really can't in our community. Yes I can. What do I do Danny? You text me. Well, yeah. Yeah. Right. But I mean, yeah, we we do. I mean, that's what we do. We text a thousand clinics that I call on. I'm like, "Danny, I I am here's this esoteric town in Texas." She go, "Oh, I know a great guy." And you live 3,000 miles away from us. And, you know, we have this lucky uh ability to be able to text you because you have this huge network. But, I mean, we're here, you know, and Kelly no longer he sees some some clients, but rare. Um and we have you know parents of kids with issues and um and we do have you know there's Prescidio Sport and Medicine has a clinic here in Marin and that's like pretty much the one. Yeah. Um and it's not because I don't imagine there are a lot of great physical therapists. They're just all in network and so you know someone might have Kaiser and they might have and but we actually aren't familiar with who they are and I I and in many cases they'll have 15 minutes to work with someone's kid or on some on some kind of complex problem. And so I just feel like there's still huge opportunity, especially as people have gotten more and more comfortable with realizing um that if they want the kind of care that they hope to get, especially outside of sick care, they're just going to need to pay out of pocket for it. And I feel like there's hu this huge opportunity. Um, and and one of the things I wonder in in your business is are you also counseling your clients and mastermind people about like getting out there on social media and marketing? Because I think that's another thing is I we may get a call after this podcast where someone's like, "Hey, Juliet and Kelly, we have this rad cashbased practice in Marin County and why don't you know about us?" But why don't we know? Yeah. like what is the role of individual physical therapists trying to kind of put themselves out there a little bit um either individually I just want to talk about knee pain and running now you're asking me to market my business. Yes. Well, that's actually ex exactly right. what what Kelly said is sort of what we get and it's because and isn't listen it's not it's not um it's not abnormal like listen you went to school to learn how to be a fantastic clinician help people with these complex problems and you just so so found yourself in a situation where in order to do that in the manner that you want to do it in you have to learn how to like go out and hunt and find people to be able to work with because we're used to we just sit back and we get eval dumped on our plate and we do our job and we go home and and for a lot of people that's actually all they want and that's totally fine I'm very jealous of people that can do that because I can't like turn it off, right? Like it's it's very it would be very I think wonderfully stress free to be able to just go home. Uh but if if you are trying to do your own thing, you can't do that. You can't sit in your office and be a great clinician and then expect people are going to find out about you. You can't do that. So yes, we talk all about primarily people, processes, sales, marketing, finance, leadership. These are like the big areas that we focus on uh with them. Um and then we have you know we have partner companies that we've been able to uh collaborate on to help create that can do things on their behalf. So for instance if we look at something like uh marketing one of the clinicians that we worked with for a few years um in in the Boston area was able to quickly grow a clinic and be able to you know grow it to seven figures and sell it. and he was a marketing ninja when it comes to things like HubSpot and email marketing and and paid ads and and building this ecosystem for the clinic because clinicians are not going to do that. Like what we found is like they just aren't going to a they don't have the time interest and they're not going to do it as well. So for us to be able to say cool let's create this and now this this does it for you. Now you get more people in the door you build a brand on the on the back end. You still need to be visible in your community. need to be visible on uh social media, but in the background, we can do these things that really help drive a lot of patient visits, right? And that company is called Patch, and it's it's awesome because it actually helps clinicians get a lot of their time back doing something that they just are really bad at and probably wouldn't do anyway. So, better to let somebody do it that's really good. And and and and that's where we run into problems is sometimes the best clinician uh nobody knows about because they're the worst marketer. And sometimes the worst clinician is the best marketer and the game is not fair. It it doesn't work that way. Like you need to be good at both. Like and and eventually if somebody gets in your office and you suck, it could be like if you have a shitty burrito and you're a great marketer, it's not going to work so well. So if you can be a great marketer and have a great burrito, then it's like this flywheel that just grows really really quickly. And and we'd only work with people that are great clinicians. Like people that work with us are fantastic at what they do. They just suck at business. And that's okay because they didn't go to business school. So, you mentioned in the pre-roll that you're working on uh a really cool AI thing, and I'd love to hear more about that. Yeah. So, AI is I don't know about you guys, but it scares the out of me. Um, frankly, I I just, you know, did a presentation on not scary, it it's amazing, but also kind of scary. So, it's I I recently did this presentation at one of our events where I talked about where it fits in in physical therapy. And um you know for us it's an area that we've leaned into heavily with our own business. Um it's helped our staff be so much more productive. Um it's something that on a day-to-day basis I use you know different AI applications in my workflow and and it just makes me a better coach, a better uh business owner and uh and it's a really cool it's a really cool uh technological advancement that we see. But for now, like, okay, you know me, like I like I used Chat GBT to help my daughter create a monologue on Ludicrous that she had to present in front of the whole school. And now, is this okay to use for homework? Here's here's my caveat to that. It may have helped us with the structure and kind of write some stuff out. My daughter had to get up in front of a couple hundred people and and nail it, right? And so, AI can't do that, but it can help us be, you know, kind of prompt to be creative and and to do these different things. And I think that's where it fits really well is it can be an My daughter gave a monologue about ludicrous. So you get like we live in Atlanta. So you want to say that out loud one more time. We we don't gloss over that. We live in Atlanta, Georgia and she had to do one on like a a famous, you know, somebody in music and she picked Ludicrous because that's what you do in Atlanta. But she could have picked Outcast. She could have picked many other people in Atlanta, but Ludicrous and she killed she killed it. Dude, you are good parents. Yes, that's right. It's either that or Beyonce, but Beyonce wasn't from Atlanta. So the but but if we look at like physical therapy I think we're we almost have blinders on as to what is happening. So we're both you know involved in different entrepreneurs group entrepreneur groups and the ones that I'm involved in that are more tech forward holy the AI conversations that people are have these people are having are insane. Like it's I can't even keep up. But clinicians uh they they're so slow to adopt technology that it's like it's it's almost like you have to beat them over the head with why this is so beneficial. And one of the few things that we've already started to see with AI and how it can be a huge advantage in the clinical space is actually in documentation which is like the idea of AI helping remove mundane tasks and allowing us to focus on the human being is such it's such a good idea in my opinion and something I wish I would have had whenever I was a clinician because I hated writing notes you know and now we can have these you know rehab trained tools uh with that actually do a great job of being able to listen to the interaction write the note on your behalf, write a homework email that you can send out to somebody so you can help improve compliance and saving people 2 to six hours a week. So to be able to like work on these problems that we're seeing firsthand with all the the businesses that we work with, that's what's really cool. That's what I like about where where we're at right now more than anything else. And I think we're just going to see more and more iterations of this where we're going to be able to help decrease burnout, get people's time back, and let them you know what? Hey, for that extra six hours a week, why don't you take half of that and go work out a bit more and the other half hang out with your spouse? Boom. Now your life is like so much better and you literally saw the same number of people. You're just not writing all these stupid notes. So anyway, that that's something that we've been working on. We're very passionate about because I do think it's going to make a meaningful difference. Yeah. I mean just the increase in job satisfaction, right? Like nobody goes to physical therapy school to write notes. Wrong. Um and I mean this is common in every profession and you know I mean the amount of mundane things I did when I was practicing law was many. Oh yes. Um although I know that AI is also changing that profession massively. But I mean just the Yeah. And I think that's the best way to look at it, right? It's not here to take away that in-person interaction. You know, there's there's nothing that can take the place of like, you know, Kelly trying to fix your internal rotation in person. Um, but man, not having I don't care about internal rotation, more. What do I care about? It's it's only hip extension. I know he only cares about hip extension now. But I would say shoulder internal rotation is number two. It's very important. That's number two. I totally agree. You bring up a good point because the it I think there's going to be a lot more people that become physical therapists. And here's why I say that. If you are in a if you are a mediocre coder, like you're you're a not a great tech coder, you are average, you're in trouble, okay? Like like legit there's that is going to be a uh an issue for people that can be offset already. like the guy that's our technical co-founder showed me some stuff the other day that he's using in conjunction with building um our our tool our our AI software out and I was shocked blown away you know and it's it's going to replace certain jobs for sure uh especially that are very like tech tech driven clerical jobs things like that that are that are going to be administratively driven here's a here's a great stat actually uh Meta because I'm a nerd I'll listen to like earnings reports of uh companies and I listen to Meta at his earnings report of Q4 2024 and their CFO got into their P&L and he showed their administrative uh line item and from Q3 2024 to Q4 2024 they reduced their administrative cost by $1.5 billion. So they went from like I think it was 2.7 down to like 1.2 or something like that or actually it might even be lower than that. It was it it went down to 700 million and it was at a million and a half above that. So 2.2 to and they said it was because of internal AI that they were using to offset uh administrative tasks. Now think about that for a second. That is a massive reduction in workforce. That's happening. But what is not going to change a human helping another human with pain. They're going to that's not going anywhere. There's going to be more people becoming plumbers, physical therapists, you know, nurses, these face-to-face things that frankly they're fantastic and we need in a population of people that are not all that healthy. So I think it's going to go that direction. But I think professions like that are going to get mundane tasks taken away to let them focus on actually doing their job in a more holistic way, in a more focused way to that person and not be as distracted with some of the administrative things that you can have this sort of like assistant, you know, helping you with and doing these notes for you and actually like prompting you on, you know, hey, so and so's coming in and you talked to them about this last time. Make sure you check this. Like these are all things that are happening right now that make our profession even cooler, honestly. Wow. So cool. where um 10 years ago it doesn't look like this. I don't think you could even appreciate this when you when PT biz started taking off. I remember thinking I hooked my wagon to the wrong train and like I'm still talking about stretching. I'm still talking about mobilizing. Like what am I even doing? I was like Danny killed it. Where are you going to see yourself in 10 years? What are you excited about? I mean this AI, this tool, this efficiency I think is really remarkable. Can you prognosticate? You know, I have a lot of highle conversations with the APA, the American Physical Therapy Association, and they are really motivated to evolve. Yeah. To wrap their arms around this outgrowing, nimble, um, almost irregular army with APA is like classic army and your special forces here. Um, where are we going? Where are the opportunities? What should we be thinking about? I think from what I see, I think that uh our profession I I think part of it will still be the same. You're going to have high volume corporately owned private practices that are doing a lot of volume. Uh you're going to have a lot of hospital clinics that don't change. You know, you're going to see and they shouldn't theos the hospital clinic is probably the hospital clinic. Yeah. I mean, it's still going to be there and it's and it's going to be just as busy as ever. I think what you're going to see in our in our field and in our specializations is you're going to see these clinics where there's going to be I think many many more small clinics that specialize in very very specific niches. Uh it's already happening. We're seeing that happen right now. And and what what a great thing for the consumer, right? Like you used to have to go to a generalist, hope you talk to a physical therapist and know something about running. And now you're going to be able to like literally find a clinic that just they work with runners and they're badass at working with runners, right? That's awesome. and and and even you're like, I'm a female runner. Awesome. We only work with female runners. Like, it's going to be even more niche specific. And that's great for the consumer. But I think what's going to continue to happen is what we're seeing right now where we're able to layer in technology to help create better outcomes from a distance as well. So, you know, the remote side of things, what you guys are doing with the STE system is a perfect example of that, right? where you're helping people in this in this remote program where we're not necessarily like getting coached like onetoone but you're able to be a part of a group a community and do something remotely and be held accountable with different habits you're developing and it's insanely effective right it works really well and I think for our for our profession we're going to see the same thing with people doing remote coaching we're going to see the same thing with people that are able to manage uh you know clients from all over the the world which were already you know trending that direction and we're going to see a lot more clinics like this that are that are frankly bigger uh more established businesses, you know, more um higher enterprise value. It it is a great place to be. In fact, to me, like sometimes I look like we sold our clinic because we wanted to focus on PT Biz. Uh but it's a fantastic business and sometimes I look at it and I'm like, why did we ever do this? Because it's such a great business to own long term that is cash flow positive. It's resistant to all kinds of economic changes and you're meaningfully helping people in your community in a really cool way, right? And like so I see more and more of those are developing. And we I mean for God's sakes like what there were two of us 10 years ago and now there's like probably 6,000 clinics like this. Uh and and I don't see that stopping anytime soon because until the arbitrage of you get paid like for high student loans changes which I don't see happening anytime soon. You're going to have clinicians that are going to continue to trend this direction because it's financially a better opportunity for their family and they get to focus on athletes who they really really love. I just think it's going to continue to grow significantly and I hope to be there to help them do that. Honestly, it's something that we enjoy doing. I don't get tired of it. Um it's it's it's cool work with cool people and uh it's constantly challenging and and changes and and it allows us to focus on problems like I didn't even know AI was a thing a couple years ago and now we started a freaking AI company, you know, like this is crazy and it's it's a fun ride to be on um that uh that I just I just hope to be a part of as it continues to grow because it's probably going to do so with or without us anyway. Watch this. I'm going to just demonstrate elite leadership right now. Juliet, get on the I think Oh, yeah. Lisa, get on that a stretch. It's so fun to chat you up. Thank you so much for being here. Where can people learn more about what you're doing at PT Biz online? Where's the best place to get to know more about Dr. Danny Mate? Yeah. So, they can go to uh physical therapybiz.com. Um on Instagram, it's just Danny Mate PT. Um if they're interested in in taking a look at the AI tool we have, it's uh meetclare.AI. And Claire, by the way, is the name of our first office manager, who is uh she's awesome. She has lived multiple lives. She was a courtroom synographer. She sold burritos at Grateful Dead concerts. She worked on the Blueberry Farm in Maine. She was a CrossFit coach when we hired her. And she's still at our office. Like she still works there 10 years later. Uh and when we wanted to like create this, I I asked her, I was like, "Hey, can I name this after you because like I think you're awesome and think this would be awesome." So that's why it's named what it is. It's melair.AI. if they want to check that out. Uh we're really excited about that and and yeah, I mean I think you know I just really appreciate the opportunity. It's just fun. It's fun to be able to talk to people that I that I know well and I respect so much as well. And uh you know I hope that people found some some value out of what we talked about and and if you're clinicians you know um you know I again I think you've got a bright future in front of you. It's like such I don't know I feel like people have been down on PT for a long time and I'm not at all. I think it is fantastic and it's growing like a weed and we have such a cool opportunity to help people. So hopefully, if anything, I hope people change their mind about the the the profession and where it's going. And yeah, and just plug for PT Biz, Kelly and I have been lucky enough to go to several of your events um and hope to get to go to more in the future. And I'm not even a PT and it is just a solid group of people who are inspiring and excited and it's it's something cool to be a part of. So, you know, if there's any clinicians out there listening to this and maybe not feeling excited or turned on by their profession, definitely check it out. It's really a cool organization. And I just want to leave you with an image of Danny and I eating gelato in Milan less than a year ago, throwing a Frisbee in the only public park we could find. Yeah. And just being stink eyed by the people being like, "Who are these Americans throwing the Frisbee chugging gelato?" Yeah. Then we dumplings like literally like dim sum dumpling. We could we couldn't do another uh Yeah, you guys said we couldn't do another snitle again, right? You know, those dumplings were I'll be honest with you. I They were some of the better dumplings I've ever had. It was It was really good. No, that that was that was cool. It's fun to be able to travel and do stuff like that with you. That was a fun trip. You know, I feel like um we'll leave leave it at this. Like, you know, we we have taught together a number of times. I've taught a lot of things. And it was so fun for me to be literally your gopher and assistant to be like, "Do you want you want a coffee? Like, you you need some water? like, "You want me to sign everybody in?" Like, it was so awesome for me to literally just have this super simple, helpful job, make your life easier because I know how hard it is to teach those courses and to get to to experience a new place with a friend that that was such a just a fun environment. Um, and and to be a part of seeing all these coaches be able to change their thought process on things from what is like seven different countries showed up. It was it was crazy. It was such a cool thing. We saw that uh Italian long high jumper. I mean, yes, it was just bananas. Uh, one of our key central tenets of success is are doing dope with dope people. And uh, yeah, Lisa is just rolling her eyes. And, um, Danny, it is so fun to continue on this journey with you. We are so impressed by what you and your family have uh, developed and really just everyone, it is my go-to when I need to find someone I can trust, which is half the battle. Uh, I reach out to PT Biz. Sweet. I appreciate it all. Thank you so much. Thanks. Thanks, Danny.