Dude. Yes. First, welcome back mobility wad. Matt Chan in the house. Sheree on the on the video. We're going to talk about a few things. This is very unleopardlike. And I want to just This is going to initiate our conversation cuz it just caught Maddie in this position. And this is one of What is that? What is that thing? That actually is a bone. That's That's C7T1 poking out of his back. And what's cool about putting all this connective tissue on stress like this is that your body will freak out eventually and start to lay down a bunch of fat right here and you'll get this thing called a camel hump. It's totally dope cuz his body is going to try to pull his neck back into line. Doesn't that Now watch. You put a bunch of fat here. Now put try to put your head forward. Go and put your head forward. You can't. Ah, it's a problem solver. So check this out. This is going to initiate this conversation because one of the things that we're working on with Matt is just improving his triple extension position. And what we see a lot in our athletes who are spending a lot of time and and pulling is that this connective tissue down here, this big thoracical dorsal fascia, this big sheet of connective tissue into which the lats tent, the rhomboids, the traps bulk it up, the transverse pulls into it, right? His glutes insert onto it. It gets really, really ropey and stiff. His QL, right? Quadrus lumboreum attaches here, runs down, acts like a big big uh rod in the middle of his back. Now, if we know that this gets short, but it's it's part of the story cuz it's part of that thoracical dorsal fascia component. On your back for a second, Matt, you can see as he dismounts where where he was. So, here's the deal that in the front of the the system is that the soaz, which we to know tends to get tight on our athletes, is directly connected via this this common factor to that queue on the back. Now, my friend Jill Miller talks about this the most, and she's really nailed this in terms of treatment. So, this is one of her models. We've talked about gut smashing before, but I want to show you her technique to get into the QL, which I think is fantastic, and gets off. Now, if you come sit up for us, if you want to sit up, is that in this position, if you come back here, Brian, will you verify for this for me? Come over here. We're trying to figure out what bone this is right here. What bone is that? Is that Dude, it's the mat bone. I don't even know what that is. That is so tight and like it's a druml like tightness. Now he should go and reach back there. You should be able to get your hands in and around this tissue. And can you can you feel and palpate? Cuz I can get my hands deep into that tissue back here. But if you're flexing your back is different, but I should be able to get my hands deep in and palpate around there because I need to be able to be supple and strong and yet suddenly soft, right? I need to be able to kind of jump back and forth. And you can see that he's really really rock hard back here. It gets very very stiff. So here's our technique. We're going to take two uh ab mats. flipped over. Jill uses a yoga block, which is great if you have one. And then certainly a soft ball won't work. Now, what's going to happen is that we're going to try to get him on this into a little bit of body extension, global extension, and he's going to come in the side and try to peel this off from the side so that we can affect some of this the connective tissue fascia, but also to try to get into that QL because we know if it's like beef jerky, it's not going to move. So, go ahead and jump into position. That makes the same sound. Weird. Knock it on. I know, but but Matt's actually a better athlete. Matt. So, what we're looking at is, hey, and one of the reasons this comes up is that we have athletes who are traveling and coaching, spending time in cars and also on the airplane. And it's just easy to get you or trailer, living the trailer life. But you can spend a ton of time in this position pulling, which is where we make our living, and all of a sudden this tissue gets a little bit stiff. and it's one of the the factors. So our model is if I'm short here, I'm looking at feeding slack to this system so I can normalize some of those mechanics. So he's coming to the side. Notice we're trying also via Jill Miller to make sure that we're breathing the entire time. So he's not holding his breath. He's just going to sink in side to side. You bend his knees up a little bit. Bend that knee up. You can even rotate onto your on let the hips fall over. There you go. Bend that. You can both they can go both go together. So both bend these up. And then now he's just added a little torsion to it and he's just sneaking from the side. What does that feel like? Feels like I'm tearing my erector apart on earth. Feels like a little bit of heaven. And the issue is, hey, this is part of that schema. If I'm having low back pain, let's look at those tissues directly affected. Soazes on one side, the QL's on the other side. They share these same common tendon walls or common uh fascial walls. They're both matted up against the the back. You should be looking at tissues that are directly impacting the quality of that spinal stabilization and position because it gets expensive. Matt Chan, you're the man. See you guys.