 If you just looked at my PhDs and you'd say, what the heck is this guy talking about nutrition, science, and metabolism? Because I have a PhD in physics, the long things. What was the most surprising thing you learned? We're producing, in America alone, 15,000 calories per person per day. Kevin Hall, PhD, one of the top metabolism researchers in the country. Kevin has a PhD in physics from McGill University. He is a senior investigator at the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Disease. He is at the NIH in Bethesda, Maryland. Yesterday, Kevin Hall announced that he's leaving. He's stepping away from his work at NIH. To be fair, it's actually been struggled over past administrations to do this kind of research in a rigorous fashion. One of the things you have researched is this very misunderstood idea, and that is about metabolism. Larger people burn more calories at rest than smaller people. Did the exercise prevent this learning metabolism? The answer was absolutely not. There was actually a guy that did the Twinkie diet. 100% ultra-processed food, and he lost a bunch of weight. Dr. Hall, welcome to the Ready State podcast. Thanks for having me. So we have so much to discuss today. Oh, this is going to be a good one, everyone. In my mind, you are a legend and someone who has really been at the forefront of this crazy world that is nutrition and nutrition research. As long as I can remember and as long as I've been paying attention to it, it's always like there's your name at the top of the paper. So we're just delighted to have you. And let me just say that one of the things that I think is really important these days when we're inundated with information on the internet, I want everyone to ask the next question, what are this person's bona fides? Where have they been? Can I see your track record and work? And that's such a wonderful place to start with you. Sure. Well, yeah, it's kind of an interesting place to start because if you just looked at what my PhD is in, you'd say, what the heck is this guy doing talking about nutrition, science, and metabolism? Because I have a PhD in physics of all things. So maybe we shouldn't look at that. I love it. Well, you have spent decades studying nutrition and weight loss in particular. And it seems to me, and I just finished reading your book over the weekend and it is fabulous, it seems to me like the deeper you went, the more your findings seem to kind of contradict what we know or think we know about weight loss. What do you think we're getting fundamentally wrong here? I know that's a very broad question. Yeah. I mean, I think we get a lot of things wrong. We get a lot of things right too. I think that what we have to be really careful in this field is to think that what we think makes sense and our presuppositions about how the body works and how different diets influence the body when we're in a calorie surplus or a deficit, that that translates into actually the real world data that we end up generating. In other words, that's the purpose of science, right? So, what we do is to kind of put together these pieces of information that we've learned about the world in the past, come up, make up some prediction about what's going to happen in a new experiment, do that experiment. You actually have to do the experiment. You can't just say what the result is going to be ahead of time. You can have a really strong opinion about what the result is likely to be ahead of time. And I think that what we found over and over, especially in nutrition science, is that we're often really quite wrong about what happens when we actually put those ideas to the test experimentally. And we're in a world now where we have a lot of people with really strong opinions about, you know, what the most healthy diet is, you know, what's going to happen when you go on a high protein diet for weight loss and all the benefits and maybe detriments that you might see. That's just one example. But until you actually do the study, you don't really know the answer. And I think that that's where we have under-invested in nutrition science. And that's one of the reasons why we have so much opinion and not as much data as we'd like. So one of the things you have researched is this sort of, I think, very misunderstood idea. And that is about metabolism. Like, what is it? How much can we influence it? And one of the real world studies you did, which I'm just going to start with right away because I find it fascinating and was a watcher and enjoyer of the show. You were actually able to go and research the contestants on The Biggest Loser, and you were specifically looking at metabolism. And I know that there are some sort of shocking findings from reading your book. So can you tell us a little bit about how that came to be, what you were actually looking for in studying and what you learned? Yeah, sure. I mean, and just to kind of put this in a broader perspective, one of the things that we talk about in the book is that metabolism is just this really amazing biochemical process that builds everything that we are and fuels everything that we are and everything that we do and that we've often just very much tied it to weight loss as the only thing that we ever think about metabolism with respect to is how does it change and how does it prevent weight loss? How does it make us more susceptible to weight gain or regain after losing weight? So just to put things in perspective, I mean, metabolism is just this process that's fundamental to all life as we know it. And it's kind of a mistake to kind of pin it into this one thing. But nevertheless, it is a really interesting thing about how metabolism might change with weight loss. And when I was again sort of getting into this field and learning about what happens when people go on different diets and particular calorie restricted diets, that after several days, the number of calories that the body is burning just to kind of maintain life and not even move around so much. So just the sort of resting metabolic rate tends to decrease and it decreases more so than you'd expect based on the amount of weight that somebody loses. So another important fact to remember is that larger people burn more calories at rest than smaller people. They have more tissues and organs and more cells essentially to kind of keep running. And so the idea is that if you become a smaller person, then your metabolism is going to slow down. The question is, does it slow down just based proportionate to the amount of weight that you lose or is it greater than expected? And people have observed that especially in the phase of sort of dynamic weight loss while you're actually losing weight through a calorie deficit, the resting metabolic rate slows down more than expected based on just how much weight you'd lost. But at the same time, I was reading lots of popular articles and blogs and fitness magazines that said, if you just worked out enough, especially did resistance training and cross-training, you might be able to prevent that slowing of metabolism and therefore have greater success in weight loss. And then kind of tuned into one of the episodes of this Biggest Loser TV Show, which was this crazy television program where people are losing so much weight. And what you see on television is that these people are doing a ton of exercise of all kinds. Robic exercise, resistance exercise, cross-training, all sorts of things. And it occurred to me if there was ever a case where we could study how metabolism was changing in the context of a severe calorie deficit with a whole bunch of exercise. This was the group of people to study. And so I eventually was able to kind of get a couple of postdocs in a collaboration with Eric Graveson's group at the Pennington Center in Louisiana. We sent out some postdocs to study season eight contestants of the Biggest Loser. Before they even knew that there were contestants on the program, we had like the list of people who were actually going to be selected and we measured them at their homes. And then during this crazy weight loss competition and then six years later after many of them had regained much of their lost weight. And I know that there were some surprising findings from this study. What was the most surprising thing you learned in following these contestants? There are so many surprising things actually. The one that I thought was particularly interesting was that most people had thought that, well, again, did the exercise prevent the slowing of the metabolism? The answer was absolutely not. They still kind of during this sort of weight loss competition, despite all the exercise, their resting metabolic rate was slowing by a huge amount. But we were able to show that their total energy expenditure, the total number of calories that they were burning was going up quite a bit because of all that exercise and physical activity. They were doing about three hours every day of the week of vigorous exercise. And for this entire 30 weeks or sorry, 13 weeks while they were on this ranch. And then when they went home, they kept up an hour of vigorous exercise every day after they went home before the finale of the competition. So a huge amount of exercise. But despite that resting metabolic rate still crashed greater than would be expected based on the reduction of body weight, which was a huge amount of body weight reduction. It was 60 kilograms on average over a seven month period. So 120 plus pounds of weight loss. So was the average weight loss that these people experience. And then the thing that was most interesting about that phase of the competition was that the people who experienced the greatest slowing of metabolism were the ones who lost the most weight. So you would kind of traditional logic would go, well, if the number of calories that your body is burning at rest, it goes down more than that would make it more difficult for you to lose weight. And therefore you should lose less weight. But in fact, the folks who lost the most weight experienced the greatest slowing of metabolism. And that that trend was also in place six years after the competition. The people who were most successful at keeping the weight off were the ones who concurrently at that six year time point were also experiencing the greatest slowing of metabolism still. And there was no relationship between the slowing of metabolism at the end of the weight loss period and who regained the most weight. So those were all very surprising findings because they kind of seem to flip the carton, the horse, so to speak, of what's happening with metabolism. Is it really determining who's losing the most weight or regaining the most weight or keeping the most weight off? And it seemed to be no, it was actually following that. In other words, the people who are most successful with their lifestyle intervention and able to kind of lose the most weight and keep it off were the ones who experienced the greatest response of metabolism. It wasn't determining the weight loss. It was a response to the weight loss. So, so yes, that was really surprising and something that was kind of totally unexpected. Do you remember when we talk about like resting metabolic rate, how many calories at rest? It kind of takes to feed your body, keep your body alive and doing its normal functions like breathing, feeding your brain. Do you remember like, is that 300 calories, 500 calories? Give us a reference if you can just so that someone can perceive what you're saying. Yeah. So well, with these folks, especially at when they were starting, you know, they were, you know, obviously had class three obesity. They were all very large people and we're talking about thousands of calories per day. So, you know, your average person with 80 kilograms and the sort of overweight category is probably 1600 calories per day for the resting metabolic rate. These folks were, I believe, somewhere in the 22 to 2300 calories per day just at rest because they were so large to begin with. And then after when they saw those changes or the response, I don't want to say slowing, but just response to this weight loss. What was there, the change or the delta there? Yeah. So there's two, I'd have to go back to the original papers, but there's two pieces to that. One is the expected reduction just because you're getting to that smaller size. So if you kind of ended up, and I don't think anyone ended up at that sort of 80 or maybe a few people didn't, but the average was not at 80 kilograms. But you're talking about, you know, that 1600 or so to 1800 calories per day. But then there was this greater than expected reduction, which amounted to several hundred calories more than that. The sort of metabolic slowing that we talk about, the greater than expected reduction in resting metabolic rate, once accounting for your new body size and body composition. I just, for everyone, I'm just like, that's less than one star book cookie. I'm just trying to put this into like units, I grab my head around. My undergrad was in cultural geography, the interaction between humans and environment. And I looked at predominantly sort of environmental considerations there. But one of the things that strikes me around doing any research around nutrition and people is how complicated it is. I think people don't realize how difficult it is to get good data when we're trying to look at these inputs and outputs of a human being and diet and nutrition and history and in cultural references. Could you just speak to what I perceive as some of the complexity of this? Because we can't really just put people in room like rats, can we? As a researcher, I kind of wish you could. And in some of our research, I think we've gotten as close to that as we humanly can from an ethical perspective as well as from a scientific perspective. But the way that we study the effects of diet and lifestyle changes in people is quite varied. So there's different kinds of studies that we use. The kinds that we've used typically aren't like the biggest loser study. The biggest loser was sort of a natural experiment and we had the ability to kind of go out to Malibu, California and measure some things as these folks participated in this crazy TV show. The other most of my research has been, has actually been bringing people into a clinical center hospital, having them live with us for weeks and months at a time. And he controlled every morsel of food that they eat 24 hours a day, seven days a week for weeks on end. And we either control exactly how many calories they're eating and change the composition of the diet or we'll change the composition of the diet and they'll have free access to however much or little food that they want to eat. And often those are the outcomes that we're interested in is how many calories people choose to eat. But in those kinds of conditions, we can study for the kinds of facilities that are typically available. I think this should change. It might be something we can talk about. We could study two or three people at a time. And so if you've got a study that where you want to measure something over a month long period and you can only study two or three people at a time, you can imagine how long it takes to get a study of 30 people done. It takes years, right? I mean, that's kind of how that works. And on the other end of the spectrum, there are people who do observational cohort studies. So they actually get, you know, thousands of people who volunteer to participate in the study and they don't try to intervene per se, but they'll just sort of measure different lifestyle factors. They'll do some sort of self-reported dietary assessment using something like a food frequency questionnaire or recalls of what people ate on the past 24-hour basis. And then they'll follow them up for years and hope, ideally, repeatedly assess diet in the sort of self-reported way. Maybe they'll get some biomarkers that might help them quantify the diet a little bit better. And they'll see, you know, do people who report sticking to a more Mediterranean type dietary pattern, do they have lower risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease? Or do people who are stick to more of a low-carb pattern have benefit-reduced risk for type 2 diabetes or something like that? The disadvantage of those kinds of studies is that you're not intervening. People are not randomized to different interventions. You don't really know what people are eating. There's some problems with the self-reported dietary intake. No, certainly not. Well, fear of now that's trying to come up with better biomarkers of diet assessment. Then there's a group of folks who do randomized outpatient trials where you basically, you can randomize people to different interventions and you either provide them with all their food that's kind of rare, or you basically advise them to change their diet in a certain way. And those studies often last for months to maybe a couple years or so. And you'll be basically trying to assess how did the advice or the intervention that you use to kind of change their diet result in some change in outcome. One of the challenges with those studies is even the ones that you actually provide people with all the food and give them very simple instructions, eat this and only this and nothing else, well, people are, you know, they use food for social reasons, for all sorts of reasons, right? They get together with their friends at happy hour. They do all these birthday parties and things like that. The adherence to those kinds of dietary interventions is limited. And we know that, for example, in some of the best controlled studies, if you look at the number of calories that people are burning using an objective biomarker and you compare that to the number of calories that you provided to people and these people are weight stable over many weeks. There's like an average of a 400 calorie a day gap. In other words, they're burning 400 calories a day more than they're eating or more than you gave them. And you don't know that they ate everything that you gave them, but you know, at least on average, they were eating 400 calories a day more than what you gave them. So there's an adherence problem in those kinds of studies. But, you know, with all of the limitations of all these different kinds of studies, the hope is that they can maybe agree with each other in some way. For some sorts of questions that you're interested in, and maybe you can triangulate towards the truth of what's going on. And I think that's the real challenge of doing human nutrition and lifestyle intervention research is that all the study designs have weaknesses and strengths. And the hope is that we can all work together to figure out, you know, what's actually going on. Triangulate or understanding. So I want to go back just on this biggest loser metabolism question. In terms of like what we've all been telling ourselves and what you know based on the research you've done. In my own life, you know, I certainly have had phases where I'm like, I have a slow metabolism. I also came of age at the beginning of the as a woman at the beginning of the fat free diet and diet wars have tried every single diet known to man out there. You know, partly because we also work in the space and we love to experiment and whatever. But for someone like me, is it possible that by, you know, dieting at some early age in my life, like the biggest losers, I slowed my metabolism and it's just stuck down there. Is that a is that a thing? Like how do we think about this biggest loser data with respect to our own sort of preconceived ideas of metabolism? Yeah. And is this and is it is your research from that show basically suggests that like dieting generally is sort of a bad idea? Yeah. Yeah. So no, I don't view it that way because first of all, is it the most extreme kind of lifestyle and intervention that I can think of and that's been done in this kind of area before. So when we're seeing this, you know, several hundred calorie per day reduction lower than would be expected for somebody's body size at that new lower level. That's kind of the maximum sort of effect that you're expecting to see. For most people who have kind of gone on a diet lost 20, 30, 40 pounds or something like that. The magnitude of the reduction is going to be much, much smaller. In fact, when people have tried to study this in non-crazy biggest loser style types of studies, they've either observed no effect on average or a statistically significant effect, but was much, much smaller than that several hundred calories per day. In other words, it's probably not that important. And I don't think there's much evidence that, you know, a sequence of yo-yo dieting, for example, over years from childhood through adolescence to early adulthood is going to ratchet down your metabolic rate in some way that has, again, you can read articles about people hypothesizing that this might be an effect of, of yo-yo dieting over the years. When you bring most people in and you kind of do a resting metabolic rate assessment with indirect calorimetry, you know, the vast majority of people are within a couple hundred calories of what would be predicted for their, you know, their height, their sex, their age, their weight. And that's just how it is. Now, there are people who have, you know, some hormonal imbalance typically in the thyroid axis, who tend to be either on the lower, higher end of that spectrum. But that's, that's the exception, not the rule. So fascinating. Okay. I'd love to switch gears a little bit and talk about this great debate that maybe you can tell us it's not a debate. And that is calories in, calories out. Is it fundamentally true? Is it more... Define it for us too, for us to live in it. Or is it more complicated than that? And, and it seems like it can work for some people in the short term, maybe doesn't. So, you know, what, what can you tell us about this calories in, calories out situation? This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Vitality Blueprint. And Vitality is a blood work platform built for high performers by our brilliant friends, Dr. Andy Galpin and Dan Garner. And we were lucky enough to actually just go through the entire Vitality Blueprint process. Yeah. Here's what is normal, is that you get a blood panel with your physician once a year. And if you're over 50, let me just be clear. This is non-negotiable. Get your ass in there. You need to see what's going on under the hood. Yeah, because you feel fine and you're, you know, kicking butt, the local pickle pole rack, but you, there's some things you probably have some holes. Yeah. What's nice about the Vitality Blueprint experience is that it's been a long time since I've actually had a full workup, looking at, you know, cholesterol particles, all of the pieces. It is a really important deep dive into what's going on. And there's a couple of things I learned, believe it or not. And this is really important because we're in the world, Wild West of supplements right now. But my vitamin D is in the range for the first time forever. And I'm, because I've been leaning on that. But what I found out was that my Omega 3-dose, not sufficient. So I was a little low. So I just had to add a little bit more Omega. But it's one of those things where I don't want to just feel good. I am literally interested in running hard and then just like, ball the clip. Yeah. And what's different about Vitality Blueprint is that most independent blood work companies just deliver you a series of results. If you want, you can try to like get them interpreted through chat, GPT or something. But if you do this through Vitality, you get access to their deep dive interpretation of your results. And also a plan for how to improve, you know, some deficiencies you may have. And they also sort of look at your whole results holistically. So rather than just say, okay, you have this one biomarker that's off. It's looking at how does this impact your whole system? And it also keeps an eye on trends. So things that may look good now, but maybe trending in the wrong direction. Yeah. You know, we always say, Hey, we're system systems. We talk about systems. And I think that's what's really important about this is that many of us are beginning like homocysteine. But like, what affects homocysteine? What are all the things that I need to be looking at around my homocysteine? And it turns out you may not understand those relationships. And some of those, those, those levers are easy to turn. Like it's easy to hit these switches and see big changes in how you feel. Brain fog, power output, sleep, the whole thing. Yeah. And one last thing I'll say is, you know, we're all interested in supplementation. And what you need before you do that is a really solid blood fan panel to see where you are. What do you actually need to be taking on? And what can you set aside? Super easy. If you want to learn more, check out VitalityBlueprint.com. You can use code TRS for 50 bucks off any Vitality plan. It's awesome. You guys do it. So, so I think that people get confused by this because people mean different things when they say that. Right. So some people, when they say calories and calories out, that's all that matters when it comes to weight loss. Because if you just cut a certain number of calories from your diet, then I can predict what the deficit is going to be over time. And you will lose a certain amount of weight linearly over time. So this is the so-called 3,500 calorie per pound rule that's been, you know, decades and decades in existence. And it makes an assumption which turns out to be wrong, which is that it assumes that calorie intake and calorie expenditure are independent quantities that don't interact with each other. Right. And we just talked about the biggest loser as an example where you cut calories in people's diets and the number of calories that the body burns is changing dynamically over time. And it's kind of adapting to the change in calories and the change in body composition and the degree of energy deficit and things like that. So there's a group of people who kind of say calories and calories out is this sort of static rule of thumb of, you know, if you cut 500 calories from your diet, then you're going to lose a pound a week for as long as you had cut that 500 calories per day of your diet. And that's the way some dietitians were assessed on the relationship between calories and weight change for decades. That turns out to just not be right. Then another group of folks say, OK, well, what if we account for the changes in our energy expenditure, the resting metabolic rate, the energy associated with the thermic effect of feeding and the physical activities that we're doing. Once we account for that, then calories and calories out is all that matters when it comes to predicting the change in body weight and body fat. And you certainly get much closer to that. The problem is that when we're changing our body weights, and that actually also feeds back on our appetite. So we can't actually just cut 500 calories from our day with a constant intervention. Our appetite will go up as we kind of are losing weight. Our body is kind of fighting to kind of preserve that original weight and that original environment. And so then it becomes very complicated to say, OK, well, now we have to account for the changes in appetite for a constant intervention. So these are the kinds of dynamic models that my team built over the years was trying to quantify all of these different interactions between how appetite changes, how metabolism changes, how total energy expenditure changes, how body composition changes. And you can do those kinds of calculations. They can turn out to be quite complicated and involve some differential equations and all that sort of stuff. But then there's the question of, well, maybe it also depends on your home hormonal milieu. Like if you're on a low carb diet versus a low fat diet, insulin levels are going to change. And maybe that affects how many calories are expended or maybe it affects appetite. And then it becomes much more complicated because now maybe a calorie isn't exactly a calorie when it comes to those dynamic interactions. And so we did a whole bunch of studies trying to assess those things. And it seems like on the calorie expenditure side and how much body fat you'd expect to lose if you just clamp the calories in the diet constant, there's not much effect. And this has been known and we described this in the book for hundreds of years now and different. So it started off in these experiments with dogs way back in the 19th century and in the early 20th century it was shown to be true in some shorter term human studies. But it still doesn't address the question of, well, maybe these hormonal changes make a big difference on the appetite side. And I think that we're only beginning to do studies on that. We did a study recently where we actually did change the macronutrient composition of the diet and showed that it can have pretty big effects on how many calories people choose to eat. So I think that the jury is still out on.  and the appetite side of the equation. And I think the jury's still out on what do these changes, which everybody recognizes when you swap macronutrients in the diet, the changes in the sort of metabolic milieu and hormonal milieu, what effects does that have on the body independent of weight and body fat changes, right? Does it tune the immune system in a different way? Does it impact the brain and its function, especially over long time periods? I think those are even more interesting questions than the question about whether or not a calorie is a calorie or calories in, calories out when it comes to body fat change. Turns out it's complicated. This is the sophistication of human body. And we're like, no, no, no, just feed the dog less. Like, you know what I mean? When it's a dog, you can do that. I think it's a problem. We are in the middle of the most radical experiment in humankind around behavior modification with all of the G's GLP-1 drugs. And I would love for you to just, you know, we are in, we set the stage, we're in a food environment, which is bananas, which I know is, you know, you're one of your specialties. We try to tell a lot of the people we work with that the brain is wired for survival. It's not wired for performance. And it, you know, really is about survival, you know? And I'm crushed with all these super tasty, highly palatable foods. I can't seem to get out my control of these foods. I'm, you know, fed snacks at like FedEx and Kinko's. I mean, I just, you know, I want to get snacks everywhere. Suddenly GLP-1's rolling. And what are you seeing in terms of its impact on health? We are making the assumption that just skinnier is better. And that's certainly, I feel like sometimes the only meaningful driver of conversations around nutrition and probably why I was so reticent to just jump in there. Cause I just didn't want to talk about body composition all the time. I wanted to talk about health. You know, I wanted to talk about how do we have tissues that can handle the load and a brain that's stoked. And we don't, you know, throw these error messages in our arteries and, you know, 90 years from now. What are we seeing in GLP-1? And are you all looking at that? And how should we be thinking about this kind of, this pan-global experiment right now and these changes? Yeah. So, so maybe let's put this in a little bit of a broader context and think about the other, I think big broad change that happened in, in our sort of lifestyles, which was the changes in the food environment that we've experienced over the past, you know, 50 to 100, maybe not quite 100 years, but about 50, 70 or 70 years or so since World War II, where we've seen just this calorie glut. We're producing in America alone 15,000 calories per person per day in our just the four food commodity. Oh, get on it people. We have a lot of work to do. A lot of eating to do. Do your part. In fact, in fact, the increase in the food availability. So that was just in the crops. And of course we get rid of a bunch of that by creating biofuels. We get rid of a bunch of that by feeding it to animals or animal agriculture. And eventually, you know, we still have a surplus of calories in the food system and has been increasing quite dramatically since the 1970s. And most of the increase in calories available in the food supply actually went in the trash. They weren't actually eaten. Only about a third of that increase in food calories in the food supply was eaten. The rest went in the trash. So food waste has gone up by about 50% since the 1970s. So that's kind of setting the stage for this very unnatural, like broad experiment that we've seen in the changes in our food system and food environment. And in fact, you know, that set the stage for the development of all of these ultra-processed foods that we've seen and subsidization of those crops and produced at scale for all sorts of good reasons. But I think these have been generally unintended consequences. And we know that obesity that has kind of arisen over that same time period in the prevalence of obesity has gone up quite dramatically over that time period. There's a huge genetic component to that. In other words, there are some people who have, you know, several, you know, hundreds and possibly thousands of genes that each contribute a very small piece to whether or not somebody was susceptible to those changes in the food environment. And in any given food environment, it explains somewhere between 40 and 70% of the variability between people in their body size. So the people that were most susceptible to those changes gained the most weight. The way I sort of see it is, I think it's wonderful that we have a class of medications now that can take those folks who are most susceptible to those changes in our food environment and give them a chance to actually change their physiology in a way that will allow them to lose excess body fat and become healthier in that food environment. Doesn't mean that we can't, we shouldn't address the food environment. It certainly means that that's something we still need to worry about very much. But I think it's wonderful that we have that those kinds of drugs now on the market. And many of them have been on the market for in excess of 20 years now in lower doses, but they did cause a little bit of weight loss. And we have a pretty good idea of what some of the side effects of those drugs were. And they seem to not be that severe. And many of the side effects of the newer classes of drugs show up very early on, the sort of gastroparesis, if that's happening. Sometimes you see a lot of cases of nausea and vomiting and things like that. Many of those things seem to kind of alleviate with careful titration of the drugs dosages up. But I think that the broader context that I'm really interested in is that there's a really interesting and I would say understudied connection between how does the food environment change the fundamental regulation of body weight and appetite. That I think is something that we've seen in the same where we take the same people and we make this very artificial food environment where we give them the same number of calories and they can eat as much or as little as they want, the same sort of macronutrient distribution, same amount of fiber. And we say, eat as much or as little as you want. And in one case, we give them 80% of calories from ultra processed food. In another case, we give them 0% of calories from ultra processed food, all whole foods. And people spontaneously will either overeat or under eat. And spontaneously gain or lose weight. The same people, you just change their food environment and something is changing about the fundamental biology of how they're interacting with that environment. And somehow these drugs are kind of doing something similar. They're basically saying, okay, now in a constant food environment, we're gonna go in and try to change some of the biology of appetite regulation in ways that we're only beginning to understand. But it'll allow some of these people who are most genetically susceptible to these changes in the food environment to now have a fighting chance and be able to kind of maintain a lower body weight. And it seems quite kind of almost miraculously at this point that there might be effects over and above the benefits of weight loss that we've seen with lifestyle intervention in the past. Changes in inflammation, which seem to be operating through the brain itself, that people are kind of experiencing with these kinds of drugs. And again, we're only starting to understand how this works. One of the things that kind of jumped out at me in your book and relates to what you were just talking about, but also back to the biggest loser study is just how complicated obesity is. And a lot of these ideas we have that it is about willpower. I mean, I think you learned in the biggest loser study that these people were like A plus students in willpower. And that still didn't mean that they, it still meant they gained most of the weight back by and large. And same thing here when you're talking about, people living in an environment that certain people are more susceptible to that environment than the other. So it's not some kind of failure of willpower or moral failing that you made these terrible food choices that really, and not to say that people don't have any control. I'm not saying that, but that it's complicated. Do I have that kind of right? Yeah, I think that's right. And I think that one of the, that's definitely a really strong emphasis in our book is this both the science of how the food environment is impacting the fundamental biology of body weight regulation and appetite control, but also the idea that, society didn't experience a mass reduction in willpower in the 1970s and 80s, right? In fact, some people actually did some really interesting studies, I think it was Kelly Brown Ells group who looked at conscientiousness and kind of things that are associated with willpower and self-control, things like studying for tests and scholastic achievement, wearing seat belts, using protection during sex and moderating drug use and things like that. And almost every area, people have gotten better at those kinds of things over time, not worse. And so if it was a dramatic failure of willpower and self-control, then you would have expected the opposite that all of these things would have fallen off, not just with respect to food, but one of the main things that has happened over that period of time is our food environment has shifted dramatically. And so that's one of the things that's different. But yeah, I think you're absolutely right to point out, I'm not saying that people have no self-control over this. Self-control is possibly also genetically determined as well, right? And so, but even then, there are some people, in fact, many of the folks in the biggest loser example, six years later, the average weight loss was 14%, or sorry, 13% average weight loss. If I just told you nothing about what had happened over that seven month crazy competition, but said a group of people with severe obesity was able to maintain over six year period, 13% weight loss, you'd say that's actually not too bad, right? I mean, we often from a lifestyle perspective target a 5% weight loss over prolonged periods of time. So, I think that it's all a matter of perspective and that there is something that people can do to change their lives in a positive way, even given the environmental challenges that we find. It's just that we can't ignore the fact that there's a huge genetic component to it and that the environment plays a really complicated role in interacting with our fundamental biology to make it harder for some people than others. Now, your PhD is in physics, so perhaps you could tell me I'd go back in time and choose parents that are more tolerant towards Doritos. Just what is that marker? Better yet, if you could just choose parents, that would solve the genetic problem, right? That would really solve it. So, if you, I feel, there's been more and more people we've talked to and we see with our own two eyes how complicated and challenging our current food environment is. And it's hard to not sort of feel that we are entrenched and how do we back out of this? Like, I think a lot of people have identified it as a problem. I think if you even asked three years ago if people knew what UPFs were, ultra-processed foods, like 90% of people didn't know, right? There's some of this has become kind of more common knowledge thanks to Instagram or who knows why. But it does feel like we're very entrenched in this food system. And if you had like a magic wand today and you could do a few things to start to get us out of this food system that we're in, or food environment that I think is probably not that helpful to a lot of people and has really promoted a huge growth and obesity in this country and elsewhere, like, where do we start? What do we do? It's a great question. And I think it's interesting because if you'd asked me that question 10 years ago, I probably would have said we need the sort of political, bipartisan leadership that would say that this is a priority, that we need to address diet-related chronic diseases and we need to make changes in both, how we produce food and how available it is. And we need to devote enough resources in the science to actually know what's gonna work and how this system works together and be able to kind of drive our choices based on the best science possible. And back 10 years ago, nutrition research funding from the NIH, for example, which was where I was at the time was pretty anemic and still remains anemic. And there was very little political will or even popular movement or interest in doing these things. In fact, you might remember Michelle Obama's Let's Move campaign, which was trying to kind of address some of those things. And it did not get a lot of traction, right? Nowadays, it's really interesting because we have, at least the grassroots movement of people who are extraordinarily interested and invested in making changes to our foods and tackling diet related chronic diseases. And we had, prior to the last presidential election, bipartisan folks in the Senate, for example, I'm both Republican and Democratic sides that were arguing why this needs to be a priority for the nation. And obviously we have now the administration with RFK Jr. taking the Make America Healthy Again movement. And at least part of that is devoted to at least popularizing the notion that we need to tackle diet related chronic diseases and fix our food system. So that piece, I think, is really interesting because there does seem to be some political will and a bipartisan group of people who are very interested in tackling this problem. What I think is lacking still is the investment in the science and research that's gonna be required in order to do this. And it's gotta be across a wide variety of disciplines, going from agriculture to how do we grow the kinds of food that we need in order to kind of meet our dietary requirements. For example, if everybody was to turn around tomorrow and have the demand for fruits and vegetable consumption in the US that we need, we don't grow it. We don't even import it. We can't supply that amount of fruits and vegetables, but we got an oversupply of corn and wheat and soy. And because those are the kinds of crops that we can grow at scale with very high yields and expensively from an input perspective. Although there's all these externalities for the environment that we have to worry about. And so it's really interesting that we need the group of people in agriculture to figure out how can we grow enough of the really healthy food that we need to eat without destroying the planet in the process. We need better nutrition science to figure out, how is it that we can actually kind of make these changes that are acceptable to people that will allow them to eat a healthy diet in a way that's delicious and inexpensive and convenient and impacts their body in the ways that we suspect it will. Because we can't just again presume we know the answer already, we need to design the kinds of trials to kind of test these various different dietary patterns and see how they perform in humans and different kinds of people. And some people maybe are more receptive to those than others and some patient populations more receptive than others. And so what I think is lacking is the sort of transdisciplinary science kind of going from agriculture to nutrition science and other kind of biosciences and how they interact with GLP-1 drugs, for example, which we now have access to. How do we support those folks who are on those kinds of medications to have the best possible outcomes? And maybe we can even design lifestyle interventions so that they can titrate off some of those doses in a way that's beneficial over time. So I see the political kind of at least the rhetoric around this area in the Make America Healthy Again movement, lots of interest for the first time in many, many, many decades since the dawn of the 20th century with Harvey Wiley and the dawn of the Food and Drug Administration in the 1920s. That same political momentum seems to be there. But what's been lacking is any investment in the science that's gonna get us the answers that we need. Instead, it seems like people are content with just following what seems to them to be common sense. And that's the trap that we've seen people fall into with respect to nutrition science over and over again, just because you think you know the answer and you think that you know what makes common sense doesn't mean that reality works that way. And science is the best path forward that we have to figure out how reality really works. Thank goodness it's Sir Francis Bacon because the scientific method, you know, this homage to high protein dietary from the start. I mean, the bias is already there. Okay, well, you open the door for me perfectly. I have to ask many of our listeners probably had never heard of Dr. Kevin Hall until, you know, in the last six months or so, you had a bit of a kerfuffle with RFK Jr. and HHS and actually left your 20 year position at the NIH if I'm not mistaken on the facts there. And I think part of that has to do with sort of, well, I don't wanna hypothesize, I've read a bunch of articles about it. Why not, you know, tell us what happened there. And obviously it connects to this sort of rhetoric around, and we agree, I mean, we think this interest in, this, you know, interest in health and diet is a positive, but also concerning that sort of what seems to be kind of happening behind the scenes is a lack of investment in the things that might help us and in full transparency, we were part of Michelle Obama's move initiative. Yeah, we had a nonprofit briefly and that was part of Michelle Obama's non-profit, let's move initiative. So, yeah, tell us what happened here. This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Element. You know what we're talking about today? Brain fog. Brain fog. We have been on some health calls with corporations and one of the things people will talk about as their New Year's resolution is, I wanna be lucid. Yeah, they wanna combat their brain fog. They're like 4 p.m. slump at work. And here's what I'm gonna say. Number one, you're not drinking enough water. You may not be drinking any water. Maybe I'm just projecting. Yeah, I mean, I'll be honest, on our worst days, we're drinking coffee until noon and then realizing we're behind. No, leaders of coffee. Yeah. But one of the things that I wanna point out, Lisa's laughing because it's true, point out that one of the things that can make a difference is just bumping up your salts. Number, it makes the water more tasty, but I suspect a lot of people who are paying attention may not be getting enough salt. They eat dinner, don't eat again, have breakfast, have a good health break. Have a ton of coffee. And they do not get any salt until maybe noon, maybe afternoon, and they may even train in there. I think if you run this experiment or you drink an element with some water in the morning until noon, your brain fog will be vanished. Well, the other thing too is my guess is that a lot of people are just plain dehydrated and if having an element in your water, makes your water more festive. Hypohydrated. Hypohydrated. If having an element in your water makes it more festive and fun because it is super tasty, that is already also a major win because you will just drink more water. Don't take a word for it. Run this experiment for yourself. And if you go right now, you can order through our link and get a free sample pack of elements, most popular drink mixed flavors. And of course, we love the sparkling element because we wanna put it in my mouth. You can go to drinklmt.com slash trs. Take this challenge, do it for a week, see how we feel. We literally drink it every day. Hey, if you're enjoying the show, make sure you're subscribed wherever you get your podcasts. That way you won't miss any of the new episodes we drop. Plus, it really helps other people find the show. So hit that follow button now and let's get back to it. Yeah, sure. So I think it's important to realize that, you know, at the NIH, before this administration, there still was not much investment in nutrition research. In fact, you know, the metabolic ward unit that I told you about where we keep people for weeks and months at a time and have like completely control over their food environment and measure every morsel of food that they eat, that metabolic ward was actually threatened to be closed by, you know, the previous administration. So it's not that, you know, things were all great back in the day. They just got bad. We were always struggling to kind of do this kind of science. But, and so that's why, you know, in the run up to the election, you know, I was actually pretty excited that this was a bipartisan sort of talking point that, you know, Bernie Sanders and Cory Booker, as well as Bill Cassidy and others in RFK Junior, we're all talking about these topics and the importance of addressing diet related chronic disease and proving nutrition science and research. And I thought, this is great. And, you know, we've had plans for many years of how could we expand on the facilities that we would need so that a study that has taken us, you know, two or three years could be done in two or three months with the same power and actually provide those facilities to nutrition scientists across the nation, not just, you know, folks at the NIH. And so I talked with, I was, you know, planning in the run up to the election with the office of nutrition research at the NIH to say, you know, what can we put together that, you know, whoever wins, if this is a really a priority area, how can we improve human nutrition science to support, you know, the tackling of diet related chronic diseases? So we put something together that would allow this. And, you know, at the same time, I was trying to get, you know, as a federal employee, you cannot kind of directly reach out to politicians, that's one of the rules, you're not allowed to do that, but you can at least, you know, try to get your research on their radar screen and things like that. And so, you know, one of the things that we've been talking quite a bit about is trying to find out what the mechanisms of, by which diets high in ultra process foods are causing some of their harms, right? We've had this association with these cohort studies that I mentioned before, these observational studies that last for years that diets high in ultra process foods are kind of linked or associated with negative health outcomes. What's the mechanism? And our research was actually directly addressing that, trying to figure out how could we kind of reformulate highly ultra process diets so that they don't cause people to overeat, for example. We were having some success with that. And I was trying to get people's attention of saying, you know, if we could do this on a broader scale, we could get answers to these questions. And if we understood the mechanisms, then we could help the food industry, you know, not have foods that were driving these problems. We could help policymakers know which foods to kind of target for their policies and things like that. And if we did more of this research, we'd have much more efficient progress in this topic. And it was very difficult to get the attention of the folks and at the leadership level of the make America healthy again movement. And then we had some parallel research that was going on, again, looking at the brain mechanisms by which ultra process foods might drive excess calorie intake, in particular looking at this neurotransmitter called dopamine, which is part of addictive processes. So many addictive drugs cause a very large increase in dopamine. And we happened to find that ultra process milkshakes, high in fat and sugar, didn't cause the same kind of dopamine response, which was part of this rhetoric that had been ongoing that, you know, ultra process foods are as addictive as crack cocaine or something like that. And we weren't finding that. And so shortly after the new administration came into office, I'm still not having much luck getting the attention of the new folks to talk about our plans. We had this paper coming out, which was basically showing that, you know, ultra process foods might be addictive for some people, but on average, they're not giving the same sort of dopamine response in the brain as drugs. And like cocaine or even cigarettes. And we kind of had some really odd pushback on that. I wasn't allowed to give talks at conferences and meetings on this topic. And I wasn't exactly sure what was going on with that. Maybe that was like a general thing, but then I saw some of my other colleagues were allowed to give talks and I wasn't. So it was kind of weird. And then we had this paper coming out. And we had a press release cause we've been working on this study for like five years. And we had a press release ready to go and that was like kill for no reason. And when a reporter actually wrote to us to ask about, you know, to interview me about this paper, she was denied an interview request. And the Health and Human Services Communications Director called the reporter and said, is this really a story about RFK Junior? Because the results in this paper don't match his views on ultra process foods. And that was pretty chilling because it meant that the political leadership wasn't interested in allowing the public to hear about some of the science that was being generated at the NIH because it didn't mesh with their narrative about how ultra process foods work. And so I tried to get some clarity about, you know, what's really going on here. And eventually they allowed the interview, the written interview. So the reporter asked some questions. I wrote some responses in collaboration with my colleagues. And then what was actually sent back to the reporter was edited and passed off as if I had written it. And it sort of downplayed the study and kind of changed some of the, it was like really bizarre. Crazy. Yeah, it was really nuts. And at that point they were trying to get as many people to leave the federal employment as possible. And they'd set up an early retirement option, which I'd just qualified for. I'd been at the NIH as you mentioned for over 20 years. And they lowered the full retirement age to 50. I was 54 at the time. So I'm like, well, I'm gonna write to RFK Junior and the NIH director and several of the senior staff and say, look, here's what we're experiencing. This is the work that we're doing. We're sort of at the forefront of trying to understand, you know, diet related chronic disease and why people overeat ultra processed foods. We're making all this progress. Here's the, you know, a proposal that I've been working on to kind of expand this kind of nutrition research for folks across the country. But here's what we've experienced kind of the censorship and this misrepresentation of our findings to a reporter at the New York Times. And we're also now experiencing we can't even buy food for our research subjects because they cut the credit card limit of many of the purchasing staff at the NIH to $1. And so we had all of these kind of crazy things that were going on. And our scientific leadership was saying, yeah, things are gonna get really rough. And in some aspects, they continue to be rough and for my colleagues who remained at the NIH. And I said, look, you know, if this is gonna continue this way, I'm probably gonna hate my job. Not gonna be able to communicate our results anymore. I might as well take early retirement and keep health insurance for my family because otherwise, you know, if I quit a year from now, I'm gonna lose my health insurance. But I'd love to sit down and, you know, have a meeting and talk about these things. And I got no response. This was weeks. So I started to wind down my lab. And I heard that people had circulated my email but because a colleague of mine wrote and said, hey, are you really gonna retire? I saw your email.  that's weird, I didn't send it to you. I said, no, no, it was circulated, people read it, but I guess they didn't decide they wanted to respond. And so the date came for the last day to qualify for early retirement, and I basically submitted my paperwork and handed in my badge and basically quit. So the next day, the NIH director wanted to talk to me after there was some media kerfuffle about this. And I went in and chatted with him and told him what had happened and kind of was raising the question of, this was, we're in a state, that was actually the same day that we heard there was gonna be a 40% budget cut request from the president to the NIH budget and that they were gonna restructure several of the institutes. And I said, look, wouldn't it be great to actually build something? Because we see all this destruction going on in the scientific community and the biomedical research community, this proposal that we put together to improve nutrition science, if this really is something that you guys are interested in doing, would not be something worthwhile building. And he said, yeah, I'd like to work on this with you. And he shook my hand and he said, welcome back. And I said, I don't have anything to go back to, my lab is closed, but if you're really seriously interested in working on this, let's figure out a way that we could do it. And so for the next several weeks, I worked with the Office of Nutrition Research Director and the Interim Rural Deputy Director to kind of put this together. And then out of the clear blue sky, that was killed for unknown reasons. So it seemed to me like this administration is very, they're disinterested in the actual science. And my view has become because science can only complicate a narrative. It only introduces uncertainty sometimes, right? And you kind of get, the knowledge progresses forward and you need this knowledge to kind of make the best, changes to your policies or diet or something like that. But if it complicates the narrative, that can be politically problematic. And so my view from my experience, as well as kind of viewing from afar, what's happened with a walling off career scientist from talking with a briefing, the CDC, the former CDC director, for example, wasn't allowed to talk to career scientists because while the science can only complicate the issues. I just worry that despite all this political momentum and this public interest in improving nutrition and diet related chronic disease that we're not investing in the science and we're actually the political aspects and leadership of this movement is actively disinterested in the science. And that's the fear. And maybe I'm wrong, I hope I am. And maybe we're gonna see a big investment in nutrition research and nutrition science. But I haven't seen any numbers yet. And in fact, everything that we've seen, I know you've had Jessica Nurick on your big program in terms of practically, some of the rhetoric is kind of on the mark in diagnosing the problem, but cutting SNAP-Ed and cutting programs at the USDA that delivered fresh produce to schools and other institutional settings. Cutting EPA programs and the research staff that would track environmental toxins and pesticide use and things like that and relaxing regulations on pesticide use and all of the things that seem antithetical to the rhetoric of the Make America Healthy Again movement. There have been a few wins on food dyes that they talk a lot about. And maybe the new dietary guidelines are some positive aspects of those and some negative aspects as well. But practically speaking, I don't think much has really moved forward to really, you know, real practical changes that could make a difference. And so you felt like someone has stepped into that brink. We can't be the first generation where politics have interacted with science in a strange way, Abertaway. You, how long were you unemployed before you jumped right back into the meme? You must have been snapped up right away. And that leads to the question, who do you think is doing excellent nutrition science right now? Because it is complicated. And I think people are really interested in it, finally, because it's costing us so much money. I don't even think we're necessarily interested in the sometimes the health and happiness of humans. We're just realizing that it's gonna cost us a lot to have sick people around. Right, it's gonna cost a lot to have sick people around and we need to do something about it, right? And what we've focused on in the past, and I think there's been, as we discussed earlier with the GLP-1 medications, there has been some successes in the sort of biomedical research paradigm of treating things after the fact, as opposed to prevention, right? And that's what the NIH research budget has been primarily allocated to over many, many decades, which again, I think that you wanna do that kind of research, there's no doubt about it. But at the same time, you also wanna work on prevention and promotion of health. And that has gotten a little bit of the short end of the stick when it comes to funding. And again, the rhetoric that we currently hear from the leadership is that actually, no, now we wanna kind of shift gears a little bit and rebalance our portfolio in a way that's gonna shift more towards prevention and more towards investing in the kind of science that will allow us to prevent diet-related chronic disease. But I haven't seen the research dollars follow that rhetoric necessarily. And I haven't seen any coordinated research programs or plans to do it. And in fact, when I specifically proposed the facilities of the ability to kind of actually conduct that kind of research that was shot down for still unexplained reasons. And I still think that that is a really important path forward that people are serious about. Of course, it's not too late. I mean, we're still in, I guess, we just passed the first year of this administration, right? So it's certainly, or I guess we're right around there, possible for them to change course and actually invest in this kind of science, but I haven't seen it yet. Well, let's hope they do. So before we let you go, there's another little sub area. I would like to talk about, because I feel like you've done so much research and talked about it extensively in your book. And this is this idea that people really can lose weight. So I'll just start by saying that you and I, we all know that the diet culture is so prevalent in our country. And people become so, it becomes a religion. Like it's like a zealotry, right? Like if you are a vegan or a carnivore or whatever diet you choose. And I think, or you featured the guy who lost so much weight just eating potatoes for an entire year, which I thought was fascinating. But it seems like your, correct me if I'm wrong, but it seems like your research has really shown that people can lose weight on a variety of different diets. And I know that you really, there was a big fight between the low carb versus low fat people. Is that true? Like is it, if people are sort of searching for a way to eat or sort of a sort of philosophy to hang onto, is it this idea that it's like, follow the diet that you will do that works for you because they're all gonna work for different reasons? Or how should we think about this? Cause I feel like you extensively researched this and there's really not like one diet to rule them all, if I'm not mistaken. Yeah, yeah, I know that that's right. I mean, we sort of, it's not just us, but many people have done this kind of work. And from these different kinds of study designs, we've been focusing on these shorter term more mechanistic things. But yeah, I mean, in general, it just seems like you can find success stories of people following a wide variety of dietary patterns. Right? I mean, humans are omnivores. We have this natural ability to adapt, at least for short periods of time, to a wide variety of dietary patterns when it comes to macronutrients or food groups. Or we've obviously been able to kind of survive the rise in ultra processed foods, although with some, perhaps some negative consequences over very long periods of time. Rise of machines. Yeah. And so there was actually a guy that did the Twinkie diet, right? So 100% ultra processed food, and he lost a bunch of weight. So I think the point is, is that when your outcome is very narrow, like weight loss, that's one thing. When you kind of broaden your scope of, well, what does make a healthy diet? Like what are the biomarkers that you would need to measure to say that, you know, you're doing okay. It's not just that you've lost some weight. Your insulin sensitivity has improved. Your inflammatory markers have improved. Your lipid parameters have improved. And how personalized does that need to be? And why is it that some people seem to be able to thrive on these kinds of diets, whereas another person needs another kind of diet to thrive? I think we don't understand the answers to those questions yet. That kind of gets to the whole, we have another chapter on precision nutrition, where there's a lot of promises that you would be able to, through various different testing scenarios, be able to predict the right diet for the right person. I think we're a long way away from being able to do that in a really robust way. I think that that's a really promising area of future research. But I think that there's still a lot of hype in that area. And, you know, my co-author actually simultaneously enrolled in three different sort of precision nutrition programs and got broadly the same advice when it came to, yeah, eat more fruits and vegetables and legumes and cut down your saturated fat and your sodium and your sugar intake. But the specific foods that she was prescribed varied widely between these different companies. And they all missed, you know, some of them said her glucose regulation was good, others said it was, you know, challenged. And they all missed, you know, when she went to her doctor and found out for the first time in her life, she had high cholesterol. Some of them had even predicted that her cholesterol pathways were fine. And so it's, we're still a long way away from this being a really robust area of even research, not to mention- It reminds me quickly. I'll tell you a story from early days. Kelly and I were offered like a really early food sensitivity test probably in like 2011 or something. You didn't know food sensitivity wasn't a thing? And I had, we did some tests and then had a call, a consult. And I laughed as the woman was reading off all the food that I was sensitive to, which was like food. And after she said like the 50th thing, I said, so you're telling me like I'm allergic to food. So obviously, you know, that wasn't great. I just wanted to say I learned something today, which is beautiful as we've kind of evolved in our, we had a friend who was trying to, he was about 270 pounds, power lifter, elite total, wanted to go down to 200. So he sucked all this weight down to 200, very dangerous, well controlled. He gets an elite total and then in the same year wants to go up to 308. So he wants to gain 108 pounds in a year. And he really struggled to put on 108 pounds in a year. And food became just not fun for him. And I know just we've been talking about the opposite of this, but his elite coach was like, all right, I'm gonna tell you this, but we're never gonna repeat it. But the secret to putting on weight is Doritos. And it turns out we were always like, well, is the Dorito just, it doesn't work in the body? Like what is it? And it just turns out, I think it was so tasty that you just kept eating Doritos. And you could get the extra calories in cause it's so great. And I finally feel like I have an answer to the mystery, why Doritos? Because you can just overeat on them because they're so tasty. Yeah. In fact, what the two factors that we found out about why ultra processed foods might lead to overeating was one hyper palatable combinations of nutrients. So for Doritos, it would be high in salt and carbs. And then also the fact that they're quite energy dense, they have a lot of calories per gram. They're dried out foods that basically pack a lot of calories per gram of food, as opposed to natural foods that have a lot of fiber and cellulose. Involve a lot of fiber. Involve a lot of chewing. Yeah, exactly. And they can beat them really quickly. That's the other aspect too. So yeah, it's a really interesting area. And that's probably one of the reasons why you put people in a very ultra processed food environment. Those are common properties, right? It works. OK, so one, this I think is my last official question, since we do need to let you go. But one thing that kind of blew my mind from reading your book, Food Intelligence, was you sort of, I guess, debunked this idea that visceral fat is like the worst kind of fat you can have. It's like one of these things that we all know. Like, OK, it's fine if I'm a little bit fat, but as long as it's not visceral fat, it's fine. And we have people measuring their waistlines to see how much visceral fat they have. What do we actually know about visceral fat from a science perspective? This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Momentus. No, so cool. Arnold. We're one degree closer to Arnold. If you haven't picked up on the news, Arnold, there's only one Arnold. Yep, there's only one. The Great has now joined the Momentus family, the organization. And why is that, do you think? He has his choice everywhere. Why do you think he's with the Momentus Julia? Yeah, I mean, you have to figure Arnold has taken every supplement out there known to man since the beginning of time. And could be involved with any supplement. Yeah, it could be involved with any. But we know that it is because of the quality of Momentus products and the fact that all of their products are NSF for sport certified, which means they are what they say they are. They contain the ingredients that are on the label. And that the company has the highest level of transparency and focus on quality of ingredients. And literally Arnold could choose any brand. But that's why he chose to work with Momentus. I'm so stoked on this. He is obviously just, I mean, if you were any human being, but just to say that you were a boy growing up in the 70s, 80s, and 90s. Who liked exercise. He may have been Arnold aware. Let's put it that way. And when Conan came out, and I was like, my chesticles are never going to be that big. But I feel like I'm like, oh, Arnold, I work with Arnold. I can just say that now. I work with Arnold. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, we're friends. Yeah, so we think his. The, you know, protein powders. We think his endorsement matters a lot. And are delighted that he's joined us in working with a supplement company that really does have the highest standards of quality and transparency. And that's why when we turn to supplements for our supplement needs, we are really stoked to work with Momentus. Just so we're clear, if it doesn't have NSF on it, it's strophis. Don't take it. Don't do it. Make sure everything you need has NSF certified, and specifically NSF certified for sport. This is lab testing or third party tested. Not good enough people. NSF is the gold standard. Gold enough. Gold enough. It's gold enough for Arnold and for the stars. And it's for you too. If you go to livemomentus.com slash TRS and use code TRS, you can save up to 35% on your first order. Yeah, so I wouldn't say we've debunked it. I think that it has gotten a very bad reputation. So we have a chapter in the book called Ode to Body Fat. And we're specifically talking about the fat tissue called adipose tissue, whose job it is to safely store excess triglycerides. And so for a long time, people have correlated visceral fat, which is the fat that's around your organs. It's still adipose tissue, but it's around your organs as compared to subcutaneous fat, which is the fat that's just below your skin, the adipose tissue there, and have said that, you know what? Visceral fat seems to be correlated with metabolic disease much more closely than subcutaneous fat. In fact, if you kind of separate these two things out in a statistical model, the subcutaneous fat seems to almost be protective, especially if you haven't reached a certain limit. It's not clear that the visceral fat is the bad guy, or if it's just an innocent bystander and marker of what we call ectopic fat. The triglycerides, the fat that's stored actually within the organ. So excess fat, or fat that's stored inside the liver, for example, or a skeletal muscle in people who are not trained. So you can have really well-trained people that have triglycerides that are associated with mitochondria and provide this kind of immediate source of energy. We're not talking about that. We're talking about triglyceride droplets, which are basically excess triglycerides inside skeletal muscle, not associated with mitochondria. And the question is, is there any evidence to suggest that visceral fat per se is the bad guy? And I think the evidence is mixed. And I think the best evidence that might not be the bad guy is there was a systematic review and meta-analysis of studies of people who underwent bariatric surgery, where they either went in while they were doing the surgery and they basically removed a whole bunch of visceral fat at the same time. And some people got that, and some people didn't. And then they could compare the improvements in metabolic health between those who had their visceral fat removed with those who didn't have their visceral fat removed. And basically, it seemed to make no difference when you looked across the different studies. Some studies said there was a positive effect. Some studies said there was no effect. Some studies said there was a negative effect. On average, it seems like it doesn't really matter. And that's kind of interesting, but it also seems to suggest, well, yeah, you have visceral fat for a reason. It's not an aberrant tissue. The aberrancy in the pathophysiology comes when the fat is stored outside adipose tissue, either visceral adipose tissue or subcutaneous adipose tissue stored inside organs like the liver and the muscle and the pancreas. That's the problematic fat. At least that's a hypothesis still. But I think the days of visceral fat being the particular bad guy, and as long as you get rid of that, and there's no evidence, by the way, that you can even target visceral fat with lifestyle change, even exercise. And we rewrote a paper about it. Happy to share that paper. We'll link to it in the show notes. Yeah, but they go in parallel, right? And depending on your initial ratio of visceral to subcutaneous fat, you'll actually have a very predictable change in visceral versus subcutaneous, whether it's bariatric surgery, exercise, diet. They all fall on the same curve. So the only thing that changes it so far that I know of is this class of drugs called diazolidin diones, which are insulin sensitizing drugs. They proliferate subcutaneous adipose tissue, and then the visceral fat basically will reduce in size. But that's the only intervention that I know that preference for. This sounds going back in time and choosing different guess. That's moral of the story. OK, well, Dr. Hall, we ask all of our guests this question. If you can help us add something to our infinite shelf, is there a book or piece of music or TV show that you are watching or consuming and loving that you can share with our audience? Oh my gosh, that's a really interesting question. I'm actually reading Super Agers Right Now by Eric Topol. That's a fun book. It's got some good evidence in there. I haven't finished it yet. Can't give you a full review, but I'm enjoying it so far. I love it. Thank you. We'll add that Super Agers to our list. One, Julie and I work with Stanford in the Lifestyle Medicine Group. And one of the things that is lamented there is that scientists often don't have huge followings. Are you on social media? Can we follow you? Yeah, yeah, sure. I'm on X in Blue Sky. Those are the end linked in, I guess, of the main places where you can find me. And I have a website with all those links, kevinhaulphd.com. Awesome. And just to our listeners, I just finished your book, Food Intelligence over the weekend. And it's just so thought-provoking and really well, I know you wrote it with Julia Beluz. Is that who you pronounce her last name? That's correct. It's just a page-turner. So fun to understand. So fun to understand and thoughtful and reasonable. And I highly recommend it to anyone who wants to learn more. Wonderful. I really appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you so much for spending this time with us. We're going to, I mean, stay tuned. The research is still coming. And when you're ready to blow us up and melt our minds and visceral fat again, we'll have to have you back on. My pleasure. Thanks for having me. Thanks, Dr. Hall. Thank you so much. Hey, Kelly and Julie Ed here. If you're ready to feel strong, move freely, and have a body that's built to last for life, we've got something special for you, the Star Ed System. It's our 12-week strength and lifestyle training program. We designed it so you don't have to guess what works anymore. We blend strength, mobility, and recovery into one smart system that actually sticks. Over 12 weeks, you'll train with us and learn from our expert guests, build strength, lose the stiffness, wake up with more energy, and finally feel in control of your body again. If that sounds like your kind of move, go to the readystate.com slash system to apply. We'd love to help you show up stronger, more capable, and ready for anything life throws at you. Let's make it happen. We'll see you inside.