Hey, welcome back to Mobility Project first day after Christmas. On the main site of crossfit.com today is a workout from for Captain Brandon Bull Barrett. Um, I like this workout. A lot of reasons. Uh, one of the reasons is it has some big high volume chunks of kind of work work pieces in it. I always pay attention to those hero wads. Sometimes because in the context of my training, I don't want to blow myself out. That's be a huge work effort for me. So, I'm going to do a half piece. And so that's 50 overhead squats, 135, 200 double unders. That's all reasonable work. 50 pull-ups, and then some running kind of fits in my schema. And I like the half work, the two two volume piece. Those guys are beasts. I'm not a beast. I don't recover as well. I watch out for some of the uh the volume stuff. So those two big work blocks I really like. But so besides my normal warm-up, I'm thinking about a couple other things. one, the kind of impact of a lot of the hip flexor stuff from the double unders, a lot of my calves getting tight from the double unders, and how that can potentially limit my overhead squatting. When I'm going to overhead squat, it's a ton of kind of quad dominant hip dominant movement, and then I got to go turn and run after that. Very reasonable. So, some things I'm thinking about, one is uh besides my normal bar warmup, I'm going to probably spend a few minutes doing the perfect overhead squat stretch, right? You'll notice just got my Christmas Roma from Rogue. You see outside 90. This is my mother-in-law's dog outside 90. Um, I uh can really walk and sometimes when I do this mo with my feet in my Olympic shoes. Hey Bear. Come on now. Bear. When we do this mo with my feet in these in these Olympic lifting shoes, uh, I find that it really just is nice and tighter and it tightens and snugs everything up. You really see what we're living. So, let's hang out here. Then I can move my feet back and forth even and just try to get some of that capsular business as well. Okay. So, here's that's norm number one. Let's go inside though. Come on. All right, homework number two is I'm going to go ahead and open up my hips into some extension. So, I have to achieve full extension a lot. Hey, Bearstar. Got to be quiet. Please open up that hip, turn that leg inside. Going for this full extension piece. Uh, open up soaz. Open up all that stuff. Let's go ahead and camp out of those corners. And if you need to add a little bit of rotation to it, go ahead and and judge that up. That's right. I just said juzj. All right. So, open up those hips. Let's spend a minute or two. And if you do need to drop down a little bit further, get into those deep, deep corners where you think, "Oh man, that is ugly. That pulls from my face all the way to my toe." Both sides. And finally, kind of last piece I'm thinking about today for the M1 is um big foot up on the wall. And again, I like this in my Olympic looking shoes because it really gives me a lot of stiffness through that whole shank. Bring that squeeze up butt and prep in tall. And I'm really just going to focus on kind of this not this bent knee position so much, but straight leg and really open up those corners. And uh this all kind of appropriate things before I I lift. And what you'll find is that you will be in a better position and better ready to kind of hammer these big work chunks so that when you go out, you can kind of flow into one another thing instead of kind of ending up getting into smaller and smaller tighter ranges of motion. So that's how I think critically about today's workout. Bull. We'll see you guys tomorrow.