All right, we're rolling. Before we begin tonight's mobility project piece, special shout out to Susan Francia, Aaron Kafaro, who just rode their way to a third place victory at the 2010 World Championships in New Zealand. Amazing, amazing race. Uh these girls set American history last year by winning the first ever pairs medal in the women's pair. And no American team has ever won a gold medal in the pair at the World Championships, men or women. And this year they they backed it up, pulled a third. I think for both of these women, this may be the uh third world championship and uh Olympics. So they've won a medal every single time uh for the last I don't know four years, five years. It's insane. So brilliant job Americans. EAF, that's for you, Susan. Good job. Made me think about watching and thinking about rowers tonight. Kind of became obsessed with the thoracic mobility. We see a lot of athletes end up hanging on this thoracic spine. Our cyclists do. Uh even my desk athletes. And a simple way to do this with your athletes is to kind of get the two balls taped together. This case I'm using the rab roller. And let's get some mobility. So first piece tonight is going to go ahead and I want to get start at the bottom of the rib cage all the way down there. Oh, I'm going to break myself over. And here's the deal. You got to get 100 arms straight over your head passes. One. Two. You got to count to 100. Okay, so the first piece as soon as you can get it, then you can relax on the ball. Try to bias side to side so you can hit a rib. Then move up one notch. Rib cage in and down. Stay tight. Arms straight. That's what we're trying to use is the fulcrum mechanic. Try to break up. If you need to lift your arms or legs to kind of change position, legs rather, do that. Got to get a hundred of these bad boys overhead. And you'll notice that down below, you know, your diaphragm ties in right through here. So it's easy to get stiff in this TL junction. So we're always going to look at kind of creating some mobility, especially these bottom pieces. When athletes are stiff through the trunk, this is where they tend to fold and hinge and we see kind of L1 T12 problem. So let's go after that. You got to get 100 passes. Similarly, a lot of these quad dominant sports just tend to get glued down. It's hard when I'm rowing to get my hamstrings and butt on, but I get kind of short and ropey in the quads. So you got to get 50 quad pumps each side. So, you're going to lay on your stomach. Put that ball right above the kneecap in that super patellar pouch. I want you to roll and really try to blow open all of the distal tissues around the quad. One, two, open up. Three. Try to pull past. If you're not having a problem there, try to get some pressure in. You can load the I guess can't really load the other leg, but try to get some pressure. I'm bridging up a little bit. Try to pull. We got to get 50 passes each leg. really looking in kind of this this scope of this distal quad ungluing around here. A lot of patellar problems come because this super patellar pouch ends up being pretty glued down. All right, so we got 100 passes. We're going to hit here and then the simple one is that I want you guys to go ahead and kind of have a different experience. I want to go ahead and cross the leg. This looks like good old crappy pigeon pose or in yoga or but I really want to spend some time and wind up and try to kind of add some rotation in the chest. But, you know, this is so simple, but I want you guys to think a little bit differently about it. So, instead of just pulling in, think about loading the hip and then getting tighter and see if you can really find some corners. And then you'll probably have access to some different areas of your hip that are difficult to hit just by leaning over. Okay. So, let's go ahead and kind of spend two or three minutes really mining up. And what I'm going to do is not just pull. I'm going to load by being tall as I can. Imagine shoving out. And then I'm going to add a little rotation as my tensioner. So load and then tension. You're going to find some nice areas of your glutil you haven't talked to. Two minutes each side there. Remember as we're going for world championship of number of MWAD stretching post in a day. People ask me all the time, Kelly, how can you do it? How can you stay motivated? I say simple volume. All right, we're at CrossFit Fire in Chicago. I got Kelly Moore tomorrow. Legendary Kelly Moore. We're going to expose all her awesomeness. Can't wait to see you guys there and uh we'll see what happens. Talk to you then. Good luck. Go USA.