Hey, Daily RX. Hey, Taylor, show us your arm. So, can you guys see the difference side to side? Taylor, what's wrong with your right What is normally wrong with your right arm? I got tight lats from what? Swimming. Oh, is that a San Jose State swim team shirt? Okay, so RP, we just did this on RP. Let's see your test retest real quick. RP now. RP's pretty good. But that looks a little bit better. Now, this left side's your wonky side, isn't it? Yes, my very wonky So, this is one of the things we've been playing with as a way of trying to get into some of this tissue a little bit differently. Now, Rub's going to explain this. So, the key is here's what we're going to do. We're going to go after this lat subscap complex. And we're going to do is go ahead and take our hand into kind of an internally rotate position. So, he's got the shoulder back. His hand is just on his hip. The key here is that we're going to try to take the arm. Do without the band real quick, R. We're going to try to take the arm and we're going to go from this position to try to almost get to pure extension. And the problem is as soon as we do this, we most of the time we let the tension come off. So we're going to block with the hand. So RP is going to reach across, grab the wrist, that's going to set it so that when the band pulls, it's just going to pull this further and further back into that press archetype. Okay? And normally when we do this, we consider this almost like the bully stretch where we're going to improve the internal rotation. But today, we're going to keep that hand block close to the chest and like Kelly said, just amplify the extension almost looking like that press archetype we talk about a lot. Now, we have been toying with this cuz we've been going after the seam and I and uh I was thinking I was playing around I don't know a couple weeks ago with the arm bar, right? With the uh is it what's that? The arm bar and the kettle bells and that's we're trying to get some glide. So RP just is just twisting and he twists away from the band. So the band keeps pulling the shoulder back. He twists and what we find is that it is really really gruesome right up where the lat comes in. And then you're saying also subscaping some subscap. So contract, relax, take some big breaths in there. It's hard to breathe into that spot. We love the distraction. Distraction keeps the shoulder in that good position. This is my new favorite. And I have had just awesome. I've been swimming a ton lately. I've been doing all these other things and this has been my my go-to for some what's been really feeling super sticky for me which has been lassening in this corner. That's right. All right. And so he hits in there. Our test retest can be any of the shapes but overheadedness. That looks better. It looks even same to same now. Same same. And it's pretty fast. So, okay. So, that's homework number one. We want to do that. And then number two, let's grab supernova. And then let's go after this anterior delt region. Pec major, pec minor. Let's go with the classic blue angel. No. Go ahead and load yourself down. Take that arm out to the side and just go ahead and peel across, finding as much stiffness as you can, keeping that shoulder set back. And then just go ahead and peel. And notice as I come through, I'm trying to externally rotate to get that full stretch and shearing force right across the pecs. If I want to, I can take my hand and really twist to take up all the fascial sheath and just really peel it all the way across. Trying to get all this motion overhead cleared out. He said fascial sheath. Sheath. Sheath. All right, we'll see you guys tomorrow.