one. Hey, welcome back to Mobility Project. Couple special things going on today. This is a love letter for my homies back in Denver. Um, question came out. If I'm an officer and I have to sit in the car all the time, I'm tight. I got to get up and every once in a while, boom, I got to sprint after a bad guy or someone who's doing something sketchy. What do I do about that? How do I protect myself? So, here's what we're going to do. You certainly couldn't get out and write a ticket and do these things, but you might be able to do them often enough that when you have to get out of the car and be badass super cop, then uh you would be able to survive that without trashing your hip or trashing your back. So, this is what we're doing today. I'm going to show you just three simple things. And then if you're not an officer of the law or sergeant, you know who I'm talking to, then uh you certainly could do these things anyway at home and uh thinking about opening up the hips. So, here's what we got going on. holding the camera, Mr. 4Hour Body himself, Timothy Ferris, the man. Here we go. So, he's going to be our demo today. First things first, can you wind up your calf all day long and go ahead and try to catch the whole ball of the foot up there? Can you get a little further up? There you go. So, catch the whole ball of the foot up on the tire. Can you pretend like you're riding a ticket? I'm There you see how that's working? The key is to bury this in through the course of the day and don't just save it up for one more. So, like if you can just spend a second opening up your your leg, don't worry about the two-minute rule. If you can get a minute each side, just do one, that's going to be fine. Contract, relax, and then in this position, go ahead and bend your knee, too. Oh, that's obviously hitting more of the distal far away heel cord. This is an easy way to make sure that you're not tight and short and that you don't blow a heel cord. Okay, that's position number one. Position number two on the cruiser, just lay that leg up there. And if you can't get the whole foot up on there cuz you're worried about scratching the paint, put this on the uh the interceptor bar certainly. But just hang it out in a little extra rotation and flexion is going to make a difference. If you can get the foot up on the car without scratching the the tax dollars uh you know the taxpayers thing, that's fine. If not, go ahead and open that hip up. Any position is fair game. Fold forward. Go ahead and get belly button to your knee. You may have seen this very stretch on a famous book called what? For our money. No, no, no. Not that book. That's not a famous book. All right, last thing. He's going to Tim's going to turn around and he's just going to hook. This is a simple way to open up the hips. He's going to hook his foot on the on the cruiser on the car. In this case, the Persian dream. And uh he's just going to step out, squeeze his butt, and open the hip. And it doesn't matter, but I know that he's already feeling some tension. So here, this thing gets short and nasty all day long. If you just camp out and give this little exposure, what you're going to see is that the additive effects of that are going to allow you to get up and uh get out of the car. Imagine you're traveling across country and suddenly you got got out and you needed to open up your hips. Three simple things to do. Thanks. Thanks, Superstar Guest. And uh he's the ugliest model we've ever had, but uh he's here at San Francisco CrossFit. We'll see you guys later. Not too.