Hey, welcome back. Mob mobility one. That will work. Brian McKenzie, you'll notice he's got all his stuff in my garage. It's because he's just moved three doors down. So, uh, maybe six. It's not that five. Look, doesn't matter. I don't I can't count. I've got a new hot tub. That's what matters. True. Look, here's what we're talking about tonight. A lot of times people don't understand the relationship of once we've set a a rigid kind of torso construct from pelvis to rib cage to head, what do I do with that? Now look, this is what we tell people before we deadlift, before we're running. All of the same setups. We squeeze the butt. That brings the pelvis into neutral. You can pull up on the pelvic floor there. Rib cage comes down. And now I've set that position. Now what I've just done there is when Brian gets in that good position over here. He squeezes his butt. That sets his pelvic position. Rib cage is in and down. I've got all his normal lumbar curves here. Now watch. The problem with this by itself is that Brian has to walk around in the universe squeezing his butt, which doesn't work. It's because he's using this forward backwards model to put the pelvis into position and then matching the rib cage on top. The problem is now if I imagine his femurss is basically these kind of you know sticks with these the heads on like this then his pelvis is just bounce balancing back and forth over this. So he sets check and then I've got this large mass that bounces back and forth which is never going to work. And this is what ends up happening. The body identifies this isn't going to work and it does two things. It either locks off the pelvis in the back. We get kids dumped in the back. We see this internally rotated feet kind of hanging position. Rowers rowers, right? Or we see the the common fault which is to overextend and by kind of locking the pelvis off now I've shut the pelvis hip relationship off. Click and I become stable and end up with man belly which ain't no pretty thing. So here's the deal. That doesn't work. So I always have to understand that I squeeze my butt, set the pelvis. Now, the second aspect of this, and this is a key idea, is that I have to create torsion. And it's that torsion force. It's me screwing my feet into the ground that unloads the back. Now, if you do this at home, squeeze your butt as hard as you can, belly tight as hard as you can, and then screw your feet into the ground, create as much torsion, you're going to see that unloads your back. You feel that? Very weird. Because what ends up happening is that that torsion force of the pelvis basically takes your the torsion force of the femurss in the pelvis make and reestablish a neutral upright pelvic bowl. Boom. And then it's much easier to to stabilize. So this is the mechanism why we we cue knees out. The knees out torqueness keeps the torso upright. So as you're standing around, it's a real error that we make all the time where people are like, "Oh, don't squeeze your butt all the time." That's true. That's a bad habit. The second component or the kind of finishing the thought ideas is you need to create a little torsion. Now, here's the deal. We teach this to our 5-year-olds in our gym all the time. Very complex concepts, right? We just give them a whack in the belly. He was good to go down here. Not good to go, right? Don't make that mistake when you're coaching. The issue here is that we make sure that our athletes have a little bit of torque on or a little bit of belly stiffness on, but they don't walk around like they're flexing their cobra hood. Even cobras aren't stiff like cobras all the time, right? They slack and then they move around back up to peak stiffness. The key concept here is that you need to be able to cycle in and out of peak stiffness, but background stiffness in your trunk maybe 20 to 30%. Same concept down with the feet. I need to have a little torsion going on, not a lot of torsion force. And so a little bit allows me to bring the hip into neutral, allows me to balance and keep my my neutral integrated position. You'll notice that when you add this element of torsion, we tend to naturally send the weight into the right position. Brian's center of mass where he should be loading is right in front of the ankle in the medial side here. That's his force. If you we tell people all the time to load to their heels and what ends up happening is that if you squeeze your butt belly tight, load your heels, you'll fall backwards because that's where your weight is. So what ends up happening is that athletes feel like they need to have their weight on their heels. They squeeze their butt and because their weight is backwards, they'll come forward with their pelvis and hang out over sanded. So, squeeze your butt, set your belly 20% slight torsion into the ground creates a stabilizing force through the pelvis and helps you to anchor. This is why you got to have your big toe on the ground to keep that center mass so that you're balanced over this thing they call the arch, right? Not the back of the arch doing three-wheel gangster motion, high FO, but really trying to keep integrated. So you can keep that torsion. First ideal relationship. My wife's rolling her eyes. What? I can't ghost ride my whip. What are you talking about, dude? I'm like I'm like 10 miles from Oakland. You're killing me. You got 10 seconds. Look at that. You have 10 seconds left. So the issue here is part one of this is how to understand the relationship of torsion as it relates to maintaining upright torso. And this neutral relationship, the relationship between setting a stable platform so I can create torque and then creating torque so I can maintain a stable platform. Brian McKenzie is see moreish.