Welcome back to Mobility Wad. Here's what we got going on today. One of my favorite athletes that I love torturing on camera because it just frankly is slightly amusing to our family. And uh what we're talking about is that we're starting to develop a schema of understanding that when we have primary movers like your quads and hamstrings when they're tight and short and restricted and stiff, how they impact range of motion. So for example, here's a quiz. If my anterior hip is tight in extension, where does the leg go? out. Boom. She knows that. So, what ends up happening is that when I'm in extension and these tissues are short, the leg turns out. Okay, that's a that's easy. When I squat and my leg is short, where does it go? Yeah. Boom. Okay. So, we understand this paradigm. We hammered it a lot. What we tend not to think about is what happens to the primary engine. These are the hamstrings sensibly of the upper body. So, when my tricep, long head particularly is tight. When I go overhead, where's it tend to go? Ah, there it is again. See what's up, Dr. Belger. No kidding. So, what ends up happening is that if I'm short in these restricted positions, then my I tend to dump that torque just like in the hip and just like in the lower extremity. I internally rotate and that puts me in a bad position. So, particularly if I'm snatching, removing a lot of connection and all of a sudden have to spontaneously arrive on tension. It's difficult for me to be able to buffer that mechanic the same way I would if I was pressing slowly. Right. Right. So, if I'm arriving on tension suddenly, boom, it's like I bounce off the wall instead of kind of going through the wall. And here's what we're going to work on. So, we've done a plenty of mobility wads about smashing. But I don't think we've ever done tricep smashing. And we should just show you that this is a nice iteration. The safe word is in effect, which is brisket. No, it's biscuit. No, I'm just kidding. It's brisket. International say word is brisket. Just messing with you. Go ahead and have it on your stomach and talk. So, look at this simple way to smash each other. Now, if we look simply, I've got an abn mat here underneath her arm. So, she just doesn't feel like she's in an uncomfortable shoulder position. If um we look at the amount of time that a good athlete will spend on her hips, on her hamstrings, on her quads, on these big muscles, and and sort of what's going on even at the shoulder, if we look at the the kind of commensurate amount of time being dealt with at the tricep, and in the bicep, not very much and certainly not a lot of smashing. Every once in a while we'll get on the the biceps or the triceps on the barbell and we'll go back and forth, but we probably typically don't add a lot of this. So, what we found is that come here. What we found is that we've had good success adding a little pressure this way. And how much pressure am I putting on here? No more than 8 lbs. No more than 8 lbs. That's an inside joke. It doesn't take a lot to be able to really smash down. Now what I'm trying to do is I'm not necessarily trying to affect the sliding surfaces of the fascia the way I would if I was tacking immobilizing or tacking and stretching or smashing stretching. I'm trying to work on that deep intramuscular the facasacle the bundle uh the kind of individual head of the tricep and she's making a funny face. What's going on? How's this feel to you? It feels really and this is how much pressure I'm putting on like very little pressure. But these tissues are very stiff. And coming from this direction, you can actually see some definitive clonings. If I come around the other side, we'll change direction here. And let me know what bone. Snap. What bone is that again? Oh, that's so ugly. Wait, that's not a bone. It's a tricep bone. There's no tricep bone. Brisket. Brisket. Right. And so what's happening is though is we can capture a much larger surface area, much more blunt force, and uh be cool. Before you go off and smash someone, remember they're going to smash you because I'm an expert in this. There's no way I would let her smash me. But so but in the rest of the world, that's how we keep this from getting out of control. One person smashes, one person's the smashy, and then you switch roles because that keeps things in check. Mutual annihilation. Would you agree? It's called SNM. I don't SNM. What are you talking about? Smash and mobilization. Is that what SNM stands for? Mobility wad. Alison Belger. So the test retest of course she puts her arm over her head. Go and do that. Let's see if that's better or worse. Better in what way? More more uh extension here. This is actually flexion. More more. Dr. Beldra, PhD mobility watt. We'll see you guys tomorrow.