 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected be tracking because if they can look at SAO2 and blood pressure, we can expand that and just say, hey, this is normal for everyone. Yeah. I think you're putting such an important and fine point on where these two worlds should and need to overlap is what is the data that we should be collecting that I love that you said it's observable, measurable, and repeatable, right? And it's not just kind of like a one-off or a weird claim, cortisol, spikes, or right, which is kind of like the marketing buzz terms that everybody's saying these days. And so when I first got to restore, one of the first things that I did is I looked at a lot of our intake forms and they were asking really good questions of our clients that were coming in. There was a health history forum. There were questions around, you know, lifestyle and diet and everything. And I said, well, where did you get these information? Or where did you get these questions from? And to their lovely, like amazing credit, all the nurses that I was working with was like, oh, well, we just made them up. And I was like, okay, cool, because A, you were first thinking about like, we need to actually capture this information on our clients because it's really important for them to be able to track themselves over time. But we can actually make this a little bit more sophisticated by bringing in some validated tools that are and have been shown to be observable, measurable and repeatable. And we know that they can then compare to the other science that's in the literature right now because they've been used by scientists and actually shown to measure what we think we're measuring. So I think that is one of the first things that we can do in the wellness space is start to integrate tools that actually make sense and have been tested to actually capture the information that people are trying to capture. And I will argue in a way that's actually comparable in different systems. So for example, if you think about the way that we are all tracking ourselves day to day with these wearables, if you were to wear an aura, a whoop and a Garmin, and you were to track your sleep, they all get pretty good and close within, you know, 20 minutes or so of how many minutes of sleep that you get in a night. But if you were to actually compare the sleep zones that they are measuring, none of them are measuring those zones correctly or repeatedly. So you can't compare your aura to your whoop and you can't compare your whoop to your Garmin. They're all measuring something totally different. And so if you were to look, for example, at your recovery score in the morning, which is what so many people are using, your whoop might tell you, hey, it's good to go. You're great today. You got all, you know, 90 minutes of deep sleep and your aura is like flashing red, like go take a nap. You're in the danger zone because it's measured that you've only gotten 40 minutes of deep sleep that night, right? And so this is something that I think is super important that you're getting at, Kelly, is we need to find a common diagnostic suite so that we understand, like, is this actually working? Is it working in the real world? And is it truly observable, measurable and repeatable so that we can see our trajectories over time? So that's something that I'm working on in every aspect of my life right now is I have a diagnostic set of tools that I have created and we're working on creating this big data set at Restore. And every single time I consult and talk with these other companies, I'm like, can we standardize the way that we are asking questions so that I can go out and say, oh, you're using an aura or you're using a whoop. Oh, I can see, like, yes, this is actually accurate information and you can trust that information as well so that you can track your changes over time. But that's not the way that the world is in the wellness space right now. What you just said just blew my mind and I'm like, yes, you know, that a true model and if we're trying to model human function, it has to be a you have to explain current phenomenon, you have to be able to predict future phenomenon. And this is it. You have to be able to communicate that information across platforms. Otherwise, it's not a model. What it sounds like is we don't have a unified model for the body because we're so diverse. You'll appreciate that I've had all of those devices and which one did you try to make you feel the best times I wear them at the same time. And and but then I will always like cast away the one that is giving me the worst scores and conclude that like that one is wrong. I mean, this is how like, you know, think of me as like your average user. And I'm like, well, my aura ring has been telling me I'm not doing well lately, but my garment has been saying I'm crushing it. So like, I'm not going to wear my or my aura. And then if my garment starts going downhill, I'm like, I better put my aura on tonight because it doesn't things don't look good for me. Who are you? Garment. I mean, you know, like this is never said this out loud. Yeah, I do that. I you know, I'm like, which one is going to be better for me and make me feel better about myself, which is totally insane, right? That's not data and it's not anything. So OK, so can I just tap in really quickly about like kind of like the alternative version of the health care, because I think it's really worth comparing these two worlds is when we think about the diagnostics that are on the health care suite, if you will, you know, let's look at blood, for example. There's a really standard panel of blood that you might get. It's, you know, your A1c, it's your fasting glucose, your triglycerides, your cholesterol markers, maybe some inflammatory markers. And here's where things get kind of problematic. I think on this side is you have a range of what's normal and what tends to happen in the health care interpretation of these diagnostics is as long as you're in the normal range, you're good. What they're also not doing for the most part, there are some physicians that are doing better at this is tracking change over time. I'll give you a really good example. So let's say you're 25 years old and you go and get your blood work done and your A1c, which is a measure of your glucose metabolism, is somewhere around 5.1, which is really good. It's very normal. And then you're 35 and you go to the doctor and now it's 5.3. Still normal. But still trending in the wrong direction. You go in your 45 and it's 5.6. You are borderline now for insulin resistance and eventually trending toward type two diabetes, but you're still in the green. And it's probably likely that you saw a different doctor at 25 to 35 to 45. And so that trend never gets caught. And now you go at 55 and your A1c is at 6. And oh, hey, now you've got a diagnosis when it probably could have been caught at age 35. And so this is a problem of using really traditional diagnostics is they're great. And they're great for cutting and creating thresholds for a diagnosis of a disease. But oftentimes what we don't see is this trend over time, which I think the wellness industry is getting better at, even if their tools are not yet refined enough to really capture. And let me give one more example. Juliet may or may not have had a traumatic birth and received 12 blood trends. Blood bags. Just call it a blood bag. But I remember distinctly where the physician's like, well, you're not that anemic. And you were at the very bottom number of the reference range. Yeah. Or like, and I was like, that has nothing to do with the fact that you're an athlete, you're a superstar. Like you had no ferritin. You had matricry was like, you know, that of someone who doesn't have blood.