 it was very difficult to get the attention of the folks at the leadership level of the Make America Healthy Again movement. And then we had some parallel research that was going on, again, looking at the brain mechanisms by which ultra-processed foods might drive excess calorie intake, in particular, looking at this neurotransmitter called dopamine, which is part of addictive processes. And the addictive drugs cause a very large increase in dopamine. And we happened to find that ultra-processed milkshakes, high in fat and sugar, didn't cause the same kind of dopamine response, which was part of this rhetoric that had been ongoing that ultra-processed foods are as addictive as crack cocaine or something like that, and we weren't finding that. And so shortly after the new administration came into office, and I'm still not having much luck getting the attention of the new folks to talk about our plans, we had this paper coming out, which was basically showing that ultra-processed foods might be addictive for some people, but on average, they're not giving the same sort of dopamine response in the brain as drugs, like cocaine or even cigarettes. And we kind of had some really odd pushback on that. I wasn't allowed to give talks at conferences and meetings on this topic, and I wasn't exactly sure what was going on with that. Maybe that was like a general thing, but then I saw some of my other colleagues were allowed to give talks and I wasn't. So it was kind of weird. And then we had this paper coming out, and we had a press release because we've been working on this study for like five years. And we had a press release ready to go, and that was like kill for no reason. And when a reporter actually wrote to us to interview me about this paper, she was denied an interview request. And the Health and Human Services Communications Director called the reporter and said, is this really a story about RFK Jr. because the results in this paper don't match his views on ultra-processed foods. And that was pretty chilling because it meant that the political leadership wasn't interested in allowing the public to hear about some of the science that was being generated at the NIH because it didn't mesh with their narrative about how ultra-processed foods work. And so I tried to get some clarity about what's really going on here. And eventually they allowed the interview, the written interview. So the reporter asked some questions. I wrote some responses in collaboration with my colleagues. And what was actually sent back to the reporter was edited and passed off as if I had written it. And it sort of downplayed the study and kind of changed some of the repris. It was like really bizarre. Crazy. Yeah, it was really nuts. And at that point, they were trying to get as many people to leave the federal employment as possible. And they'd set up an early retirement option, which I'd just qualified for. I'd been at the NIH, as you mentioned, for over 20 years. And they lowered the full retirement age to 50. I was 54 at the time. So I'm like, well, I'm going to write to RFK Jr. and the NIH director and several of the senior staff and say, look, here's what we're experiencing. This is the work that we're doing. We're sort of at the forefront of trying to understand diet-related chronic disease and why people overeat ultra-processed foods. We're making all this progress. Here's a proposal that I've been working on to kind of expand this kind of nutrition research for folks across the country. But here's what we've experienced, kind of the censorship and this misrepresentation of our findings to a reporter at the New York Times. And we're also now experiencing we can't even buy food for our research subjects because they cut the credit card limit of many of the purchasing staff at the NIH to $1. And so we had all of these kind of crazy things that were going on. And our scientific leadership was saying, yeah, things are going to get really rough. And in some aspects, they continue to be rough for my colleagues who remained at the NIH. And I said, look, if this is going to continue this way, I'm probably going to hate my job. I'm not going to be able to communicate our results anymore. I might as well take early retirement and keep health insurance for my family because otherwise, if I quit a year from now, I'm going to lose my health insurance. But I'd love to sit down and have a meeting and talk about these things. And I got no response. This was weeks. And so I started to wind down my lab. And I heard that people had circulated my email because a colleague of mine wrote and said, hey, are you really going to retire? I saw your email. I'm like, that's weird. I didn't send it to you. I said, no, no. It was circulated. People read it, but I guess they didn't decide they wanted to respond. So the date came for the last day to qualify for early retirement. And I basically submitted my paperwork and handed in my badge and basically quit. So the next day, the NIH director wanted to talk to me after there was some media kerfuffle about this. And I went in and chatted with him and told him what had happened and was raising the question of, we're in a state that was actually the same day that we heard there was going to be a 40% budget cut request from the president to the NIH budget. And that they were going to restructure several of the institutes. And I said, look, wouldn't it be great to actually build something? Because we see all this destruction going on in the scientific community and the biomedical research community. This proposal that we put together to improve nutrition science, if this really is something that you guys are interested in doing, would not be something worthwhile building. And he said, yeah, I'd like to work on this with you. And he shook my hand and he said, welcome back. And I said, I don't have anything to go back to. My lab is closed. But if you're really seriously interested in working on this, let's figure out a way that we could do it. And so for the next several weeks, I worked with the Office of Nutrition Research director and the Interim Rural Deputy Director to kind of put this together. And then out of the clear blue sky, that was killed for unknown reasons. So it seemed to me like this administration is very, they're disinterested in the actual science. And my view has become because science can only complicate a narrative. It only introduces uncertainty sometimes, right? And you kind of get, the knowledge progresses forward and you need this knowledge to kind of make the best changes to your policies or diet or something like that. But if it complicates the narrative, that can be politically problematic. And so my view from my experience as well as kind of viewing from afar what's happened with a walling off career scientist from talking with a briefing, the CDC, the former CDC director, for example, wasn't allowed to talk to career scientists because while the science can only complicate the issues. I just worry that despite all this political momentum and this public interest in improving nutrition and diet related chronic disease that we're not investing in the science and we're actually, the political aspects and leadership of this movement is actively disinterested in the science. Thank you.