Welcome back to the mobility project. Here's what's on my mind. Last couple days at the clinic, I have been seeing athletes who have had some foot problems, some downstream foot problems like planter fascitis, junky heel cords, even a bunion where the toe basically does this, the big toe. And I've also seen some athletes with knee pain who all have the same thing in common. Tight heel cords, tight posterior lower leg. So, we kind of we don't think about it typically as, hey, I have tight calves. Oh, that affects why my heel cord's under such high tension, why I'm having a tension injury there, or why I'm I'm even running. I have can't get into a good position with dorsif flexion. So, I break so I can roll over. And this is one of the reasons we see people have tight heel cords end up walking a little bit out. It's how they compensate and go around that problem. Does that sound like anyone you might know turned out and uh walking around on the heel cord. So, it's one of the mechanisms. Also, when we see a lot of knee pain, remember that that calf is one of the things you just take off the table because that calf is responsible for controlling the foot and extending the knee simultaneously. So, here's what we're going to do today. We're going to take those things off. We're going to focus on two things, big ideas. We're just going to smash the be Jesus out of your calves. All right. So, here's what's up. This came from uh uh one of our friend athletes who did some creative thinking. loads up the band on his foot, gets a little pressure through the leg, which I like, and then he used the bar to kind of work on this myofascial release stuff. Remember, this is about how to kind of recreate sliding surfaces. I can be working on some trigger point stuff here. It's changing the the muscle uh bone, skin interface. Doesn't matter. All those things are correct. So, here's the key is that I can lean forward and then I can get some pressure and use the barbell to basically roll up my leg. The further I go back, oh, I can even add a little movement if I want. But this kind of solves how I'm going to load up the foot. If I'm a massochist, I could definitely crazy horseeye uh roll that up with a little bit more pressure. I can go laterally, side to side, clearing sections as I went. I can find an ugly tack down spot and pull past. That works well, too. But what I want you to do is go five minutes playing on this one side. Five minutes on the other side. And then we're going to finish that up. And if you don't have a band, just this leg will work just like this. But being able to have that little tiny control and working that up is really horrific. All the way. And when you find a tight band, remember you need to stay on there until you make change. Then once we're done that, roll that barbell out of the way. Let's go for classic good old fashion. Foot up on the wall. Here's what I want you to do. You've got to squeeze your butt first. If you're This is what we think is happening, what we most athletes are broken here. Squeeze your butt and see what the truth is when your ball bottle of your foot is up on the wall and then hang out into those corners. If you want to add the distraction with the band pulling you in the other direction and then roll that up on the foot, that's fair game, too. I think this is a really great calf stretch. And then let's go ahead and do a good bat of contract. Relax. 5 seconds on, 10 seconds off. And then your test retest today. I've just been doing my right foot. And look at the difference. You see how much further I can collapse forward. This gives me options that if I miss forward my I don't lose connection to my heels. I can maintain a better position. It gives me a lot more room. That's your test retest. Improve your bottom position. Heavy Olympic lifting is what we love. Better running, faster running. Ungloo yourself. We'll see you tomorrow.