 aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin live in a sterile bubble. Everyone I know becomes foot obsessed at some point in their movement career. Why is that? One, I see that as well. And the irony with that is that I find physios and chiros who get into feet are way more obsessed and fascinated with feet than podiatrists. So this episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Laird Superfood. And today we want to talk about the amazing protein creamer that you and I have been enjoying literally. Vibing on. We're vibing on it very hard. So a couple things. People are pretty particular about their coffee. I think if you can get some more micronutrients in your coffee and some healthy fats, especially if you're not a breakfast person, that's a total win. You can almost be like, okay, I'm fed. I'm doing something. I personally like the Laird Superfood creamer as a part of my pre-workout because I've gotten some fats, some, it's tasty. Coffee is the best pre-workout ever, but guess what? They've added protein. Which I don't know about you. In fact, I do know about you because we're married. You have to do a lot of work to actually eat enough protein. I mean, we're always shooting for like 0.8 to one gram per pound of body weight and we're not small. We have to eat more food. We're not small people. So it actually amounts to quite a bit of protein. So we'll take any extra protein that we can get, but not at the expense of flavor, which is really important because I don't think I would ruin a good cup of coffee with like protein powder. But one of the things that's so nice about this is it actually mixes in so well. You don't really even know there's protein powder. Correct. I'll also say that sometimes I'm a little underfed and behind. I need to train. So if I'm trying to get my coffee in 30 minutes before, it's like my pre-workout. This means that I have some calories and some amino acids on board. So I'm running in pretty fed. And honestly, I mean, you could eat a peanut butter and jelly sandwich and then have some caffeine tablets, or you could have this hot coffee that is so delicious. Also the Slurpee version of it. You can't beat it. It's amazing. This stuff is sweet and creamy and has a bunch of awesome stuff that is going to make you more awesome at life and feel better in your training. And for us, it's just such a lovely way to start the day. Last thing I'll say about it, it is the perfect hack when you're on the road and you can get some crappy coffee, a good coffee if you can, but it leans like, Hey, I've had this good breakfast. I've got some essential fats and some protein. And for my friends who don't like breakfast, that's what I recommend. I'm like, have a good flat, have some protein. You're going to be set. It meets those needs, checks all those boxes. True fact. If you want to learn more, go to layered superfood.com slash TRS and use code TRS20 for 20% off and free shipping. Dr. Emily Spiegel, welcome to the Race 8 Podcast. We're so excited to talk all things brain, but via the feet with you today. Yeah. Thank you so much. I'm excited to talk to both of you. Now, I just, let me jump in and say that I have been a fan of your work and have been using your methodology on myself for a long time. There's a phenomenon as a physio that we see physical therapists and ultimately all coaches. You either start at the pelvis or you start at the feet, but eventually you get to the pelvis or the feet and everyone I know becomes foot obsessed at some point in their movement career. Why is that? I mean, one, I see that as well. And the irony with that is that I find physios and chiros who get into feet are way more obsessed and fascinated with feet than podiatrists. So I wish, I wish that we carried that passion and that excitement. I do, but maybe some of my colleagues don't. Um, but yeah, I mean, our feet are obviously ridiculously important to posture, to movement, to our awareness of the ground, um, to every step that we're taking. If you're talking athletics, it's about timing of stabilization, perception of the ground, activation of the glutes. So everything is really, really tied to our relationship with the ground. And then if you want to go even further, it could be how you feel grounded and anchored affects your emotion, right? Your safety awareness, just your self-confidence. So your feet are really, really powerful. So thank you both for being obsessed with the feet. Well, and I would like to say that, um, Kelly has broken the internet twice. Um, I mean, maybe it's been like four times, but the first time was way back in the day when he suggested that people do not wear flip-flops, which literally like exploded the internet and all Hawaiians unfollowed the ready state, I think. And then look at the foot expert nodding. The other thing that really tweaks people is in our book, Ready to Run, which is like way back from 2015. One of the things that Kelly and his co-writer TJ suggested is that people walk around barefoot. And this also like blew up the internet. People are like, what, how, you know, how can I, I can't walk barefoot. Why do you think those two things, which I think probably among the three of us don't seem like such a huge deal, but sort of like blew people's minds, at least on the internet. Yeah. I mean, I can talk about flip-flops first, if you would like that, because I love talking about shoes and just how they affect the gait cycle. Everything is that, that it's how does this pair of shoes that I'm putting on affect my posture and my ability to walk and walk the right way. Flip-flops are not connected to your foot. I don't care that they're flat. That actually, that doesn't bother me that they're flat. It's more that they're not connected to your foot. So every time you go to take a step, you will either step out of the shoe, or you're going to do something to keep the shoe on your foot. And people will either grab it and grip it. And I'm sure this is part of what Kelly was trying to say when he had done it, that you'll kind of contract and hold the shoe as you step forward. Or a common one that I see is that people do what I call flip-flop foot. And I used to see this all the time in New York City, because it was just, you get to observe people walking all day as they would like egg beater their leg around. I call that flip-flop foot where they're circumducting at the knee joint and they're kind of walking like this, which creates a lot of lateral line, lateral gastroc imbalances. Or the high schoolers are very into this. I'm in Arizona now and everyone's into Crocs. I don't know if that's in the rest of the world, but they slide and they just shuffle their feet. It's just like that. Oh, we'll solve that problem. Yeah. I mean, I can't wait because it's one of those things, once you see it, once you can't unsee it. And I feel like now that you've described this egg beater style of walking with flip-flops on, I'm going to start to, especially we're going into summer, I'm going to start to see it everywhere and not be able to unsee it. Look, I went to physio school and there was a podiatry school and I spent a lot of time with those young doctors studying. I spent a lot of time in the anatomy lab with them. There was a lot of talk about surgery and a lot of education that I witnessed for over nine semesters of how to take care of feet once they were traumatized, once they had adapted, once they stopped being sort of this dynamic insane system. How is it that you end up here kind of talking about foot health and all of the potential upstream implications of that when you originally your training is sort of, let's kill, I'm going to just go on record as saying car mechanic. And I know the feet are not, body's not a car system, but that's a lot of what, right. Surgeon. Yeah. I mean, the number of foot surgeries we saw, the crazy orthotics, the, I mean, it was almost like, you know, there's, we, we just wait till people have feet that they can no longer walk on. And then we're like, okay, let's, let's activate the emergency medical system. How do you get to where you're at right now and into this thing? And where are you at? Yeah. Yeah. A hundred percent. And that, that is a great question of one that I always explain so that people don't, excuse my French, but like shit on the podiatrist a little bit because we're, we are taught a certain way, which every profession is taught a certain way. Podiatry is very much based around surgery. Now it used to not be. And then as the scope of the profession expanded, it is now required to do a three year surgical residency out of school, which means you are taught to be surgeons. You are taught to look at pathology that comes into the office or feet that come into the office and say, I'm thinking, I'm thinking, or I know a surgery that can fix it. So it's, it's kind of not the fault of the individual. It's just, what are the tools in their toolbox that they are given through school? And unfortunately it is almost entirely surgical based, or I'm given orthotics and supportive shoes, or you do a prescription or physio. Cause you don't know what, what to do from an exercise perspective. You're like, I don't know, I'll go to physical therapy and hopefully they can fix it. So it's, it's really what we are taught. Now I don't practice that way. I consider myself a functional podiatrist. And why I think I started to push into functional podiatry is that I started in fitness. I started as an athlete, which I think is important to have some basis of movement. And then I was in fitness the whole time through podiatry school. So I was able to go back to the gym and reinforce what I was learning from a fitness perspective and kind of seeing how it mixed with what I was learning from a podiatry perspective. And then I was able to start saying, no, that's not the full story, right? That if someone has plantar fasciitis, the only stretch that we were taught to give is put your hands against the wall and drop your heel. And I'm like, there are so many other options. Why is that the only one that people are saying? So you can start to kind of push into and challenge. I think the other part of it is there's not a lot of good billing that you can do from a health insurance perspective under preventive medicine, right? To be like, the only thing that I can bill is 99203, like an initial visit. And then like, poof, that's it. Like, how do I get other money out of this patient? And that's not how I, how I practice. I'm actually not under health insurance. But I think that's a lot of why it is unfortunately how it is. So with your 20 or more years in, you know, fitness and medicine, what do you think the blind spots are in each of these disciplines around foot function? Yeah. So I think that a lot of people, when they look at the feet in the fitness industry, it's definitely more expanded, obviously physical therapy, chiropractic, allied health. And then podiatry is that most people think about the foot as like just the tip of the iceberg. They get into minimal shoes, they understand, okay, shoes have an effect. So I need to be wearing one of these different minimal shoe brands that are on the market and check, I've done what I need to do. That's right. And I engaged with a health practice. I bought new shoes. Yes. Yes. And like, I, I prioritize foot health because I wear minimal shoes. And that's the only thing that I do. To me, that's, that's an awesome first step. But how do you take it even further by understanding how to wake up the muscles, how to stimulate the circulation, how to get into the nerves, how to activate your toes, how to get your feet to connect to your pelvic floor, because that's how it does, how to tap into your diaphragm and your tongue and these different fascia lines. So it's, it's a start, but I think there's so much more that needs to be dove into or dived into, but the foot is very complicated. And that, that I definitely established when I do my workshops and my trainings. And I was like, if all you get out of this training or this day or this hour with me is like props to the foot, that is, that is. Right. I mean, the foot is important. I remember, you know, we'll talk, I want to talk about Neboso. Originally, the first time I sort of became aware of you and your work, I just discovered an insole that you made. Could you, could you just describe it? Because I didn't know you and I purchased these insoles because I was like, this is a great idea. Tell me what the original Neboso insole was. And then we'll, we'll go from there. Can you, can you explain that for everyone? Yes. And thank you for being intrigued in the purchase. I'm so obsessed. Yes. I, I, I gather that. Yes. So Neboso is a sensory based product line that I developed over five years ago. All of the products are covered with a little tiny pyramids or triangles that create a texture that is stimulating a very specific nerve in the bottom of the feet and technically the palm of the hand. For listeners, it's like the braille nerve. That's what we're stimulating. The same nerve that your hand uses to read braille. We are stimulating that in the feet. And the first product, the first, first product was actually a mat. So it was a barefoot training mat that all these people were taking their shoes off 2011, 12, 13, like those early teens, kind of that, that era. And so everyone was into taking their shoes off, but I started to say, well, when you take your shoes off, what do you stand on? Like we've got to push this even further because surfaces affect the way that your foot is stimulated and activated. And that led to the evolution of the mat, which then our second product were insoles. So the insoles are flat and flexible, covered in these little tiny pyramids that are 1.5 millimeters tall. So they're small and they go into a shoe, onto an arch support, into any athletic shoe to stimulate the nerves. Fast forward, we now have over 40 products that. So I go ahead. Well, let me just, um, maybe go to like a high school explanation. Like why is it helpful to stimulate the nerves in the foot? Yeah. Thank you. Sometimes my brain is way over here. Um, so our feet, as I mentioned earlier, are our body's foundation, right? They, they are our structures base. Mechanically, you could think of it, right? That if your foot is flat, if your foot is not strong, if your foot is not stable, the rest of the structure above will not be stable. That's a biomechanical perspective. From a sensory perspective, because there's thousands of nerves in the bottom of the feet and the only contact point between the body and the ground is the skin on your feet. It plays an important role in balance and posture and foot strength and how you relate to the surfaces. So it's really, really important for human movement. If you want to deviate a little bit, athletic performance, deviate a little bit over here, neuro rehab, fall reduction, active aging, kind of that space. And then you also have pediatrics and children on this side, like learning and autism and attention and all of that is over here. So there's different buckets on where you could think of it. The, I remember seeing a picture of a homunculus, which is the sensory map of the brain and how much sort of brain real estate is given to different parts of the body, lips, tongue, huge hands, genitalia. But it's shocking to see how much of your brain is organized and thinking about what's going on with the feet. Am I right there? A hundred percent. Right. That, that is why when I work with people, children, athletes, people who had a stroke or neuro rehab, I am always thinking about the hands and the feet where I'm like, you have to stimulate this touch. And when I teach people who work with people who have MS, Parkinson's stroke, et cetera, and they're doing an exercise, I'm like, for goodness sake, put something in their hand. There should always be something in their hand. Is it textured? Is it vibrating? Is it slightly weighted? But you have to access these nerves. And then obviously those nerves, why get their shoes off, stand on certain surfaces, but it's, it's one of the most powerful ways to stimulate the brain. And that's how we kind of started the podcast is by saying, we're talking about the gateway to the brain as being the feet. And I'll throw the hand in there too. Amazing. So on this brain topic, I know that there is research about plantar sensory stimulation and neuroplasticity and that it can have applications. So just break that down, everyone. Being able to feel through your foot, right? And how flexible your brain can change, how it's capable of remodeling. Right. And it has specific applications in aging populations and even in post-concussion rehab. And those two, I think are really interesting to me because we, in our Star Out System program, work with a sort of aging population who are trying to get fit. And then we also work with a lot of athletes, including my best friend, Rebecca Rush, who has, you know, who have suffered concussions and have been very public about the challenges of recovering from that. So I don't know if you could talk a little bit about the, is that correct? Do they, are there applications there and what does that mean? Yeah, absolutely. So that I'm going to put under the neuro rehab, concussion, Parkinson's, stroke, neuropathies, anything in like brain health, brain longevity, right? Is stimulating the sensory system. This is not just the feet, but the feet are very powerful and that is often overlooked. Your feet, if you sequence it and stack the stimulation, stack the stimulation of your feet with your hands, with your eyes, with your ears, and with your joints. I'll give you a really quick example is that you could do your exercises or your rehab on a nebosomat barefoot. So you have texture, but to get a little bit more of the proprioceptors, which is a different kind of nerve, I'm going to have you put kinesiology tape around your ankle, just even like a U-strap up the side of the ankle. So you're just stimulating nerve endings there, right? We could do compression. I love compression. So compression apparel, weighted apparel. I'm now activating more of the system while we're doing these exercises. I'm going to have the neboso sensory sticks in the hands or a hand kit, which are stimulating kind of squishy balls. I'm going to stimulate the vestibular. I'm going to stimulate through, I'd stimulate the vestibular or the ears through like rhythm or sound. I would have very specific rhythm that they would be listening to as they're doing their exercises. And they would do the exercises at the beat of the music so they can stack it. And then we'll do something with the eyes. So this concept is called sensory stacking, sensory integration, or you're just saying like, Hey, what are the different sensory systems in the body? How do I put them all together and stimulate them at once? Right. And then for your question, the feet are really, really powerful way to do that. Fascinating. We're, if I'm being dilly honest, a lot of the people that I've seen, their bodies are shut down. They don't feel a lot. We, we're not cold. We're not hot. We're not uncomfortable. We're not on different surfaces. And the feet are the worst. We were just in the airport and I'm, I'm a jerk. I understand. Lisa's nodding her head. Um, I saw an elderly gentleman in these amazing hokas, very good looking shoe, very handsome, very slimming. And I didn't slimming because the shoe is so big that makes your calf look, makes your calf look super small. You got, that's the supply. You look like you have a peony stem of an ankle. And the reason I filmed his feet for 30 seconds, not his body. It wasn't making fun was I was watching him trying to just balance in this shoe. And the, and if I was trying to give him an exercise where he was unstable and constantly he was at the limits of his support. Well, he was trying to like reach down into his backpack or something. Holy moly. Yeah. It was really weird. What has happened where we're putting, or we're choosing to put people who are already, sometimes they'll get a lot of sensory motor information. Now we're putting in this shoe, which further insulates them from the ground. Yeah. They're like, so your foot is like six feet away from the ground. It's like a coffin, a foot coffin, right? It's six feet away. So forget just the squishiness, but what are we doing when that happens? I want everyone to hear this because I was at the American Physical Therapy Association annual convention and Hoka is there and Hoka, look, you want a technical running shoe so you can go run thousands of miles. You do what you need to do, but this, I have fear is not good for us. Am I right in that understanding? Yes. A hundred percent, a hundred percent. And you, uh, the listeners could see my face when you're a swiper, but I am just like appalled or scared that he is going to fall from something like that. So what a lot of these like super shoes or maximal shoes now have is they, they obviously have a lot of cushion. The cushion has taken away the sensory information from the feet or from the feet and from the ground. We need to feel that to control posture and balance, but then you're right. It's a stack. So the height that you are actually elevated off of the ground when you are already older and there is a known age related decline in the sensitivity and the awareness of the feet compound that by adding cushion and adding stack rigidity to the shoes. So there's just no toe dexterity, et cetera. So all of these shoes are a great contributor. There is a researcher. The listeners are curious to learn more about it. His name is Dr. Stephen Robbins. And his website is, is his name. And he essentially dedicated his career to study the impact of shoes, mid soles, cushions. So just all the features and the hardness or the softness of shoes on older individuals and perception, balance, gait, fall risk, et cetera. So he has a lot of data behind that. So it's known. What I will say for Hoka, not that I'm defending Hoka, but what I like about Hoka that is potentially an advantage, but could we get it in a more minimal shoe is the rocker. So it does have a carbon fiber rocker that from a podiatry perspective is great for people with helix limitus or no range of motion or limited range of motion in the big toe, or who have issues under the second. They have neuromas. They have these four foot issues that cause them to have pain every time they push off and take a step. Or if they're having a hard time finding a longer step. So step length influences walking speed, which is important. There's another shoe called an MBT, MBT. And I think it was called Mosaic Barefoot Technology. It's still around. And that stack, if the listeners Google it, is even higher than the Hoka. And it has a rocker though, which is nice, but a stack that just freaks me out. So I'm very much of an advocate of barefoot baby boomers or minimal shoes, more minimal shoes for the aging population. Julie and I are battling. Go ahead. You ask the question. I think I have two questions here, but to me, the use case of these shoes, because we're around, like we're both 52, 51. But that's sort of the age group of people that we're hanging around with. And I see that there's a use case for some of those people who are trying to hang on to like running, for example. And the only way that they can run is to run in these shoes. And that's a whole different conversation. But to me, maybe that's a good use case for the shoes. But what we see is everybody around Marin County, where we live, is just wearing these shoes around everywhere. Yeah. And so let's just say maybe they're a very specialized use case for like you're 55 and you want to continue running. And it's the only way you can run without pain. Okay, fine. Check. But what are the potential, like future downstream impacts for people in the 40, 50 age range who are wearing these shoes around a lot of the time? What are the potential impacts? Like what could you say to scare those people away from wanting to like wear those shoes to Trader Joe's? Yeah. So there is research that shows chronic use, long-term frequent use of supportive shoes. Hoka would be considered supportive with lots of cushion, lots of stack and or arch supports like custom orthotics, et cetera, causing an atrophy, a weakening and a denervation of your foot muscles, the 26 muscles in the bottom of the foot, the intrinsics from using things like that. So you become actually a little bit dependent on the shoe to then navigate the impact. That's really the biggest part. You're also figuring out how to move with like half the information that you need to actually create proper movement, right? Like you will still figure out how to move in the Hoka's and just like people with neuropathy. They figure out how to move and walk, but are they moving well? Are they moving confidently? Right? So we definitely want to be thinking about our foot health, our foot awareness, our movement quality now, 40s, 50s, 60s, right? Because it's not something that you can reactively reverse. Like it doesn't, it's like waking up in your 70s and like, oh, whoops, now I'm going to go get Botox on my whole face. Like it just doesn't work. I take care of stuff earlier. Yeah. I mean, it seems like, you know, there's so many conversations now on the internet about this sort of inevitable loss of bone and inevitable loss of muscle. And, you know, maybe even we don't think inevitable loss of mobility as you age. And so people, I think are paying a lot more attention to try to hang on to those things. And, you know, it sounds like retaining your foot function and paying attention to it in these earlier decades is really critical to, you know, sort of protecting your body as you age and sort of should have that same level of attention as these other things, which are also getting so much attention. So with that, and I'll come back to my other question, what do you recommend for people? There's something that's going to happen. People are going to listen to this and they're like, I'm very interested in not falling. I'm very interested in higher performance. We've talked about balance and foot strength and mobilizing the feet. We've been doing this for as long as we can possibly imagine. There's a definitely a use case, of course, for orthotics when people have pain and can't mobilize there, they have degenerative changes or bony structure changes that we have all of these tools so we can keep people engaged in the world. And I want to just point out that out there. I have seen enough, we'll just say really amazing feet that have adapted to very strange environments that with right support plus exercise intervention really allow people to continue to live their lives and not just be disabled. Cause it really, you could be disabled, you know, break a toe and suddenly you really realize how important your toes are. But there's gotta be some things that I can do day to day that also doesn't just shut me out from exercising or playing. Like I don't, to be honest, I don't think I have an hour to work on my feet every day. So as the expert in sensory innervation of foot health, where do I begin to, to untangle the seemingly Gordian knot of foot function? What should I do? This episode of the ready state podcast is brought to you by momentous. You know, we're talking about today. We're talking about the pill pile, the star at stack, the pill pile. You are notoriously terrible at taking vitamins and supplements, taking vitamins and supplements. You handle all the other aspects of my life, except taking the pills. It's my, it's my one thing that I can do. It's true. So the star at stack is you need to, we try to get you on enough protein, definitely enough protein. We, I think you should, every human being, especially adults are not getting enough high quality. Omega is probably not teenagers either. You take an Omega and it cannot be a crappy fish oil. It needs a high quality Omega. Really? If you're going to take it, it needs to be high quality. Otherwise it's not worth it. Creatine. Yep. Right. You, you actually believe it or not, do a good job of mixing it in with your aminos in the morning before you work out. I do a great job, but I have to put it in my kids. And I think also the research just continues to pile on about this particular supplement creatine, that it is pretty much healthy with no side effects for basically everyone, including kids. The research coming out around cognitive decline is insane. Yeah. So right now we're looking at protein, get enough. We're looking at omegas, we're looking at creatine. And then we add two more things to our stack. Number one, vitamin D, vitamin D, because it's so easy. And the last one is magnesium, which I need to do a better job of bringing it to. Yeah. I mean, I'm at about 50, 50 right now. I'm taking it because I need you to make it into a pile for me. You may handle taxes and a hundred other things. Lisa, are you good with us? But magnesium, not so good at. I'm not so good at magnesium. But it's, it's, it's on me. So if you don't pay the taxes, don't blame me. If you don't get magnesium, blame me. But I mean, I will say that, uh, I noticed a difference when I take it regularly in my sleep and, um, training hard. You just need it. Training hard recovery. You name it. That is the stack. I really like I'll live and die. It's so simple. And I go so far as people are like, I don't take supplements. I'm like, those aren't supplements. Those are foods and essential aspects of your nutrition that I don't think I cover enough. Yeah. And I think that's pretty much the reality for everyone. I mean, the ideal of course, is that we eat real food, but we're all living these busy lives. Oh, we know how much fruit and vegetables you're not eating people. Unless you are, you know, can do this full time or don't have a job or whatever. There's, you know, there's very few people who have enough time to be perfect about their nutrition. We're just covering the bases. Yeah. And so this, this stack is just star hats covering the bases. And obviously I would have a one man attack on the sun if I could, but I need the vitamin D if I can. You still need the vitamin D. Check out our stack. Check out momentous stack. Go to live momentous.com slash TRS and use code TRS and save up to 35% a check. This episode of the ready state podcast is brought to you by element. We are going to hammer on one of the greatest things that's ever happened to us besides maybe and or star Wars is sparkling element. It is so look, you and I are gen Xers. There may be a certain diet soda that we really love and try not to drink. Are you talking about Fresca? Also Fresca, but what's nice about the sparking element is that it's so good. It's so refreshing. Hey, I've been reaching for it at four o'clock when I feel like I need a bump when I want the coffee. I'm like, no, I'm gonna have a sparking element. Yeah. Two, when it's hot, I come back after biking burned, a sparking element. Yeah. And I would say three sauna because you and I do love to do a bit of sauna in our life and actually bringing an ice cold sparkling element into the sauna is gold. What's amazing about that is it's pushed out a bunch of high calorie. We didn't drink a lot of calories, but pushed out a lot of beverages that are probably not great for my gen X self, right? Diet Coke, you know who I'm talking about. And what's nice is I've been able to replace that need for that first crispy sip. You know what I mean? You take a sip and it hits. I get the same hit. It's like a party in your mouth. Yeah. It is definitely a party in my mouth. You know, the other thing, and this is controversial. Our children oftentimes have a sparking element and they leave it around like a dead soldier. That is one of the saddest things that can ever happen. It's like 10 times worse than a regular fizzy water dead soldier. I will tell you though, that the flat sparkling element is still delicious because I'm like, Oh, I'm not. Are you just telling yourself that? Cause you can't, no, no, no, no, no. I am not letting it go. Sparkling element is the drink of the summer. It is so delicious. If you like element, invest in some sparking element. I'm telling you, it's a game changer. And one last thing, they have this amazing flavor, black cherry, which is my personal favorite. Um, that is not a flavor that you see in the normal element lineup. So it's just like a nice little extra that you get to enjoy. I took a couple of cases to our end of season college water polo party and there were some other drinks in there. No one drank those. No one drank those. The women were like sparkling element. Yes. So, uh, you know, it's pretty amazing. It's good stuff. You guys right now, if you want to order through our link, you can get a free sample pack of elements, most popular drink flavors. And if you want to party in your mouth, try sparkling, go to drink lmnt.com slash TRS set. We literally drink it. Yes. And that is a perfect question because I have a five minute program that people can do every day, every morning. So what I tell people to do, and this is literally every human, if you have feet and a pulse, this pertains to you, right? But if you're really thinking about- I actually know some people who don't have a pulse, but they're in your feet. Right. Because if you're thinking about, okay, let me prioritize, prioritize this now, forties, fifties, right? For it, any age, you work out, you run, I don't care what it is. This is important for everyone as an adult for their foot health. When you wake up in the morning is to do a two minute foot release. I will advocate the, the Neboso Nero ball is, which is over here that you take it. It splits into two pieces, stand on the two domes, five points, 20 seconds. It takes two minutes to do it. Great. Okay. Step off of it. This is still in the morning. You're brushing your teeth, right? We do this when you brush your teeth, boom, you're there, you're still in front of your bathroom sink is to do a few movements like this of the foot. So you would just stand, lift your toes, spread them out as wide as you can, and just roll a little bit to the outside inside. You're just kind of waking up the foot and the ankle. You're going to stay centered, stand nice and tall, stiff as a board, and you're going to do what's called a forward lean. You will imagine that you were stiff as a board. You will lean forward slightly, bring it back, lean forward. Every time you lean forward, your toes are going to reflexively activate into the ground. It's a postural reflex. Five to eight times, exhale every time you come forward. Great. You're still standing with your feet shoulder with the part. You're now going to grip the ground or connect the ground with your toes without leaning. Hold it there, shift your weight to one leg and balance on one leg for 10 seconds. When you put down, do it on the other side. So you're going to do a 10 second balance three times on each side. You are then going to reach down, take the ball, close it, put it between your heels, and you're going to do 10 repetitions of heel raises, squeezing the ball between your heel. And that's it. So what you're doing through this is you are waking up the nerve endings because of the texture and the pinpoint pressure. You are waking up circulation. You are waking up the 26 muscles. You are activating your toes, which is how you maintain balance. Your toes connect to your diaphragm and technically your pelvic floor, but we're going to connect it to the diaphragm through the leans. We are going to activate single leg stability because that is necessary for walking. So you're doing that through the single leg stances. And then the ball between the heel at the end is waking up what's called the rigid lever. So the lever is the position of the foot that we use to take a step forward. It is one of the most important positions your foot can create. And you are essentially doing this as a way to wake up. It gets you ready for gravity. She just snuck in one last mechanism just right there. I'm assuming a description of this program is also somewhere on the internet, which we will link to in the show notes because I think a lot of people want to do this and be able to visually see it. So we'll definitely have that in the show notes. So next question, we've touched on this a little bit, both of these subjects. I'm hoping you can elaborate. And the first is about flat feet. I have been to a ton of Kelly Starrett seminars where he has called out someone in the audience that he sees that has flat feet. And he just teaches them how to pick up their foot arch and says, actually, you don't have flat feet. You have weak feet. And that... Or lazy feet. Or lazy feet. But there are so many people who have like truly flat feet. Is that a correctable or flat feet? Is it a correctable problem? Is it really a strength or weakness thing? If you're genetically born with super flat feet, like, do you just need to manage that? So flat feet is one. And then sort of connected to that is, you know, what is your take on orthotics? Because my dear friend, Lee, I'm going to call her out on this podcast, was having massive amounts of foot problems. She had an old set of orthotics. She was really struggling. She was trying to mobilize and do a lot of different things. And then she just went to her podiatrist and got a new set of updated orthotics. And she basically was cured. And so I, in my mind, as she was telling me this story, I was thinking, Kelly's not a fan of orthotics, but I'm not going to say this out loud because it seemed to really work for her. Yeah. And I'm sure she's not alone. So I guess that's sort of a two-part question. But flat feet, you know, are you doomed if you have flat feet? Are they fixable? Is it genetic? And what's the real deal on orthotics? Yeah. So I'm going to answer the flat foot question like a politician and say, it depends. So the flat foot debate or type or support, no support, weak, strength, all of that is really based off of, I have a flow chart that I teach people about different foot types. And I have a YouTube lecture on this, but I'm going to go into the one that's called flexible flat foot, which is what it sounds like you're describing. Flexible flat feet are feet that when you are sitting in a chair or in a bed and you look at your foot non-weight bearer and you're like, I have a beautiful arch. And then you stand up and it goes, boom, it drops, right? There are two main ways to differentiate that. The first one will be something with the muscles that we need to wake up the muscles that support the feet, the intrinsics, the post-tip, the glute, which controls the foot, right? It's all connected. The other type actually has an element of ligament laxity. What differentiates this is where the unlock or the pronation is happening. People who have ligament laxity, who most likely respond positively to orthotics. So I'd be curious about your friend Lee's foot. It is more in the midfoot, which means the bones of the midfoot, more towards the navicular and the cuneiform over that way are where the laxity or the drop and the unlocking is happening. When it's a little bit more in the back of the foot, like the heel and what the heel's doing, that is a little bit more strength. Now for every patient with flat feet, even if I recommend orthotics, I am always giving them exercises. Always. I want to expand on that because that really is what the missing problem. We take a pill, we get an orthotic, puts the foot into a better position, supports the foot. Now I'm cured and I don't solve or improve functionality of the system. The root problem. Well, and we might not be able to, but we can always improve the function of the foot. And I just want to highlight that for everyone who's living in orthotics. Yes. There is the 50% of that conversation is we've got to do something for the feet. It's like, it's like if you're going to take a GLP-1, you have to strength train. That's right. It's the same thing. If you're going to wear an orthotic, you've got to do some foot health. Yes. A hundred percent. So yes, it's not a magic insert. I used to practice on Wall Street and I know that I would have these like super busy kind of frenetic C-suite finance guys. Right. And I was literally like, I, here's your magic insert. To everyone else. I was like, this is part of the story. You also have to do this, right. This strengthening. What is, why it is important to differentiate this. So I'm glad that you asked the question. And of course we're answering this in like a two minute thing. And there's, it's great if there's a bunch of examples and I don't want people to take what I'm saying out of context because there's so much under it. Just like Kelly, when you had said that your feet are late, there's so much context under what you're saying that people just can't take one thing and, you know, come to this other conclusion. But when you have a laxity, the ligaments are very lax, or sometimes I have had patients where the ligaments are torn. And there's a very important ligament that sits directly under your arch. It's just, it's literally like a hammock. If you tear that, your muscles cannot replace the torn ligament. Right. So there's, that's just an important part of the story and that's okay. Right. That maybe we use a little bit of arch support. Now, what I do, if I try, if I have someone who's very anti-orthotics. I just have to jump in because everyone's like, I must have a torn. Everyone's like, that's obviously me. Well, one, I always confirm it through imaging. So I don't do it. So just clinically looking. Sorry, you're not snowflake. Sorry. But so let's say someone is very anti-orthotic, but they have this ligament lax foot type, which just because you have a ligament lax foot type in, you, you might not still need arch supports because it, it depends on, do you have pain? Do you have injury? Are things talking because of that? What is your activity? Are you trying to run or sprint or do something with that ligament lax foot? So I have to match it to the patient, right? But for someone who's anti-orthotic, but they have ligament laxity, there's other ways to bring support to the foot and to the shoe. I love using these different pads. So there's different paddings, like a scaphoid pad is a pad or an LA pad is another name. Just go on Amazon. You can find what they are. You can put that in your shoe and it will act like that ligament and it will lift the bone or a little wedge in the back of the shoe. So I'm, I'm using biomechanics to try to influence the foot with a whole stiff plastic, rigid custom orthotic. You don't have to go that way. There's lots of options and you can even put them in minimal shoes. I put orthotics in minimal shoes all the time for patients. You don't have to say one thing means I can't do this over here. I love, I just reminding everyone the nuance of this. I believe in some kind of footbed inside a ski boot. We use a four foot Varus wedge a little bit in our cycling shoes, like because the foot can't support itself, the ankle doesn't work. So I just want to let everyone know that we can use this amazing technology to put ourselves in better positions, but comma, we better be barefoot at some point. We better have strong feet and train those feet. You are, we're talking today because you have a brand new book out. Talk about this new book. Yes. So my new book is called Sensory Sapiens and it is a sensory based approach to movement and longevity. And really the premise of it is that we are designed to be sensory beings. I believe that a lot of us are sensorially disconnected from our body. We have no idea where we are in space. When you are disconnected from your physical body, that obviously affects your movement because you have no idea where you are as you're moving, where your center of mass is. But it also affects emotional regulation. I think that there's a lot of dysregulation or unsettledness because people are sensorially disconnected. And then a big one is cognition. So the function of the brain, memory, all of that is a sensory story as well. And obviously I want people to read my book, but there's another book called Smart Moves, which is, it actually starts in children and it tells the story of how children need sensory to learn and to create motor patterns, to regulate their emotions, to feel safe in a school, safe in life, so they can learn in school. Right? So that, and if you take those concepts and you say, we are all perpetually in this neuroplastic evolution, new creation, growth phase, even as adults, every aspect of life, we need to continuously be exploring and pushing and challenging the nervous system, and then also providing it with the information it needs to interpret the world around us. So that is essentially what the book is about. I love it. Congratulations. I just have to say one thing. You said feeling safe. There was a great study that got of Norway where they just, kids, they were like, why are these Norwegian kids killing it? And they took their shoes off in the classroom and they were barefoot in the classroom. And people just that, that one piece of having that input, of having those kids not be wearing clunky snow boots or clunky boots, you know, that they were using for this tool. It just reminded me of that incredible study. You have a question? Yeah. So I want to talk about this barefoot thing because we have touched on it. You know, we talked about how we recommended- We have the barefoot mile and how many of our books? Yeah, the barefoot mile. Um, we recommend that people are barefoot when they get home from work around their house. Um, because, you know, obviously many people live in places where it's not safe to walk around their neighborhood and bare feet. Uh, one of the things I, so I just want to confirm that you agree that one of the best ways to, uh, protect our feet and care for our feet is to be barefoot some of the time. Yes. And I'm assuming that's a solid yes. Yes. Um, one of the things I see is that people have a habit of wearing shoes all day and then coming home and then putting on slippers. Yeah. And those slippers often, I think, and I have no expertise whatsoever. This is just being married to Kelly and seeing things that I wish I didn't see. Those slippers often create even worse looking foot behaviors than flip flops do. Um, you know, people are wearing them with socks. They are wearing these like really soft, weird slides. Um, so I guess, uh, I mean, you knew it, there's just a lot of weird house shoes that people are wearing that seem to me to be suboptimal. Um, so, you know, with the premise, I think we all three agree that being, you know, being barefoot at home is one of the best times to, you know, get this sort of footwork in. What's your take on the home slipper? Am I crazy about that? What do you think about that? Yeah. So the days of the house slipper are like a recovery shoe that then became kind of this house shoe. So it's now like trendy to have shoes on in your house. Um, and I get asked about it all the time from different media outlets where they're doing a piece on best house shoes where the house, right. And it's media, I'm not going to perpetuate stuff, right? Again, I sound like a politician, but, um, media perpetuates trends that have no true scientific benefit behind them, such as house shoes. Now, if you have active plantar fasciitis and you have like this sharp pain, 10 out of 10, when you're walking on your tile floors, sure. Okay. But yes, we need to get out of our shoes. We need to get out of our socks, unless they're Nebosa recovery socks, but, um, we need to get out of our socks and to stimulate and to just move and feel and spread. And maybe you step outside for a little bit in the backyard. So now you're connecting with the earth and you're grounding and you're just, just be naked with your feet in your home. Like that's the one time that you can be, you know, it's clean. Hopefully, you know that you can just be yourself. And this is a big part of what I'm speaking now with the barefoot is that, you know, to be barefoot and to strip away the shoes and your arch supports, to me, it's like, it's real, it's raw, it's vulnerable. It's like, it's how you connect to, to who you are, right? You're going home and you're putting your, your comfy clothes on. I was born, I mean, I was a big child, but I was born with, you know, big clunky, you know, maximal sports shoes on. So I'm hoping you can, I'm hoping you can bust a myth here on this house shoe thing. Yeah. Because I think one of the things I've heard, I didn't realize you're so house shoe obsessed. I mean, this is all shout out to Mags right now. She's going to die when she hears this, because this is for Max. I think sometimes there is a perception that you can catch a disease from walking around your house without shoes on, not because it's cold, but just because, you know, I mean, I, you know, no matter, you know, we have like these concrete floors and I'll be honest, I walk around them sometimes and like, my feet are kind of dirty at the end of the night. Like, you know, they're, um, so I think people are literally, I honestly believe people think they need to wear a shoe because if they're walking around barefoot and their foot is touching the ground and the ground isn't perfectly clean, like a hospital, you know, operating room that they're going to catch a disease. I wouldn't be barefoot in a hospital operating room. Yeah. That's actually the grossest place, but you know, can you catch a disease from walking around barefoot? Well, in your house. So what I will say is that our skin, our skin is one of the most important protective barriers by evolution and by design in the human body. And the skin in the bottom of the feet is way thicker than any other skin in our body by design, because it's designed to be barefoot, stimulating the ground and resisting puncture, resisting bacteria and fungus and things like that. Right? So sure, practice proper hygiene, practice proper dermatology, meaning calluses and, you know, all of that stuff as well. And just think about and have a routine of how you take care of your feet at the end of the day. Right? And probably if you did some like microscopic study, your feet are probably way cleaner than your hands and people touch their eyeballs and their lips and their mouth and they're like all day. Remember COVID? And other people are just like touching as they're eating stuff. Exactly. Right? That it's... And you know, this is the other part of in medicine that I truly believe is that you build resistance by exposure to this world. Like when I lived in New York City, I was like, I am, yes, I'm holding this subway pole with my bare hand. Like I... I'm licking the doorknob. I am licking the doorknob. Right? Because you want to be resilient. You don't want to live in a sterile bubble because the first thing that happens, like, boom, you're the one that's gonna go. I want a really strong immune system so that I can combat these things. And so, yes, I'm going to debunk the myth thing. Now, what I will say, because she might say, no, no, no, blah, blah, blah, that let's say Kelly has a fungal infection on his feet. And then you don't want it, but really where you get it. So when a partner has a fungal infection or a plant or wart or whatever, you're not getting it walking around like the living room in the kitchen. You're getting it in the shower that you are sharing together. So make sure that you are cleaning appropriate environments if you are concerned. That's where I could see if someone is saying that is things like that spread. But even at that, what I used to tell people when I was advocating barefoot training and like in the gyms and you know what you were pushing as well, Kelly, is I was like, if you get a fungal infection, I will write you the freaking prescription for it. Like you are fine. You will like for a little fungal infection or a plant or wart does not supersede the benefits of being barefoot. Right. So that's right. And that's my approach. Listen up, Max. So one of the things that I'm, you know, I go on a, we go up to the river every year and I go on a shoe holiday and I don't wear shoes for four days. And, and I'm able to do that. I walk around the dirt lot. I'm, you know, in the first day I'm a little bit like, Ooh, a little timorous. And at the end, my stride is shortened. Um, my feet, my toes are spreading out. Yeah. We can like walk on the gravel and our foot is fine. It is remarkable how then when I put on whatever shoe I put on, feels like I'm putting on a straight coat. And after just four days of adapting, it's really straight jacket, straight jacket, straight, straight, yeah. Straight coat, straight jacket. Depends if you're British or not. And, uh, so the idea here is, you know, how do we dose that? One of the things that we hinted at a long time ago is like, you should be able to run a mile barefoot. And people freaked out because they're like, that's so dangerous. And I was like, look, I'm not saying this is your training, but you should be strong enough. If you're a runner to go run around barefoot and play, you know, in the grass barefoot, play soccer barefoot, go throw a frisbee barefoot on the beach. And what we see is that people really haven't looked at the foot as trainable and its implications on the body. We have good coaches at the University of Texas who make their athletes take their shoes off and they do just real simple running drills. Shout out UT strength coach. Um, I have professional baseball player coaches who they were battling the crazy shoes and they're like, right, no more shoes in the, in the weight room and guys got better. You know? So we, what I'm hinting at is you're advocating for spending a little bit of more time feeling, experiencing when I can, when it's safe. Absolutely. Wake up the muscles, spread the toes, wake them up. Kind of what you're describing is where people will say that they have possibly an initial hypersensitivity, like, ooh, the pebbles and the rocks, right? Is that you can do, when you stimulate the foot, you are essentially down regulating or desensitizing it, right? So you are making it a little bit more. Those spiking hats that you can get on Amazon, right? That are like, like, like they're just, they look like, like golf shoe spikes that you stand on just to try to down regulate the sensitivity. It is. So I actually have nail boards that I use and I stand on them at night and they're legit nail boards from India. They're like, it's almost like someone figured this out a long time ago. I know, I know. Right. And what's funny is that sometimes people will look at like a nail board and they will say, oh, like that's, that's a foot strengthening thing, but it's not. It's actually a mind thing. And it's allowing you to understand and say, can I feel this stimulus such as like the pebbles and be fine with it, right? Like I am, I am fine. This stimulation is fine. It's not going to break my skin or whatnot. I'm just in, in the decade of doing this, I've had so many people where they just get a slight stimulation. They're like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm like, for God's sake, like it is not a knife in your foot. Right. But there's this hyper reaction, which is probably just a small reflection of their personality. And their disconnection, right? Disconnection. That Neboso footbed I want to point out is a sneaky nail bed. And you have, you do have two surfaces. You have like, like, Hey, this is a cool surface. And then we have the wake up surface. And is it bad that I just only use the wake up surface? No, no, no. Most people do that. Most people do that. But I want the listeners to know that it's not painful. Like the Neboso is not It actually feels good. I think it's good. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. We, you've had a math for a long time, but that, that, you know, I feel like, Hey, I have to wear shoes. I slipped this in and it's a, like, it is such a profound, different experience wearing the insole in any shoe that I'm wearing. Yeah. Because definitely I just pick up a lot more information. I'm a much more aware of my feet. It's great. Yeah. A hundred percent. If I can add real quick on it, cause what it made me think about with the athletes and then kind of the moving and your barefoot mile is the other part of foot function that I think it's often overlooked underappreciated, or they actually have no idea that the foot does it is that our foot is a very important rubber band or energy release mechanism. So you have to be able to keep your plantar fascia and your Achilles tendon like rubber bands. And when you are just chronically in shoes and orthotics and support and support and support, and you never go barefoot or do any sort of barefoot play or movement is the connective tissue, the fascia and the tendon just start to stiffen. And then when you go to do something dynamic, because I don't know, maybe your kids convince you to do something and you just did it. That's pickable. That's where you get these injuries because you've actually lost the understanding and the pliability and the rubber band effect of your foot and ankle complex. And that's just, that's the part that that's also where I'm thinking as you were saying everything, I was like, oh my god, people are going to like just get plantar fascial issues because they've completely disconnected from the rubber band side of the foot. So that that would be a little side nugget as well. I love that. That's so helpful. So we only have a little bit of time left and I would not, I would be remiss to not take a few minutes to talk to you about kids and youth athletes and feet. So I'm not sure if I'm going to quote this correctly, but I know the American Academy of Pediatrics has said the best shoe for toddlers is no shoe or something. The shoe that interrupts the foot the least. It tends to be, that's no shoe. Yeah. So starting with that, I guess, I don't know if we can cover like aged toddler to height. Yeah. Have you seen the videos where you, like a kid will be barefoot and their feet are just doing their feet things and they're waiting and then you put them in a, a cute like Adidas plank and they can't, they fall over. Yeah. Yeah. So I guess if you could kind of do the range and, and, you know, for, for parents listening who have young kids, you know, how should they think about, you know, their kids feet and shoes and then how does, you get belly slippers, you get belly slippers. And then, you know, how does this foot function affect youth athlete performance? Because I think ultimately that's what people care about and may not be thinking, you know, my kid having good foot function is the difference between my kid playing soccer in college versus not. So I think that that is very wide ranging. So I'll let you take it away wherever you want. Yeah. No, I, I, I love talking about foot health and children and what you had mentioned earlier about neuroplasticity, right? Like the, the shaping and the forming and the creation of the brain, the peak window of neuroplasticity is from newborn to four years old. So what I tell parents, and then we spoke about the homunculus is that your foot is so sensorily rich that in those first four years, you want to have your child as stimulated as possible. So when the feet get them out of the socks, I do not like socks either on children. Like it doesn't make sense to me. Who's, is anyone not wearing socks right now? I know. Oh, I'm not wearing socks. No socks, no shoes, surface, play, outside, dirt, climb, all of this through the first four years. If you do have to wear shoes, they have to be, or they should be as minimal as possible. Meaning you can, you can like crumple them in your hand in a sense. Yeah. Those like little leather shoes you can buy, like giraffes on them or whatever. Yeah. 100%. Yep. That, that is by far what I recommend. Have them be leather so they can still ground through them if you would like. But that's the first four years. Now, another fun thing about children's feet is that children do not develop an adult arch or a reflection of their adult arch until age seven. So what we have- It's a hot minute to have strong feet. Yes. So you have this long period of development. So some children do have ligament laxity and it's hard to understand and differentiate that. So I would definitely go to a qualified professional, a pediatrician, love them, are not qualified professionals to determine a flat foot in kind of the scale of where it is. I would definitely see a pediatric podiatrist. But even at that, when I have children who are four years old and they very clearly have a ligament laxity, and I see a lot of this in my practice, is that I told the parents, I'm like, they're supposed to be barefoot now. Like, when do you put shoes on the kid? Well, only when we like maybe go to the grocery store together, but in the house they're always barefoot. So I was like, why would you use an arch support in the like one hour a week that they're in the shoot? It makes no sense, right? Just stay and focus on stimulation and play and development. Over seven years old, then that's where I kind of get a little like, let me look at the foot a little bit more because of, let's say, athletics. And then I work a lot with parents who, well, I feel like this window of child athletic foot focus for athletic development and you get kids that are actually demonstrating legit God-given talent, right? Is kind of this like nine, nine, 10 to like whatever, 18, 17, 18, right? You can get that window, right? Is that's where I will then start to teach them, the parents, foot recovery, foot strengthening. I want the kid, the 10-year-old to start to understand they have toes. And what do the toes do? Do they need something like a scaphoid pad in their football cleats or in their basketball shoes? So I'll kind of educate the parent on this. And then for the kids, again, that do demonstrate some level of ligament laxity is I, it's very important that I educate the parent that you don't grow out of ligament laxity, but how do we work with it? How do we understand that that's part of our story, our structural story and just navigate around it as this child is pushing higher and higher volume? And none of these parents for kids focus on recovery. I know you've got that. They just don't get it. So it is the parent's job to be the voice of recovery for the children to then push into their career. I love treating like 15, 16-year-old athletes, because I tell them, I'm like, do you want to make a career of this? Are you trying to go to college with a scholarship for this sport? Yes, yes, yes. Then I need you to listen to me. And then make ownership of it. Then they want to go with that free ride or they want to go pro or whatever it is, right? So it's a little bit about kids and being. We do see it. We, we work with, you know, a couple of companies that work on play and balance and foot, you know, from slack block, one of our favorite pieces and even the gib board. And I think one of the things you hinted at is how do we A, turn this about play, make it about play, and then also make it about offense. That I always feel like when we're talking about feet, it's always defense. Like, hey, I have, I have this injury and that if it's only something I could have done. And, you know, I'm like, holy moly, there was decades of things you could have done easily day after day. And when we focus on offense, I don't think people realize how much their backs stop hurting. Like it, foot function and back pain is insane. Their, their reactive balance, their, their coordination. It is a, we have seen it as a competitive advantage to have people have strong feet that can sense what the heck is going on. And when we start focusing a little bit on it, it really is remarkable to see how much better people do. They ski better, they ride better, they run better. It's, it's really incredible. Yeah. I mean, it's obvious to your body's foundation and your feet, your feet are connected to your pelvic floor and your diaphragm. And like, if you want strong glutes, I mean, every sport requires some element of strong glutes. And I just, I just, the shout out for the, you know, with these reflexive diaphragms of the pelvic floor, the diaphragm, the roof of your mouth and the arch. I love it that, I mean, right now, everyone, you're experiencing deep nerd. Okay. So I have gone over my allotted time, but I really have one more important kid related question. If you don't mind, if I ask, we've had three ACL tears in high school age kids personally that we know that are in our community just in the last like six weeks. And we obviously know there's an epidemic of ACL tears, especially in girls, and it continues to increase alarmingly. What is the role of foot health and or shoes in that epidemic? Great question. Yeah. So when you, one, it's a little bit multifactorial for the girls. So I am curious, the age and the gender of if it was like females that were kind of in that prepubescent kind of phase. They're all just so you know, the three that I'm talking about are all high school seniors. Ah, two boys, one girl. Two boys. Okay, so two boys, one girl. Okay, so let's take hormones out for a moment, because that's over there. That could be a whole different topic. Um, is so when I think about an ACL injury, my mind goes straight towards timing of stability. So your knee is stuck between your foot and your hip. So it gets the short end of the stick, but it is directly related to the timing of the stability between those two structures, how your foot feels the ground and how quickly it will talk to your deep core, your hip stabilizers, and then your glutes so that the knee is going to be stabilized fast enough. There's different fascial lines, there's a lateral line, there's a deep front line. So there's different fascial connections, but that's at the heart of what it is. So if you then look at foot type and you say, hmm, all three of the kids maybe had a flat foot, just making this up as an example, then a flat foot, just high level function is going to be a little bit slower to talk to the hip, just a little slower. It's kind of like you stimulate, oh, and then it talks to the hip to stabilize, which means it's putting the knee at risk to multi-directional movements, cutting, again, don't know the rest of the story of the injuries. But so that's where maybe an orthotic, I don't know, maybe the textured insole, maybe do barefoot training and actually train with intent, how your foot talks to your glute faster, which should be at the heart of all of these trainings. And now for these three kids, the ACL rehab, they had the injury, don't know if they had surgery or not, but they have rehab after the injury. At the core of that rehab, ACL rehab has to be foot to core, foot core, foot core, foot core, foot core glute. And it, it just, I don't know if that's being taught for, for this age of athlete or for the lean. I can think of one of the, one of the athletes, gnarly bunions locked, like, you know, the foot, like collapsed, the navicular is on the ground, gnarly bunions. And I'm like, well, that, that was so predictive. I can just see the whole chain. And as you say, I really liked the elegance of that is, Hey, that foot isn't giving enough information where we can create and turn on enough lights to decrease, you know, ACL strain. Yes. And I'm sure someone will ask this. So, you know, if someone is going through an ACL recovery or helping their kid go through an ACL recovery, what are there resources out there that you would point them to, to try to do this foot core glute foot, you know? Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. Um, if I can just say real quick on that, cause Kelly mentioned that one of them had a bunion. The only way that you can have a bunion at 18 years old is if you have a ligament lax foot. So I would just be very intrigued to see, definitely see the feet of these children, but you gotta, you gotta ligament lax foot, flatter foot. It's making the foot slow. As soon as you have a bunion, it's just another thing that is telling me that foot is talking slowly to the rest of the system for this. Yes. So I have a lot of information on YouTube. People can just search my name, Dr. Emily foot, barefoot, anything. And you will start to see many, many, many videos. I have programs I've created barefoot balance training programs. I have workouts that are all based around foot to core, single leg stability. That is really my shtick. How do we improve single leg stability for athletics, for walking, for fall reduction, for children, for whatever it is, is that, that connection. Um, so yeah, you can find a lot of that stuff online. Amazing. So helpful. Fascinating. Well, we were just at, uh, the Stanford environmental medicine, basically longevity summit that they put on every year. And I had conversations with some physios doing postdoc work on fall risk reduction. And I can't wait to make an introduction to you. Cause as one of the things we talked about, I don't think he's on anyone's radar is how do we upregulate the function of the foot? And this is a beautiful conversation, beautiful segue. Uh, you've told us how we can follow. Are you on the socials? I am absolutely. So my handle is D R Emily D P M. So D R Emily D P M. That's on Instagram. If people want to learn more about Neboso, we have a lot of videos on people using it and showing their own stories. Neboso is N A B O S O. So Neboso underscore technology. The Neboso website is neboso.com. My practice. So I see patients all around the world. Most of my patients are virtual is just my name or the functional foot doc.com. If you don't remember anything that I just said, literally just Google my name and it'll come. And remind us of the name of your book, which I'm assuming is available everywhere where people can buy books. Yes. There we go. Sensory sapiens, sensory sapiens. That's fabulous. It's, it's so, I mean, literally, like I said, eventually as a performance coach or as a physio, we're going to talk to your feet. And if you've ever worked with me, I basically stopped talking to you and I only talked to your feet for the whole session. You know, cause it solves so many problems when I get the foot in a better position. Thank you so much for your time. And thanks for playing our minds. This was so enlightening and so awesome. And I think going to be so helpful for so many people. Thank you so much. Of course. Thank you both.