 fibrin, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling, storytelling storytelling, storytelling, storytelling storytelling, storytelling storytelling, storytelling storytelling, storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling storytelling keep you focused, keep you energized. And when the sun sets, it tells your body to go home, back into the cave and go to sleep. And if you look at where we are as a office, you know, in a building behind glass kind of existence, we're just not getting those right stimulations or triggers that your body is best suited for. So we're very much diurnal. Light keeps us awake. Dark tells us to go to sleep. And if you start screwing that up, then there's a whole cascading set of negative effects that come from that. And it can be environmental. It can be social. It can be things you do with devices, before bed, when you wake up. And so light is pervasive. You know, it's everywhere. It's a decision that every facility makes guaranteed that it's going to be in the building, unless for some reason they don't need light, but I don't know where that would be. And so it's something that we think can be addressed in a way that any humans in a box under light can be made better, healthier with kind of the natural stuff that happens outside, which we're not doing ourselves inside. So if we put this in sort of a like health and performance context, everybody listening to this podcast and everybody who's curious about their health online knows that sleep and nutrition and movement are important. How do you sort of rank this light piece among that? I mean, I realize it's deeply connected to sleep and probably movement and those other things, but like, how do you think about it in terms of ranking? Like, does it live at the same level as like a pillar of health? Is it a sub level? Like, how do you think about it in terms of its influence on health and performance? It's definitely a pillar of health because it drives so much of your sleep and recovery. If you don't get the right light stimulation, the right inputs, then your building of melatonin or melanopic entrainment is impaired, which means you're not going to sleep and recover well. So if you're not getting good sleep, then your recovery factor is much lower. And it's one of those things that is absolutely in every gym you work out in, you know, it's, it's always above you. And it's something that is very passive that can be done to the users of the space very easily if understood how to design it and deliver it correctly. So it's very achievable if you go out looking to achieve that capability of health and wellness through life. So we are seeing that the research is indicating that people are going out about 20 minutes a day. Oh, sorry. 20 minutes a week. That was, that was outside 20 minutes a week. We're just, we're not spending a lot of time in these natural lit environments. This just doesn't happen. And it's not someone's, it's not nefarious. I mean, it just happens that that's where most people are living their lives indoors. When we talk about lighting, isn't all light the same? I mean, you know, I, I sometimes feel don't feel great after, you know, spending days and days and underground government facilities under incandescent lighting. But can you explain to us what the problem is? I mean, you know, what if I had like a light bulb from the seventies? I mean, how should I be thinking about this? Cause what I don't want people to walk away from this conversation is, you know, yet another thing we get to put on our listicle of things to like, that are killing me or, you know, messing me. Toxic. Right. Yeah. Right. So, but help us understand the, how you are thinking about it, what a person can do about it and some potential upsides to this thing. Cause it's not just about, Hey, I'm in red, like you guys. And, and you'll talk, hopefully you'll talk about some of the places that are using your light and some of the applications of it, surgery centers, et cetera, et cetera. But you know, this is a performance offense, offense approach where we can actually get more out of our brains if we're thinking differently. So set up this light conversation with us, because I think most of us are like, well, they put lights in my house. What's wrong with those lights? Right. And, and light it's lighting is like saying car, what does a car mean? And what's the range of cars and what's the performance that comes out of a car? Um, you described incandescent. That's a type of light source. There's fluorescent, there's led. They each have different performance attributes, um, that comes out of it. That's the visual portion of it. And, um, they all have relatively good, each of them has kind of a good foundation of okay things. When you start talking about dealing with the biological side or the photoreceptor side to create an environment of health and wellness, you need the proper light source for the right spectrum. And then you need to be able to modulate it throughout the course of the day so that- Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. You're saying that it's not enough to go on off and on off is a very, if you, I mean, I don't know if you can actually see it on the screen. So I've got a brain lit lamp, which is kind of blue. Then in my ceiling, I've got commercial lighting because I rent an office space that has commercial light. There are two different colors. And because my brain lit light is modulating throughout the course of the day, I'm getting a different spectrum from when I come in at seven, seven 38. And by the time I leave in the evening, it will go on through a full daylight spectrum. Other versions of lighting are more static. So at some point in the day, it's giving you the wrong type of light. If you then look at how, think of a hotel lobby that are very warm and comfortable feeling. You kind of walk in and you relax. Well, that's not great at two o'clock in the afternoon, when you're trying to go into a big meeting, that color is not energizing you, helping you focus. It's telling you relax and get ready for sleep. So lighting is type of source. What do you need it to do? Pre-game energize, post-game decompression, middle of the night patient room where you don't want to energize the patient you're waking up by putting a lot of blue light energy into the space, but you need enough light for sight. So the nurse can do a quick exam or, you know, their quick observation. So that's all understanding of what the light is doing, who's in it, what are you trying to achieve from it? And that's outside of the source of the light. It's understanding the design capabilities of what lighting can do. And then understanding that depending on who's doing what in a room, the light can be tailored to their best health and wellness, sleep and recovery. And those are kind of different phases of the day. You know, health and wellness and focus and energy is keeping you awake, keeping you energized, making less mistakes. And when you do the right downtrend of spectrum and color change, that creates melatonin, allows for melatonin creation, which is then better sleep and recover.