 N- There's two things here I want to just highlight for people. We think that brain decline is inevitable, right? That we have to. And I'll tell you that Juliette's grandmother was sharp as a stinking knife until like, I mean- One minute before she died. One hundred percent. Like just lucid and sort of inappropriately lucid. You know, just you're like, oh man, you brought a lot of firepower and experience with that brain. That's still functioning. So I'm not to be a lot of brain that's brain that's brain that's brain.! What we've done historically. And what we still do in a lot of studies is we look at a big bunch of people and we say, well, what is cognitive function in the average 70 year old look like cognitive function, like compared to cognitive function in the average 30 year old, right? And on average in that big population, as people get older, like average cognitive function declines. And that's kind of what we think happens to everybody, right? But what's really happening is that within that group, there are some people who are losing function and they're kind of like dragging down the average. Whereas actually there are lots of people who are maintaining cognitive function. And it's just like the way we calculate the data that's kind of making us think that function is declining. And so when you, when you, when, uh, Wanashai did the Seattle Long and Tudel study, it started in the 1950s and he took people and he saw them every seven years and, um, he brought in new waves of people every seven years. So in the end they had like people in the data set from like 20 to over a hundred. And what he found was that from my people, uh, as they went from their fifties to their eighties, the average effect. And by average, I mean, what most people experienced was that their cognitive function remain stable over time from like 50 to 80. The app, like if you then like added them all up and divide them by the number of people, like the mean average, yes, the mean average decreased, but most people had stable function in their fifties, sixties, seventies, and eighties. And this study, um, was actually used to raise the retirement age in the U S in the night, in the 1980s because it actually, people can't work longer. Yeah. Um, whether or not you think that's a good thing. Um, what it did is it showed people that the, the norm can be that cognitive function stays stable into your sixties, seventies, eighties. Um, and this is what, this is what we should expect. However, um, and we, and we see something similar now, like nowadays, the, the technical scientific term for somebody who maintains the same cognitive function in their eighties that they had in their fifties is a super ager, right? This is what we call them now. But if you look at what a super ager does, they avoid major metabolic disease. They, um, are regularly physically active. They are, um, socially connected. Um, and they maintain sort of like other really basic sleep habits. They don't drink too much alcohol, that kind of stuff. This should be the norm and it can be the norm. It doesn't require superhuman effort, but. What it does require. And this is like the, um, my third R of headroom, right? Resilience reserve and resolve. Because what it requires is the resolve to keep engaging in these things that we know maintain cognitive function. Over and over and over. Every day. Some phrase you'll use is called bone crushing consistency, which is so boring. Yeah. Can I just take a pill, Tommy? I mean, come on. Sorry. So I, we talked about this a bit in the pre-roll. And, um, one of the things I thought about as you were talking about exercise and, uh, I've read this book years ago. And I think we talked about this last time we had you on the podcast was, I remember John Rady and his book spark. Yeah. He said like exercise is miracle grow for the brain. And that was just this quote from his book that I've always remembered. Um, and we talked a bit about this exercise piece in the pre-roll and I'd love for you to talk about the Norwegian protocol study. But the, the underlying question here is I, you know, and I know what people wonder is, okay. All right. I know like everybody knows they should exercise. And I think the resolve is probably the biggest problem there. However, what kind of exercise, like are certain kinds of exercise better for our brain health and our path to be a super agent? I feel the reduction is coming on. Yeah. I mean, what's a minimal dose that I can do? You know, I guess maybe broad, broadly speaking, all exercise, I mean, I'm assuming you would agree that all exercise is good. Any exercise is good. Movement is good, whatever. Um, but I know that there's some, we'll talk about the Norwegian protocol study. Yes. So, um, the, right, the kind of baseline you're right. Like for the vast majority of people, any increase in any physical activity is going to significantly improve cognitive function. We've kind of seen that, you know, across a whole, a whole range of studies. Um, in, so in people who are completely sedentary, you make, we're in their sixties, you make them do brisk walking three times a week for 40 minutes, right? You see significant improvements in hippocampal volume. So the size of the hippocampus really important for memory improvements in fitness improvements in, in memory function, right? Just with, with that level of activity. However, we, we do increasingly know that there's an intensity, um, component here. So the, the study that the, the, the, the, you mentioned, um, this was, uh, you came out a couple of years ago, um, is by an Australian group and they took again, adults in their sort of sixties on average, and they randomized them to three groups. Um, there was like a low intensity groups, like a walking group, uh, moderate intensity groups, like a jogging group, and then a high intensity interval training group. And they, they all did this on the treadmill for like 40 to 45 minutes, three times a week. The, the hit group did the Norwegian, uh, four by four protocol. So the version that they did was 85 to 95% of maximum heart rate for four minutes with a three minute break in between times four. Um, and right. And with the warmup and warm down, that sort of whole thing takes kind of like 40 ish minutes. And they did that. They did that three times a week for six months. Anybody who's done the four by four protocol will know that that is, I mean, that's a bit of a beast in terms of a training protocol for six months. Yeah. Especially at 85%. I mean, that's hard work. Like super impressed that they did it. But what, what they found was that, um, that hit group had much larger improvements in the structure and fun, fun, fun, funcus function, structure and function of the hippocampus after six months. And actually those, they kind of continue to improve like during the training process. So they were like seeing benefits of like three months and then they stopped at six months. But then five years later, they went back five years later, which I think is amazing and retested them. And they still maintained those benefits over the other groups. Even though they hadn't been continuing to do that. And I can guarantee no one had done that protocol again. They were like, I'm done. I'm out. Do you think all this like 2000 meter rowing I did when I was a kid, did that give me some hippocampal volume that I can rely on? Yes. And I'm going to, I'm going to tell you why in a second. Um, so, um, yeah, they did look at how much activity they did in the intervening time and everybody just went back to what they were doing before. Like Kelly says, nobody does Norwegian four by four for six months. I was like, do you know what? I want a lot more of that. Um, cause it sucks. Um, so what's interesting is that when they looked at VO two max, the jogging group and the hit group actually improved VO two max about the same. So it wasn't just driven by improvements in fitness. And I think the big differentiator is lactate. What's interesting about TIM TIMES?