There's two things here I want to just highlight for people. We think that brain decline is inevitable, right? That we have to And I'll tell you that Juliet's grandmother was sharp as a stinking knife until like >> I mean >> one minute before she died >> 100%. Like just lucid and sort of inappropriately lucid. um you know just you're like oh man you brought a lot of firepower and experience with that brain that's still functioning. So I want to that it's more fiction that we have to lose this cognition. Will you just speak to that for a second? >> Yeah. So um one of my favorite studies looking at this is called the Seattle longitudinal study. It was actually done at the or like founded out of the University of Washington um by uh guy called Warner Shai and it was one of the first ever studies that took the same people and looked and looked at their cognitive function over decades because what we've done historically and what we still do in a lot of studies is we look at a big bunch of people and we say well how what does cognitive function in the average 70-year-old look like cognitive function like compared to cognitive function in the average 30-year-old right and on average in that big population as people get older like average cognitive function declines and that's kind of what we think happens to everybody, right? But what's really happening is that within that group there are some people who are losing function and they're kind of like dragging down the average whereas actually there are lots of people who are maintaining cognitive function um and it's just like the way we calculate the data that's kind of making us think that function is declining. Um and so when you when you when Wanoshai did the Seattle longitudinal study, it started in the 1950s and he took people and he saw them every seven years and um he brought in new waves of people every seven years. So in the end they had like people in the data set from like 20 to over a 100. And what he found was that from like people as they went from their 50s to their 80s, the average effect and by average I mean what most people experienced was that their cognitive function reta remained stable over time from like 50 to 80. The a like if you then like add them all up and divide them by the number of people like the mean average. Yes, the mean average decreased but most people had stable function in their 50s, 60s, 70s and 80s. And this study um was actually used to raise the retirement age in the US in the in the 1980s because it actually >> people can work longer. >> Yeah. Um whether or not you think that's a good thing. Um what it did is it showed people that the the norm can be that cognitive function stays stable into your 60s7s 80s. Um and this is what this is what we should expect. However, um and and we see something similar now like nowadays the the technical scientific term for somebody who maintains the same cognitive function in their 80s they had in their 50s is a superager, right? This is what we call them now. But if you look at what a superager does, they avoid major metabolic disease. They um are regularly physically active. They are um socially connected um and they maintain sort of like other really basic sleep habits. They don't drink too much alcohol, that kind of stuff. This should be the norm and it can be the norm and it doesn't require superhuman effort. But what it does require and this is like the um my third R of headroom, right? Resilience, reserve, and resolve. Because what it requires is the resolve to keep engaging in these things that we know maintain cognitive function >> over and over and over. >> Some phrase Jul is called bone crushing consistency, which is so boring. >> Yeah. Can I just take a pill, Tommy? I mean, like, come on. Sorry. >> So, I we talked about this a bit in the pre-roll and um one of the things I thought about as you were talking about exercise and uh I read this book years ago and I think we talked about this last time we had you on the podcast was I remember John Ray in his book Spark >> said like exercise is miracle grow for the brain. And that was just this quote from his book that I've always remembered. Um, and we talked a bit about this exercise piece in the pre-roll, and I'd love for you to talk about the Norwegian protocol study, but the the underlying question here is I, you know, and I know what people will wonder is, okay, all right, I know like everybody knows they should exercise and I I think the resolve is probably the biggest problem there. However, what kind of exercise like are certain kinds of exercise better for our brain health and our path to being >> feel the reduction is coming on. Yeah. I mean, and right >> what's the minimal dose that I can do? >> You know, I guess maybe broad broadly speaking all exercise I mean I'm assuming you would agree that all exercise is good, any exercise is good, movement is good, whatever. Um but I know that there's some well talk about the Norwegian protocol study. >> Yes. So um the right the kind of baseline you're right like for the vast majority of people any increase in any physical activity is going to significantly improve cognitive function. We've kind of seen that you know across a whole b a whole range of studies. Um in so in people who are completely sedentary you make in their 60s you make them do brisk walking three times a week for 40 minutes right you see significant improvements in hippocample volume. So like the the size of the hippocampus really important for memory improvements in fitness improvements in in memory function right just with with that level of activity. However, we we do increasingly know that there's an intensity um component here. So, the the study that that that you mentioned um this was it came out a couple years ago um was by an Australian group and they took again adults in their sort of 60s on average and they randomized them to three groups. Um there was like a low intensity group, so like a walking group, uh a moderate intensity group, so like a jogging group, and then a high intensity interval training group. And they they all did this on the treadmill for like 40 to 45 minutes three times a week. The the HIT group did the Norwegian uh 4x4 protocol. So the version that they did was 85 to 95% of maximum heart rate for 4 minutes with a 3minut break in between times four. Um, and right with the warm up and warm down, that sort of whole thing takes kind of like 40-ish minutes. And they did that they did that three times a week for six months. Anybody who's done the 4x4 protocol will know that that is I mean that's a bit of a beast in terms of a training protocol for six months. >> 85%. I mean that's hard work. >> Like super impressed that they did it. But what what they found was that um that hit group had much larger improvements in the structure and funk fungus function structure and function of the hippocampus after 6 months and actually those they kind of continued to improve like during the training protocol. So they were like seeing benefits for like 3 months and then they stopped at 6 months. But then five years later, they went further, which I think is amazing, and retested them and they still maintained those benefits over the other groups, >> even though they hadn't been continuing to do that. >> Yeah. So they guarantee no one had done that protocol again. They were like, I'm done. I'm out. >> Do you think all this like 2,000 meter rowing I did when I was a kid, did that give me some hippocample volume that I can rely on? >> Yes. And I'm going to I'm going to tell you why in a second. Um so um yeah, they did look at how much activity they did in the intervening time and everybody just went back to what they were doing before. Like Kelly says, nobody does Norwegian 4x4 for 6 months. I was like, you know what, I want a lot more of that. Um cuz it sucks. Um so what's interesting is that when they looked at V2 max, the jogging group and the hit group actually improved V2 max about the same. So it wasn't just driven by improvements in fitness.