 SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM SAM and now you're out of options or someone saying, hey, now you need surgery because we have nothing else left for you. That is a great time to come in with the PRP or the stem cell therapy, whatever it is that we do. If I have the money and I don't have the patients, is there a downside? There's risks with every procedure. So you're putting a needle in the body, you're putting a needle inside of a joint that doesn't have a great immune system. And there's the NFLer. Athletic trainer did an injection on the sideline for his rib fracture and pierced his lung and dropped his lung. But what has surprised you most about these applications? Because it's interesting that you're like, oh, it works on rotator cuffs. The shoulder isn't that different with that different tissues than some of the other aspects of the movement system. If we know it works on a tendon, isn't a tendon, a tendon, a tendon? This episode of the Ready to Sleep Podcast is brought to you by Laird Superfood. Laird is a, I want everyone to know how this works because we have seen it up close. Laird's daughter, Viola, is an insane chef. Yeah, she's not only an insane chef, but an insane baker. Yeah, for sure. And one of the things they start toying with is, how do I use Laird ingredients to make tasty things? I don't know if it's just because I come to town that I get cookies. But finally, these people, so lazy, finally introduced what I think is the ultimate pre-workout. It's the double chocolate chip cookie mix. And let me just say, this stuff only requires a little bit of water and a little bit of avocado oil. And I'm not going to say that we've just made it into dough before and eaten it like that. No, no, no. But maybe we have. That would be terrible. Well, the other important thing is your dream at 4 o'clock in the afternoon. It's a cookie. And a coffee. Yeah, that's how I, like if I need to work out or do something heroic, like cooking and coffee gets me there. Yeah, you'd rather not eat like a 450 calorie cookie from a coffee shop. Yeah, processed cookie. Yeah. So what I love about this, whole food ingredients, vegan and gluten-free. So if you keep a bag on hand, because people are like, I'm special. I'm like, look, you are special. Let me give you a special cookie that will meet your special dietary restrictions that taste great. Pre-workout, unbelievable. This thing is fantastic. Keep a bag on hand. And you're going to a party. You're getting like a kid bake. Like you just, it's so easy to mix up and they're delicious. Well, also, if you just sort of have a sweet craving, but you just don't want to go down the rabbit hole of eating something that's worse for you. You're listening right at me as to say that. Well, I'm sorry. You're a salty person. It's been done before. It's been done before. I am the lover of all things. And just to blow your minds, there's also a brownie mix. Yeah, 100%. Look, everyone, grab this. It's fantastic. High quality. And I would say even as we're moving towards more whole food nutrition as we exercise, this is it. Bring a cookie with you instead. To learn more, of course, you can go to LairdSuperfood.com slash TRS and use code TRS20 for 20% off and free shipping. Dr. Timmermans, welcome to the Ready State Podcast. Thank you both for having me. I can say that we are very excited about this conversation. Is it because we're old and beat up? Well, that could be it and everyone we know is old and beat up. But also, I actually don't feel like anyone is talking about this, right? There's sort of some subjects that get covered a lot in the podcast universe. And I don't think this is really one of them. So before we get into this vague subject, could you... You mean Dr. Drew's life's work? His life's work. Vague. Could you just tell our audience what you do and what you specialize in? Yes. So I am a naturopathic physician and what I specialize in is going to be orthobiologics. The hard thing is it's such a new field that there's different terms for that. So some people will just call this regenerative medicine. People will call it regenerative injection therapy. Some old school docs will just call this prolotherapy. There's a bunch of different terms. But really what it comes down to is we are trying to utilize different substances to trigger healing responses in the body in order to kind of clean up some of those nagging injuries that people have. Whether it's a little bit of low back pain or some golfer's elbow or a rotator cuff tear where it's maybe non-surgical. And so we're using things like PRP and autologous stem cell therapy to essentially trick the body into thinking that there's a new injury there so it will go and try to heal that area again. Okay. Hold up. There's... That was like 27 questions that came up. I have a clinical doctor degree and I think I understood most of that. So do us a favor. And when you say like PRP, what does that mean? So you say like sort of stem cell piece. I think the overview framework is really what I want to get into the weeds here because I'm asked a lot about these magic things that happen that I don't have to do anything. A physician will inject me and then the magic angel sparkly unicorn dust will refurnish and brighten the perfect ball of white light in my knee. And I think it's a little bit more sophisticated than that. Will you just define terms and help us understand? Because I think, and one of the reasons we'll get into it is that I consume all the content. You're really a great spokesperson for all of these emerging therapies on the internet. You're very transparent about what works and what doesn't work. You've been my go-to for years in trying to understand this emerging field. And you're also happen to be a ready state nerd, which really helps. But help us create a framework and a roadmap for why would a person, you said a little bit, but why would a person seek these things out? And when are they appropriate? When they're not. But if you go back in time though, and actually define some of those terms, I mean, that was like six questions. But I think, what are these things? Because, you know, just to emphasize what Kelly said, the amount of people who throw out, like, are you going to do PRP or stem cells or whatever? And they have no idea what that means. And actually, I don't know what that means. Okay, totally. So PRP is an acronym that stands for platelet-rich plasma. And so when we draw somebody's blood, so that's how we collect this. We do a blood draw. We then spin it down into centrifuge. And we will get these two different layers. We have the red blood cell layer, the hematocrit layer. And then we get this kind of yellow golden liquid that's called plasma. In that plasma, there are a lot of platelets. These platelets are little cell fragments that contain growth factors. Now, normally when we get injured, so you cut yourself, you break a bone, whatever it is, these platelets are like the first responders on the scene. They detect that there's injury. And then they, over a short and long period of time, they release all of these growth factors to that area. And that's the first stage of the healing response. It will also help to, you know, create clots if you are bleeding, so that you stop bleeding and things like that. And so we process the blood to basically hyper-concentrate these platelets. So that way we can take advantage of what biology has given us as a healing mechanism. And we can now inject that into an area and basically re-stimulate that response just in a very hyper-concentrated way. I've heard PRP described as a bioadhesive bandage. Is that a fair way of looking at that? That's an interesting term. I don't know if I would, because I feel like a bandage is covering up and protecting. And I don't know. That's interesting. I don't know if I would describe it that way. It's almost like a biological, maybe you could say glue, in just a sense that's going to help to bring things together, keep things together, and create a healing environment. So you could call it that. Yeah, I guess that's one way you could think about it. But obviously I won't, again. He has such a ringing endorsement. So one of the things that you're just describing, a really phenomenal thing, and I just want to say how proud I am that I gave blood a couple days ago and got all my plasma back. Ah, you're so fancy. I was like, keep the blood. I don't need that. I'll make more of that. Keep my hematocra. I'll take the platelets back. But one of the things that you're describing is something that I go insane with thinking about healing, is that our bodies are pretty miraculous healing machines. And it sounds like a lot of times you're restarting or initiating healing response in tissues that somehow miss the window. Am I thinking about that the right way? Yeah, 100%. And there are many roads to roam here. So I think a lot of the work that you do can help stimulate that. I think a lot of the grassed in scraping, just anything where you can get a physical stimulus into that area. And re-kickstart the cellular machinery that wants to heal. It's just, it's time has passed. It is a phenomenal way to think about that. And what's happening, we're just doing it in a more interventional and aggressive way with a needle and a blood draw and all that type of stuff. But yeah, it is really taking advantage of what the body wants to do. It's just past that time point. And so we're kind of saying, hey, let's get you to just do that again. I know you have a question, but what I just thought was, oh, I'll give you something to cry about. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Well, you're done? Anyone who's been to the clinic has experienced that. So before, you know, I would love to get into like, you know, what's the state of the state of the science on these interventions. But before we do, and also who they're appropriate for and who they're not. But before we do that, I'd love to just keep going down this definition rabbit hole. Because, you know, obviously stem cell therapy, prolotherapy, nerve, hydrodissection. There's a few of these things that I think are in your scope of practice that we don't know what they are. So I don't know if you want to rapid fire define them, if that's even possible. There's a way to categorize these things. Like if we started with like a common intervention and that some, because we're trying to, like people are like, my back hurts. I must need surgery. And we're always like, there's a few hundred steps before that. Right. And this is emerging as a very powerful tool to help the body heal and do what it does best. So I don't know what the best way for you to sort of describe what the pantheon of opportunities are when they're appropriate. If that's by a diagnosis or common uses or some other way, help us sort of make a roadmap of what we're talking about here in this orthobiologic landscape. Yeah, perfect. So this is generally how I'll describe it to patients. So we kind of have, there's two pieces that we generally talk about. One is the intervention technique. And the second is what's in the syringe. And so on the intervention technique side, this is really going to be dictated by what is the tissue level pain generator. So we can't just go off of a diagnosis that we get from imaging. So an MRI says you've got a rotator cuff tear. There's surgeons will just say, yep, we'll just repair that. And there's no real physical exam that's happening. And so we have to first do the physical exam in order to understand, is this a tendon issue? Is this a ligament? Is this a nerve? Is this subchondral bone? Is this cartilage? What is the actual tissue that's driving pain? Because then we either move into the category of proliferative injections, which is where the term prolotherapy originally came from, where we're putting that needle inside the joint. We're putting it inside the tendon, inside the ligament, inside the subchondral bone, injecting one of our solutions, which I'll get to in a second, with the goal of stimulating new collagen formation. So we're trying to stimulate these little cells called fibroblasts that are going to make more X-cellular matrix, make more collagen, and strengthen that tissue. Then the other main type of intervention we have is our nerve intervention. So that's our nerve hydrodissection. So that's where if we have, let's say, the best one because it's the most well studied is carpal tunnel syndrome. So if someone has compression of the median nerve at the wrist, we will then, under ultrasound guidance, take that needle and inject the fluid around the nerve such that we temporarily mechanically decompress it from that compression, while also providing it with a solution that's going to help this nerve to function better and to go through its own healing process. So that's the intervention side. We have the proliferative and then we have the nerve techniques. Then on our solution side, we've got dextrose, which is just simple sugar. It's an irritant solution that stimulates the fibroblastemic more collagen. But for nerves, dextrose also gets utilized by these nerves to make ATP and energy, and healing is a very energy-dependent process. And so there's some really interesting work with 5% dextrose specifically on nerves that are reducing nerve inflammation and things like that. Then we have our PRP, which we already covered. And then we have our autologous stem cell therapy or autologous cellular therapy. We'll get into that because there's so much to unpack there in terms of... But autologous, you mean that's made from my body? Yep. Comes from Kelly, goes right back into Kelly. And so that's kind of how I... Could I get some of Juliet's red blood? I mean, that's just asking for a friend. Probably good quality, but no. And so that's kind of how we look at these things. And so our prolotherapy is technically more so for the dextrose prolotherapy. So that was the first kind of regenerative injection that came out. And so that term prolotherapy is generally applied to using dextrose as the solution. But there are some docs out there who are more old school, very tied to the prolotherapy term. And so they will say that they're doing PRP prolotherapy or stem cell prolotherapy, which I think just gets really confusing. And so the way in my practice, I just say dextrose prolotherapy. And then we have PRP that we can either do for a nerve or in a proliferative fashion for tendons and ligaments and things like that. And then our autologous cellular therapy. Okay, so what is autologous cellular therapy? This is what, you know, at cocktail parties, people are like, I'm going down to Mexico to get my stem cell injections. Yes. Is that what we're talking about? I mean, I realize that's not what we're talking about, but, you know, in common parlance. Yes. So there are two ways you can get stem cells. One is from yourself and one is from somebody else. When it comes from yourself, that's what autologous means. When it comes from somebody else, that's called allogeneic. And so there's a big boom right now in, you know, getting cord tissue or placental tissue from somebody else. And then doctors get that in a vial and inject that into you. And that would be called allogeneic because it didn't come from you. And so the cellular part is the FDA has had a big issue with the term stem cell therapy. And I think there's valid reasons for it. But there's also, I think, just been a huge overstep by the FDA. So there's good and bad to this. Stem cell therapy has gotten a really bad rep from a few bad players. And so the FDA has kind of, and the FTC even, has kind of come after this term stem cell therapy. And so some docs are just saying cellular therapy. But what we're really saying is that we're collecting a tissue from the same person that has cells in it that are in the stem cell lineage. And so that could be bone marrow. So within bone marrow, you have a lot of mesenchymal stem cells, which are the stem cells that can turn into tendons, ligaments, bones, and things like that. And then you have your hematopoietic stem cells. Those are the stem cells that will turn into our red blood cells, our white blood cells, things like that. Then the other tissue that we... By the way, everyone, you're welcome. This is why we went to school. What I'm sitting here... Literally, I'm like, oh, I'm back. I was like, our daughter needs to listen to this because I think these are all SAT vocabulary words. Or at least parts of them anyway, parts of them. Yeah. And then the second tissue we can use is fat tissue or adipose tissue. So within fat tissue, we actually have a really rich source of the mesenchymal stem cells. And they're a little different than the ones in bone marrow. And then there's only a small amount of the hematopoietic or the cells that form red blood cells and white blood cells. And so we can take either of those tissues and then we can concentrate. The FDA has very strict restrictions on what we can and can't do to the bone marrow or the fat tissue. And then we inject it back in the same way we would inject PRP. So just high level. I can take my fat and I can inject into things that hurt. Is that what you were saying? Yes. That sounds like too good to be true. Yeah. Okay. So, I mean, I'm going to extremely oversimplify this. But, you know, if we just simplify it to these three things, prolotherapy, which is the dextrose-based thing, PRP, and stem cells, which I can't remember the actual technical term. The one. Yeah. Cellular therapy, excuse me. Who are each of these? Who and for or what types of injuries and issues are these appropriate for? Let me go a step further. That's exactly the right question. And the step I want to go to further is when do I initiate this conversation with you about trying to solve a problem that I have? And what makes a good outcome patient for you? Here's what I'd like to say. You know, Kelly's dream client at the ready state is someone who has come to him and he said, All right, I read your book and I got your app and I did these 75 mobilizations and I tried this scraping technique and I've been working on my breathing and, you know, I'm trying to couch stretch and I'm doing X, Y, and Z. My nutrition is good. My sleep is good. When they say, but I can't, then on top of that, I still can't solve these problems. And so I'm wondering if it's that sort of same avatar of an ideal client for you anyway, that has at least taken a swing at trying to solve these issues in other ways. And obviously surgery would be, I think, like the following level. But what's, I guess, yeah, who are these things appropriate for? And what would be like your ideal avatar of a human who comes and you say, yes, like you, like you meet with them and you're like, this is 100% appropriate for you. Yeah, so the way that I, so the prolotherapy, the PRP and the stem cell therapy are all hitting at common pathways of reinitiating that healing response. And so my personal experience is that all of these can be indicated for an individual person. It just, the strength of each of these is very different. So if we have somebody who comes in and let's say they just chronically roll their ankle, let's say they had a real bad ankle sprain back in high school playing basketball. And then they just, two times a year, they roll it. It's a little achy and PT hasn't really helped and they want to take care of this. You do not need stem cell therapy for that. That is way overkill. You're an overpay for something that a, honestly, a dexterous prolotherapy would probably work really well. And I've had a handful of cases where we just do one treatment and that's all this person needs because we just strengthen that ligament a little bit and it no longer rolls. And now they can get back to doing what they want to do. On the other end. I just want to stop right there and say, that's amazing. Yeah. That's miraculous. Yeah. It's really fantastic. On the other end of the spectrum, someone comes to you with end stage knee osteoarthritis. It's grade four. They've been told they they're bone on bone. In reality, they still have lots of cartilage, but, but they have a end stage arthritis. They've been told they need a knee replacement and they are choosing to try something else. Prolotherapy is not the right approach because while it can get you there, it is going to take so many treatments to get there. That this is where you're looking at either a really high quality PRP injection or a bone marrow procedure, like stem cell procedure. So the ideal patient is, is really someone who has, has tried good physical therapy because I am such a believer in physical therapy. I probably talk about physical therapy on Instagram more than any other regenerative injection dye out there. I can say that you, because it's just, there is, as you guys know, there's a wide range of, of quality of physical therapists out there. And someone tries one physical therapist who didn't know what they were doing, didn't have a clear diagnosis, made them worse. And they just go, yeah, physical therapy is not for me and I'm out. And dentistry is not for me. I'm out. Okay. I just don't believe in dentistry. Yeah. And so ideally it's someone who is educated on that. There are alternatives out there because, you know, these are cash based procedures. And so it's generally harder to get somebody to have buy-in if it's the first time they've ever heard about this procedure. So, you know, some, which is why I educate a lot to try and help people be aware of this. And then it is, they have tried other things where, and hopefully it's non-surgical, but we have a lot of patients come through being like, I had surgery. It did not work. I'm still in pain. And now we've got to deal with that. So they've, they've tried physical therapy and, um, either physical therapy is making them worse. And hopefully they've tried a few different physical therapists or physical therapy is just not getting them to where they want to be. It's, it's helped them, but they've plateaued and they just can't kind of break through that. Yeah. I can't, there's nothing I can do to resolve primary instability of the joint. I can give you movement control and I can help you manage all the banging around and I can give you strategies to slow down. But if you're unstable, you're going to be unstable. Yeah. And, and I tell a lot of patients that, you know, cause we, we deal a lot with neck instability from whiplash and patients will sometimes ask me, can I just do physical therapy for this? And my, my general answer is yes, you can. But what we don't know, and we won't know unless we ever try is some people can regain muscular motor control. They can increase muscular size and strength such that the fascial system can compensate for the ligamentous instability. And in some people with mild whiplash instability, that is okay. And they do great and they do fine. But at some point there is a tipping point where no amount of physical therapy can help you to regain the severe loss of stability because those ligaments are just not doing their job. And so that's a great place where then the injections can come in because now we can help them to regain stability. And then they go back to PT again, cause I'm so bullish on PT. They then go back to PT. So that way they can continue getting stronger, more stable, and then be at the best of both worlds. So what is the state of the state of the science and research supporting these therapies? And I realize, again, we're talking about three and or many very complicated things. And so obviously this is a broad brush, but my sense of these therapies is that they're emergent, but maybe I don't have that right. I mean, do we have really good, robust science supporting that like this stuff actually works? So I'd say probably 80% of what we treat. So specific ligaments, tendons, joints, we don't have a lot of research. 20% we do. And there are a few areas where we have really good level one research. So knee osteoarthritis, we have really good level one randomized controlled trials showing that this stuff works. Carpal tunnel has really good research behind it. Non-orthopedic, but orthopedic adjacent, avascular necrosis of the hip. There's really fantastic research out of France on putting bone marrow inside the femoral head to either stop the progression or delay the progression of avascular necrosis, helping these patients to avoid joint replacements. We've got good, we're starting to get good research in rotator cuff tears. And so we've kind of got these little pockets of like really good research. We also have a lot of terrible, absolutely dog crap, terrible research where we have, we have. So one of the big issues is a lot of the editorial boards for journals that are approving the journals in PRP because PRP is the most studied out of all of these. There's no orthobiologic or generative medicine specialist on most of these boards. And so there is not an expert in the field who is on the editorial board saying this was a well done study for PRP versus not. And so what happens is you get these articles published in JAMA that say PRP doesn't work. But if you actually look at the study, the study was terrible. And so the one thing that has come out in the last probably two, three years is that the dose of platelets matters so much. So if you designed a study with Tylenol for headaches and you just randomly gave people a random dose of Tylenol, some people got five milligrams, some people got a thousand milligrams, some people got 40 milligrams. A study would show that Tylenol doesn't work for headaches and you go, yeah, Tylenol doesn't work for headaches. It's squackery, get rid of it. But there's a dose that we know because it's been studied for Tylenol that this is what you take to have it help most people's headaches. The same thing applies with PRP. So this dose of platelets needs to be at a certain level in order to have a high chance of success at helping people with the main research here is going to be knee osteoarthritis. And so if you have a study that either they don't even count how many platelets, that'd be like giving Tylenol and be like, I don't know how much we gave, but it didn't work. Sorry about your liver. Like, sorry about your liver. Yeah. Yeah. So we have the studies that are either not reporting and counting their platelet dose or they are, but they're way under the dose that has been shown to be effective. And if you don't have an editor at this journal like JAMA that says that, yes, this was good platelet dose or no, this was not good platelet dose. You have crap studies coming in. And then you have someone who does a meta analysis, which is where you take all the studies and then you try to come to a single conclusion. Well, crap in is crap out. You have all these crap studies for PRP because they weren't well done. And now this goes into a big study and they go, look, PRP doesn't work. And so we have really good data in these very narrow slices that we try to apply outwards to other areas. And then we just have a ton of clinical experience. So we know that it works well for shoulder osteoarthritis. We know that it works well for hip osteoarthritis, but we don't have like the good data and the good metrics in a level one controlled trial. We just have that data that we can try to infer over here. And then we have also clinical experience of a lot of docs who have been doing this for a long period of time. This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Element. We're going to talk about the Salty Rebellion. We were just having a conversation about how... How was a private conversation? How to be an actual bonafide rock star if you show up to a party with what? The 36 count Element Sparkling Variety Pack. Have you ever walked around, remember like in college and you like had your little drinks and you like protected your drinks? Yeah, in your case it was like Coors Light. C- maybe, maybe, college. Maybe it was Keystone Ice Dry. That's neither here or there. What's really important is that Element Sparkling now comes in this variety pack, a flat, which is so good. Yeah, it has all the flavors including my personal favorite, Black Cherry, which isn't a flavor that you can get in the powdered version. And I'm telling you, an ice cold sparkling Element on a warm day after a workout while you're in the sauna. At a party. At a party. And they're in like a tall boy can too, so it's not like you're like, oh, I had a little tiny like eight ounce thing. It is a full blown drink. It is so good. And I went over to the university where I work. We were running a camp and I brought a flat for the staff, all the college kids who now are obsessed with Element, the way we're obsessed with Element. And they were just like, yes, it was 90 degrees on the pool deck. They're all crushing a salty Element. I literally, I'm like, oh, I'm a hero. This stuff is so good. So be a hero. Get a flat. Right now, if you order through our link, you can get a free sample Element pack of Element's most popular drink mix flavors. And if you want to party in your mouth, of course, try sparkling. If you want to be the party, try sparkling. Go to drinklmnt.com slash TRS. We literally drink it every day. Every day. This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by our friends at Momentus. I want to talk about lack of parity in our relationship. Well, let's hear it. I give blood twice a year. You don't give blood. Yeah, because if I give blood, I'll die. You have no blood. What we're talking about is Juliet has always been struggling since I've known you. Yeah, with iron deficiency anemia, which I think is extremely common in women and often undiagnosed. And the reason it's such a big issue is that it directly affects your energy levels. Like if you are anemic, you feel lethargic and tired and exhausted. And usually you just chalk those things up to being like busy or having kids or whatever. Or you're sucking on the wrong machine. Yeah, whatever it is. Oh, you don't have any blood cells. Yeah. Well, enter the Women's 3 by Momentus, which is this basically system designed to meet like these sort of essential nutrient needs for women, which is iron. Iron in the morning. Calcium and vitamin D3. And so simple to drop these in. All in forms that are highly bioavailable and easy on your system. You're not going to be like, well, let me eat this frying pan. And I'm going to point out that it's something that we talk about with our daughters a lot because they are related to you and they're both athletic. And one of the things we know is that G has low iron. And so this is a solution for a growing teenage woman to safe levels. And the magic here is consistency. What we just want to point out is we should be viewing these things as foods to supplement if your genetics need a little bit extra, a little boost. But you know, as a growing woman, right, our teens, you have to have all the things on board. And we see a lot of under-fueling, not high-quality foods in teenagers' diets. Newsflash. Yeah, sometimes. So at the very least, put a little iron out in the form in the morning. That'll help. And let's make sure that we have some vitamin D and calcium in the evening. Game changer. And these products were developed, and this sort of stack of products were developed in partnership with our friend and legend on women's health and performance, Dr. Stacey Sims. Yeah, I know. It's one point I knew, Stacey, before you did. Which is just yet another reason why this is an awesome group of products. Yeah, it turns out women are not small men. Thank you, Stacey, for pointing that out to all of us. If you want to go and learn more, go to livemomentous.com slash TRS and use code TRS and save up to 35% at checkout. Yeah, and I mean, I would just like to emphasize, I think sometimes clinical experience gets, like it doesn't get a fair shake often in these conversations, right? Like we're sort of like, well, did this randomized control trial say this? And if there isn't one or if there isn't a good one or a good meta-analysis, then like who cares about everybody's clinical experience? So I just sort of want to put a pin in that. But I guess, could you talk about what your clinical experience is? Like where have you seen, I mean, I think you've mentioned it a little bit, but, you know. Well, look, maybe what has surprised you most about the application? Because I want to, I'll circle back to something I want to talk about. But what has surprised you most about these applications? Because it's interesting that you're like, oh, it works on rotator cuffs. The shoulder isn't that different with that different tissues than some of the other aspects of the movement system. So one of the problems I have is that we're like, we're failing to apply logic and principle to a different thing. Yeah, let's do the studies. But if we know it works on a tendon, isn't a tendon, a tendon, a tendon? Yeah. And where I might, where we might see a little difference is there, there may be, and we might have to have studies to show dosing strategies or post rehab studies on this is weight bearing tendons versus non weight bearing tendons might respond differently to PRP. And the current theory is that once you load that tendon, you're actually going to squish out a lot of the PRP that's injected. And so it may not stay as long compared to an Achilles versus a rotator cuff. And so there might be nuances there, but it's not so significant that it's just like, oh, I heard one doctor say, and he was a podiatrist surgeon who said PRP does not work in the lower extremity. It just, it doesn't work. And my- Seems like a lot of regulatory. Yes. And my experience is completely different from that. So, yes. Well, I read that you actually put all of your patients into like a registry of sorts. Am I right on that? Yeah. So what are you seeing in, you know, you're collecting your own data. And so what are you seeing in your own data? And- What's been surprising. Yeah. And what do you change, you know, how are you changing? Do you find that based on that data, you're sort of changing how you're doing things or how you're thinking about things? Like how does it change your own practice? Yeah. I mean, so the company we work with is called Data Biologics. And we've been with them now, I think, for close to four years. And so almost every patient will get put into this registry where they get baseline scores. And these are all validated scoring. So your ODI, your WOMAC scores, your pain scores, that type of stuff. And then we put in the treatment that we did. And then they get tracked out to five years. I think what has been most surprising to me is we get to take our data across every single patient. So this piece I'll talk about is just every single patient, regardless of age, sex, diagnosis, what I injected, how many treatments they've had, whatever it is. And I had to compare that to the national registry of all of the injections that are in this registry. And at this point, I think there are over 10,000 cases at this point. So it's a good size registry. And on average, our average result is about 25% better than the average in this registry. And I think the big thing that differentiates me here and what I've been most surprised about is my physical exam and my relentless pursuit of figuring out what is the tissue level pain generator. Because if somebody has, and I'll use the shoulder as a great example, if somebody gets an MRI, they've got a rotator cuff tear, and if I was a doc and I really didn't do a physical exam and I just put PRP inside that rotator cuff tear, I've done nothing to actually try to determine is the rotator cuff the cause of their pain or is it something else? We've had a large number of patients who actually have an entrapment of the suprascapular nerve, which can mimic shoulder pain in the rotator cuff region. I had a patient yesterday who had shoulder pain on the outside of the shoulder and was actually coming from a nerve in his neck. He's gone. How could that happen? He has a rotator cuff tear on his MRI. Was that the cause of his pain? No, it was actually a pinched nerve in his neck. And so I think the biggest thing that's been the surprise is just really validating how important that physical exam is and how relentless we are in our pursuit to figure out what structure is painful. Because if I put PRP into that guy's suprasperinatus tendon yesterday, it would not change his pain whatsoever. He would have failed. We would have said PRP doesn't work for rotator cuff tears. And end of story. We put PRP around that cervical nerve root and he's probably going to see a really good response. That's amazing. Yeah. One of the things that is tricky is that I like to say the body doesn't do anything by accident. Two and a half million years of relentless self-healing. Right. And if rotator cuff or a disc took us out, there would be any humans left. Which is, you know what I mean? And yet there's big gaps in what we know to be good practices for the care and feeding of the human being. Do you get enough sleep? Are you outside? All of those things. And then we match that up with the fact that we are really pain avoidant. And when we oftentimes are really fearful of pain, any pain, we register that any pain is evil. And oftentimes our first solution is to dampen that pain by ibuprofen, anti-inflammatories, icing, etc. And one of the things that I've been working on and have been pilloried for is suggesting that some of our first strategies that we reach for for pain often delay this healing response. And I've had a lot of really smart athletes say, hey, what are we doing here? Am I heating? Am I icing? Why are you sticking? Why are you doing this trephanine? Why are you doing this needle? You're restarting the inflammatory process and yet I'm slowing it down with ice. Do you see a lot of, we describe old and cold because people made, they didn't decongest. They didn't sort of spontaneously have enough of the great micronutrients and protein on board. They didn't nurture and there's times where tissues tear. They just, they, they fail. People do dumb stuff and that happens. But it seems to me that there's a few steps that would be useful to have an environment of maximal healing before I had to go and restart that healing. Am I right in that thinking? A hundred percent. A hundred percent. Yeah. We, one of the big things we really try to focus on after a patient undergoes a procedure, sometimes before if we have time, but really afterwards. It is decongestion. It's your, you call it D2R2 because the other one's trademarked. What are you doing? Gold star, Dr. K. Yeah, it is. It is. R2D2 was already taken. Yeah. But we really are focusing on getting as much blood flow into that area as possible because where blood goes, as long as it drains out, you are going to see a positive response in healing. And so. You mean is R reperfusion the word you hate? It's too technical for people. And I noticed it's not even perfusion. Blood flow. It's let's get blood flow back in there. That's what you need to put out a word that explains that besides reperfusion. Just make up a new word, Kelly. Yeah. It's fine. Trust me. This is my life's work. There's got to be a word from Dune you could put in there. So let me phrase this out. When is it appropriate for someone to start to seek these things out? Because I'm always for the shortcut in, right? But I do see that people are like, hey, I did 500 pull-ups for Murph and I sit at my computer and I drink the bourbon and I don't do any self-care and I'm inflamed. And now I'm like, my shoulder hurts. I'm going to get a shot. Right? And I did a cortisone shot. I didn't help. And that put the flames out. And now I stopped all healing. Now I'm going to go get a PRP shot from my, you know, at what point do we have to say, is it all comers or is there, you know what I mean? How do we parse that out? Do you have people that you come in and you fire them or that, you know, they want to be your patient, but you're like, dude, you haven't done the thing. And let me, let me set this up. I'm working with a professional pitcher who is a starting pitcher for a major league baseball team in another country. And if they're sore, the first order of magnitude intervention is to go get a shot, a PRP shot. And like, that is literally what this organization does. Oh, your elbow hurts. Great. We're going to go immediately do this no matter what. That's the sort of standing operating procedure. And I'm always like, Ooh, I think there's a few things we might be missing here. You know? Yeah, that's interesting. This is such a good question. And I think that there's two pieces to it because there is a reactive and I think, and we'll have to park the professional athletes to the side for a second, but I'll touch on them. So there's a reactive part of this orthobiologic world. And there is starting to be really good evidence on a preventative side of this orthobiologic space. And so if, for example, somebody has, again, we've been talking about rotator cuff tear. So let's say they injured themselves at work. They've got a rotator cuff tear. And the first order of business, in my opinion, is let's see what you can get done with first letting your body heal. So somebody comes to me with an acute injury. There's only one paper that I've ever found that shows that PRP, it was lateral ankle sprains, PRP injection within the first week or so after an ankle sprain actually speeds up the initial recovery. I think that only really matters in a professional athlete. You've got someone where every game they miss, they're losing millions of dollars. Sure, do that PRP injection within that first week and let's get them back faster. I think the average person, I think you want to let the body do what it wants to do, which is heal and support the body to heal during that process. Do PT, see how far you get. And then when you've plateaued and you feel like you've tried options and now you're out of options or someone saying, hey, now you need surgery because we have nothing else left for you. That is a great time to come in with the PRP or the stem cell therapy, whatever it is that we do. And let me pause. If I have the money and I don't have the patients, is there a downside to like, you know, going in and being like, dude, I ran an ultra and now my knee hurts? Talk to me, doc. So there's risks with every procedure, right? So you're putting a needle in the body, you're putting a needle inside of a joint that doesn't have a great immune system. And so there's always a risk of infection. There's a risk of hematoma. There's a risk of bleeding. Like there are, they're rare, but there are procedural related risks associated with it. I mean, for the average person, that may not be the end of the world. Obviously, we don't want complications. But again, you start thinking professional athletes, somebody get, well, there was the NFLer who the athletic trainer did a, an injection on the sideline for his rib fracture and pierced his lung and dropped his lung. This is what, two years ago. So again, there's risks associated with these things that we have to think about. What's making me think it is, I just saw someone post, if every MLB player, basketball player, just had PRP in their Achilles proactively, would never tear an Achilles again. Is that, how should I parse through that statement? Because I'm like, wow, so that's our solution now is just to everyone. If I heard that, I'd be like, no way. You get cocaine and steroids. You get cocaine and steroids. You get cocaine and steroids. That seems implausible, but I'd love to hear your point of view on that. So the other piece of that is there's downtime, especially when you have a, a properly dosed PRP procedure. So if you have a weak PRP procedure, you know, those athletes and patients are often back to their baseline activity levels within about a week or so. When you dose it properly. When you dose it properly. And these doses are, are done to stimulate new blood vessel growth. You are probably not back to your regular activity for about four to six weeks. Because it's basically like a major strain, a major strain. We are initiating a full blown autoimmune response. And I don't mean a negative response that our body is saying, let's go. Well, I mean, that's obviously a huge downside for professional athletes because they're trying to heal faster and get back. But, you know, maybe they aren't enjoying the true benefits if they're not actually giving it a chance to work. Correct. Correct. But I feel like I'm doing something. Well, you don't understand. This is elite. Let me ask something about, on this, are there, because we've sort of dropped into the, like, letting it work phase. You know, let's say you've gotten and you're trying to let it work. And are there lifestyle multipliers? You know, is there certain things, I mean, I'm assuming it's yes, but sleep, nutrition, that can, that you recommend people really double down on when they're getting one of these procedures to make the most out of it? Yep. You heal when you sleep. So that is absolutely crucial. And your body wants amino acids to make new collagen, make new proteins. And so really focusing on protein intake is most people are not getting enough. And then. Especially during these genetic times. Yes, because people don't realize that your protein needs go up when you are in these healing times. And then movement and exercise. Get blood flowing into that area. Those are probably the three that I will really emphasize the most. So this is, I'm bouncing around sort of in the timeline of a patient, but are there orthopedic surgeries now, or do you see in the coming years that are common, that might actually be avoidable using these therapies? And which ones would they be? I mean, we all are getting so many orthopedic surgeries now. Yeah. What do you think has the most promise in terms of preventing or prevention? Yeah. So I think I'll answer the flip side of that first. I think the surgeries that are going to stay are when you have full thickness, ligament tears, you've, you know, you've got a full thickness, retracted rotator cuff tear. Those things, if you've got a gap this big, you need a surgeon to come in and take those two pieces and sew them back together. I think where we will start to see a lot less surgery is in the, the smaller injuries. So the partial thickness tears of tendons and ligaments where the, the patient has tried everything. They've had their PT, they've done a steroid injection. None of that's worked. And the surgeon just goes, well, we can just, we can go in and repair it. It's kind of like this, like last ditch, like, ah, blah, here you go. I think a lot of those will start to go away. I think there's going to be a lot less, um, carpal tunnel decompressions because of how well PRP, uh, nerve hydrodisection can work for carpal tunnel. And where I'm really hoping all this goes is a lot less unnecessary back surgery because PRP and stem cell therapy, they look so well in the low back. And, and, and, and part of it is just that the, the, the traditional medical community just goes, ah, physical exams for the low back. Ah, they're not that good. The research isn't that great. So we don't know what's causing your pain, but you've got this disc degeneration. So let's just fuse you. And then patients go, yeah, I'm, I'm worse afterwards. This is no different. I tell my patients low back surgery works fantastic for leg pain. If you've got a pinched nerve from a massive disc herniation and you've got narrowing in the canal where the nerve leaves, and you can't manage that with physical therapy and your epidural injections haven't worked. That's where back surgery works really well. It does not work well for low back pain. It just does not. And so, you know, we can treat the SI joints. We can treat the facet joints. We can treat the discs. There's so many things that we can do. And so I hope that we see a lot less unnecessary back surgery moving forward. For people who are interested in this, either for preventative reasons or because they actually are in pain, which I imagine is a lot of our listeners. How do they... The only, let's be honest. The only reason people are listening to podcasts is they're in pain and they want to talk about a shortage. That's probably true. Yeah. How do people... Because, you know, you're mentioning the FDA and even the FTC had to crack down on some, like, grifters doing some weird stuff here with these procedures. My guess is, like most professions, there's probably more honest and good people doing good work than there are those people, but they always get highlighted. But how do people... I know cost is an issue for people, but how would you go about finding... I mean, obviously absent flying to see you, which I'm sure maybe some of our listeners might be willing to do, but how would someone go about finding a practitioner doing this that they feel that they can have confidence in and it's going to be money well spent and they're going to get the right kind of... How do I choose the right dentist? Exactly. Yes. I think there's probably, you know, I put out an email a while back that was like 10 red flags, you know, on how to choose the right provider. But I think there's probably four of them that are the most important. The first is if the doctor uses stem cells in a vial, in my opinion, that's a huge red flag to walk away. And the reason for that is currently the FDA classifies stem cells from one human and then transferred into another human for an orthopedic reason as a drug. Now, I don't agree that the cell should be regulated the same way a blood pressure medication is. However, that's their current stance. And so the FDA has said this is noncompliant. This is a drug. And then you've got companies and doctors kind of circumventing. And this is a hotly debated topic in the area. But so my current red flag on that is if they say they've got stem cells in a vial, it's probably better to find another provider. So that's the first one. The second one is are they measuring their platelet dosing? So if somebody calls the clinic and they're talking to the front desk staff and they ask like, hey, does the doc like, does he measure platelets? How does he know how much is going in me? All that type of stuff. If they have no answer to that, that's probably a red flag to walk away. Because if if they can't guarantee like every single PRP case I do, we measure those platelets in house. So I know that I am getting the appropriate dose for this patient. And there are a lot of clinics out there who also do that. And then there's a lot who just don't. And I think that's a big differentiator. The third is image guidance. And so there's kind of three ways you can do these injections. One is called palpation guided or some people call that blind. But really it's just, oh, yeah, I feel that right there. And then they stab a needle down to it. And we don't recommend that. It's a little bit more risky and it's nowhere near as effective at being accurate. What, poking guess? What are you? Poking guess. I like that. So the other two ways are with ultrasound and x-ray. And there's benefits to both of them. Sometimes we only need ultrasound for a case. Sometimes we only need x-ray. But at least having some form of image guidance for the doctor to say, yes, I know that I put this PRP directly inside that tear in your supraspinatus. The last one is going to be the physical exam. How much time does this doctor spend with you on your first appointment? If your first appointment with them is 15 minutes long, that is nowhere near enough time to really understand why you're having these symptoms to try to get to the root cause. And to even know if you're a good candidate for this procedure. I've found that a lot of those docs, just whoever comes in, you want PRP, great. Moving on to injection. So a new patient appointment with me is anywhere from an hour and a half to two and a half hours. Because that's just how, and it's not because I'm slow. I'm very efficient. It's just there's a lot to unpack to figure out, one, to hear the story, to listen to that person. And two, to really hone in on what tissues are contributing to pain. And so I think those are probably the four big litmus tests to say, like, do I have a top tier doc? Or do I have someone who's just kind of got skin in the game? And I assume those same principles, and if we have your email, we'll link to it as well in our show notes. But I'm assuming those same principles apply for people seeking this treatment internationally. And I'm assuming people do that because of cost reasons. But it's one of the few things where people, I do seem to hear, like, I've gone to X, Y, or Z place to get SEM cells. And I'm assuming that's from a cost perspective. But would you apply those exact same sort of, you know, red flags to someone seeking to do this internationally? Yeah. So internationally, you know, Mexico, Panama, the Caribbean islands, all those things are going to be outside the purview of the FDA and the FTC. And so out there, they actually can take stem cells from one person, grow them in a lab to hundreds of millions of stem cells, and then inject those back in. And all that's compliant in that country. So that's kind of the big draw for people to leave the U.S. and go get those treatments. But my concern with a lot of these places is it's medical tourism. So they will take basically whoever wants it. There's not really a good screening process on are you a good candidate. And we've had several patients who have come and worked with us after they've gone down there. And so I've gotten a little bit of insight from 10, 15 patients. They don't really do a thorough physical exam. They are deciding what to inject based on your MRI. And so if we take that as one of the criteria for what makes a clinic high quality, not high quality, almost all those places outside the U.S. are not going to be high quality. Now, that doesn't mean that people won't see improvements. It's just that in our clinic, 85% to 90%, depending on what condition we're working with, that percentage of patients will see a significant improvement in their symptoms with our treatments. When you go to a place that doesn't do a good physical exam, I think you're probably going to drop to the 70% range. So 70% of patients will still do great. But you've now got a lot of patients who are spending $30,000 to go down to Mexico to get stem cells, and it doesn't work. And that's huge. Are we starting, as we're wrapping up here, are we starting to see, years ago I read a paper about our abilities to unlock stem cell sort of facilitation by the body. And Matt, are we seeing, we have these killer set of power tools, but is the field advancing, not just in imaging and application, but are we getting better at sort of turning the dials on some of those things so they can have maximum effects on the body? A little bit. You know, I think we're starting to see some literature on that. But what's so hard is that what happens in a Petri dish does not happen in the human body most of the time. What? And so this is a really interesting story. So Arnie Kaplan is the PhD who discovered the mesenchymal stem cell. He passed away a few years back, and he's been a huge mentor to a lot of the really big docs in this field. And probably about seven, eight years ago, he started making a push where he didn't even want the mesenchymal stem cell to be called a mesenchymal stem cell anymore. Because in a Petri dish, he could take that cell and turn it into tendon, into ligament, into bone. But he did more and more research in the human body, and what he found out was that rarely ever happens. So when I inject bone marrow stem cells into someone's rotator cuff tendon, even if that tendon heals on an MRI, the cells that I injected, less than 1% of them actually turned into new tendon tissue. What's happening is that stem cell is going into the body. It is recognizing what has happened in that area. There's damage. It's highly inflamed. Maybe there's low-grade infection. And based on that information, it secretes signaling molecules that tell the cells around it how to heal. This gives me goosebumps every time I talk about this because it just shows how much our body wants to heal when we just give it the right signal. And so I have a hard time with a lot of this new research that's coming out that shows like, oh, yeah, if you give this curcumin, it's going to help the stem cell turn into osteoblasts. And so let's give curcumin after your bone marrow procedure because it's going to help the stem cells turn into bone. That's not happening. And so I'm excited for where it eventually goes, but I think we need a quantum leap forward in how we can measure what's happening with stem cells inside the body as opposed to inside a Petri dish. I love that. That is the future. We could influence the crazy, almost miraculous dance inside the body with a nice back. I love it. I love it, Seth. I love it. It's going to take me to business. Oh, man. Before we let you go, are there like this is rapid fire. Are there like one or two? You may have already mentioned them, but one or two myths about these therapies that you want to make sure everybody knows before we end this podcast. Oh, that's a good one. Here we go. Go. Not my area of specialty. I think the biggest myth that people have is that these are curing something and that all you need to do is just go get a PRP injection and then you can go back to training like crap, eating like crap, sitting with poor posture, not taking care of your tissues. And they'll just never have an issue again. And that's just not the reality. What I tell patients is these injections get you out of the hole. So if you've got a bad knee and you can't do physical therapy and you have really tried physical therapy, you can't do it because the tissue damage is so bad that it is just so painful for you. Let's take that pain down by five or six points so that you can get back into physical therapy because physical therapy is what's going to turn this procedure from helping you for two years into a lifetime. And so I think that's the biggest myth that these are magical injections just going to cure everybody. We need to put stem cells in the drinking water and no one's ever going to have pain. And I just, I think it's just, the needle's gone too far this way. And so I am actually trying to rein people back in to be like, this is not magic, but it is so powerful when done correctly and in the right scenarios. And it allows you to do the other things, you know, like physical therapy to get better. You and I are collabing for next April Fool's Day and we're doing stem cell shots. I like that. We're going to just blow up the internet. You and me. We'll have forgotten about this. Well, Dr. Timmermans, on that note, where can people learn more about you? I do want to suggest they follow you on social media. It is a world-class education. You've done such a service. And let me just say, you're really good at social media, my friend. And so, you know, I want people to follow you because if you're interested, you can be really well educated in these micro doses of your cell. And I think that's a lot of people who are interested in these micro doses of your social media about all these things. I don't know anyone else who's doing as well as you. I appreciate that. Yeah. YouTube is probably, I think, one of the best places for people to go because YouTube is, what, the number two search engine in the world. And so, it's nice. You can go on the channel and you can search. And I think at this point, I've got 1,600 or 1,700 videos that people can go, you know, try to find something that's a little more applicable to them. I'm probably most active on Instagram. And so, those are the two big places that people can find. And what are your handles there? Drew Timmermans, I think, or Dr. Drew Timmermans, I think. One of those two on Instagram. And then Drew Timmermans on YouTube. And then what's your website in case people want to take a trip and get some work directly from you? That is regenerativeperformance.com. And where are you based? Gilbert, Arizona. Awesome. Nice and hot. It is nice and hot. Thank you so much. I think this is going to be extremely helpful and informative for so many people. So, really grateful for you being here today. It's really fascinating. We learned so much. We hugged out the last time at the conference. Yeah. And I just want to say it is, I'm fanboying because I'm such a fan of the work you're doing and how you're educating the rest of us about how, what are the other sort of potential tools to restore function to people. And I really appreciate it, my friend. Well, I will echo that fanboy because I remember when I took your level one mobility course up in Cali in 2014, how nervous I was just to say hi because I was huge fanboy. So, that's mutual under. Amazing. Well, this is awesome. I think it's going to be great and so helpful because nobody's talking about this. Awesome. Thank you both so much.