 b inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert inadvert lines. It's very nuanced and there's so much involved in public health. So in a lot of ways, we are doing very good by our people. And then in some ways we're not. Anyone who's listened to this could agree that what we're doing isn't working. This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Laird Superfood. I want to explain the hierarchy of Laird in my life. Let's hear it. Okay. So first we have the creamer, which is like one of the best. Yeah, it's just a staple. Like it is always in our coffee drawer and so tasty and yummy. And one of the things I love about it, I sometimes work out an empty stomach, but now I'm fed and minerals, good fats. It's super tasty. Yeah. And they also have a version of it that has extra protein in it. Yes. So now we're moving down the hierarchy of needs, right? The Maslow-Laird connection. Okay. So you've got the regular creamer, then the protein creamer. Which again, plant-based protein, if you are afraid of whey because it hurts your belly, we understand. And there's actually a lot of athletes who are like that. This solves that problem. And not only that, it's just one of the best ways we know to get some calories and protein on board before we work out. Yeah. And if you're traveling, sometimes I rip out the carbs, but keep that high quality food fat, that coconut fat. It's so good. Plus low protein fed sort of. Okay. So what's next on your hierarchy? Thank you. Then I have the, I am traveling, I'm trapped. I have instant latte. Yeah. And what's so great about the instant latte is that I have lately, maybe it's my advanced age, but I refuse to drink crappy hotel coffee. Yeah. It just burns up our stomach and we feel so sad. It pisses me off to spend like $50 on crappy coffee. Yeah. And then enter instant latte, which by the way, comes in like 10 different amazing flavors. There's even a reduced sugar version. If you're a little like sugar conscious, I know that's not what you drink. It's not enough sugar, but what I'll tell you is that that coffee to go is so good and so easy. You can always find hot water and you're assorted. And I just think that, um, what's the expression that sort of rainbow of effect, the, the options, the whole spectrum of coffees really just sorts me out. True fact. I've been there from the start. I'm so happy. This is the evolution. If you want to learn more, go to layered superfood.com slash TRS and use code TRS 20 for 20% off and free shipping. Dr. Jessica Nurik, welcome to the Ready State podcast. Thanks so much for having me. I'm excited to be here. So I think I speak for both of us in saying that we have been really looking forward to speaking with you and are big fans of your work and followers of all the things you're doing and think you are such an important voice, um, in what is a pretty crazy time right now. So thank you so much for being here. Yeah, absolutely. Um, Juliet and I have begun a conversation in our small way in public health and in full disclosure, my grandfather was the director of a hub, public health, public health, uh, or what's the right word? Department. Department in a huge county in Washington. And very early on, you know, in the summers I would visit him and I'd be dragged into the, you know, the department of public health where he's the director. And I saw the implications of strong public health in his immigrant rich community where we were, uh, this is in Washington and Wenatchee and we would, you know, he would pull me in a car. We would stop. He would be like, stay here. He'd go into the bar and give the guy his tuberculosis shot. I mean, who is this like very personal? Um, we have been working on trying to get kids moving and adults moving for a long time. And we always feel like this public health thing is so amorphous and so large in scope that it's hard for people to wrap their heads around what we mean when we talk about public health and all of the sort of various stakeholders in here. Um, what I'm hoping we can do to start off with is can you give us a little bit of an overview of where we are just kind of as a nation in terms of public health? Because if Juliet and I say, look, we've, you know, this fitness and wellness industry is a trillion dollar industry and it doesn't really doesn't purport to serve or isn't purporting to serve the people it it's pretending to. And that we, we, I think this recently, uh, we saw the first dip and maybe obesity just because of GLP ones, you know, a little dip and trim, but for us, we feel like every other metric doesn't seem to be working very well. Am I right in that term or in kind of in that thinking that we're, we're not really doing very, very good work by our people? Yeah, I think, um, as you say, it's, it's very nuanced and there's so much involved in public health. So in a lot of ways, we are doing very good by our people. And then in some ways we're not right. So public health kind of looks at, um, different health factors that impact everybody in the country. Uh, and so it looks at things like keeping our food and water safe. And if we look at the safety of our food and water, we actually rank towards the top of the world. We have a very safe, we're not getting sick from like foodborne illness all the time. We, we really take for granted when you have water out of the tap that it's going to be safe. Um, those things directly are, are public health based, right? We have scientists and public health experts really working behind the scenes to ensure that all of that is happening, tracing foodborne illness and those types of things. Um, from an infectious disease standpoint, infectious disease deaths have decreased significantly over the last century, two centuries, even even the last like half a deck or half a century. Um, and so from that perspective, we've been doing really good, um, work there too. Um, at, as kind of the result of many of us living a lot longer life expectancy increasing, um, we're not dying from infectious disease anymore. Um, we are seeing more and more chronic disease. And, and my research work was really in the prevention of chronic disease. So I've been kind of working in this space for the last 15 years. Um, and so there's certainly it wanted to function of living longer, but two, it's definitely a function of our environments. It's a, it's a function of our food environments and, um, and you know, our, our, uh, built environment, which is kind of like how you walk and exercise your, your ability to exercise and those types of things. And in those respects, we haven't done a great job, right? So a lot of the factors that go into, um, ensuring that people are, you know, helping people to make the right choices for their health. We're not really setting a lot of people up for success in that way. Um, and so, so that's where, um, there's a lot of room to be critical. Um, and I think a lot of us are critical of those areas. One of the things I'd love for you to explain is sort of the difference, which I think is a really important difference since we're starting with this public health conversation is the difference between individual health optimization and public health. And as a backstory here, while Kelly and I do think in some ways, in some of the work we do, we dip our toe into trying to help, um, people on a more public health, you know, public health basis, really what we do at the Ready State, the most of the work we do coaching people at our gym and helping people through our work at the Ready State is actually really more individual health optimization. And can you talk to us about the difference here? Because I think those two things have gotten very muddled in today's conversation about, you know, our, our public health. And I know this is something you've addressed before, but if you could talk a little bit about the difference between public health and individual health optimization. Yeah. Yeah. I think, I think you're hitting on something really important that I didn't actually realize, you know, a lot of us have conflated those two things. And, um, I think a big part of it is we just haven't had the best communications from a public health perspective for a long time in terms of like meeting people where they are to explain kind of what public health is. But, um, public health is really the, the, it's about the conditions that shape your choices. Um, so I think, you know, I like to think of it as, um, shaping your choices before you're even able to make those choices. Right. And then, and then individual health is a good example. I'll just kind of use, um, food for example. So I'm a dietitian and I have a PhD in nutrition science. And so, you know, if I'm working with you one-on-one on what is your optimal diet, I'm obviously going to like look at all of your, um, health issues. And if you have any health issues and like extenuating circumstances, but overall for the general population, there's some like pretty basic guidelines we could give, right? Like eat more fruits and vegetables, meet your fiber intake guidelines, meet your fiber needs, meet your protein needs, um, eat mostly whole, like nutrient dense foods, um, and not as many kind of, um, nutrient poor ultra processed foods. Those are kind of like some, some guideposts that we would give from a public health perspective. We still want to give those recommendations and we do through things like the dietary guidelines, but what we're looking at is more of the systems that shape those choices. So if you're thinking about food, for example, what are some of the policy-based things that we can change to make sure that people have those, um, have, have accessibility to those foods? Um, so for example, right now our food environment is really based and really built for profit and not really people's health. So we've really built a food environment where we're very focused on these monocrops and we're focused on things like corn, wheat, and soy. And the reason for that is because they're very profitable, right? We, we, we are able to export those, um, and make a lot of money off of them. Um, and so we don't really focus on kind of subsidizing and, and, you know, prioritizing, um, a variety of things like fruits and vegetables and legumes and things like that. And so most of our agricultural subsidies go to those commodity crops, corn, wheat, and soy. And actually we, not even all of that is for human feed. A lot of that is for, um, like 40% of corn goes towards fuel and 40% of corn goes towards animal agriculture. Which leaves about 20%, you know, for humans and, and the vast majority of low nutrient all to processed foods. That's kind of the basis of those low nutrient all to processed foods, right? So we're kind of artificially making those foods cheaper and then making produce, um, and the foods that we would recommend as nutrition professionals a bit more expensive. And so that makes them a bit more inaccessible to people. Um, so thinking through those agricultural policies and how can we actually make these foods more accessible for people looking at local food systems and strengthening local food systems, um, in order, because a lot of people, millions and millions of people in this country live in what we term food deserts, um, which are areas of the country that don't have ready accessibility to fresh produce, fresh fruits and vegetables. It's very difficult for them to get access to them. They have tons of access to fast food or corner stores that have these packaged ultra processed foods, but it's more, more difficult for them to get, um, you know, fresh produce. And so each of those barriers just makes it less likely that somebody is going to adopt those healthy habits, right? And so when we're thinking about public health, it's how can we get this, um, how can we take care of everybody? So if you think about, um, like the population, you hear a lot about like over 50% of Americans have some sort of chronic health condition, right? And 30% of them are dealing with two or more chronic health conditions. And those, that's very real. Um, you see a lot of comparisons between the United States and other countries in terms of our life expectancy and our obesity rates. And that's, those are important comparisons, but you can actually do those comparisons right here in the United States. You don't have to look at other countries. You can go by state, you can go by income. If you look at high income versus low income, there's, there's a, um, a study out that shows an almost 15 year life expectancy age gap between the highest and lowest income earners for men and a 10 year life expectancy age gap for women. So when you are thinking about public health, you're thinking, how can I improve conditions for the people struggling the most? Um, and so, so if you look at America, most of the time that's low income and it's also racial demographics, so minority populations, and how can I improve conditions for them? How can we get them adequate food, housing, um, you know, clean water, uh, and all of those things that kind of healthcare access, um, all of those things that go into kind of building a healthier population at the population level versus the individual level? Now I, uh, I'm a classically trained physical therapist. Um, I'm trained to be thinking about the person, the environment, their needs. The internet really wants a quick solution to the shoulder problem. Show me the one thing, the trick, obviously it's just a trick. That's the reason I have low back pain. And it's a complex psycho emotional, highly subjective, very individualized experience where we have to understand all these pieces. And I bring that up because I feel like there's a, a, uh, sort of a similar experience to you. Your PhD is in cardiometabolic health. And when you're looking at preventing the, the sequela of problems from inactivity, sleep, lifestyle and trying to have people live lives better, more completely with less disease. It seems to me that that's a complex nuance aspect. I haven't really heard you talk about your research a little bit, but that has to set you up for a while. It's more complicated than removing a single food item or eating a fewer less Doritos. Am I, am I right in sort of framing that for you? Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. I, I hear you on the, on the nuance and the people really want a very quick fix. That's for sure. Um, that's why whenever anyone hears what I do, the first question is, oh, what supplement should I be taking? You know, cause it's like, we really do just want that like, diet, exercise, that's, that supplement. Yeah. And I mean, this is a good point in terms of cardiometabolic health, but just health in general for the, for the individual. If you're thinking about health in general and like from a wellness perspective, I mean, there's a lot of different kind of buckets that you look at, right? You look at like diet and nutrition, you look at physical activity. Um, you look at sleep and stress reduction and, um, access to healthcare and preventive healthcare and then substance use, right? And so all of those different buckets are there and, and you kind of work within all those different buckets and all of them directly impact our health. Um, and then from a public health perspective, um, each of those buckets also have policies that we could be enacting and we could be putting forth, um, to help people, um, have a chance at making those, the best choices for those buckets. Um, and so, so that's kind of where my trajectory went. So, so my research was really, um, initially focused on the individual. So how can I get Bob, right? Who is at risk for type two diabetes, who's a prediabetic, how can I reduce his risk of diabetes? And we have, we actually have very good research on that, right? From a nutrition and health perspective, like how can we reduce risk of that type two diabetes and cardiovascular disease? As I started to get into the research, I realized that we did already have a lot of good information. The biggest issue was behavior change and it was, it was looking at the behavior change research and how do we get people to a diet? Right. This is the thing, isn't it? It really is. And so, so when you do that, that's, that's why I, um, my research was really focused on what we termed easily adoptable strategies. We were looking at like, what is the like minimum viable thing we can get people to do that can actually have a meaningful impact on their risk reduction for something like diabetes. Um, and so we would use things like a fiber supplement or a 15 minute post meal walk to, to kind of lower, um, postprandial hyperglycemia. And, and we started using these things and looking at like what, what, what's actually like making an impact. Um, and as I did that, as I got more into the research and thinking of, okay, you know, we're using these easily adoptable strategies, how do we get people to adopt them? It's almost impossible when you're looking at like barriers to, to change, um, to not look at the systems kind of surrounding us. Right. Because, you know, and especially if you get into the research of like disparities in the U S and like who's struggling with their health the most and who's not struggling. Um, and you tend to find that the people who are not struggling the most, again, when we're looking at the data across the board are the people who have access to buying continuous glucose monitors and, you know, 90, $120 colostrum supplements, you know, in the, in the kind of the wellness space where they're getting sold all of these products to kind of optimize their health. When you're looking at public health, those are actually the people who need our help the least. Um, and, and so, so when you're trying to kind of like solve this health issue in the country, we're trying to look at like, how can we help everybody out? And that doesn't mean that that's not helping everybody because if you help the kind of the, um, most needy and the, and the most at risk, you're helping the entire country. It's kind of like a rising tide lifts all boats. Right. So you mentioned earlier, uh, you just mentioned it in passing, but the dietary guidelines, and there's definitely a subset of people on the internet who love to sort of blame all of our problems on the dietary guidelines. And I'm, I'm pretty sure they've changed frequently over the years, and I'm pretty sure nobody's actually even following them. But could you talk about sort of the history of the dietary guidelines, um, and what they are currently? And then, you know, and I know that you've got a lot of data at the ready about how much we are not following them. And I just want to suck this up for everyone. One piece is that I, when, whenever we're having these kinds of conversations, I always think of people are picturing adults and I want us to make sure that we're picturing kids too. So if you, an adult isn't following the guidelines, as we have teenagers and I can tell you, they're not following the dietary guidelines. We cannot cram enough fruits and vegetables down our children's gullets and get them enough fiber. Look, that's a battle that we have every day. So I just want to just frame just a little filter on that as we kind of go into this. Yeah. So, um, the dietary guidelines started in the eighties, I believe, don't quote me on that, but I'm pretty sure they started in the eighties. And, uh, and the, the goal really was, um, to kind of formalize all of the nutrition science research, bring it all together and kind of give the best advice for the general population. Right. And, and it's very important to understand that like everybody is going to have individual needs cause we're all, we're all individuals. Right. And so, um, you know, for example, some of us can tolerate gluten and others can't tolerate gluten, those types of things. But at a population level, this was supposed to be like, what are the guidelines that are going to be, you know, best for the, for the whole population? Um, the, the first iteration of it was a pyramid that most people are very familiar with. I think at this point, especially from social media, um, it had grains on the bottom and then it kind of built up from there and then it had, you know, protein and fruits and vegetables. And then at the very top was like sweets and fats, um, kind of telling you like to eat those sparingly. Um, and that was the first iteration that was there until 2005 when they changed the pyramid, they still made it a pyramid, but they changed kind of the whole grains on the bottom to, um, like, uh, sections on the pyramid. Um, like, uh, very evenly distributed sections. I don't know how to explain it in my voice without, without a visual, but, um, essentially it still had all those same food groups. So the food groups actually haven't changed. They've, they've been pretty consistent. Um, and, uh, that changed under the Obama administration in 2011, they changed it from a pyramid to a plate. Um, the idea was that a plate would be more, um, you know, people would understand it better because the problem with the dietary guidelines is that no one, as you mentioned, no one followed the guidelines. Um, so, you know, research from around that time when they made that chain showed that less than 10% of the, of Americans even followed the guidelines. Um, and if they did, they would be far better off. So it's, it's really interesting in this narrative that like the dietary guidelines are the problem because like at the end of the day, no one's following the guidelines and the guidelines I would actually argue are not, aren't even back then were not that bad. I do think that, you know, for a lot of people, they don't need as many grains as was recommended in those guidelines. Um, but if you, sorry. Yeah. Um, but if you look at even today, the guidelines, um, recommend a kind of a very similar amount of grain. The visual is different, but the, but the amount is there. And, and the grains portion is, um, really the most variable cause that's kind of the, the, the biggest variability with people. If you're really, really active, you're going to eat more carbohydrates. If you're not as active, you need less. Um, but yeah, so they changed it in 2011. It's been my plate ever since. So what is that? Like 14 years? 14 years. Some less. Oh yeah. So 14 for 14 years has been, it's been a plate and, um, the recommendations are pretty solid. It's half, it make half your plate fruits and vegetables. Um, you have a grains group, you have a protein group. And if you get into the guidelines, it says vary your protein between animal and plant-based proteins, um, vary your, uh, your grains, make at least half of them, whole grains. These are all in the guidelines. And then also a dairy group, which I think we could argue if that's necessary or not, because there's not really any unique, nutrients in the dairy group. But, um, I think that the issue with the guidelines is that they're, they take some truth, which there is truth that, um, industry, unfortunately lobbied for the lobbied for changes in the guidelines, those changes. And we should maybe talk about what those were. So they, they weren't as drastic as what people kind of portray them to be, but they did kind of water down the language. So like the dairy industry were huge lobbyists, the meat industry were huge lobbyists because forever we've recommended, uh, to decrease saturated fats. That's what the, the, um, the, the nutrition research has really shown. And that's obviously not a great thing for, for the meat industry. Um, so, so they lobbied hard. And if you look at how we kind of, and, and obviously the food companies as well. Um, and if you look at how we kind of like promote the guidelines, we always tell you what to eat in terms of food. So we'll say, eat more fruits and vegetables, eat more, um, you know, meats and beans, eat more dairy products. But when we tell you what not to eat, what to decrease, we always do it in nutrients rather than foods, right? So we'll say decrease the amount of saturated fat you're eating, decrease sodium levels, decrease, um, added sugars. And I do think that that has a little bit of industry influence into it because it's, it's a little bit more obscure for people to think about nutrients rather than just foods. Um, but yeah, to your original point, the dietary guidelines, um, are, are there to be kind of a baseline for what we think can be a healthy eating pattern for most people based on current evidence. Um, but the vast majority of Americans still to this day, over 90% don't follow them. And before, Julia has a question, but be more specific for me because for example, my understanding is that people don't really eat vegetables. Can you like give any like numbers or do people eat fruit? You know, because we, we always were like, Hey, I don't think it's the apples and the bananas, the sugar and the apples and bananas. That's causing us to be, to die early and to live miserable lives. But can you give us even that example? Cause I think you're right. I, I don't want to ask my kids, you want to go out for some salt and fat after this. I mean, we don't, we don't do that. How about a snack? You know, Johnny, um, help us understand a little bit more of like when you say the fruits and vegetables piece, how many people aren't doing that? Sure. Nearly 95% of Americans aren't meaning fiber intake guidelines. So 95% is that like 30 grams a day? Uh, for, for men, it's 38 grams, men under 50, it's 38 grams per day. Um, and for women, it's 25 grams per day. And yeah, so the vast majority of us don't, don't meet those. Um, over 90% of Americans don't meet, uh, vegetable intake guidelines. Um, over 50% of Americans are eating too much added sugar than what's recommended. 70% of Americans are eating more calories than what, uh, they need. Um, so that's, that's what we know currently in terms of like what people are consuming. And then you have to ask yourself why, why are so many Americans not needing evidence-based nutrition recommendations? Um, and that's when, you know, my brain automatically goes to, well, 70% of our food environment is low nutrient and not necessarily, not necessarily low nutrient, but ultra processed foods. Right. And, um, so if you have a food environment, that's really like set, it's basically set up for you to fail. I just want to read a text that I got from my daughter last night. This is my 20 year old who is amazing chef, loves to cook. Um, and this is from our 17 year old or 16 year old who texted her and said, our fridge right now is giving famine because. So I don't know your kids are a little, but I don't know if you've ever heard this, uh, this, this critique that teenagers give parents like us, which is that we live in an ingredient household. Um, and an ingredient household means you have a lot of like things that actually have to be cooked or made in order to eat, right? You can't just open them and start eating them immediately. So you can eat eggs right away. This is the battle that we're always fighting with our teenagers as being an ingredient household. Right. That's so funny. And I think to your, you really make the point that, uh, oftentimes, you know, I think we are, anyone who's listening to this could agree that what we're doing isn't working and that people feel frustrated with the system. Yeah. So this leads me into this, uh, next topic, which is going to be a doozy, I think. Um, and you know, you obviously have been very critical of the make America healthy again, movement or Maha. And it's been really interesting for us to sit on the sidelines of this because we actually have some friends and people that we know through our work and otherwise who are some, you know, supporters. And they, I think feel like it's the first time that these problems that I think we all agree, you know, all agree are, are a big issue. You know, people are sick, they're struggling, they're not able to access basic, basic healthcare. You know, there's a lot of problems, you know, again, horrible food environment, ultra processed foods everywhere. Um, and so I think that they often feel like this is the first time that these things are being discussed in, in sort of a, you know, a big national conversation and then being amplified by social media. And that has gotten many of them very excited. Um, I certainly have my own feelings about that, especially having been directly involved through our nonprofit standup kids with Michelle Obama's let's move campaign. Um, but I guess, I guess I'll just start off on this topic on which we could go very deep on. What do you think the Maha movement is getting right? And where, you know, sort of, and this is again at 30,000 feet, cause we can talk about a lot of subtopics, but what do you think they're getting right? And what do you think they're getting wrong? Yeah, I think that, um, what they're getting right is the problem, uh, largely, they're largely getting the problem right. I think that they've, what Maha has been able to do because they relied so heavily on social media, which was a brilliant strategy was to really be able to get a lot of people who, as you say, maybe have never been really paying attention or focused on this particular topic or, you know, thinking through these types of problems. Right. And, and, and again, paying attention to policy around it. Um, they are now they've been able to capture the interest of people who, in a really bipartisan way are, um, looking around and seeing the food environment that we have and seeing the health of Americans and, and, you know, the chronic disease rates and the obesity rates and, and saying, you know, what, what, what's happening? Like something's got to change. What gives? Yeah. Yeah. And I think that that's, you know, I, no one can really argue with the idea that, you know, if, if somebody is trying to argue that we're really supporting our people, like that's just not really a evidence-based arguments, right. In terms of their health. Um, and so I think that, I think what they get right is largely the problem. I will say oftentimes they will overstate the problems. So, um, RFK junior, for example, will say something like one in three American children have diabetes. And when the actual, um, real number is less than 1% of American children have diabetes. Right. And so he'll, he'll kind of like capture people who already are believing that there's an issue and there is an issue and kind of make it and like act like it's even high more than it is. Um, but I, I really do think that what they are getting right is the issue is the fact that we're not, really taking care of, um, our, the health of our country. What I think they get wrong largely is the causes of the issue. And then because if you get the causes wrong, um, you're bound to get the solutions wrong and you're bound to, um, implement solutions that aren't targeting the actual issue. Um, and, and, you know, in the best case, and then in the worst case could actually cause real harm. This episode of the ready state podcast is brought to you by our friends at momentous. And today we are really excited to talk about a new product or a group of products that they launched in partnership with our dear friend, Dr. Stacy Sims called the women's three. One of the things I'm going to just out our family here. There's a little bit of a history of anemia in our family. Yeah. Iron deficiency anemia to be exact. Iron deficiency anemia. I am so thrilled that we have a really safe, highly bioavailable source of iron. Now as a solution that you take in the morning and then calcium and D3 in the evening. Yeah. And, and it has, uh, this, this iron has a little bit of vitamin C in it, which helps with absorption. And apparently this type of iron is really easy on the gut, which can be one of the problems as someone who's had to take a bunch of iron in the past. Someone who licks a frying pan every morning. Yeah. I mean it, um, a lot of iron really is hard on the gut and makes you feel poor. There's a couple of things that we want to solve with this. We do see that people have gotten the message that they're loading, but having, making sure that you're getting enough vitamin D and calcium to support that loading really does matter. The I've seen research around simple calcium supplementation and how it literally calcium and vitamin D decreases bone fractures and runners, high level runners. So what we're seeing is that your body's calling for this. You may not have the best available solution or it's difficult to eat these, some of these things. Yeah. But I mean, I think this stack is, you know, designed to support energy, um, which is definitely lost if you're anemic or have iron deficiency. How would you know? Bone health and just overall longevity. Um, and the other thing that's really cool about this momentous is launching a program called change the ratio and they're committing a half million dollars to, um, women's scientific research, which is just like an amazing commitment. They're making as part of this launch of this product. I don't know what you're, what you're conventionally about all the research has really helped men because it's been all been done on men. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. You're here. Welcome. You're hitting right on the point. Yeah. So it's, uh, it's an honor to be a part of this. If you have a woman in your family, chances are you do highly recommend this new stack. Go to live momentous.com slash TRS and use code TRS and save up to 35% at checkout. This episode of the ready state podcast is brought to you by element. I have not ended my love affair with lemonade. No, it is so good. In fact, I want to, I think we should talk about this as a perfect time to talk about our feelings and our relationship. Let's hear it. The lemonade element. Are you still mad that I gave four packets away to our friend? Yes, that's, that's one. Four sachets. And you have your, you have a college daughter home. You have another daughter and they are like casually just grabbing lemonade. I don't think they've earned it. I don't think they deserve it. No. I'm like, you can have the old flavors. Yeah. The lemonade is for adults. Let's just say we like it so much that we're all feeling a little territorial about our, our lemonade element. And you know, one of the things I love so much about it is it does have this nostalgic taste of, you know, that kind of, you know what I'm going to do. I'm going to go ahead. That kind of powdered lemonade. I'm going to find a hose, a warm hose in our neighborhood and pull out that lemonade. I got you. I'll put a wooden spoon. I'll mix it up with a wooden spoon. Lemonade element would make warm hose water. Ultimately drinkable. It's so good. Look, we're in the summer months. If you're an athlete, you're training hard up your salts. If you're reaching for that sweet thing or caffeine in the afternoon, do yourself a favor, start with some element. Or if you're just like us, where unless I'm bored with water. Yeah. Unless water is. That water is beneath me. We sometimes struggle to just drink plain water for whatever reason. If you're like us, just add a little element to it. It's amazing. The lemonade is so good. You will sleep better. Your tissues will feel better. I cannot stress enough that if we can put better hydration into your tissues, you will have less pain and soreness. And also, lemonade is a limited time flavor. So, don't miss out. You just shut your little lemon mouth. Can't take it. Right now, if you order through our link, you can get free sample pack of elements, most popular drink flavors. If you want to party in your mouth, you know what we're going to say. Try the sparkling element. It's so good. Go to drinklmnt.com slash TRS. Say it, Jay. We literally drink it every day. Every day. You're a very serious person with a serious background, a PhD. No one sets out to become sort of a explainer of health propaganda, of translating research. We just take aside for a second, you know, the sort of the topics and your expertise. How did you come to become sort of a counterpoint just to help us understand the research? Because I mean, my childhood dream was not to be like Mr. Stretch. Like that was like the worst thing I could possibly. You're a stretching artist. I am a stretching artist. Thank you. Love Island. And I, you know, I don't, I don't think I ever set out. Like it was just like, I had to talk about a set of problems so that I could get to the thing. And I had to become say, Hey, we, no one is actually can get into these positions and their bodies actually don't do what every physician, every chiro, every physio says their body should be able to do. So we have to kind of create this, this solution so we can actually get to the problem. That's how I kind of got started as saying, Hey, no one knows any of this. How did you start making content? I mean, you are, I would say the, the queen of the hockey stick right now in terms of, you know, I, how do you set out to, or did you set out to, you know, become the voice of reason in terms of translating research instead of health propaganda? Yeah. It's, um, I, so I, uh, was a professor at the university of Nevada. I was a tenure track professor back in 2016 in my first year. And, um, I was teaching in the nutrition department. Um, I was starting to build up a research lab there and there was a new app out called Periscope. I don't know if you remember that, but it was, it was, it was like, it was big for like eight months or something, but it went away. Um, and when that was at that exact time, um, someone encouraged me to go on because, and just teach nutrition topics. Cause I was like, I was teaching to my students, but you know, I could go on and reach thousands of people online versus just a couple hundred in my classroom. And so I went on, um, and I was doing that for a couple of months and I got an incredible amount of pushback from colleagues and former colleagues, um, about being on the internet. And so I remember that feeling myself. It really speaks to, for the longest time, it was very frowned upon to go where people are going for information. It was very frowned upon to go on social media. Um, one of my mentors, he was made making fun of me at one point and being like, how was your, how's your vlog doing? Like, like making fun of me for being a little social media presence. Right. Yeah. And so, um, I, I got off, I stopped doing it cause I was a first year tenure track professor and I was like, you know, I'm trying to build a career here and I'm not going to like put myself in a position where, you know, it could, it could hurt my career. So I do think that that was a real issue for us, particularly in science and public health. Um, cause that was, that was pervasive at that time. And so we lost a lot of years and a lot of traction kind of getting evidence-based messaging out there where people were going for information. Um, and so anyway, I got offline for a long time in 2022, I was pregnant with my daughter. I had my son at the end of 2019 and then I had my daughter in 2020 at the very end of 2022. And between that time, you know, TikTok came out, the pandemic happened, lots of people were online. And I saw this big difference between when I had my son and when I had my daughter in terms of the misinformation that was like targeting me as a, as a pregnant woman. Um, and I saw a lot of misinformation, particularly in pregnancy nutrition. And, um, so that's what brought me to social media in 2022. So I started going on just being like, Hey, this isn't right. Like, because it's, I mean, we're such a vulnerable population, right? Like when you're going through pregnancy, your new parents, which, you know, plays into Maha too. That's it's many of Maha supporters are people like I felt when I was pregnant. And it's like, we just want to do what's best for our kids and ourselves. And, um, and so anyway, I, that's what brought me to social media. I was really focusing on that space. Um, cause I was also in that space at that time. And last summer, when I saw the Maha movement kind of taking shape because it was just my exact area of expertise, I think, because I had studied chronic disease prevention and then I had gotten into more of a policy based, um, and how we can like affect policy change in order to improve people's health. And in order to decrease chronic disease, um, I really saw how the narrative on social media was really being manipulated and I just wanted to provide some context for people who maybe hadn't had the opportunity to hear a different perspective or an evidence-based perspective. Um, and so that's, that's what I started doing. And I started just explaining public health and explaining nutrition science. Um, and that's how my account really grew was, was from there. Yeah. And I think I've, I've heard you say that you actually, uh, you know, put some of the blame on the sort of erosion on trust in science on scientists who haven't always done the best job of actually communicating the work they're doing. Um, and, you know, often getting, uh, they're just not even in the conversation. So if you're not even, you know, if everybody's going to social media now to get their health information and the experts aren't even there and in engaging in the conversation, then, you know, that's just seems to be a recipe for misinformation and disinformation. Yeah. I mean, a hundred percent. I, that plays into kind of what I was talking about in 2016 when we couldn't go, you know, it was frowned upon to go to social media and Kelly, you said you felt the same way. Um, you know, and, but it also speaks to scientists in general, um, write in a language that's not accessible for people, right? They write in very, a lot of jargon. They publish their work for other scientists, not for the public. They publish it behind paywalls. Um, so you have to pay $80 or something like that to, to even access a scientific article a lot of the time. And then if you access it, again, information can be available, but not accessible. Like if I can read a scientific article in an area that I'm not even, that that's not my area. And it's very difficult for me to get through, even as someone with a really advanced science background. And so, um, I think that we take, it's very easy to, because we weren't going to where people are, you know, and we do, we have always had science communication, but even that communication has been published on like random websites that no one goes to and no one reads or pamphlets that people aren't really reading. Um, and, and we just haven't had a strong presence in places where people actually go for information and for better or worse right now, that social media. Um, and so I do think that because of that, uh, it was very easy for kind of other actors to kind of own the narrative and manipulate the narrative and, and really pit scientists and public health experts as kind of these like, you know, corrupt people instead of like the vast majority of scientists I know really get into it because they want to help people. And they, they really like they're in like, they're inquisitive people. They want to ask questions and they want to like solve problems. Um, but you know, we're not the best communicators often. Um, and so I do think that like we, we have to take some of that blame too, and we have to figure out how to reach people where they are. I just, before you jump in, I just have to think I'm picturing the big cardio metabolic research PhD student, uh, cabal that's making tens of dollars and, uh, trying to subvert people, you know, um, it's silly. Go ahead. Well, no, I was just going to say that, um, my dad, uh, was one of the first and early climate scientists at NCAR in Boulder and then at NASA for the remainder of his career. And he and his colleagues were thrust into a very strange position when it came to client, climate science, because, you know, they were just, you know, guys like my dad who tries to, you know, cultivate looking like Einstein and doing like deep research, hiding out in his office and, you know, doing really impactful work. Um, but they didn't really have, I mean, I guess besides Al Gore, they didn't really have a spokesperson who was out there trying to really sort of, you know, translate this information in a way that would make people understand what was going on and make them care. Um, and now I feel like we have the same thing happening, you know, in health and wellness. Um, we always say, we always say climate scientists really paved the way for what's happening right now. Thank you, Warren Westcombe. Doctor. Thank you, guys. Uh, so I did want to, just because you mentioned the, the new moms and that particularly vulnerable population, we've got a couple of friends who are brand new moms. What do you think is the most harmful current piece of disinformation, misinformation around new moms? I know that there is an, I know that, um, from following you for a very long time, you seem to need to come back very often to conversations around the ingredients in infant formula. As one example, I don't know whether that's top of mind for you, but I do know, um, that's something I've seen. What, what are you, what are you seeing out there that is, um, alarming to you from a disinformation, misinformation standpoint when it comes to, um, pregnancy or new moms that you've been trying to dispel? Yeah, I would say, um, I think overall, generally it's this idea of that, like, you can't trust anything that you're eating or that's around you because there's just toxins everywhere that are, that are going to harm your baby. Um, that, that conversation oftentimes misses kind of the, the fundamental, the fundamental of the, or the fundamental idea of toxicology, which is the dose makes the poison, right? It's not the actual chemical. That's the issue. It's the dose of the chemicals. For example, salt, if I take a little pinch of salt and put it in my water, that's perfectly fine and it's, it's fine and safe. But if I take half a cup of salt and I put it in my water, that's toxic to me, right? And, and I think that a lot of us don't really, um, look at things through that lens. And, and so a lot of times you'll hear about chemical A is toxic, but there's no mention of dose, which really from a scientific perspective is nonsensical, right? You have to talk about dose. And even if you want to talk about, you know, a lot of in toxicology research, a lot of these chemicals are looked at in terms of exposure, like daily exposure. And, and they look at, you know, does it build up or is it excreted very quickly? Um, and so a lot of the pushback that I'll hear often is like, well, all of these things together, um, are the issue, even if they're, we're not mentioning dose, but a lot of these chemicals are excreted very quickly. Right. And so that's always looked at in toxicology research as well. So I think, I think this idea that just like everything around us is toxic when it's true, everything, like every single chemical around us probably could be toxic at a certain dose. Right. But like what even water, even oxygen, but what is that dose? So I think generally it's that, and that will play into a lot of the actual things that I see on social media of targeting this particular demographic, um, which is things like formula ingredients, um, things like the glucose test and being at like, like taking the gestational diabetes test, which is like near and dear to my heart. Cause I studied diabetes. Um, and I would say the vitamin K shot, I would say those are probably the biggest three for that demographic. Um, but yeah, infant formulas is also one that's being talked about at, you know, the highest levels in HHS right now. Um, and I, uh, I started talking about it because not because I actually even ever used formula. I breastfed both my children until my daughter was almost, or she was over two. So, so I'm like, I, I, I breastfed them. Um, I don't really have a stake in formula or anything like that. I just have a stake in, um, bringing evidence-based information to particularly new moms who are, you know, in a really vulnerable position. Um, and a lot of people don't have that option to breastfeed and so, or don't want to breastfeed. And so, um, they deserve to know that the formula that they're using is safe and it is safe. Yeah. I just think about my own mother who was told by her physician. Same with my, same with my mom. Not to breastfeed. Yeah. Because formula was better. So, yeah. Here we go. It's Jim Max. We've come a long way since this day. You know, smoking, it does make for an easier birth. That's totally true. It keeps the birth weight down. And, uh. Not in your case. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It seems so much that, hey, we should re-imagine them. them? Does this continue to serve us? How do we expand what worked for us in the 1950s to what's serving our families now in a changing environment? And maybe that's my Dune showing, right? The third book of Dune is really a danger of institutionalism. But in the pandemic, I had work at Dune reference in there. In the pandemic, I read a book called Bottle of Lies, which really was talking about drug safety and how we had offloaded generic drug safety and offloaded that to other countries where there was very little oversight. And the research is very clear that a lot of our generics are, you know, from like 80% effective up to 120% effective, sometimes don't even have active ingredients in there. And there's not really a system to look at, are these things actually, you know, potent? So do they actually work? Are they, and there's lots of cases in this wonderful book showing how organs are rejected because the immunotherapy drugs were made offshore and don't work and really gnarly things. It seems to me that we are potentially gutting some of our services. And that is one way of reimagining an overstressed system. What do you think right now is, is worrying to you in that department of sort of dis, pulling the plug and some of the pieces of the institutions that we may have taken for granted that may be a little arcane and archaic, but still- Yeah, are actually supporting public health in ways that we, many of us don't see. What gives you a pause? Yeah. So I think this is, maybe we can go back to the question about like, what does Maha get right and what do they get wrong? Because I think this plays into it, right? So when you get the, so the problem, the problem largely right, right? The causes. When I said that they largely get the causes wrong, a lot of their causes are very conspiratorial in nature. And the reason for that is because they use some truth and like, and we should have honest conversations about that truth. We should have honest conversations about the shortcomings of our public health agencies, about the issues with the FDA, about the issues with corporate capture. And we can have honest conversations about that. The issue is that they take that, they take that little bit of truth, and then they weave a very like bigger than very large conspiratorial narrative about it to justify essentially gutting these public health agencies. When a lot of the issues that actually are present could be solved with more funding and more support for these public health agencies, right? So is the, is the best solution if you are looking at, you know, because this is often a talking point, half of the FDA is funded by the pharmaceutical industry, right? And so you'll hear people say that all the time. And you'll hear them say, you know, oh, so the pharmaceutical industry basically funds the people who are supposed to be regulating the pharmaceutical industry. But there's no really mention of why that happens. Why does half of the FDA or how does half of the FDA's funding come from the pharmaceutical industry? You know, and, and it's, it's very interesting that they never discussed this. And the reason, I'll just answer my own question. The reason is because this, this was enacted in the nineties and it, and it's actually very similar to how all regulated industries work. In the nineties, the FDA was very understaffed and they couldn't keep up with the number of drug approvals that they, that industry was really wanting. And if you remember at that time, that was a very deregulatory era throughout the eighties and the early nineties through Reagan. And then also Clinton, it was like every, everybody was deregulating. Right. And, um, and so what happened was these, these pharmaceutical companies, they were like, we have all these lifesaving drugs, but the FDA is not keeping up with these approvals and they're not able to go through it quick enough. And so instead of Congress allocating more funding to the FDA, um, which would come from taxpayer dollars instead, what they said was, okay, so what we're going to do is we're going to have pharmaceutical companies. We're going to charge pharmaceutical companies, a user fee. And so every drug approval that they want done, they need to pay a very set fee. Right. And so that's where all of that money comes from. So now if, you know, Pfizer or whatever the pharma company is, they come through because they have a drug, but they want to go through safety approval process, um, they actually pay a fee. And that, that was how the FDA was able to hire a lot more people to be able to go through these, um, safety reviews and drug approval processes. And that's still how it is to this day. So to this day, I think last year in 2023, like 47 or 48% of the FDA's total budget came from the pharmaceutical industry, but it wasn't the pharmaceutical industry, like buying their way, you know, like buying any sort of, um, favors, it was, they were all set fees. So if, you know, if you want a drug approved, you pay this fee. That's the exact same way as it happens in like the airline industry or any regulated industry. The industry pays a fee because if the industry is not paying a fee, we as taxpayers are paying the fee. Right. Cause that money has to come from somewhere. Now, from a public health perspective, a lot of public health people have been against this since 1992 when this was enacted, because, you know, we've, we've kind of sounded the alarm and been like, you know, it's, it would be better if it was just like, if they weren't paying these user fees. And I think there's an argument on both sides, right? Cause again, if, if, if they, if they want these drug approvals and they're going to be making money from the drug approvals, they should pay the fee to have to pay the scientists to approve them. Um, but again, there's the public health kind of perspective, which is okay, but like, it's better if it's completely independent and they're not paying these fees. But again, if it's completely independent and they're not paying these fees, we have to fund the FDA. You can't gut the FDA and then say that you also want pharma to not be paying anything to the FDA. And then also say that we actually want a functioning agency because that all those things can't all be true. So I think that's kind of the nuance in some of these conversations. And so, you know, it's really easy to go on social media because, you know, social media really like they, um, incentivize conspiratorial and very sensational information. So if I go on and make a video and say 47% of the FDA's budget comes from the pharmaceutical industry, basically the same industry that they're supposed to regulate. And I don't give you any context, like for, for the average person, they're gonna be like, that sounds ridiculous. Like what's so me? Yeah. Yeah. And it's like, Oh, we, there's all this corruption in our agencies when that's actually not really corruption. I mean, it's, it's just the law that we've enacted and we continue to support. Tell you that, um, basically once I turned 50, I became a hundred years old and now I just read history books all the time. Um, and I, Oh, you have architecture books. That's not true. But I do think, you know, sort of under, I think that's a conversation that is really lacking in many of these areas is how did we get here? You know, in order to understand how we got here, we actually have to look back and really understand the policies and the regulations or deregulations and, you know, this whole historical landscape that got us to this place again, where I think it doesn't matter whether, you know, where you're coming from politically, we all agree there's a problem, right? Where we disagree is what the causes are and what the solutions are. Um, you know, one of the, you, you mentioned the word toxins before and I sort of have this mental list for myself about like, you know, people that I will unfollow, uh, based on certain red flags I hear and using overusing the word toxins, because it to me has just become this big general word that has no meaning to most of the people who use it on the internet. Um, but one of the things I see that is very concerning when it comes to this whole toxins conversation, um, is we are going through a phase of doing a lot of deregulating environmental policies. And so I don't know, help me understand that because I think there's a subset of people that are very concerned about, um, toxins, whatever that means to them. Um, and, but I assume that means air pollution, water pollution, chemicals in our soil. I mean, I don't know what that means to them. Um, but we're also at a phase where it seems like we're, you know, sort of agreeing as a nation that we should be cutting a lot of those regulations. How do I, how do you square that circle? Yeah. I mean, can I, um, yeah. So, uh, I think that this gets really at a, like a core of this, right? It's, um, it's this idea that, and you'll see them on social, you'll see these things on social media all the time. It's like, uh, consumer reports will come out with a report that like looks at baby food or infant formula and it looks at heavy metals in all of them. And it's like this one ranked highest and this one ranked lowest. Um, and essentially saying like, we need to, you know, spend all of this time and energy and mental space on like identifying which, um, product has the highest or lowest amount of heavy metals instead of putting all of that effort into advocating for policies that could decrease heavy metals in our soil, our air, soil, and water, which would subsequently decrease heavy metals in our food supply and our water supply. Um, and so right now what we're seeing is a lot of people who like me care a lot about the quality of our food supply. We want lower heavy metals. We want lower toxins, quote unquote, right? We want lower contaminants in our food, in our soil, air, and water. Um, and you know, they, they're really focused on kind of what we see in our, what we see in our food and they'll talk ad nauseum on social, some of these social media influencers about these like toxins in our food, but then they don't actually look at the policies being enacted right now that is going, that are going to make that worse. Um, so right now, I mean, the EPA administrator, Lee Zeldin, he came out and said it's, they're ushering in the greatest era of deregulation, um, that, that our environmental, that, that the EPA has ever seen. Um, and they're rolling back lots of environmental regulations. Um, they are, you know, um, allowing kind of polluting industries to opt out of, of a lot of these environmental regulations by sending an email to the administration, um, and which will just allow them to kind of pollute more. You know, we're looking at increasing coal burning sites. And one of the things that happens when you increase coal burning sites is you introduce heavy metals like arsenic and mercury into the soil, um, and the water supply around those coal burning sites. Um, and so, you know, if, if we do that, there's, there's a trade-off, right? Like the positive thing is you are giving industry more money, I suppose, which I guess in, in some kind of perspective, you know, that's going to increase, um, some, you know, profits. Um, the downside is, uh, the public health aspect, right? We're going to have more environmental toxins in our air, soil, and water, and subsequently in our food and water supply. So, um, that's, that's actually what I really try to do with my content is get people to, yes, I, I am meeting you where you are. You want less heavy metals in your food. Me too. So let's look at what we can do in order to do that. Let's look at the root cause of those heavy metals in your food. And then what could we be pushing for from a policy perspective to decrease those heavy metals? Um, because at the end of the day, you know, what, what we're, what we're looking at right here, a lot of people are fed up with our, with our food, right? Our food supply. Um, you know, this is, this is where I say like, they get the causes a bit wrong. So their causes for that are, you know, scientific corruption, um, regulatory corruption, uh, you know, and like scientists are, you know, the United States is allowing things in our food supply that other countries aren't, which we can talk about that. That's a bit of misguided as well. Um, whereas my, what I would like people to kind of think about is, okay, well, why, like, why are these things happening? And let's look at the policies. There's lots of policy failures that have led to this place where, um, 70% of our food environment is ultra processed foods, where we're heavily reliant on these pre-packaged ultra processed foods. And it started, you know, in the seventies, eighties with a lot of policy changes that enabled these things to happen. Um, and then, you know, another thing is that they'll talk about in terms of like the problems is, um, corruption, right? They use that term corruption all the time. They use it with FDA, like in terms of the, and I kind of just walked through how it's not necessarily corruption. It's more just like how we enacted laws. Well, a lot of this, a lot of what we term corruption is just the laws that we've enacted and we continue to support. So one of the first things that I would do, people will ask me this a lot, so I'll just kind of answer it myself, but people will ask like, what's the first thing you would do to try to improve, you know, public health, the food supply and public health. And it's something that I think that a lot of people don't necessarily think are related, but my thing is overturning Citizens United. Um, because a lot of people, you know, they'll talk about corruption in terms of like people being bought and us supporting corporate greed and all of that. But it really comes down to the policies we've enacted, which is, which really starts at Citizens United. And I can explain what that is if you want me to. Yes, please. I mean, of course I've read it, but give us a little primer. Well, you're an attorney. Well, you know, I like to nerd out and read the actual cases. Well, just for like listeners who might not know what that is, it was just a Supreme Court decision in 2010 that essentially changed, completely changed campaign finance law. And the whole history is very interesting. It started in 2007. Um, a, an organization called Citizens United wanted to release an, um, basically like a documentary, uh, targeting Hillary Clinton. So it was like a, it was kind of like a hit piece, I guess, on Hillary Clinton. And it was during that, the campaign season. And so FEC, um, ruled that they couldn't do that because, um, there were laws that were saying that you can't influence, you can't influence basically a campaign. Um, organizations can't influence a campaign or corporations can't. And so what went from like this one little video, can we play it? Because it's like, you know, um, during the campaign season went all the way to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court ruled, uh, in a five, four decision that, um, essentially they could play it because corporations have free speech. Um, and, uh, so they, so they can put money into campaigns cause that's their speech. And what it did was it just blew open campaign finance. Um, and it allowed all of these super PACs to be created. It allowed dark money in politics. So essentially, um, an individual or a corporation, most of the money comes from individuals that were able to see, but dark money, you don't really know who it's coming from, but essentially they could pour as much money as they wanted to sway elections. And that has huge public health implications because what happens is, you know, a, a person who has some sort of interest in some sort of, you know, industry, whether it's like the pharmaceutical industry or the chemical industry, um, they're able to basically buy a lot of politicians. And I don't say that in like a way that it's like a corruption type of thing. It's what we are enabling with our laws. Right. And so they're able to put millions of dollars into these like different, you know, different campaigns, um, with the expectation that they're going to get something in return. And so a lot of times our laws are enacted, not in necessarily the best public health interest, um, but more so for, for industry interest. Let's take a step back and say that I am just a working class physical therapist, man, cares about his family. Like everyone cares about their families where two questions. What do I do? What, where do I begin to untangle? Because it feels like I open up social media and whoo, you know, I'm, there's a lot of confusion and there's a lot of anger and there's a lot of misinformation. Um, where do I begin to help my family understand sort of inputs and outputs? That's the first question. And the second question is how would I define success? Because, you know, one of the things that I, you know, Are you talking about as an individual family or like from a public health standpoint? No, from a public health. Cause you know, I'm, I'm, if we were going to say, Hey, we're all agreeing that we have these issues, what are our guideposts? So I'd love to know that. How do we know what the goal line is? Can we ever reach a goal and how, how can we have a set of things that we've started to agree on that helps us to understand this was an experiment that didn't work or didn't service or, you know, service in a certain way. Where should people begin to say, number one, what can I do? Number two, how will I critically evaluate? Because I feel like whatever's the chaos that's happening and it feels like chaos, you know, we'll move on and we won't be able to really say it worked or didn't work because we haven't really clearly defined the goals. Yeah, I think it's a really good question. It's something that every public health initiative, if it's a good public health initiative defines. And so if you look at, let's say, you know, like cigarette smoking campaigns, right? So cigarettes to say, like smoking cessation campaigns, there were defined goals there when they, and I don't know them off the top of my head, but essentially they were like fewer people are smoking cigarettes. Right. And, and so they had those goals and, and you never look at it in, you know, a two, three, four year period, because a lot of these changes, they're going to take time to kind of see, right? We need like bipartisan support. We need, we need changes over administrations. And then over time, you're going to see all of these things kind of working together for these outcomes. And so it was like smoking cessation campaigns. That was, I mean, it was an incredibly effective campaign. Now that's not for all public health campaigns, I'm thinking more long-term in terms of like chronic disease prevention for some public health campaigns, like for example, folic acid supplementation, when we started, when we started, what is it called? Why am I trying a blank? Fortifying our grains with folic acid. We were able to see the impacts of that very quickly. So within a couple of years. Those were like neural, neural tube defects, right? Yeah. The goal with that was to decrease neural tube defects in infants. And we saw a huge percentage change in just a couple of years, a decrease in neural tube defects after we started supplementation. So, so for public health campaigns like that, it's very, it's, it's quicker and easier to see change. For something like, let's talk about the whole goal here is chronic disease prevention, right? That are decreasing chronic disease risk. So first of all, you have to define what chronic disease means because there's many chronic diseases. And this is kind of a problem with Maha too. Like we don't actually, it's never really defined like what, what chronic disease means because there's chronic health conditions that are not lifestyle related. And so for, for what they talk about and what I talk about a lot is mostly lifestyle related chronic disease, right? So chronic diseases that can be impacted by lifestyle choices and significantly impacted. And so those are things like diabetes and cardiovascular disease, some cancers, you know, kidney disease, even like those types of chronic diseases can, can be impacted by lifestyle. And then you think, okay, so what we want to see is in a 10 year period, this percentage of a reduction in, in chronic disease. And we do this to a certain extent right now. We have the healthy people initiative, which is every 10 years, we set a new, we set these goals for like what we're going to see on a population level. But what we don't do is invest in any of the policy changes that are needed to actually enact those or to actually reach those goals, right? So goals. I do that with the dishes at my own house. I understand. Yeah. You have a goal with washing the dishes that just never gets done. Yeah. So we actually have to like put some force and so, you know, some force into these like changes. And so that's, that's really my goal with my platform is to get to kind of like capture this moment where people are interested and be like, okay, let's think bigger. And it's hard to explain all this stuff. It's not as easy as just like, let's get red dye 40 out of Skittles and everybody's going to be healthier. That's not it at the end of the day. I mean, we can all agree that we want red dye 40 out of Skittles, but at the end of the day, Skittles are still Skittles, right? We really want to start changing our food environment. We want to start making, you know, exercise and movement more accessible for people. So I think what I would say to answer your question directly is we would want to see some sort of decrease in prevalence of probably obesity and type two diabetes, pre-diabetes, cardiovascular disease. And, you know, this would be a data driven thing. You would go into the evidence, see what, what rates are right now and see kind of like what change would look like. And that's what epidemiologists are for, not me, but I'm sure that they would be able to set those goals. So you've mentioned this a few times and it is a thing that I see a lot. And, and maybe even I feel it myself. And that is this constant comparison between like all the great things that Europeans are always doing from a health standpoint that we aren't doing both from a public health standpoint to like, you know, even feeling like, you know, you can go to Italy and eat pizza six times a day and you don't feel bad and don't gain weight. I realized that there's no science there in that, but there just does seem to be this pervasive feeling in the health, wellness, fitness, community that like the Europeans are just slaying it and we are really not slaying it. And certainly that was on display a lot in COVID is all the numbers showed that, you know, we didn't do, we did not, we fared the worst, I think as a nation from a COVID perspective. Yeah. The Italians are having a cigarette and espresso. Yeah. So what is it about that? You know, it, what, you know, this is an ongoing thing. What, what of that sort of perception is correct? What are they doing well that we aren't doing? And what of that is just propaganda? Yeah. My husband is from Romania and we, we go back there most summers. And so I've spent a lot of time in different European countries and the, the entire system is different, right? And, and obviously Europe is not a monolith. They all are different in terms of the, their countries. I mean, Romania is in East, in Eastern Europe, it's very different than like Italy, but for the most part, when you look at European countries, they, they have strong social safety nets, which, you know, we can compare and, and, you know, right now in the social media world, oftentimes when we're comparing the United States to Europe or European countries, you know, we compare life expectancy, we compare chronic disease rates, we compare ingredients in food. But there doesn't seem to be any sort of assessment or realization or comparison between our social safety programs versus their social safety programs. And I, I have to tell you when, when you go, you know, they, for example, what are social safety programs? They, every single European country has universal healthcare. They, they all have access to preventive healthcare. They all have routine visits that they can go to. So they're not putting off, you know, cause even people here in the United States, many people don't have healthcare, but even those who do, their deductibles are so high that they put off going to the doctor until it gets really bad. And we see our emergency rooms are overcrowded. And people are using emergency rooms as primary care physicians. And, and that's really bad on healthcare in general, like economically, but also from a public health perspective. And so they just don't have that there. They have, you know, a lot, very strong paid leave programs. They have very strong programs in terms of support, economic support. They don't have the same income inequality that we have in the United States. Um, and so it's, it's always very interesting to me when these comparisons are made, uh, when we're just focusing on like ingredients and food, instead of kind of focusing on the entire, um, net of, of what defines health for, for a person. Um, and, and I'd say also with just regard to food, um, if you go to many European countries, there is ready. And by the way, most Americans, when we go to Europe, we're on vacation, we're in like cities where we're going to really nice places. We're resting. We're, we're walking, you know, 40,000 steps where in America you'll get 4,000 in a day. Right. So there's a huge difference in terms of like how you might feel when you go there just because of that alone. Um, but if you live there for a little bit of time, but you know, there's, there's ready access to like grocery stores in Romania, they have farmer's markets like we do here, but they're like incredibly cheap. You can go and you can get, you know, and even cheap for them, like not just cheap for me as an American, but cheap in terms of like, it's cheaper to go to those like street stores than it is to go to the grocery store where in the United States, that is absolutely not the case. Right. Like farmer's markets are so expensive here. Um, and so, you know, you, my mother-in-law will just like walk down the road and go to the street like market and get all of her produce. It's just like filled with produce. So it's, it's beautiful. Um, and you know, that's, that's very different. They don't have things like we do here. Even just, I have to interrupt. You even said walk down the road. That's not possible. Yeah. Right. You can walk every, right. I grew up in a little town in Southern Germany where we rode our bikes because there were bike paths everywhere. It was a built environment. Yeah. And to your point, they have sidewalks, they have public transportation. That's really effective in the United States. We really built this country for cars, for automobiles. Right. And we, so we, you know, we, I, I'm from Detroit, so that was really important for my city. Um, but yeah, there's, there's many people who live in areas that just aren't walkable. Um, and so when we talk about like kind of decreasing barriers to adopting healthy, like change, um, you know, implementing sidewalks is a really good one, looking at the built environment, which is one of these social determinants of health. Um, but yeah, that's a very, that's a big difference in Europe as well. Um, but, and, and their food, you know, they, and this is where there's, this is another point where it's like kind of manipulating the narrative on this. Um, it is true that in most European countries, their food is different than ours, right? Like you, I'm sure you guys saw in the, in Congress, them holding up like fruit loops here and fruit loops in Canada or like whatever here and this in, in the EU. And those things are true. Um, they don't use, uh, synthetic dyes, for example, as much as we do here. The, the thing that's not true is that regulatory agencies, and this might come as a surprise to some people, but right, the regulatory agencies, EFSA in the European Union, Health Canada in Canada, um, and in Australia and New Zealand as well, have all, we have five artificial dyes that are really used in the United States. That's red 40, um, yellow one, the yellow five, yellow six, blue one, and blue two. All five of those have been deemed safe and are approved for use in every region that I just mentioned. They're all deemed safe and approved for use in the, um, in the European Union. They're all deemed safe and approved for use in Canada. The difference is they don't use them as much because the demand is not there for them. In the United States, for better or worse, likely worse, we, um, have an affinity for bright colored things, right? And so, you know, we, we want our... Do you remember the color of the Takis? Oh my God. Oh yes. Were they like dull? Were they dull? Yeah, they were dull. Our daughter was like, what, what is this Takis? Yeah, well, exactly. I mean, in general, uh, there's an example of General Mills in 2015. They removed artificial synthetic food dye, um, from their cereals, uh, from tricks and Lucky Charms. And two years later, they put them back in because demand decreased. Um, people complained. They said the color looked off and the texture was weird. Um, and so, you know, corporations in the United States are going to make what people buy. And, um, right now they're buying, uh, you know, synthetic food dye, things with synthetic food dyes. If demand went up for things, because we have options now, I feel like this gets lost in the conversation. We certainly have options in the United States where you don't have to buy the synthetic food dye version. Like I can go to my King's Soopers, which is Kroger here in Denver. And, um, you know, I can either get Fruit Loops or I can get Fruitful O's and Fruitful O's doesn't have synthetic dye. And they're actually the same price. Um, so, you know, if more people started buying Fruitful O's, Fruit Loops would modify what they're doing and they would, you know, they would change their formulation because that's kind of a supply and demand sort of thing. So that's where like a little bit of truth, the truth is that those foods are different between us and Europe. The, um, the conspiratorial reason for that is that scientists in America are allowing these toxins in our food that they're not allowing over there. Um, the actual, like genuine answer for that is that they are allowed over there. They're just not used as much because the demand isn't there. One of the things that I feel is this complete is lacking from this conversation is about physical movement, health, exercise. It seems to me that lifestyle nutrition, you know, we get that. And then the other piece is we have to have more movement, particularly for our kids. We started a nonprofit called standup kids, which is really geared towards getting kids moving in schools to structural intervention. We had every kid at our daughter's elementary school and it was the first all standing moving school in the world. So all kids had a desk that was individually hided for them. They could perch, they could lean, they could fidget. There was a bar underneath there that allowed it to move. And we were following the research, really incredible research, researchers out of Texas A&M around seeing trends and differences in BMI through just more movement that over a couple of years, kids could really see this big Delta. And, you know, when, when RFK was junior was, uh, made, uh, appointed, I, I asked some friends, you know, who were definitely sort of big Maha supporters. I said, Hey, do you think this is going to get more PE in middle school and elementary school and physical literacy? And they said, yes. And I haven't heard a single piece about this at all. Like we haven't, we haven't, we don't see more gym teachers. It certainly hasn't happened. And one of the things that we saw as we were working through helping people kind of locally work on getting more movement in their schools through not just being sedentary and sitting at these desks was that California actually has mandatory physical activity requirements for every school and that those schools actually don't meet those activity requirements. And one of the ways that they were looking at the dietary guidelines, right? No one's meeting them. It was like 150 minutes of movement a week and they act, you know, vigorous activity. And so we weren't getting that in PE. There wasn't even, we don't even have a PE teacher. We had to raise money to have a PE teacher at our local school. Where do you think that part of this conversation is? Because it is, starts to feel overwhelming. Like, what can I control? Well, I can control maybe get walking my kid to school. Juliet started walking school bus, but this for me, I don't know if you can even comment, if there's even a position here. But it seems like we're missing this opportunity to really aim this at our children and to get our kids moving more, because that's a really a great place to start untangling this very complex, you know, behavior of chronic disease as soon as we're, you know, young adults. Perhaps a campaign called Let's Move. Something weird. No, I'm just kidding. Yeah, I, so I think that, you know, I, you asked a question a little bit ago, the two that I don't know that I directly answered, or I don't know if I'm misconstruing what your question is, but when you think about, like, what people can do on an individual basis for themselves and their families, those guidelines are actually, like, for all of the chatter in social media and even what we're doing right now in terms of public health, you know, the guidelines of, like, how to keep yourself kind of healthful, like a healthful living, healthful life, have really been consistent for decades. Like, there, there, there's really just, like, some basic principles that if you follow those, the vast majority of Americans are going to be better off, right? And that's things like try to get as many whole foods and, like, a variety, kind of eat the rainbow, right? Like, try to get as many different whole foods, a variety of whole foods as you can. Try to get vegetables, you know, get a vegetable or a fruit on your plate at every meal. You know, most of us don't have a problem hitting our protein guidelines or our protein needs, but, you know, try to decrease the amount of ultra-processed food that you're eating as much as possible. Certainly, it's not necessary to do it all. I mean, I like ultra-processed foods as well, but, you know, low-nutrient, ultra-processed foods, try to decrease those. That's from a diet perspective. Drink water, right? Then, you know, try to get outside in the sunshine, kind of de-stress. Take care of mental health problems, like go, go and, you know, see, get, go to mental health services. Physical activity, get at least, you know, 30 minutes a day, five days a week, 150 minutes a week. Walk, try to walk, you know. There's not no set, there's no, like, scientific basis for this, but, like, aim for, like, eight to ten thousand steps a day, right? Like, just try to do these basic things and then, you know, go to your regular checkups for your preventive health care and then try to get eight to nine hours of sleep a day. If you do those things, like, the vast majority of us are going to be better off. When we're talking about all these different things that I'm talking about, it's more from a public health perspective. How can we get people to do those things, right? To do those basic recommendations? And that's kind of by changing systems. And so I do want to just, like, help people to kind of, you know, there's so much noise and there's so much, like, oh, I can't eat this or I should eat this. But, like, at the end of the day, the basic guidelines, if we follow those and they're not complicated and they're really boring and they don't get a lot of press on social media. But if we just were to follow those, we'd be a lot better off. And then I meant to say something after directly. What was your, like, last question? Because I'm... We were just talking about... But I mean, I will just say that you are exactly right. All I do on my own social media is just try to remind people in every different possible way I can imagine to do the basics, which are exactly the same. Yeah, it's interesting about... And it's really hard to make that sexy. The basics, we see people fall into the same traps, even in human performance. I mean, so much of our business is aimed at how do we help go from 99 to 100% of, you know, genetic potential optimization Olympians. And it is easy to get sidetracked into, I'm going to call it side quests, right? That I have the side quest for this tech device, this behavior, but really is that these... We find that the best athletes, the most robust people are doing the basics, which are free, sleep, walk, decongest, feel good, have good relationships, all those things, eat fruits and vegetables. And yet we really have to remind people that those things are free and accessible and evidence-based and lead us to the lion's share of health and performance benefits. I mean, we really are saying, you call it don't major in the minors, but people really love to major in the minors. Yeah, they really do. Yeah. And it's so true. Like, it's like the basics, like what we just talked about is going to be like 90% of the way there, right? And then if you are doing that and you are somebody who like really loves this like human optimization sort of thing, like I even like it. Like I like to hear some of that stuff, right? But let's just understand that that's not good public health policy. And that's not what the vast majority of Americans need to be focusing on, right? They don't need to be biohacking and they don't need to be optimizing, you know, all of these different things and taking this in this supplement. They really need to be like really achieving those basics. And so like how, this is the public health side, how can we help everybody in the United States have access and have the ability to do those basic things? How can we make it sure from the food environment, how can we make sure that, you know, people aren't living in food deserts, that everybody has easy access to fruits and vegetables? How could we be more like Europe and have street like vegetable stands that are very accessible and cheap, right? Like how can we do those things? How can we get people healthcare access? How can we make sure that, you know, everybody can afford, you know, their basic essential needs? You know, that's what I think is most important to focus on. One of the things that I'm hearing throughout as a through line through everything you're saying is that, you know, the challenge is that we have some really big systemic problems. You know, we aren't funding public health programs appropriately. We are either deregulating or, you know, need to change our laws so that they support public health better. But one of the things that does make me generally concerned that like, how do we see a way out of this is the funding piece, because we seem to always be in this country like, none of us want to pay more taxes, we all feel like we're paying too many taxes. And at the same time, it seems like if we... So why we can't have nice things? Yeah, but I mean, if we really want to make systemic change in our public health, we are going to need to invest in things like, you know, like the things I think, you know, because sometimes I think, okay, it's too late for adults, we just have to focus on kids. And like the things that I think would make a difference are like, hey, how about let's actually have PE and we could implement the daily mile in schools and we could put a fence across drop off lanes and we could, you know, like one example, I went on a tour of our local public high school, Tara Linda, when one of my kids was going to go there and we stopped and they had this beautiful home ec room that had been actually like revamped and they were just using it as a storage room. And I'm like, what about if every kid in America was required to take a year long cooking class in high school and actually learned how to cook actual food? You know, I mean, I don't know. These are just little things. But will we ever be able to implement those things if we aren't actually willing as a society to make the financial investment in these bigger picture public health things? I mean, is that ultimately the problem? Is money. Yeah, but it's it's nuanced, right? So it's, you know, a lot of times these things are pitched like they're very expensive and they're going to cost taxpayer dollars without kind of looking at the big picture. So let's just take health care, for example. If you think about why health, why are health care prices, you know, so expensive? Why, why do we pay twice as much in health care as any other country and we get worse outcomes? Nobody ever asks that question. They talk about it and they say like that's a problem. But but why is that? We also, by the way, are the only industrialized country in the entire world to not have universal health care. And yet we're paying twice as much for health care and getting worse health outcomes. So who's making all the money? Where's all the money going? Well, it's going to health care companies, right? Health care corporations, people at the top. And, you know, one of the things that if you think about giving people access to health care, it could be expensive at first. Right. But if you think about like how much people are actually paying, you can take that you can get more of that money back if we enact laws and policies that aren't allowing the vast majority of that money to go to a few players. Right. And that money can be spread back towards the people. And and by the way, so that and if you are giving people access to preventive care, they're not going to have to go to they're not going to have to get to the point where it's an emergency, which is a far more expensive health care problem to to kind of pay for than preventive health care care on the on the front end. And so that's just like one example in terms of how investment in these public health policies, it's not just we shouldn't just look at them as expenses because they actually can pay for themselves in other ways. I mean, if you look at like where is a lot of this like waste happening? I mean, Medicare Advantage is a huge place where waste is happening. Right. And they're just they're just like ripping us off through these like Medicare plans. And so if we crack down on some of that, we can recoup some of that money and that can go back towards the people. You know, another place that this is also, you know, like where could we find some of this money? I mean, this gets more into economics, but, you know, there's there's lots of places that we could enact policies where we could be getting money back that that is being very wastefully used right now. You know, we could be funding the IRS and you might think, OK, well, that's actually like going to why do we that's going to be more taxpayer dollars where we're funding the IRS. But if you look at how much tax evasion happens, particularly for the point one percent of the country and how much they could recoup, which, by the way, there's numbers on this and they recoup a lot more than what they cost to put into the IRS. So let's actually fund the IRS, put more people into the IRS and we're actually going to make more money back from the people that that are evading taxes. And so those types of policies that you have to go like past just like with the initial expenses and like what could they actually be saving in the long run? And I think for a lot of public health policies, that is the case. So so when we look at it economically, we have to think, OK, well, if we enact this, what could be the savings on the back end? And a lot of times with public health, there are savings on the back end, not expense. I think I was just making about money. I love that. You know what? Healthy people cost less money. I mean, that is right. I mean, really, it's like like let's zero everything else out. What are the ways to spend the least amount of money? I just think that's that's we've seen that actually happen in the military taking care of our elite soldiers when they started putting a dollar amount on when someone went out with back pain or knee pain. They got real serious about, you know, preventative care. And lo and behold, they, you know, save money. I think that's a really gnarly way to think about it. It may be the way. So just as we start to wrap this up, I would love to just know what it's been like for you as a person because you've had this, you know, I think you've been out there sharing content for a long time, but I think you've it's really exploded in the more recent times. And what has it been like for you? Are you on the receiving end of a lot of like Internet? Approbrium. Approbrium. How do you manage that? And then my secondary question is, you know, who do you follow for information? And maybe if it's not specifically who, what are the sort of tests that you use in your mind to say, OK, yes, useful information like this person, not useful, not going to follow them. You know, what's your sort of test? Yeah, so it's been it's been I look at this as a really big opportunity. It's been very like encouraging for me in many ways in terms of like the number of people. And I think I mentioned this before, but, you know, for a long time I would talk about these issues or, you know, public health experts talk about these issues and we didn't we couldn't find that traction. We couldn't get people interested. People are so interested right now in, you know, improving the health of Americans and understanding like why we got here and what policies could help improve our health. And I think I look at that as a real opportunity. You know, there's a lot of misinformation in the space right now, but there's also I'm finding and you can just like I can look at my growth over the last multiple months and see that there are people who are out there who are really wanting to kind of like understand they don't they they maybe are hearing this for the first time. I get that a lot like, oh, I've never even heard of a food desert. I've never even thought of these issues before. I've never even thought about like what public health means. And so I think that it's a real opportunity right now to like help people to guide them through. No, you're defining a pasteurization for people, which is great. Yeah. Yes. Pasteurization. I mean, that's another one. Pasteurization is just heating milk. There's no chemicals added to the milk and not even to boiling. But yeah, I think that I think that that's that's been encouraging for me. I would say that a lot of people think that I receive a lot of hate and maybe I do and I just never see it. But I would say like 90 at least 95 percent of the messages I receive are very positive and maybe like three percent are neutral and then maybe two percent are not so nice. That said, I don't really I don't really read my comment section. So that's mostly in DMs. So it might be different there, but I don't think it's actually all that different there. But yeah, I would say that there's definitely the hate has you know, I've done a good job, I think, of filtering it out. I know that it's out there, but I always come to like conversations in a really genuine way. And I've even found that people who sometimes will come at me very combatively when I come back to them in a genuine way, they actually will like like decrease the the intensity and like be like, oh, let's actually have a conversation. And I've had some of my best conversations like on the Internet in that way where it starts out like really hostile. And I just think because we're really conditioned right now that like the Internet has to be this really like dogmatic place and like very combative and and it doesn't have to be that way. And I try to approach it in a in a in an open way where I'm like meeting people where they are and being like, OK, you think that this let's talk through that and like maybe maybe we can look at it a different way. I don't know. So so that's been kind of encouraging for me when I'm looking for people to learn information from because the thing about expertise is that it's specific. Right. Like I don't know anything about stretching in the PT space and and I wouldn't want you to come to me for that. Right. And I even I have a master's degree in exercise science, but that's certainly not PT and that's not, you know, anything like that. And so, you know, I I think that we tend to find people we trust and then we just like want to go to them for everything. But that that's not necessarily the best solution because, you know, people will come to me and ask me like vaccine safety questions. And I'm like, I am not a vaccine researcher. You know, I I can tell you from a large public health perspective things. But if you want to know like the nitty gritty of safety, like you got to go to people who actually study that. Right. Immunologists, epidemiologists, vaccine science researchers. And so, you know, that that's what I try to do. I try to find the people in specific areas. Sunscreen is a big thing online right now. And I constantly get sent stuff about like the toxins and sunscreen. And I'm like, that's just not my area. Go and see. You know, there's a chemical or a like beauty chemist that I follow for all of that kind of stuff. And I like send people her way. So I find like just find the people who have specific expertise and go to them most of the time, like genuine experts. And you guys probably know this, too. They're not going to be inflammatory. They're not going to be saying, you know, I stitched a video a couple of months ago that started. Are you poisoning your kids? They're not going to do that, even though that plays well on social media. Like they're just not going to start something like that. They'll talk through and then they'll kind of talk through the nuance of a topic. Like if there is a study that comes out that says something's harmful, like they might say that and then they'll talk through because there's always a nuanced rationale and there's always a reason for things. And kind of, you know, look for people who are willing to kind of like talk through the issue and like look at both sides and like see where the truth is, but also like maybe what's being misconstrued. I find I find that the people who do that are the most credible in terms of the information they give and aren't just like, you know, in a grocery store telling you that this is a toxic food that's going to hurt you or your baby. The danger of bananas and oatmeal, everyone. Yeah. Oh, and you know, well, you really can find a video. And I did this one time. I, I like made a video of literally every single food item. There was some like influencer out there saying it was toxic. It was like apples and beans and like all these different foods and even water. I found, I found a woman like saying that we should be drinking more coconut water and less water because it was like dehydrating us. I appreciate that. I just saw a great video where someone said that full range squats, eccentric motions causes inflammation, which causes cancer. And they drew a direct line between exercise causes cancer for specifically bending your knees all the way causes cancer. And I was just like, well, there's, here we are. Dr. Jessica Nurick, tell us where we can find your amazing content. I really feel like you are such an important voice right now in, in educating in deescalation and helping us have a critical eye towards understanding, uh, what's keeping us from being as healthy as we could be. Thank you so much. I appreciate you guys having me. Um, my main platforms are Instagram and, um, Substack. So I I'm on Instagram. It's Dr. Jessica Nurick and, um, Substack. I don't know. I think it's called Jessica's Substack, but if you type my name in, I'm sure it'll come up. I need like some branding help there, I think. Um, but I published twice a week on there. I also have pretty cool interviews. Like I interviewed Susan Maine, who used to be the head of the FDA's nutrition department, um, just to give some insight into actually like what they do with the FDA. Um, and I've interviewed some other great people there. Um, and then, you know, I'm on all the platforms. I'm on like TikTok and stuff too, but those are my main two platforms, I would say. Yeah. And just a plug for subscribing to your Substack because as we talked about in the pre-roll, um, I think sometimes people think just making all this Instagram content is free. And while it is free for the receiver of it, it is a lot of time and effort and your content is really thoughtful and really thought through. And, um, not just for you, but for the other awesome people out there that are putting great content out there. Um, it's pretty cheap to subscribe to a Substack. So check it out. And it's really great content. I appreciate that. Viva Leneuric. Yeah. Thank you so much for being here. This is so awesome. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thanks for having me.