I think all fours should adopt this behavior. She does have a way with the racket. >> She's a four. She can get you off in 4 minutes. Once you start charging men to go on a date and you think we're just going to sit back and be like, "Oh, yeah. You go, Carol." >> Coach Greg, in today's video, $1,000 to date of four. And I'm not making this [\h__\h] up. We have a pro tennis player, Sashia Vickery, as she says she requires a $1,000 deposit to take her out on a date. She's competing for a spot in the US Open this week. And so, a famous tennis player and she's had enough. Quote, I no longer date for free due to the behavior of men. Now, I understand some women they charge to take people out on a date, the escorts, and so on, but most of those girls are actually somewhat attractive. Some would say they're even hot. How many people would spend $1,000 in order to date a four? Every man who can afford $1,000 to go on a date with this girl wouldn't go on a date with this girl. And so here's the problem. She says due to the behaviors of men. Now, whose fault is this? Hers or the men? And so this is what I think is going on. She requires a $1,000 deposit because as soon as the guy goes on a date and looks at her, he's thinking, "Yep, check, please. I'm out." And so she's sick and tired of men losing her. They're thinking, "Oh, you're a professional tennis player. You probably are smoking hot." Swerving to the left, swerving to the right. Only It didn't work for her. That's um need you to come and give her a rating on a scale of 1 to 10. How is she doing? >> I just think it's like she's in the middle of a mat bear and she's not really like smiling for the camera. Like she she wasn't ready. Okay. She wasn't ready for the photo. >> I gave her four points because she's fit. She's not fat. >> She's fit. She's fit. Yeah. I'm not going to give her an actual rating, but I see your point. >> Now, I'm going to be honest. I do believe that most men with enough money to pay for this date would be embarrassed to be on a date with this woman. And so, it should be the other way around. Look, I'll go on a date, but you have to deposit $1,000 to get with me. And most men are thinking, for $1,000, we better be playing a lot more than just some tennis. Yeah. Like, how do we decide she gets to deposit? This is what I'm thinking. Most men, after one date with her, they're ghosting her. And so, she's like, "Well, if I keep a $1,000 deposit, you only get it if we go out on a second date." Because what is the cutoff? How does she decide if she gets to keep this money or not? During an Instagram Q&A, Vickery revealed she requires a $1,000 pre-date deposit, citing past negative experiences. I no longer date for free due to behavior of men. Later posting proof of receiving such payment, and so proof that there are some men out there that are that desperate. I mean, I get it. You're over 70. A four is pretty good. You're a rich old man. No woman would want to go out with you. And so, you're willing to pay a $1,000 deposit to date this woman. Now, in my personal opinion, if a girl charges you $1,000 before even going on the date, it ain't really a date. It's never going to move on to anything. And so, for that $1,000, could you not find someone more attractive? I mean, let's be honest. If this is her scheme, this is her scheme. $1,000. Hey, $1,000 dates. Hey, I'm an escort. This is my profession. I go around with wealthy men. I go shopping and perhaps go to restaurants, movies, whatever. It's $1,000. So be it. But you're not going to be a four. Most wealthy men don't want to date these fives and sixes getting bold. I wouldn't even take her in public. That's a 3:00 a.m. mission. She's too handsome to be speaking like this. Honestly, good for her. This is coming from a woman. She's in a different league than most men who will complain about this anyway. If you charge $1,000 to a catch, think of it. If you think you're in a different league, as in you're just better than other women, you're a nine, you're a 10, you're a superstar, every man would just bend over backwards to be with you. Do you really think those men are going to pay a $1,000 deposit? This is not the type of girls that guys want. Oh, you've had experience previous trauma with previous relationships, previous dates. Oh, yeah. I'm going to now line up to date you. I don't think so. Rich men going to pay. Yeah, pay to stay away. You're thinking, "Oh, he going to pay to play." No, no one's paying her to play with her. Unless perhaps she's a tennis coach. I mean, I can understand it. Hey, it's $1,000. You're going to coach me some tennis. I'm a rich multi-millionaire. I can afford it. I want you to come over and play tennis with me. But we're going to leave it at that. We're not going to go play tennis grabbing the throat, the butt, the face of the racket. No, we're leaving that out of the picture. They probably don't know. I used to teach tennis. They don't know these things. >> What's the throat? >> The part where the be below the face where there's the mesh. There's this part that comes down. That's the throat. Then you have the butt on the end like that. And you of course got the shaft. Hey, she does have a way with the racket. >> She probably top right bevel. She probably has the twist, the top spin, the under slice. She's a four. She could get you off in 4 minutes. I'd have to use a double dose of harder than last time because it just ain't going to work. I mean, let's just imagine that if you told me, Greg, you got to give me a $1,000 deposit to go on a date with me. >> I would have been like, "Next, moving on." You immediately know she ain't wifey material. If she's charging you money to take her out on a date because she's had previously horrible experiences with men, she's damaged. >> She's damaged goods. And if you're damaged goods, I don't want you. I mean, if it's for free, maybe a guy will go on a date with her, but for $1,000, this is ain't it. Looking like Shannon Sharp. She said, stopping wasting her time. I love that for her. When somebody says, "I love that for her." This is coping mechanism. They know that it's stupid, moronic. They would never do it for themselves. I love that for you. I love that for her. I love that for you. Notice she would never do it. You can read between the lines. The women that agree got baby daddies that still read with their fingers. Escorts also require deposit for a date. Yeah. I mean, she's literally escorting and she's had horrible experiences with men. And so why does she think that this comment that this post is going viral? This is a modernday prost and then it's an institution. Leave it at that. You know what's funny? 98% of the women in these comments supporting this are single. Yeah. I wonder why. I mean Chris Brown charges 1,200. So reminds me of a joke Santa Claus told. Ho ho ho. It feels like they're all thinking she's keeping the money. >> I'm pretty sure she's keeping the money. >> Okay. >> You got to pay me a $1,000 deposit before going on the date. >> I mean, it doesn't say anything about I I'm keeping a $1,000 deposit in case you like are such a jerk to me and then I'll give you the money back. >> It's not a deposit. It's like you prepay the date. Like >> I'm pretty sure. >> And I want to see the money before I show up. It's not like you pay after. Okay, I get it. So, I think for her it's perhaps a way to like get rid of the stragglers, you know, like the losers, the degenerates, you know, guys that can't afford to spend $1,000 to date her. Well, she don't want those losers. Men who are, I don't know, they only make, say, six figures a year. Uh, I wouldn't want to date a guy like that. I mean, if he doesn't make at least seven figures a year, then he probably can't afford to waste $1,000 on going out on a date. And so, I don't want those losers. It's how I take it. And so, imagine being a man thinking, "Oh, yeah. I really want to date a girl who only wants to date me for my money." The only prerequisite is that you put down $1,000. Well, perhaps it's a little bit better than, "Well, he has to be 6'2. He has to have green eyes. perhaps work in finance. I mean, bro has to be 6'5. As long as he's sitting on his wallet. That's it. That's the qualifications. You have $1,000 to spend. I'm going to go on a date on you. Whatever happened to maybe we have something in common. We like the same things. Perhaps you're into sports. You also like to play tennis. Like, really? The $1,000. That's where you draw the line. I mean, apparently her most the biggest prerequisite is having $1,000. And how is that going to filter out the losers? Like, I've been treated by men horribly in the past, so I need $1,000. So, guys who do have $1,000, they're all really nice, sweet, gentle human beings. Like, having rich bank account makes you a nice person. Since when is that true? >> It's the other way around. >> Probably the opposite. Most people who are multi-millionaires, richer, have a certain attitude. They're perhaps given this money. They think they're better than everyone else. They're cocky, whatever. They're not likely to be nicer to you just because they have more money. And if by nice you mean buying you things, well, sure, but what about how do they treat you? I think all fours should adopt this behavior. It's got four likes, it's way down the list. >> Four likes, >> bro. Had four likes. I'm going to like it back. Five likes now. Five likes. This is from bon_jame. I think all four should adopt this behavior. Yeah, all the zeros, ones, twos, threes, and fours. All of you should charge $1,000 because no one wants to date you anyway. Like really, everyone wants to date up. Men will date across and sometimes they'll date down, you know, for perhaps just sexy time and so on. But the problem is women who are fours, they think that they're eights, nines, and ts. All the women are trying to date up. And so you got a 100 men, there's five at the top that are very attractive. They're all over 6'2 and they make $600,000 a year or whatever. They're rich guys. Everyone wants those men. The ones, the twos, the threes, all the way up to the 10. Problem is, there's only five. There's a 100 women trying to get with those five men. And so, let's do some quick math. Five men, 100 women. That's 20 women per man. Then, we're not the best odds. And so, unless you're way up there yourself, do you really think that that man is just gonna settle for one of you? I mean, perhaps at 3:00 a.m. on Saturday night with no one to see it, but they're not going to be seen with you in public. And so to put a $1,000 deposit, no goodlooking, attractive man with millions of dollars is going on a date with you. S that one. And he was probably over 70. >> I would hate being on the like dating a guy that whatever. He has a lot of money, but he's just I can't look at him. Like I just can't. >> Every billionaire does this. All over 70 or 80. They have like a hundred million dollars. And so the women will put up with it like, "Hey, I don't really need a hot man. I'll perhaps fantasize at home with my eyes closed or something." And so they put up with it. I mean, the guy's got $100 million. Some women, they're into that. They just they don't need it. They're like, "Why do I need some hot guy? There's other things in life. I want a Hermes bag. Hot guy. Hermes bag. I'm taking Hermes." And probably hot guy on the side. So for most men, they would rather be the side quest, the side hustle. Let that multi-millionaire pay for everything. Get her the Hormes bag and I'm going to hang out with her at the bar at 3:00 a.m. while boy is working harder than last time in Jamaica on a business trip or whatever. What's the oldest profession again? Me taking notes. Oh, lady legend. You go, girl. You go. This is escort talk. Certainly, it's refundable. Very transactional, Miss Me. I mean, let's be honest. If you're looking for love, transactions, they got to go. You can't just start off on day one with a transaction. Hey, you need to pay this and I will do that. As soon as you do this, it's over. You can't come back from this. If you're paying to transfer money in order to exchange for a date, it's never going to amount to anything. It's going to be surface level. There's going to be always that division of power. Hey, I'm paying you for this. you're doing this for me and so on and so it ain't going to work. She's not nearly cute enough to charge anyone for a date. Thousand sounds like escort service to me. Nothing I see here is worth $1,000 nothing. If she gets a $1,000 deposit, then her date better get all that throat at the end of the night. She best be a throat coat. I mean, the throat of the racket, the face, you better have the butt. You better be getting a little bit of everything for $1,000 with a four. You better be getting the entire racket. Perhaps Bro likes to get pegged and she's going to give him the racket. That makes sense for some people. And so, hey, that's what Shorty looks like. She need to pipe down. No, what she needs is some pipe. That's what she needs. I feel zero remorse for this girl. She asked for it. Once you start charging men to go on a date, and you think we're just going to sit back and be like, "Oh, yeah. You go, girl." >> You're not attacking a random girl. She literally is like she asked for it almost. >> Yeah. I mean, did she do it as a stunt, a publicity? Men have treated me bad and so I need to charge them in order to like make sure that I don't get treated bad. Oh, so what's next? I have to charge every girl I've ever dated because I got dumped in my past and you have to pay me $1,000 in case you break my heart. My achy breaky part. I just don't think you'll understand. And if you break my heart, my achy breaky heart, I just don't think you'll understand. Achy breaky heart. 1992. Billy Ray Cyrus. Smiley Ray Cyrus is dead. Don't tell my heart my achy breaky heart. I just don't think it'll understand. And if you tell my heart my achy breaky heart, I might blow up and kill this man. That's how it goes. We sang along to that, man. We were psychopaths in 1992. And so, in conclusion, ladies, if you start charging money in order to go on dates with men, you might think, "Hey, I'm eliminating the losers." But what you're doing is showing to the rest of the world that you are, in fact, the loser. And so, by default, you're going to attract a bunch of guys that are not the right guys for you because you are only in it for money. And so, just don't do it. If the guy doesn't treat you right on a date, you move on to the next one. Is it really that hard to get a date? You're freaking women. Women can get dates like that. It's hard for men. This is what's hard. And it ain't my freaking downstairs cuz you're freaking for. And so, of course, if you're interested into the Sec bars, if you enter code seco CICO, you get it for 50% off. Also, GLP Max if you're trying to lose weight, curb your appetite, or of course the Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum. Get this on the website. Code Greg 15% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you liked it. Watch one of those two bloops. Hopefully, you don't run into any situations like this in your future life. If you're interested in Momentous Apparel, click the link in description. If you want to get your blood work done or get encleialis because you're certainly going to need it with a four, then you can get it by clicking the link in description and click on algo RX, the prescription medication from doctors. Cheaper than last time. And until next time, I am out.