If you're listening to this kid, you're a coward and you're using steroids and promoting it to young teenagers and you think you're the man. You're just an idiot. 17 and blasting steroids. Guys, it's official. We're cooked. [clears throat] We got this guy named Goo_TW. And he thinks he's going to be the youngest IFBB pro in the world. And lo and behold, I notice he offers coaching because of course every young teenager should learn how to use steroids from a 17-year-old who has no idea what he's doing. Week two on Superdraw at 17 after already being on testosterone, primabolan, DHB, HGH, and insulin. >> He's 17. If we look at his physique, we can tell Bro is very, very lean. He's clearly been cutting, but he doesn't really have all that much muscle. However, he's only 17. He's not supposed to have a lot of muscle. And so what's happening is these kids, these 17-year-olds are looking at 20 year old IBB rolls who have clearly been blasting for years and they think, "I want to have that physique, too, but I want it now." And so they start blasting everything. And then they go to YouTube, Instagram, Tik Tok, and offer coaching. How many people think that somebody who's going to hire this guy is 19 years or older? Almost certainly every single person that's hiring this guy is either his age and or younger. And so all he's doing is teaching underage kids how to break the law and use illegal steroids. This should not be allowed on Tik Tok. They cancel Coach Greg from Tik Tok, but they let kids like this TEACH OTHER KIDS HOW to abuse drugs. How is this even possible? What kind of parents are involved in this kid's life? I'd rather be the best amateur than the worst IFBB Pro. Age 17 test primo DHB Superol HGH and insulin. Why would we post that? I'd rather be the best amateur than an IFBB pro. So basically, I'd rather be a really good amateur basketball player than make it to the NBA. I'd rather play in the CFL and be great than play in the NFL, which pays way more money and not be the best player in the league. What kind of message is that? And what about his blood work? At least he's getting his blood work to see. Is he in fact healthy? Well, of course he's not. He's blasting steroids. How could he have good blood work? And remember, if you are trying to get your blood work, you can go to Algo RX, cheaper blood work. They can prescribe you medications. Remember, it's prescribed by a doctor and it's legal. They're not going to give a bunch of 17-year-olds testosterone and so on. But if you're old enough, they can and will prescribe you various things that you need. Do you need to lose weight? Do you need various peptides? Is it in clomophene? Is it HRT? And so, code Greg 10% off. >> Nothing is incredibly out of range. My platelet was only eight out of range. My previous was within range, which I'm not too concerned about. As for my kidneys, as you see here, my Billy Rubin, alkaline phosphate, AD, ALT are all within range, meaning my liver and kidneys are completely fine. There's no sign of hepotoxicity, but I should have got my cisatin C to truly see if my kidneys are functioning perfectly. And obviously now I'm taking Super Draw. It is going to affect my health markers. As for my lipids, um, everything is slightly out of range, which I don't mind because I know I'm taking aromomasin orally, which is going to affect my lipids. I can fix that with a good diet and lowering my AI dosage. Nothing I'm too concerned about. [sighs] >> This has been my experience for the last several years in regards to blood work. No matter what the results, people try to justify that it's okay. No matter what the athletes I've coached, the people have gone over their blood work for them. They simply don't care. They cope and say, "Oh, it's because of this. It's because of that." And so his excuse, "Oh, it's only off by a little bit and it's because I'm taking in an AI." Bro, you're blasting steroids and your lipids are way off. How many people think that a healthy 17-year-old athlete who's at singledigit body fat is going to have low HDL, that's the good cholesterol, and high LDL, the bad cholesterol, of which when you compare the LDL to HDL ratio, it's of course going to be high. Oh, but it doesn't matter, bro. It's only going to get worse. And if you start this at 17, IMAGINE WHAT YOUR HEART, YOUR HEALTH, YOUR VASCULAR system is going to be like when and if you make it into your 40s. Are you freaking kidding me? >> Testosterone is out of range, 1500 plus, which is expected. >> Sometimes I think that these guys are literally clickbaiting me. They're baiting me. They're going to say they're on steroids when they're actually natural. And so I'm watching this guy and I'm thinking, what if he was just making this [\h__\h] up? He's not actually on steroids. He just has really good genetics. Nope. He proves it with his blood work. Testosterone levels are over 1500. You're not going to be that high. And remember, the scale is limited at 1500. For all we know, he's at 3,000. We don't know. He's proving that he's on steroids. We've caught him in 4K. He admits it himself. And he's going to then teach 14year-olds what? Yeah. You need to use DHB as well. I suggest use testosterone, an AI, and then when those 14-year-olds get their blood work, he's going to say, "Oh, it's fine. There's nothing wrong with that. This is normal. It's a good blood work. [applause] Bravo. Keep going." He's not going to tell them the hard truth. You need to come off. Your doses are way too high. Let's assume he's going to be the next Chris Bumstead. His parents are on board. The doctor's on board. Everything. Does anyone think that he needs this many steroids at the age of 17? When Seabbum did his first cycle at 18, was it not testosterone and Anavar? This kid is blasting more gear than even Seabbum and he expects nothing to go wrong. Where does it end? >> Only other thing is that my insulin is slightly out of range, which is because I am using Brea, which is going to lower my fasting insulin and also my fasting glucose. >> What is bro even training for? Does he need to try to compete at 17? As it stands, there shouldn't even allow 17-year-olds to compete in bodybuilding competitions unless they're drug tested. Do you really want a 16 or 17-year-old athlete competing with the pressure to use performance-enhancing drugs? And if you're thinking, "No, they would never do that. My my son, he would never use steroids." Do you really think that that's true? Why do you believe that? Because he says he won't. Do you know how many times kids are going to lie? As you see, my blur is completely fine after using DHB for [clears throat] 6 weeks. But obviously now I'm using Super Draw, which is going to skew my health markers. I'm going to take about 8 to 12 weeks in a health phase and clean out everything and then hopefully blast for a very long time. Next, >> imagine being 17 and having to use the word I'm going to go on a health phase. He has to then come off, which he's probably going to only go on HRT, and then he's going to blast again. How many people's health phase is going on nothing? He's 17 years of age. This is far too young to start abusing steroids. And even if you did, you're not going to abuse several of them all at the same time. If he needs this many steroids to make gains at 17, what kind of doses he going to need at 18, 19, 20, or heavens forbids, 30? How many steroids is bro going to be on when he gets to 30 years of age? He probably can't even look into the future that far. When you're 17, you have blinders on. You don't even realize your whole life is ahead of you. He might not even like lifting weights in 3 years from now at the age of 20. It is a mistake. Take my word for it. If you're listening to this kid, please don't. Week 24 of Gear Cycle at 17. This is the physique results of taking steroids for 24 weeks straight. Many of you think that if you go on steroids that you're going to blow up. You're going to be the next IFBB pro. The reality of it is this. How much muscle you can put on when taking or abusing steroids. It's on a spectrum from perhaps a one out of 10 to a 10 out of 10. The people who react strongly, who they look at a weight, they look at a steroid, they look at creatine, they look at Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum, they just look at it and they start putting on muscle. Guys with amazing genetics. These guys, they're eventually going to be IB pros. If you're an IBB pro, you have elite level god tier genetics. But for every person with god tier genetics, seabbum for example, there's someone who's the opposite. Somebody who no matter how hard they train, no matter how great their diet is, no matter how many steroids they take, they can't even build an average physique. And so just because you go on a steroid cycle, don't expect that you're going to be the next sebum. Very telling post. I did it for you. He blasted on all of these steroids in order to put muscle on so that you can look at him and make him feel wanted, desired, accepted. He didn't have the self-confidence, the self-esteem, and so he took all of these steroids in order to make you like him. Flipping through the photos, did it for you again. Flexes his quad. I did it for you again. Another flex. And you perhaps that's him when he started. Not quite as jacked as he would want to be. He has abdominals, but he's just a teenager. It takes time to put on all this muscle. Full day. 17 years old. Road to pro. When you're 17 years old, you don't put road to pro. You're 17. You look like you're on the road to a novice competition. You should be on the road to the gym. On the road to getting in shape, to being fit, to being healthy, to improving my physique naturally, not road to pro. Test Primo DHB Super Doll HH insulin. How badly do you want it? Because you've got to pay a price to be the best. >> How badly do you want it? You got to pay a price to be the best. This is not a flex. Many of you are thinking, "Oh, I want it so bad that I'm going to take off 20 years from my life. I want it so bad. I want it more than you." No, you don't. You're just an idiot. I'll tell you how bad you wanted it. You didn't want it bad enough to stay natural. If you really wanted it, you would work for it and be natural. you'd at least start competing natural first. You don't even know if you like this. And so you're taking the chicken [\h__\h] approach to getting gains. You're a coward and you're using steroids and promoting it to young teenagers. And you think you're the man. You think we should applaud to you. OH, CUZ YOU WANTED IT SO BAD that you set the alarm for 3 in the morning. Oh, you wanted it so bad that you're abusing drugs to allow yourself to do all of this. I'd like to see you wake up at 3:00 a.m. without the steroids, without the Superdoll, without the testosterone coursing through your veins. Let's see you do it natural. Let's see you die without Rea. Bro, you're sounding like meertzel. Oh, I have more willpower than you. I'm smarter than you. You're better than everything than everyone. No, you abuse more chemistry than other people. Other people, they go to school and they study and they have a job and they work and they get good grades. What do you think I did? Do you think I abused steroids as a teenager? This is embarrassing. Thinking that you're somehow better than everyone else. Drugging yourself to go to sleep. 120 mg of melatonin. A normal dose for most people is 1 to three grams. I get after me because she's taking 10 10 milligrams of melatonin last night. I say, "You don't need all that. What's wrong with you? Don't you know better?" 10. You're doing 120. This is not healthy. >> Me and my friend right here, we hopped on at the age of 16 years old. And here are our worst experiences with steroids. >> He's 17 now, but he started at 16 along with his friend. And so he was able to find someone insecure enough that they needed to do something. And so they found someone so they could do it together. Hey, let's do drugs together at 16 and posted on social media. And their parents are none the wiser. Where are the freaking parents worst experiences? >> I had a pin my lat and I had a big purple dot in my lat coming out of it bleeding and it was swollen for like a week. >> He's already pinning his lat at 16 and had an absess with pus pouring out of it for a week. Do you know how dangerous this is? You could end up in hospital. You could end up literally dying. My first ever pin, I pinned 0.8 milliliters of 14 milligrams per milliliter test. >> That's not a lot. He's saying it was such a massive amount. 8 ms of 14 milligrams per mill.8 * 14 is about 11. So he injected 11 milligrams of testosterone in his lat and he couldn't work out for two weeks. Just so that you know, yesterday I pinned my HRT. It's 0.4 4 mls. So 80 milligrams of testosterone. 0480. So the volume I injected was half of his. But I did 80 milligrams and he did 11. Why does he think it's a lot? My belief is this. He has no idea what he pinned. He has no clue. You really think that your first cycle you're going to pin 11 milligrams of testosterone? 11. 1 of what I did on HRT? >> It just left a really big PIP. Then he's got PIP and pain so much he can't train for two weeks. You need to throw that [\h__\h] in the can. What did you make this at home on your own? Is bro a science experiment? >> Nothing. Like no blood came out. But that was my first ever pin. It hurt for like 2 weeks straight since there was so much like volume in my lat. And that was the worst experience ever. I couldn't move my arm. I couldn't work out for literally two weeks after my first pin. >> Who does their first pin in their lat? And so this is who you're hiring to coach you? a kid who did his first shot in his lat. Why would you ever listen to a child teach you how to use drugs? >> And it just honestly sucks so bad. I wish I, you know, like learned a little bit more about pinning. I did my math wrong. I I pinned my entire week rather than that one day since I was trying to go for every other day pittings. >> And so he admittedly did his math wrong, of which he still has done it wrong. There's no way he did his entire week's worth of testosterone on day one if it was 11 millig. I just did the math. The syringe most likely was a 3 cc syringe. And so, was it really 14 milligrams? Testosterone normally comes as 100 milligrams, 200, 250, 300, 400. It doesn't come as 14. Am I not right? Do you agree with me? Has anyone heard of testosterone dose 14 milligrams per ml? >> Yeah, definitely get lower. Um, it's not that expensive. It's only like $200ish dollars for a full panel, but yeah, fall more. >> Interesting to see. 16 year olds telling other 16 year olds, 15, 14 year olds of their experiences with steroids to make sure they get blood work to do their math correctly on their first try. If you think that these kids are qualified to coach you, then there's something wrong with you mentally and physically. I don't even think 16 and 17 years of age is old enough to use turquestone, which is 100% legal. Adjuka Turkistanica, which is way better than creatine. But if you're going to use steroids and you've got your mind set on it, at least use natural supplements first. Like bro didn't even mention if he's on creatine, oh, I'm on Super Brawl, but did he even try creatine? And if you get your blood work done and you want to save money and you go to Algorex, be sure to actually follow up with the blood work. If there's things wrong with you, make some changes. Don't just say, "I'm sick. I'm dehydrated. I'm stressed out." It's no big deal. It is a big deal. The point of getting blood work is to make changes when you don't like the results. Interested in Alorex or with the HLT supplements? Click the link in description. If you want to get coached by Coach Greg, click the link and apply right now. And if you're looking to carry your supplements in stores or in gyms, of course, click the [clears throat] link and apply right now. Don't forget, we're looking for HCL sponsored athletes. If you've got a large following, you want to get sponsored by HLT supplements. Or even if you want to be an ambassador, you can apply by clicking the link right now. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algam, like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch any of those toops. Of course, you can pick up the cookbook, low calorie, delicious recipes for the big eater. Get to the website. Almost everything you're looking for is on the site and go get it now. And until next time, I am out.