Coach Greg and what an exciting prejudging for men's open bodybuilding and so I can't wait to see what's happening. We have so many guys contending for first place and so let's get right into it. The first guy we don't want to hear about it's Ers Callahansy. Did he in fact make the top 10? Nope. But remember it's his first attempt at the Olympia. I do believe he's placing ahead of Rean. I have him somewhere around perhaps 13th place. But remember, it's his first time and he just moved up to classic. He needs about 15 lbs more muscle. He looked amazing, but 13th is where Earth is going to slide. Another interesting guy, looked more impressive than I expected. Was Neckzilla. Do you can't believe the muscle on this guy. He looked huge. He was improved. He was impressive. And look for this guy to place somewhere in the top 10. And so let's now get into the top six. And so Nick Walker was the talk of the show going into the show, but unfortunately he just did not deliver as promised going in. I thought he was going to get second. I saw his updates on social media. I saw he told me he was 272 lbs. We're talking a couple days from the show and I said, "This is unbelievable." But he just did not bring the shreds. And he has to bring up his quads. From the rear, the hamstrings, the calves, the back muscles, stupendous. But from the front, the legs just don't balance it out. And unfortunately, he doesn't have the prettiest physique. I don't get bricked up when I'm looking at him. Did you know that judging involves three main things? How much muscle you have, how little body fat you have, and how bricked up you get while watching the competitors. And by break up I mean how pretty and symmetrical is in fact that physique. Then in fifth place, boy did this guy have his amazing looking quads, striations everywhere, very impressive pecs. And he's the man who defeated Seabbum last year when Seabbum competed in Open. He goes by the name Martin Fitzwwater. And so look for Martin in fifth place. And in fourth place, this is his best appearance to date. He was tall, shredded, symmetrical. Everyone's getting bricked up looking at this guy. Andrew jacked. And so you can't take your eyes off this guy. The delts, the arms, the symmetry. The only thing is because of his height, he's so much taller than most of these guys that he doesn't quite have enough muscle in particular in his legs. But for top four, this is an amazing finish. I did not see it coming. And in third place, Hottadi Shopan. Hottie. As always, he was shredded, but I felt he was not quite at his all-time best. Now, I'm not saying he was off, but I have seen him a little bit leaner. And so, because of his height, he's a manlet like Coach Greg. He doesn't have as much size as some of the other competitors. But remember what he lacks in size essentially because of his height. He makes up for it with granite hard shredded muscle. And so he does have the hardness, the graininess, the shreds, but not quite enough muscle. And so that brings it down to the top two. And honestly, either of these guys could win it. One, Samson Senota, he has the height and the symmetry. Derek Lunford in comparison, he has the greatest back in the world. And so when I first saw these guys from the front, I thought Samson Dada with that minuscule waist. He looks like a classic physique competitor only with way more muscle, standing over 6 feet tall and close to 300 lb. He seems to be unbeatable. And I was impressed with conditioning. Every year I've seen him compete, I've said, "Why doesn't he just bring the shreds? He seems to be lacking the conditioning, the detail that you expect a Mr. Olympia champion to have." But this year, he brought the shreds. He brought the best package he's ever had. And so, after seeing him go through his individual posing routine, I was thinking, "Yep, it's looking like he has first place locked in." That was until I saw Derek. Derek is a former champion and he wants the title back. Who doesn't? But he put his time in the gym and he seems to have gotten a little bit bigger and he did not hold back on the conditioning. And so his back is so superb that he seems to make up for the fact that he does have smaller quads than would be ideal. Now, his quads have come up from the last time I see him in the past, and so he does have more balance than last time, but does he have enough to dethrone Samson Dota? Samson has the prettier physique. Derek Lunsford had more muscle. Samson is taller. Derek is shorter. Now, Derek did in fact bring a proper tan, which we know is very, very important. Samson, however, he's also improved. And so, both men brought their best package to the stage. And so, how is it going to end? I mean, honestly, I'm not sure. Going into the show, I predicted it would be Samson Dota. I assumed that Samson was going to improve enough that he was going to bring the shreds and have the size and have the shape and that Derek wouldn't have enough. And I was predicting that Nick Walker would have improved by so much, had so much more size and conditioning that he would leaprog everyone. Samson Dota, but Nick, he didn't bring enough detail. He said he was 272 lbs couple days before the Olympia, but I think he would have been better closer to 260. And so, as they went through their poses, my opinion was, hey, it's a tossup. And frankly, they're probably posing again right now. And so I've only seen them pose one time, but I want to get this video out so that you guys can watch it. And so who is going to win? Personally, right now, I got to cheer for Derek. I've known Derek for a while. I like his physique. He has a very, very tiny waist and he does in fact look like a classic physique competitor. The only problem is he doesn't have the quads. But Samson Dota is lacking the back of Derek. And so if you in fact are a Derek fan, he has done his work. And if you're a Samson fan, also a deserving champion. And so I personally think we're going to see a split decision victory. And remember, this is just prejudging. This is a Friday night show. And so a lot to things can happen overnight. Any of these guys could perhaps carve up a little bit more, fill out a little bit more, or perhaps come in a little bit drier. And so I think this is one of the closest Olympias in years. You could expect either of these men to come out on top and you never know what can happen. For example, Nick Walker, perhaps he loses 10 lbs of water by tomorrow evening and he could move up several places. Now, I don't think he can do enough to win, but I do think that just because they did not win on prejudging, I don't think anyone has done enough to shut the door and have a slam duck victory over anyone. And so these men are gonna have a very difficult time going to bed and sleeping. Any man has enough in the tank to flip-flop at least one position. And so this is my prediction of how I see it right now. And so if I had to pick a winner, I'm going with Derek. I don't know if this is going to come true. Uh frankly, either man could win. And so we have to wait and see until tomorrow. And so, tune in tomorrow when I go through the top six and see how everyone has done and see if anyone has made the improvements necessary to leapfrog over their opponents. And so, hopefully you watched the prejudging. Hopefully, you enjoyed it. Got to see everyone going through the routines. Very amazing. Go and check out my videos on Instagram. I was videotaping them live here in Las Vegas. Come and visit me. I'll be at the expo tomorrow. And so guys, remember a lot can happen overnight. And so if you need some, please contact Coach Greg for Turk Platinum. Leave no stone on turn. If you want to be the victor, purchase Turk Platinum. You need to do it. You've got only hours left. Everything can happen. And for the casual fans out there, you might not be looking to win Olympia champion, but you can purchase this on the website code Greg 15% off. Of course, for algo RX for your blood work, make sure you're healthy. Do you need the Talmasin? Do you need Saliser Vagra? I doubt it after watching all these competitors. And of course, you're trying to get shredded. Perhaps you're interested in a GLP. For example, GLP-1 OPIC or Turzipide. All can be purchased at Alorex for cheaper prices than last time. Code Greg 10% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you liked it, watch one of those two loops. And for coaching, of course, apply by clicking the link. And the cookbooks, the supplements, code Greg, 50% off. And until next time, I am out.