In the end, when the smoke cleared, the champion Derek Lunsford. First off, who never made it into the top five? Well, Ers Kalisenski, who many were hoping for a top 10 finish simply more time to put on more mass, but Ers did manage to beat out Canadian superstar and longtime fan favorite Regan Grimes. Rean, he simply needs to put more mass onto his quads. His upper body and most certainly his back is a top 10 physique in the world, but he doesn't have the legs to match up with his upper body. And so I do believe is going to finish somewhere around 12th place. We'll check out the scorecards tomorrow. And so look for next year somewhere in the top 10. Another guy that really was shocking was Neckzilla. I mean, this guy, I don't even know how he walks. He must have a myostatin deficiency because there's no man on that stage that had that much muscle, but it isn't really pretty. He doesn't have the separation, the details, the crossrations. He just has so much muscle that it's hard to believe that there's a human being that's that big. Let's now get into the top 10. One of my favorites, who I do believe has a lot of potential. Perhaps he might even leapfrog against Nick Walker in a year or two. Is good veto. This guy, the front double bicep. I couldn't believe the peaks, the amount of mass, as well as how small his waist is. He has amazing quads. He's shredded, separated, huge back. And so, if this guy can get a little bit leaner and perhaps put on even more muscle, he has the legs to beat out none other than Nick Walker. I do believe he's going to finish in sixth place. Now last year Bob Chicherello predicted he would get eighth place and so technically he did prove him wrong. He got sixth place but I do believe that him as well as his fans are going to be disappointed as I felt he had the potential to place a lot higher. In fact, of all the years, I do believe that this would have been the year for Nick Walker to perhaps come out on top. He brought the size, but with all that added size, he was weighing 272 lbs couple days before the Olympia. I think he sacrificed a little bit in the conditioning department. Now, I do believe he came better in tonight's show than last night, but I don't believe it was enough to overcome some of the better and more conditioned opponents. What Nick Walker is missing is other than his shape would be to have more massive looking quads. If he could get the quads of the man who plays fifth in Martin Fitzswwater, well, he literally could be fighting for first place. Nick Walker from the rear, his back, the biceps, the hamstrings, he's fighting with Derek Lungford, but unfortunately from the front, he's simply got a weakness. He doesn't have the small waist of a Derrick Lungsford. So, he's relegated to sixth place. Now, Martin Fitzwwater, I mean, the quads I do believe probably the best in the entire world. Of all the guys in that competition, I think I like these quads the most. He has cross striations. They're huge and so very, very impressive. He does have a smaller waist, great shape, excellent most muscular, excellent chest. And so, I feel all he needs is to add on a little bit more muscle. Of course, everyone can in fact get a little bit more shredded and open, except for perhaps Hottie Shopan, who always comes in grainy hard and shredded. And remember, Martin Fitzwwater is the man who defeated Seabbum last year in Prague, and he comes back this year with a solid fifth place finish, but with some more improvements, he very easily could finish in the top three. And so the moment that you've been waiting for the top four, repeatedly in the call outs every single time they kept calling the same top four. And so everyone knew that these were going to be the top four finishers. But what was going to be the order? And so in the evening finals, they continuously kept Hottie Shopan and Derek Lunsford in the middle. And to the sides was Samson Sen Dota and Andrew Jack. And so the more I looked at Andrew Jack, the more I wanted to move up, at one point I was thinking, is it even possible to for him to play second? And in comparison, Samson Dota, the more I looked at him, the less I thought he had enough size. He brought more conditioning, but it seems like for 1% more conditioning, he lost 5% more size. And so next year he's going to have to bring the same level of conditioning but find the methods in order to bring more muscle. In fourth place to many people's surprise it was last year's champion Samson Dota. Now Samson his strengths are he looks like a classic physique competitor only with significantly more size. His waist is tiny, his shoulders are wide but he does have a significant weakness in his back double bicep. it just doesn't have the kind of muscle that you would expect to have. He could also bring more size in his quads. And so overall, we want to see the size he had last year, but combined with this year's conditioning. And so the crowd favorite, and I don't know, I do believe he won the people's choice award, Andrew Jacked. Andrew Jack, normally he's very quiet, very humble man. He doesn't seem to get excited. He just goes about and does his thing. At this year's Olympia, he was amping up the crowd. He was acting like a guest poser and I was there for it. Now the announcers were say, "Hey, you can't do that. You got to calm down." But hey, you got to do what you got to do to get noticed. And get noticed he did. He ended up in third place. This is his by far his best finish. Andrew Jack had amazing size, amazing detail, but he can still bring even more conditioning. When you compare him to Hattie Shopan, remember to try and get in the top two, you have to beat the top two. This is a Gregism. And so he could add more striations in the glutes. He could in fact have more size, especially from the side chest poses and so on. I wish he would open up more, turn over to the side a little bit because he doesn't seem to take up as much space. And then there were two, I'm certain everyone knew it was between Derek and Hadtie Shopan. They kept in the center flip-flopping. It was always these two in the center. Hadti Shopan, who's always peeled, he's always shredded. the most muscular, the striations on the chest going side to side, the abs etched in stone, the obliques looking ridiculous, as well as peeled quads from head to toe. However, it seems like he didn't have quite the size as he once had. Derek, on the other hand, previously a major weakness for Derek was he didn't have as much size in his legs. Derek noticeably looked thicker. His legs looked bigger and he literally outsized Hattie. Previously, they carried about the same amount of muscle. You could argue that one was better than the other. But this year, it was clear, at least to me, that Derek was better. Derek had more size. And from the rear, Derek had amazing crossstrided glutes and much more detail in comparison to Hottie. Also, Derek just has a thicker back. thicker overall muscles and seemed to outsize Hotti Shopan. And so the two short kings, both former 212 champions, they were battling it out for first and second. In the end, when the smoke cleared, the champion, Derek Lunsford, for me, this is Derek Lungsford all-time best package. I believe he had more size. It was just as condition as before. Will we next year see a battle for another 212 champion in Keon Pearson? Keon Pearson has won three straight 212 Olympia Championships. He weighed in at 211.9 lbs. And so, will we see Keon battle it out for the top five at next year's Mr. Olympia? I believe he has what it takes. I would love to see Keon at next year's Open. In men's physique, we saw Ryan Terry repeat for the third consecutive time. And in women's bikini, we saw last year's Miss Olympia champion get relegated out of the top five. We have several competitors who were former champions get relegated to fourth and outside of fifth place. And so, just because you're last year's champion doesn't guarantee you're going to come out on top. Before I wrap this up, I want to tell you this. Men's classic physique, in my humble, which is not humble opinion, is equal to the open bodybuilding. I believe that just as many people are interested in finding out who won classic physique as who won open bodybuilding. But here's the difference. Open is $600,000 and classic physique is $100,000. Now, does that make sense? Is it six times more popular? I believe the payoff for classic physique has to go up. Men's open bodybuilding. The open bodybuilders are going to like this, but I think $600,000 is enough. If we're going to keep upping the prizes, they gave over $2 million in total. I believe the next prize that should go up is men's classic physique. Why not raise it from 100,000 to 200,000? Does that not seem fair? Let's add more prizes to the most relevant categories that bring the most eyeballs to the sport. And remember, there can only be one Mr. Olympia champion. We have several amazing competitors who compete in Mr. Olympia. and the Arnolds is just around the corner with amazing prize money. And so guys who haven't finished in first in and this could include Derek perhaps Derek is just going to keep winning more money than last time. He's already earned over a million dollars this year. And so my recommendation if you're in the top five and you want to make a hefty paycheck, compete at the Arnolds. We all want to see our favorite superstars competing in the most prestigious competitions in the world. The Arnolds is certainly up there. And so, let's see everyone compete next at the Arnold Championships. If you're asking me who's the favorite for next year, of course, it's whichever one of the pros is using Turk Builder Max. I wouldn't be surprised if all of them were already taking it. But if you're not, well, you can blame it on not taking Turk for your first place finish. And so, for example, if Nick Walker wasn't taking Turk Platinum, what's wrong with you? sixth place without Turk Platinum. That could easily have been a first place finish had you have taken it. And so why not just take the supplements that actually work, the ones that obviously are going to be of benefit. Now whether you're a bodybuilder or just a gym enthusiast, you can of course take Turk Platinum. Code Greg, 15% off. Break through your plateaus. Don't bother taking it if you're a teenager or if you haven't hit a plateau. This is for those who are really serious and want to take their training to next level. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. Of course, the cookbooks, the training books, coaching plans by me and my team. If you're wanting to get the semiglutide, for example, ompic, tzipotide, or perhaps uh tadalapil, viagra, telmartin, inclapene. You can get your blood work done. All these things at algo rx code Greg 10% off for HDLT supplements, the seco bars, all of it. You name it. Code Greg 15% off. And until next time, I am out.