CHILL, CHILL, CHILL. CHILL, CHILL, CHILL, CHILL, CHILL, CHILL, CHILL, CHILL, CHILL, CHILL. >> OH, there's a left hook. AND DOWN GOES, >> you have a message to all the fans back home that are watching you. Um, it's better to try and lose than not try. >> Am I the only one who like feels bad for Andrew? Like, I feel like he had to win this. >> I don't feel bad for Andrew at all. Coach Greg. And did you all see three of the influencer fights over the weekend? We had Jake Paul followed by Andrew Tate and lo and behold, Jack Dhy of all people. And so I'm sure you know by now that Jake Paul got punched, knocked out, broke his teeth, broke his jaw. And people are still speculating that this fight it was fixed. that it was rigged from the beginning. Do you really think that Jake Paul planned to get knocked out, break his jaw in the sixth round, or do you not think that he was doing his best to win the fight? Now, my opinion is Jake Paul had about a one in a,000 chance of winning this fight. And so, it was more a matter of when rather than if Joshua would finally beat him. Now, I'm sure a lot of people are thankful. They're glad that this happened. Finally, we got him. We didn't do anything. Joshua won against him in a lopsided victory, of which, of course, he won. He's literally 30 lbs bigger and about 5 in taller than him. Jake Paul, he had no chance. Is he really a loser? Perhaps making $100 million for this fight. How many of you would not go into a boxing match against a heavyweight champion for $100 million even if you lose? And so regardless of the fact that he loses, he actually wins. Next, Andrew Tate, the Top G, a former world kickboxing champion, legit fighter, motivational speaker, a man who says, "You should be tough, you should fight, you should provide, you should be doing all of the things." He bragged, said he was going to win this fight, and brought a lot of eyeballs in people hoping that he would lose. Andrew was in fact the favorite most people expected him to dominate. But remember, he's 40. He hasn't fought in perhaps 10 years. And last he fought, he was able to use his legs. This is totally different. It's similar to if you're a UFC fighter and you're in a boxing match. Perhaps your best weapon, your legs, you can't use it. And so you're clearly at a disadvantage. Not to mention Andrew Tate a lot smaller than his opponent. Now Andrew being over 6'2, he's not a small man, but in comparison to his opponent, he did look a little bit tiny. And so my opinion, he's down a weight class, older, perhaps didn't have the time to come in at his best. But this is what he did. He put his body on the line. his reputation. Did he have anything to gain by winning this match? I don't think so, other than perhaps whatever millions of dollars that he doesn't actually need. And so, he just took on a challenge, motivation to see what he was made out of. Yes, of course, on the road to the fight, he has to hype it up. I'm gonna win. It's obviously going to be me. And that's how top athletes sell these fights. You have to go in cocky. You have to be arrogant. But notice how he behaved in his defeat. Did he make excuses? Did he complain? Look at his face. He clearly was battered. He was losing and he knew it. But listen to this. >> Talk to us about what it feels like to be back here. >> Yeah. And 10 years out, 40 years old. Gave him my all, but he's tough. I don't know what to say. He's really tough. Congratulations to him. >> Do you think we'll be able to see you in here again? >> Uh yeah, I'm going to have to uh go back, watch the fight, make a decision. But Chase is over this way and I'm really happy for him genuinely. Do you have a message to all the fans back home that are watching you? >> Um it's better to try and lose than not try at all. Am >> I the only one who like feels bad for Andrew? Like I feel like he had to win this. >> I don't feel bad for Andrew at all. He tried. He did his best and he lost. What did you do? You who's watching this right now, did you try? Did you try and fail? It's better to have tried and failed than to never have tried at all and to simply wonder what you could have done. Now imagine if we're going to say, "Andrew, you shouldn't have fought." That he somehow now loses his status. I feel like he had to win this. Like he's not really like his whole thing was like, "I'm the best. I'm the top G." like his epic motivational speeches are just going to not hit the same after >> Of course, they're going to hit the same. He put his money where his mouth is. Is that the saying? He put his mouth where his money is. He put his mouth on his money. He put his money on his mouth. He put his mouth on his money. I don't know the saying. There's a saying, whatever. And so if we're going to sit here and critique Andrew Tate and say he's lost his status because he fought and lost, what is that going to do to everyone else? All that message would be is if you don't think you can win, that it's not guaranteed, then don't try. Sit back and do nothing. Why would you ever go and talk to that girl? She might reject you. It's better to not try to not ask her out than to try and have her make fun of you or just say no. What kind of loser beta attitude would that be? And so Andrew lost. He says, "Yep, he's better than me. He deserved it. I'm happy for him." despite all the talking he did leading up to this, perhaps being shocked that he was in fact defeated, but he said, "I DID MY BEST." And so, what have you done? And so, if you're going to talk [\h__\h] about Andrew Tate, what have you done in your life? Are you always the champion? Michael Jordan perhaps the best basketball player of all time. He perhaps missed 50% of his shots, but you miss 100% of the shots that you do not take. Better to try and lose than to not try at all. Hey, I agree with that. Big respect to Andrew Tate. Personally, I would not have gotten in there in that ring. So, I can't say that, you know, I would have gone in there personally. I'm just not a fighter. [laughter] Andrew Tate, hey, respect respect to the top G. You will always be my top G. >> And so, my personal opinion is this just allows people to relate that much more with Andrew Tate. Perhaps you had him on a pedestal. The strongest, toughest, baddest man in the world. Now you realize that he can be humbled. But his message is the same. To work on yourself and be better, to take risks. But this now leads us to the most shocking fight of the weekend. Jack Dohy fighting with Andre Arlovski, former UFC champion. And I'm not making this [\h__\h] up. It actually happened. >> You know how he does the whole I'm going to walk into somebody. I'm going to pretend I didn't know I bumped you but to piss you off and then he wants to film it and hide. Well, I don't know if he was doing it or he intended to do it here. But he goes and he walks into Andre Arloski. And so my opinion is he didn't make a mistake at all. This was carefully calculated. Think of it. Jack Dhy, he hires a bodyguard. He hides behind him all the time and he essentially starts trouble with other people and then hides behind his bodyguard as he's simply a coward. But what he knows how to do is to push your buttons. That's right. You you who's watching this right now, you hate Jack Dhy. And so of course you should. But remember, for every hero, you need a villain. Jack Dhy, he's clearly a villain. and so is Les Watson who was also at this event. And so Jack bumps up into Arlovski. And Arlovski, he's not putting up with that. You don't do that on purpose to me. I'm a UFC champion. Jack, he knows what he's doing. His cameras rolling, ready to get the footage to make him go viral. Now imagine Jack's friends, these teenagers with the crazy hair. Imagine thinking that it's a good idea to start attacking Arlovski. I mean, that is going too far. Jack, he's hiding. He's getting back. But to just attack these people, these so-called pranks, I've had enough of it. All the people who are doing pranks, eventually it's going to end in chaos or perhaps somebody losing their life. You don't do these things. Why are you deliberately on purpose hitting into other people? You never know what day that person's had. You never know how they might retaliate. >> Help. >> Now, understand Arlovski, he went easy on these guys. He's not attacking them. He's throwing his hands a little bit. He's not throwing full force. He's not like he jumped on the guy, attacked him, bare body slammed him. He's simply saying, "Hey, mess off. Stay away from me." If he wanted to, he could have put all of these guys out. And so he exercised restraint unlike Jack Dohy and his posi. >> And so we can see the fingers being thrown in the air. These guys are doing anything to be hated. Remember, controversy sells. You don't think Wes Watson knows and realizes what he's doing despite getting all of the hate? How often do we talk about him? Jack Thory the exact same thing. And so it isn't just heroes who get shown in social media. Every hero needs a villain. And so Jack Dhy, he knows how to play the villain. I mean, frankly, these kids should be charged. We should be making an example of them. You can't get away with this. You can't just bump into a man and start attacking him threeon-one. Just because he's much larger than you, perhaps older than you, doesn't give you permission to do to him whatever you want. And so hopefully we'll see the return of Andrew Tate, Jake Paul, and perhaps even Jack Dohy boxing in the ring. And my suggestion, of course, they're going to want to use Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum combined with GO2 Max. Remember, this is going to help you to build muscle. It's going to improve your cardiovascular performance and you're 100% natural when you use it. Now, remember, there's a money back guarantee and on top of that, a $50 gift card. And so, if it doesn't work as well as I've explained, if it doesn't exceed your expectations, money back guarantee. And on top of that $50 gift card, of course, you can get the cookbooks seco protein bars code seco for 50% off. And if you're interested in getting your blood work, includes lose weight, all the different things, of course, go to algo RX where they will legally prescribe you prescription medications from a pharmacy. It's not some SARM's website. It's 100% legal with no gatekeeping. Don't forget to enter code Greg for your discount. Ending it here. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to booiago, like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And until next time, yo out.