I clearly have to have a good start to beat you. Look, I did slip a little. He slipped. We going to do one more. We going to do one more. No. Uh, is this turning into Ashen Hall part two? I can beat you at a good start. I slipped a little. No, he won. You can say, "Yep, you know, you know, if I worked on my start, next time I could perhaps beat him." You didn't. This was it. And so breaking live I show speed against I do believe his name is Daniel and he offered $10,000 to race I show speed and he's giving him the money if he loses. If he wins he gets nothing. He traveled down to see I show speed and listen these guys are very very famous. Daniel's channel is hilarious. He does various skits. He runs. He pretends he's Tom Cruz, the likes of various different people. And bro is very fast, but is he faster than I show speed? Now, I'm betting on ISO speed. I'm saying it's probably a negative 650 bet. And I'm thinking ISO speed has got this. I've seen him beat various social media influencers, including Ashton Hall. He raced the world's fastest man, lost by a step, and he's challenged the world's fastest woman. And in that challenge, she said, "Yeah, I'll race you, but you have to do my workout first." Her workout was 6 hours. She wanted to tire him out and says, "At the end of the workout, then we can race." Speed's like, "I just want to race." Yeah. And hopefully the video doesn't get taken down. Now, I used to like I show speed and I'm still cheering him for the win, but my last video, he copyright strike it. He challenged it. And so, what happens is the views, they go way down. And so, my views were 600,000 or so. Well, they obviously they're going to tank. And so, apparently, he doesn't have enough money. He's trying to make money, saying we don't have fair use for talking about him. Bro, how do you think you got famous in the first place? When I was talking to Mr. Beast, he said, "Look, you want everyone to take your videos and post them and talk about you. That's how it spreads. Word of mouth, people talking about you, showing clips of you. That's how you go viral." YouTube asks y'all to stop spamming about these emails uh about the Cardigan and the Thumb Media affiliate. That is me. Just wanted to let y'all know, everybody know that. So, y'all guys, please stop. Thank y'all. Love y'all. And so you don't copyright strike other people for using your clips. And so let's see what's going down. You too. It's going to be clo. I feel it's even. The you is might be pretty fast. I've seen polls. It's pretty even. And so unlike Ashton Hall, Daniel's saying, "Hey, it's going to be close." We're about even. Them are losing words. If you actually think that you're going to win, you don't say, "Yeah, I think it's going to be close." You say, "Yeah, I see that you're fast. Probably not going to beat you by all that much." If you say it's going to be close, I don't know, you've already lost. I've been training. I've been training. You've been training? I've been training to up my chances. So, I'm ready. And so, Daniel, who's shorter than I show speed? Speed isn't very tall. And so, is it in fact true that you're faster when you're short? You have more acceleration. Now, remember, they're running very short. It's only 60 m. And so, they don't need as much topend speed. This is a race about acceleration. Daniel appears to have more muscle than speed, but how did it work for Ashen Hall? Ashen Hall clearly had more muscle than speed, but he didn't have the acceleration. And so, I don't think the muscle you have is really all that important. I mean, Canadian superstar Andre Degrasse, he didn't have that much muscle. To me, he looked like a twig. He kind of reminds me of I show Speed. And how did he do? He's winning medals in both the 100 and the 200. and Usain Bolt, he wasn't jacked, but yet he was in fact very tall. But I do believe that's more of an advantage when you're getting up to top speed. And so Daniel has practiced. Practice does in fact make perfect. The more you practice, the better you're going to get at it. Last I checked, Ashton Hall was practicing every day. I mean, he woke up at 3:54 in the morning, I do believe. He dove into the pool for 4 minutes, rubbed banana peels on his face, and he went and ran sprinting next to very fast cars. And so all the practice of racing cars, it didn't help him to win. But in this case, running perhaps with the proper shoes. In other sports, it's all about the proper tan. In running, you got to wear the proper shoes, the spikes, and so on. I don't I don't want to make an excuse that, but y'all know I did bruise my knee. Like, this not an excuse. I show speed is not showing the confidence. Hey, I have a bruised knee. It's taped up in pink. and he says, "You know, I'm not going to use this as an excuse." Once it's been stated, it's already an excuse. Oh, I'm injured. Not making excuses, though, but I'm But I'm injured. If it's not an excuse, don't bring it. Don't say anything. Oh, God. All right. You ready? I'm ready. Let's get on the track, man. Come on. Let's do it. Let's go. And so, Speed is not looking as confident as when he raced Ashton Hall. And I do believe he knew Ashton Hall stats. Perhaps he also knows Daniel's stats and knows Daniel is faster than Ashton. You saw my 40. That's impressive. What's your 40? I I think it's close to yours, bro. 4.4. I I think it's more like 46. But are you sure you ran a 44? There's no way I shall speed ran a 4.4. I do not believe that to be true. 4.4. Daniel's saying I ran a 4.6. That is fast. 4.4. I believe the record for the combine is like 4.2. two, three, maybe. I don't know, maybe it's a bit faster. I know that 4.4 is fast. And for a guy who's 20, who's not a football player, he's not a track sprinter. He's not anything. He doesn't even want to use blocks. That's fast. You will see, bro. You will see. I promise you, I run a 44, though. When he says 44, does that mean 449? And he rounds it down. And so, is Jesse James sprinting against I show Speed next? Jesse James, I have in fact challenged him. We were running up a hill and he embarrassed me. And so Jesse a lot faster than coach Greg, but I doubt he could keep up with speed. Yo, I need some prime. I need some electrolytes. Did he just say prime? Are you joking? Electrolytes, bro. Have you not heard of perily? I mean to say prime. Prime is essentially potassium without enough sodium. It's actually going to help to dehydrate you. It's not proper. And in perilite we have EAAs, essential amino acids. Essential amino acids. And so it helps you to not only stay hydrated, also gives you more protein. 3 2 1. I feel kind of dead. I ain't going to lie. I I kind of chat. I kind of had a crazy last night, bro. I was up all night last night, chat. I'm not going to make any excuses, but I banged my knee and I was up all night. Now I was up all night. I didn't remember speed showing up at my house and so perhaps it's not true. Now, I do recommend that if you're in a race for $10,000 that you're taking GO2 max as well as a turret builder max improve your endurance, your recovery, your energy and so on. But to really get you going, you got to get the So, anyone remember we talked about celidraide and how it makes you feel the energy. I mean, after this I'm racing bikes. I can't wait to get blue lobstered right now. Are you faster than Ashen Hall? I think so. You think you are? I think so. He asked him, "Are you faster than Ashen Hall? If he wasn't faster than Ashen Hall, would he even have a chance?" And so, here's what I think. Even if he couldn't beat him, this is good publicity. You got two very famous YouTubers, they're going to combine in one video. And so, $10,000 if he loses, but the exposure worth way more than $10,000. I have my driver when I film go 21 plus. So, so you're 21 miles per hour. I think I'm 22 23. 22 23. You I'm like a rounder. And so Usain Bolt ran 27 mph. I do believe that's the world record for top speed. Ashton Hall lied and said he could run 26 mph. This was [\h__\h] It was closer to 22 perhaps. And so he's saying I run around 22 mph. Dude, that ass you like 22 23 if you around her cuz that's like that's where I'm at. And so speed says that is how fast I run also. And so clearly they both have the same or equal topend speed. And so whoever gets to that speed quicker is going to be the victor. And so how fast can you explode? That is where the fast twitch muscle fibers come to fruition. Slow twitch fibers you can go all day. Fast twitch fibers, they're going to create that explosive power. These are what bodybuilders have more of. Fast twitch fibers, they come thicker, bigger, stronger, more powerful, more explosive. And so who has the better fast switch fibers? And so definitely they're taking it serious. They're warming up. They're practicing their starts. This means something. Okay. Yeah. All right, Chad. We going to do 80 m. Let me see my phone. So they're running 80 m. I remember Speed wanted 60, wanted 100, and say they took the compromise. Chad, I should take the black shirt off, right? It's hot as [\h__\h] Tarps off for the boys. And so this is going to create increased aerodynamics when you're running and the shirts floating around. It's going to create more drag. This is why cyclists wear the spandex suits and so on or like Coach Greg. He's ripping the spandex off. You can cut through the wind like a knife. Oh yes. [\h__\h] go. And speed wins by a mile. I mean, honestly, he would have had a better chance. 40 to 60 m. Speed has the most speed. The top end speed. It wasn't even close. Good job, man. Let's go. Notice the difference. Daniel, congratulations. Good race. Had Ashton Hall done the same thing. It would have been fine. There's nothing wrong with losing. They both gave it their all. They raced once. They raced hard. The champion was the champion. This is how it works. And hopefully speed doesn't now take down the videos. We're simply reporting the news. We're allowed to talk about content. Oh, what do you think happens? Somebody scores the winning goal in a soccer game. You can't say, "Oh, check out the winning goal." Yay. And now we celebrate. Day one. Oh, video taken down. We're not to talk about the news. Great. Fast. I am fast. You're fast. You fast. I am fast. I love this. And so, we knew speed was fast, but just over 8 and 1/2 seconds for 80 m. This is really, really fast. You flip? Yes. I think I did a little, but I don't want to. You want Hey, we can do it again if you slip. I don't want to make any excuses. He slipped. Okay, all right. We going to do one more. We going to do one more. Say less. Why are we racing again? They've already won. I mean, if we're going to have best two out of three, let's create different distances. Let's run 50 m. Let's run 40 m, then run 100 and 200 and and take best two out of three. But the same distance. Where do they ever do this in the Olympics? I don't see them losing and saying, "Oh, let's best two out of three." I mean, this is better than boxing. These influencers challenge other influencers in boxing. They fight for 10 rounds. Nothing seems to happen. This is one and done. I can sit for 10 seconds and cheer. I don't want to sit for an hour. I clearly have to have a good start to beat you. Look, I did slip a little. He slipped. We going to do one more. We going to do one more. No. Uh, is this turning into Ashen Hall part two? I can beat you at a good start. I slipped a little. No, he won. You can say, "Yep, you know, you know, if I worked on my start, next time I could perhaps beat him." You didn't. This was it. Like that. Oh yeah. What is wrong with you? Speed, stop. Same position. Same position. No excuses. I'm warmed up now, Chad. And so Iso Speed is warmed up. He's now confident. He realizes that his bruised knee is not going to slow him down. He knows he's faster than him. He didn't even go 100%. He was slowing down at the end. He didn't run through to the finish. And so he's like, "Yeah, we can run again. Now that I know that I can beat you, this is all good." I show speed has gained confidence. He knows you're going to win. So yeah, let's run a win. So I can say I beat him twice. Same distance. You want to shorter? Want to do 60? Sure. And so Daniel, do you want to run the same speed or shorter? Notice how I show speed was actually pulling away. And so it's closer if the distance is closer. he has a better chance if he gets off to a head start. Perhaps I show speed isn't on the whistle. He might beat him, especially in a shorter distance, but the longer the distance, the less it matters. If you perhaps started 0.1 seconds behind, and so strategically, Daniel has a greater chance the shorter the distance. You want to do it? You want to do it again? Sure, it'll matter to me. All right, let's do it again. Go back slips. And so I shall speed, he knows it. He is in fact a runner. Perhaps not as competitive as some other people. He knows I can repeat this win at 80. If it's 60, my chances are actually smaller. Exactly as predicted. This was the exact same outcome. It looked the same as the initial run and so it wasn't needed. Now, having run twice, he certainly would benefit from GO2 Max. Not that he needs it, but if he's going to start running up the ranks, challenging perhaps professional sprinters, he's going to need to some extra training, some extra supplements, and seeing as I show speed is 100% natural. I have done a nattier knot on him. People are thinking there's no way this guy is natural. He's added on this muscle. It's natty gains. And if you were to use Gest Platinum, could have increased testosterone that could provide more energy combined with GO2 max as well as Turk Builder Max, bro. This is the dream. Natty, I almost feel like you're better at 80 than 60. Yeah, I I get my top speed more later. And so admittedly says, you know, I get my top speed a little bit later. And so admittedly says, you know, I get my top speed a little bit later. And so 40 m is not his strength. And so people challenging speed, his 40 isn't even his forte. Perhaps it's in fact 100 m. And so if I show speed dedicated himself and rumor has it that perhaps even the legend Usain Bolt could train him, could I show Speed make the Olympics? Imagine I show Speeds goes from having 41 million followers to 41 million following him on his road to the Olympics. I'm I'm still not at my peak. So for you to be this fast without training, you got a lot of potential, man. Even Daniel's freaking blazing speed. You run that fast without training, you have a lot of potential. He's saying, "Hey, are you going for the Olympics? I'm speed. Let's make this happen." I did my 100 meter before. Hey, what'd you get? It was 10 five. 10 five official. Yeah, but I didn't use blocks though. I didn't use blocks. And And plus, it was my first time. That's impressive. [\h__\h] running. Okay. Okay. This guy says, "I believe that you can run perhaps 10.5 to 10.8." He says he runs an 11.3. He says, "You're much faster than me, especially as it gets further." Speed's like, "I ran a 10.5 official without using blocks. Blocks helps tremendously. You pop out of the starting blocks and you get to your speed that much quicker. 10 five with no blocks. This is fast. Without training, I mean, the top end times back in the old days were, for example, a 10.2 and so on. Guys were not breaking 10 seconds until later in life. And so without training to be in the low tens, this is natural genetic potential. And so if you unlock that potential, you start training. He's 20. He's not too old. Most professional sprinters started when they were teenagers. They got fast. He has so much potential. And so can speed actually make the Olympics? Maybe a little 10 eventually. So I think with blocks I can run like a 10 three. A 103 with blocks in a headwind. I mean, if it was the opposite, if the wind was blowing behind him, giving him a tailwind, it's going to speed him up. Is it possible he could run a sub 10second 100 m this year? And what if he ran the 200? I mean, for an 80 m 100 m, it's mostly your anorobic alactic energy system. But as the distance goes on, anorobic lactic energy system, you can train that, you can get better. And for a guy without a lot of muscle like Canadian sprinter Andre Degrass, perhaps it's the 200 that's his strength. Tomorrow I got a music video drop. Then on the 25th me and Kai got a marathon coming in. So the next stream will be on the 25th. Chap in two days we're doing a marathon. Did he just say he's dropping another music album and he's going to run a marathon in two days? I mean what can this man not do? He's running 40 m, 60 m. He's a NFL sprinting potential. He could make the Olympics. He's a singer. This is getting ridiculous. And so if you're interested in coaching, remember just like speed, he has natural potential, but if you don't unlock that potential, it goes to waste. And so if you're interested in coaching, click the link in description. Remember, you can get your blood work read. We'll have training programs, diet plan, unlimited check-ins, all of this stuff, even phone calls with Coach Greg. If you're interested, apply by clicking the link. And of course, the cookbooks, the training books, the circle diet book, everything going on at the website. You can get it by clicking the link in the description. Use code Greg for 15% off. And until next time, I am