 you. I'm not some pathetic loser that falls off the wagon and doesn't brush myself off and get back again. Now, have these things happen to me? All of them. But I never let it slow me down. Never let it stop me because I want it bad enough. But for you, if you know about it in advance, you're being proactive and you recognize that these things can happen, maybe, just maybe this time, you won't let it slow you down. In the exact particular order, from least to the worst, as in this is not as bad as the first one. The last one, if you get this, it's going to be tough. I've combined this among time and financial pressure. They kind of go hand in hand. How many times do people say, I just don't have time? I mean, it's the most annoying excuse in the world because all of us have 24 hours in the same day. But you combine time and financial pressure and people say, well, I don't have time to go to the gym because I have to go and work. I'm working. Perhaps you're even working two jobs. I got to go and do the things and I just don't have time to be fit. Maybe you've got kids. You can't leave the house. You got excuses, time, financial pressure. And so when this happens, what you decide to cross off your list of all the things is your fitness. You say, this has to take a hit. It happens a lot. Clavicular did this. He was saying, well, I'm streaming. I've only been to the gym once in the last month and he's supposed to be a fitness influencer, but he took a month off of the gym. Why? Well, to stream, to work, to make more money. And so time and financial pressure. He lost 15 pounds of muscle. He admits all of this. And so I'm not making this shit up. Rather than that, how long per day do you think it takes to maintain some level of fitness? If you're lifting weight seven days a week and you narrow it down to two days a week, you're going to keep all of your gains. You're going to tell me that you're so busy, that you have so little time that you can't sacrifice two hours in order to maintain the muscle that you have. Bullshit. How many hours did you scroll that you did this? There's no way you can convince me that you couldn't have found something else to sacrifice instead of your fitness. How much cardio do you need to do? 150 minutes a week. You're going to tell me that you can't find 150 minutes to cut somewhere else from your life rather than this? Did you go to the movies? Did you go shopping? Did you shop on Amazon? Did you swipe up? Did you swipe down? Did you look at stupid bullshit videos on Instagram? Did you complain about ice doing this, ice doing that? Did you talk to your friends about nonsense? Is there nothing else that you did in a week that you could have found a couple hours in order to go to the gym? You don't need money to go for a walk and you don't need two hours each and every day in order to maintain a basic level of fitness. Now, I'm not talking about training for an hour, man. Oh, I don't have 20 hours a week to do cardio. Yeah, I get it. You don't need to do that. But to maintain some fitness where you don't completely fall off the wagon and do nothing, that is easy. Number four, a nutrition environment breakdown. You start going out with your friends, the fast food, eating out after the bar. Perhaps you're drunk. However, you go to the buffet and you can't control yourself. You went on vacation. You no longer have my cookbook with you. You couldn't bring your personal chef. You're now fell off the wagon. You're eating desserts, candies, and so on. And you can't get back on track. You perhaps are an emotional eater. And so poor you, you got sad. I'm sad. My girlfriend broke up with me. And so you start eating the Haagen-Dazs ice cream each and every day. Your friends are pressuring you. Oh, order some wings. Come out for pizza with us. And for some reason, you make that an excuse. You actually give into that. Look, you're on vacation for a week and you eat like a piece of shit. You eat like an asshole, whatever. You come back and you eat normal again. It's one week out of a year. Let's call it two. Two weeks out of 50, you don't eat properly. That's 2% of the time. You really think that eating poorly 2% of the time is going to make any difference at all. Problem is, one bad day goes to two. Two bad days goes to three, to a week, to a month, and all of a sudden you're a fat piece of shit yet again. Remember, it's not any one decision that's going to ruin you. It's multiple decisions of the same thing that are going to take you down. And so stop thinking you can't have the ice cream, that you can't have the pizza. You just can't have it every single day. You have to have some balance and being all in dieting, chicken, broccoli, rice, perfection. Like Jeremy Ethe's video, 30 days. It's all I could eat. Potatoes, broccoli, carrots, and chicken. It's all I could eat for 30 days. It's the perfect diet. No, it's not because you can't follow it. It's not realistic. The perfect diet involves my cookbook and it involves eating whatever you want. If you eat whatever you want, it's going to be easy and this will not unravel you. Number three, you stop sleeping effectively. You're going out too late. Perhaps it's Friday and Saturday night. You're staying up all night, partying harder than last time. Or you're working two jobs. You're working 12-hour shifts. You don't get to bed on time and all of a sudden, your decisions go out the window. When you're on a regular sleep schedule, for example, you're going to bed before midnight every night and you're getting up in the morning and you're seeing the sunlight and all the things, it's much easier to regulate your appetite. But when you're up three in the morning, middle of the night, everyone's asleep, how quickly you're going to grab that bag of nims and a bag of chips. And so you eat. You eat in the middle of the night. You're not even hungry. You're just bored. Your cortisol levels go up. And so if you don't want to let this unravel, if you are messing up your sleep right now, stop. Stop it. Get some help. I understand. It's not always going to be perfect. You have to get up at three o'clock in the morning to catch your flight and now your day is thrown off. Yeah, that's one day. It's not every single day of your life. And if it is every single day of your life, perhaps you're a nurse, you're on a set schedule where you're sleeping back and forth. It doesn't make any sense. If you know your sleep is going to be disrupted, plan your snacks out, eat healthier, make sure that you have the things available to keep yourself on track. Saying, well, I didn't get to sleep on time. I had to wake up early. This is not an excuse. Oh, I didn't have time because I had to catch a flight. So I just had a frappuccino. That's not an excuse. You need to plan for these things. And if you use lack of sleep as an excuse to be fat, well, that just makes you a loser. Number two, life and work stress. And so stress, the silent killer, we know stress is going to increase cortisol. Now there's two kinds of stress. There's eustress. This is a good kind of stress. Like you're stressed out because you have a bike race coming up. Did you train hard enough? Did you in fact study enough for your exam? It's a brief temporary stress, but it makes you really call to action. You work harder. You get the things done. Then there's distress. This is bad. It's not acute, but rather it lingers chronically for weeks, months, and or years. This kind of stress is bad. Imagine that you're sick or you're always stressed out at work or you're in a relationship and all you feel is stress. All you feel is rage. Like Mr. Mike, every time you look out of that pond, all you feel is rage. Imagine you're breaking up with your girlfriend. Perhaps your wife, girlfriend has left you and you're sad and you're stressed and you're dieting and you're working and you don't have enough money. You're not sure what's going on. And you are constantly bombarded from messages from bro from Bangladesh. You're so upset. He's saying you lost because you have a proper tan. Imagine the stress, the distress that Mike, Mr. Mike is experiencing each and every day. That kind of stress compounded month after month, year after year. It's going to do damages. Stress isn't bad in any small form. It's good for us. Hey, what doesn't kill you, it makes you stronger. But if it's keeping on trying to take you down, eventually it does in fact weaken you. And so with this stress, you're tossing and turning at night. You can't sleep. You have anxiety. Perhaps you're getting depressed. You can't train as hard as you once did. You're not recovering. And your physique, it goes down to the worst. And so remember with stress, you don't fall apart overnight. You fade over the course of months and or years. And so please manage your stress. My number one recommendation for managing stress, it's doing what you're doing. Cardio, lifting weights. This form of exercise, it's a de-stressor. Take out the stress on the weights, on the bike, on the treadmill, go run, move. All that anxiety, that stress, the cortisol, if you go out and move and lift weights, you're using that stress to fuel your workouts, to increase your performance. Let that be the medicine. And if you continue to do that, you will manage your stress and prosper. And number one of all the things, do you know it? As soon as I went to make this video, I said, this is number one. This is the worst thing that happens to me. I've had it happen a number of times. And it really does impact your physique. You're going to look worse. And there's really nothing you can do about it. It's going to be inevitable. Number one, injury. I've broken my elbow once, broken my elbow a second time, repaired both triceps, broken my shoulder, had a four degree ligament tear in my shoulder, had hip surgery, busted up my legs, tore my bicep, tore my quad, had a minor pec tear. All these injuries happen and you can't do what you once did. And so this is what happens. People are training perfectly when things are going right. How hard is it to train when you're making gains every time you go to the gym? Oh, and by the way, with injury, I'm talking about sickness, injury. For example, you get bronchitis and you can't train. You get sick. You get pneumonia like me. You have a collapsed lung. All this shit happens. And you really want it. You want to go to the gym. What can you do? You can do the best that you can do. And so if you break your right arm, you lose your right arm. You can train your left. If you break your leg, you've still got your left leg. What's wrong with you? Why are not you riding a bicycle with one leg? If you tear your pec, does that mean your legs can't train? What is wrong with you? You're using an excuse. Oh, I can't go to the gym because I broke my arm and leg in a car accident. What's that? That's not an excuse. Get your ass to the gym. That is the worst thing that can happen. And that's the number one reason why people, they lose all of their gains. Are you going to lose some of your gains when you get injured like this? Absolutely. When you get sick, when you get injured, you can only do what you can do. But what you shouldn't do is use an excuse to do nothing. Work around the injury. Do your best. And eventually you will come back, perhaps not as strong as last time, but you will come back. And so if you think, you know, I'm not going to the gym anymore because, well, I broke my arm. Well, you stop lifting weights. You stop doing cardio. And all of a sudden you get fat. You get fatter. You lose your cardiovascular ability. And so not only are you eating worse, you're also slowing down your metabolism. You're burning fewer calories. And then once you do in fact heal, you might've lost all your motivation. Now you've gained 25 pounds. You're not happy with how you look. And it's that much harder to go to the gym. You used to be able to go to the gym and you could run for an hour. Now you go to the gym and you find it hard to run because you haven't practiced. And so it becomes an uphill battle. But what you need to remember is that there is such a thing as muscle memory. And this also occurs for your heart. If you took time off to the gym and you didn't do anything, let's say you took a month off, you just sat and did nothing. The heart remembers. The muscles remember. Remember the heart is in fact a muscle and it's going to repair faster than last time. And so please use that as motivation to get back. You should never take that time off the gym. But if you do take that time off, you realize the error of your ways. Remember, it's going to come back faster than last time. And so the worst thing you could do is to keep doing nothing. And so whenever you get injured, whenever you get sick, try to come back as soon as possible and lift within your means. I'd rather be out of proportion, have a great looking left arm and legs, chest and so on, but not have a big bicep because the bicep can come back. Please, now that you're aware of these things, remember, don't let these things become excuses. You are aware of them. You know they could be coming. And so recognize them and make a change before it is too late. Interested in supplements? Of course, we have Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum. We've got Bloodwork. We've got G-Test Platinum. All the supplements. Don't forget to get Blue Lobster to go to the gym and work out. Take your creatine. And we are in fact looking for HLT sponsored athletes. You can apply by clicking the link. Also, if you want HLT supplements in your store and or gym, apply by clicking the link. And for AlgorX, if you need the Inclomiphene, the HRT, the Cialis, the peptides to help you lose weight, all the things. Code Greg for 10% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you'd like to watch one of those two boops. And next time, I'm out.