When I signed up for this competition, I did not expect to win. It was a pipe dream. Obviously, everyone enters competition wanting to win. >> Why are you yapping? Why do you keep complaining? Just let them be. If I don't do it, if others don't do it, then no change will be brought. But if enough of us complain, if enough voices will be heard, then next year they will not allow this to happen again. Coach Greg. And in today's video, South Park got it right. >> Now that I can compete as female, I'm ready to smash the other girls. >> It just happened. >> I want you to imagine for a second that you're a biological woman that's dedicated your life to a sport. And then one day, all of this culminates to a biological man showing up to the event that you chose to compete in, winning it, and leaving you with second place. Jamie Booker out of nowhere who's competed three times shows up perhaps a 100 pounds bigger than everyone else. A monster if you will with a clear genetic advantage. Now if she wants to be trans and identify as a woman, well that's her own prerogative. But when you allow her to compete [clears throat] against other biological females, it's not fair and something needs to be done about this. Andrea Thompson, she trains her ass off only to get second to that woman. Does anyone think that's fair? And so I asked my audience, I pulled them and 97% said that this is not fair. Even people who support trans think that this is simply not fair. It's unjust and something needs to be done about it. trans here and I don't think it's fair to biological women, especially from those that transitioned later in life. You might be thinking, why are you yapping? Why do you keep complaining? Just let them be. If I don't do it, if others don't do it, then no change will be brought. But if enough of us complain, if enough voices will be allow this to happen again. And so we need to come together and voice our concerns about what's right and what's wrong in today's society. Fourth place, brackets, now rightfully bronze. Here, thank you for bringing this to light. The hardest part of this is knowing the athlete lied to get what they wanted. We work very hard to be taken serious in the sport. This isn't okay. Jaime took my Strongman Corp Nationals invite from me in 2024. I spoke my concerns to a few people, but nothing was further investigated. It's nice to see the truth coming to light, but unfortunate it was at the expense of myself and many other women having things taken from them along the way. And so, notice Andrea Thompson receiving her award of second place and essentially walking off in disgust. What do you expect? She's looking over person at least 6 in taller than her, perhaps 100 pounds more, and thinking, "How is this even fair?" This would be analogist to somebody winning a bicycle race while using a motorcycle or a grown ass man winning against elementary school children. It isn't fair. And so, WHAT PRIDE DO YOU have in winning? Yay! Look at me. Essentially, you cheated. And not just in secret, not thinking you would get away with it. Openly saying, "I'm going to cheat and win the competition and then when you win, you're actually PROUD OF YOURSELF." WHY ARE YOU PROUD? It's moronic. NOBODY CARES. NOBODY WANTS you to win. And so when I saw the person who had won, I thought it's AI. It's a cool little publicity stunt trying to get us going, but it was absolutely 100% real. The person who took it was actually there. Like I don't understand how you're proud of yourself standing there with the trophy above your head, arms up. Perhaps she's a foot taller than the second place finisher. >> I I genuinely did not expect this outcome. And I'm not saying that in a way to gloat or be prideful. >> When I was a physical education teacher, I wouldn't be proud if I won a kid in grade primary in one-on-one basketball. YEAH, I DID IT. TO ACTUALLY compete as a woman when you're biologically a man. It's embarrassing. In case you're a supporter of trans, you're trans, you're an athlete, whatever, and you think that people who are not in support of this that there's something wrong with this. I'm a real woman. This would be equivalent to saying, "I'm going to take steroids, announcing it to the world, competing at the Olympics, and winning and standing on the stage as a champion, and being proud of yourself." There's no difference here. If you are exposed to androgens as a teenager and you compete and transition to a female later in life, you had all the same advantages as if you were born a female and chose to use performance-enhancing drugs. If you want to save women, if you want to be pro- women, pro- equal rights, you have to tell people you have the right to say no. If you're born a male, I'm sorry, you don't get to compete against other women. to the same extent. If you're born a female and you use steroids, you don't get to compete against other women in a drug tested sport. >> Now, the size difference here is not an optical illusion. Jamie Booker is near 7 feet and 400 lb. Jaime came away with a win yesterday and posted a video to thank all of their supporters. >> If you support her winning World's Strongest Woman, then that means you're not supporting her competition. Why would you choose to support her over everyone else? Now, I understand people care about everyone's feelings. Feelings are important. Why are her feelings more important than everyone else's? >> Maybe they didn't know that was the man, etc. But some unfortunate light Googling will quickly reveal that Jamie Booker has been a trans porn star for years. >> And so, she's a trans porn star who clearly was born in male as evidenced by photos that we cannot show on YouTube for obvious reasons. I know a lot of you are going to be angry about this and you're going to argue and fight in the comments. >> I don't think that that's true. I think that essentially almost every single logical thinking person thinks that this is not okay. I think it's one time that we can all come together and say this is not right. I'm not saying that she can't identify as a female. She has every right to do whatever she wants so long as she's not harming other people. Do whatever you want. But when you enter the world's strongest female competition and you win and every single person after you loses a position, perhaps they lose funding, money, prizes, glory. It's not okay. No matter your stance, this should never be a topic to enter sport. Shameful on the organization to allow this and rob someone from an earned spot. Another black eye for the strength community. It's always women empowerment until it involves sports, then we don't matter. Just have a trans category. All the non-binary they them can have fair competition. Now, I think that everyone would say if they could do this that they would agree. However, I don't know if there's enough people who compete in that category to have it worth it. It's one of those cases where if you're a man transitioning to female, you have to understand this. Look, we know that you want to be a real woman, but unfortunately, due to the cards that you were dealt, which are XY chromosome, increased androgens, size, denser bones, you have too much of an advantage over biologically female athletes. And so, unfortunately, you're going to have to just be a spectator. You can train for the sport, you can take part in the events, you can be a fan, but you you just can't compete. To the same extent, when people have to play in the NBA, they have to go through a physical. They test you to see if your heart is healthy, if it's safe for you to compete. And every so often, the answer is no. Unfortunately for you, it's too dangerous. You can't play. I know you love the sport and you want to play and you're good enough to play, but you just don't get to. Or if you're in a fighter and for example you're blind in one eye, you might still want to fight. Maybe you're still the best fighter on the planet, but for your own safety, you're not going to be given the permission to compete. We don't like it that you don't get to compete. We wish you could, but we also value fairness amongst other females, and it just wouldn't be fair to let you compete. The one thing that isn't fair, that is still technically okay, is you can use Turk Platinum. Yeah, it gives you an advantage over your competition, but it's still allowed. It's legal. It's considered natural. And despite the fact it's way better than creatine, you're allowed to use it in drug tested competition. And so, if you're a female or a male and you want to get an advantage over your competitors, hey, they can use it, too, if they want. And so, it's fair for everyone. Click the link in description and use code Greg for 15% off. Now, if you're trying to transition or perhaps your testosterone levels are too low, don't forget to click on the link and get your blood work done at Alorex. And while you're there, be sure to ask for inclines or for example, if you're obese and need to lose some weight, perhaps you're a strong man competitor and you're going to diet down for a bodybuilding competition, you can get ompic or tzipide. It's going to help you be less hungry than last time. And so whether you're trying to put on more muscle or lose more fat or perhaps you're trying to get harder than last time. You can get Seialis Viagra. Click the link in description code Greg 10% off at Algorex. Remember these are doctor prescribed legal medications and they're pharmaceutical and approximately half price of Mer Health. Let me know in the comments section. I would like to know, is there even a single person out there that thinks that this person should be allowed to compete next year? Should they in fact 100% reverse this and never allow it ever again? Can we not move on to 2026? And gone be the days where we allow former males to compete against women. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And of course, you're looking to be a sponsored HDLT athlete or an ambassador, click the link. And if you to sell the products in your stores or gyms, click the link as well. And until next time, I am out.