I don't know none about Benjes, but they said um this one's fast or something. I don't know. It was $497,000, so I think it's worth it so far. >> I believe that's around a $200,000 vehicle. It is very fast. I do have a Mercedes. He seems to be collecting all the same cars as Coach Greg. He's now got a Urus. All the tall young stallions, they seem to get the same vehicles as Coach Greg. I don't know if that's called rage bait. Like it's not a $500,000 car. It's like 200,000 I think roughly. You tell me. Is it rage bait? Did he Did he win? Does he win? Cuz he said 500,000 and I commented about it. You tell me. >> I'm thinking we should also get a car for Udy. You guys know Udy, my roommate. Somehow I ended up millionaire and Udy is in debt about 200 racks. >> It's funny that his roommate is somehow in debt 200,000. How do you get that debt? I think it's moronic when people just buy other people very expensive, lavish gifts for no effort whatsoever. Oh, you're a degenerate gambling loser. You're perhaps a drug addict, whatever. And I'm buying you a brand new vehicle cuz you're my buddy. Now, to those who are the degenerate gambling losers, yeah, that sounds great. And so, anyone that has hardly any money thinks that everyone who has money should just give it all away to their friends. Hey, buy me a car. Buy me this, buy me that. Really? What? What did you do to deserve it? Like, how much work have you put into it? Shouldn't he be encouraging his friend, not just with money, but with words? You know, you need to straighten your life up. Just because I made millions of dollars doing this, doesn't mean that you will. And so perhaps get off the drugs, get off of the gambling, and do something with your life. Just buying him a car probably going to make it worse. And so, should he really be driving around a hundred $200,000 brand new whip when he's 200k in debt? Now, there was a saying when I was a kid, give a man a fish and he'll eat for a day, but teach a man to fish and he'll eat for a lifetime. And so, what you're doing is giving him a fish. It's all right, but why not teach him how to fish? >> And I genuinely think in toi vers Cabo, there is irreversible damage done to our brain. And so that permanent damage done to the brain which likely has occurred, what happens is it slowly progresses over time. He's in his early 20s. If he parties harder than last time the way that he's doing on sniffing creatine, doing the Addis laced with math, I forget all the other things. Maybe vitamin K. There was a whole bunch of things. If he does that and 10 years later, we fast forward to now in his early 30s if he makes it to there. or fast forward till he's in his 40s. By this time, you're noticing severe permanent cognitive impairment. Not just cognitive, but physical as well. >> He goes, "Well, dude, I'm glad you're on Mars cuz I'm definitely not." We talk about Mars is like, "That's when you're in your bag." >> And so, I think everyone knew that. Even Coach Greg knew that and I'm 49. And so, he's in the bag. He's already wasted, hammered, uh, high, you name it. And basically, we're just an enabler. And so there's a difference between being an enabler and being caring. And you might think, "Hey, I'm an enabler. I'm I'm helping this person. I don't care if it's with money, giving them money so that they can buy creatine to sniff or if it's money for that person who's 700 lb and you give them some food. You are an enabler. >> I got this car for you. >> I got this one for you." >> No. >> Could he have given him $100,000 to help pay off his debt rather than the car? Yes. Would that be better? Yes. Would it look as cool on camera? No. But even paying off his debt, $200,000, that would pay off all his debt. But then what? And so there's a fine line between helping, caring, loving your friend, and actually helping them. And in my opinion, which is I don't know, it's not that great really to be honest. I don't think you should give a bunch of expensive gifts to people who are drug addicts or are addicted to alcohol and so on and they're only going to become even worse. We are here with the two and only Trend Twins. >> And so Togei now links up with the Trend Twins. They've all got their racing sports cars and so on. And so let me read you this. Yo, Greg, you want to come to the racetrack with you bankers Tanner and I? I'll ship your car out and back. And so Alex is saying, "What's this? When we doing it, Togei? I'm decently free in August. I asked my car racing friends, for example, Aldura and others, and I said, "What do you think of this?" And they said, "Absolutely not. Immediately no." Do I really want to ship down my McLaren and get in a race with Togei? I mean, how could that end? It certainly could end poorly. I could be in a car accident, a wreck, if you will. I was in a car accident in the Dominican and I in fact incurred brain damage and so I don't want any more. Hey, it's hard enough being coach Greg at 49 with brain damage as is. And so I highly discourage you from going out and racing car vehicles. I don't care if it's on the track or elsewhere. It's very, very dangerous. >> I don't know how this works. I don't have a lawyer, bro. >> Your ass doesn't have a lawyer on >> Do you have a lawyer? >> Yeah. >> No, you don't. Yes, I do. No, I >> How do you not have a lawyer? I have several lawyers. These guys don't have lawyers. There's so many things that can come up or that do come up, contracts you need to sign, people that might sue, all kinds of And so, bro, it's time to get a lawyer. >> You're pulling up to a >> gym competition. All right. >> Unprepared, bro. That's your >> And so, I like that he just announces this on Instagram. Yo, I'm giving away like a $100,000 vehicle at Bradley Martin's gym. just show up. I'm told 2,000 people attended this event. Now, unfortunately, the gym can't hold 2,000 people, so they only let 100 people in. No idea how the logistics went on what people to let in. I would have probably said, "Look, you got to have your driver's license. We're going to pick everyone who's exactly 20 years of age or everyone born in the month of September, whatever." But guys, this is incredible. I was also going to do the fattest person gets a year-long gym membership for free. I don't want to call it the fattest person. Maybe I'm getting too politically correct. >> I think there's nothing wrong with having a competition for the fattest person to get a free membership. I mean, how is that something wrong? Oh, let's have a contest. Whoever bench presses the most, they win something. Whoever can run the fastest, they win something. What's wrong with whoever's the fattest? You're theist. Theist of something can win. Me and Mike are the only mother getting bullied, bro. You can call people short as right. But you can't. >> That's actually a good point. You guys aren't short as >> And so, see, this is what bars should be doing. You know how they always let girls in free? It should be girls in manlets. 5' 6 and under, you guys. You get in free. I mean, no one's even going to notice you anyway. I mean, you don't take up any space. I mean, somebody who's 6 feet tall, for example, pretend I'm 6'5. Well, you know, I'm sitting on my wallet right now. I'm 6'5. And so, you're looking over and guy's 5'6. He's about here. I'm being generous. He's down here. You can't see him. You're looking around and you're like, I don't see anybody under 5'6. There's no one around. And so, why not let them in for free? They're probably going to spend money on drinks and so on. And so, why not let them in? What harm is it causing? More manlets will show up to the bar. Manlets, they can't get women anyway. They're 5 foot six. They're no competition for men who are over six feet tall. And so, you let all the manlets in free. They buy in more alcohol. They're not a competition or a threat to the guys who are over six feet tall. And so everyone wins. The manlets get in free. They spend their money. They look up to all the beautiful women. And the taller guys, they don't care. They're not taking their ladies. And so everybody wins. Guys, you didn't know I was a genius at marketing after all. >> Bro, they call us short. And then Brody Shreds, I I'm looking at his. He don't get called short. No other short gets called short. >> Brody Shreds is about 5'8. I have met him in person. He was literally in my house. The Trend twins, it says, are 5'2 in tall. Now, I have, in fact, met them. They're also 5'6. They're manlets like Coach Greg. They're actually taller than Jeff Nippard. They're as tall as Coach Greg, which is exceptionally short. Perhaps 90% of the population are taller than Coach Greg and the Trend Twins. >> Oh my god. And so, yeah, probably a bad idea to throw $10,000 in cash on a $400,000 Rolls-Royce. All the people are grabbing at it, going to scratch up the vehicle, but hey, whatever. >> Challenge. It's like first one on the car. >> Everyone's outside. >> I can't tell if he's kidding. >> Now comes the part where you have to figure out how we giving away this free car. There's 2,000 people and so they're brainstorming and so whoever's load goes onto the car first, maybe they're the champion. I'm not sure if that's legal. There might be some indecent exposure. I mean, are we really trying to get in competition with Bonnie Blue? 2,000 men all trying to unleash their loads on the vehicle at the same time. >> Wait, so is trend really bad for you? As they say, for real? >> Yes, definitely. >> Is it really, bro? >> It's like, bro, your kidneys get devoured on that. Imagine being the Trend twins and asking Togei if Tren is bad for you. Make that make sense. And so he's saying, "Look, Tren is worse than hard drugs." And it can be. Literally, it's so bad for your heart. It's also bad for your brain. And so everything can be bad if you do too much of it. Trend in any amount, it's not good. >> But dude, we're young. >> You're resilient. You'll bounce back. >> See, I want to do this prep whenish my pro card never touch servers again. >> No, you don't. this is not what he wants. Those are some strong words, but when it actually happens, you're not going to stop. In his early 20s, do you really think that's the case? I mean, we had Eric Janicki retire from taking performance-enhancing drugs. He says, "Look, only HRT from now on." And then several months later, he won his IBB Pro card. And has he now retired? Of course not. You don't just retire when you're really good at something. When you turn pro, for most people, that's just the beginning. As a young man, you can do a lot of crazy and recover fully. Especially what what's them studies? It's like take steroids for less than 5 years and there's no negative side effects. >> It reminds me of the joke video I put out where I said, you know, everyone should just blast steroids for the first year or two because like you take the first year or two of steroids like what people think Hussein Farad and Julian did and you gain all the muscle that you need and then you just stop. You keep all those gains and your blood work comes back fine. But you can't just do steroids for five years and have no irreversible side effects just because you stopped in time. You could, for example, do just one steroid cycle and never recover. I've literally coached several people who done one steroid cycle and when they come off, they couldn't get hard. What can I do? What is there? And trust me, they tried seal, they tried Viagra, nothing worked. And so there are some major problems. You never know what may happen. >> Have you guys ever made milk out your nips? This night the freest, bro. >> You taste it. >> No. >> You wanted to, didn't you? >> I looked at I should lick this right now. >> I believe that there may be some truth to that. I know MeepSoggram rubs sperm on her face. It's some kind of a face thing. It says it's sperm. It's a pink bottle. It says sperm on it. It's salmon sperm specifically. And so there may be some truth to that. If salmon sperm is moisturizing, perhaps all the ladies, if the secret to having moisturized, soft, gentle skin is to become a throat goat like meeps and rubs sperm onto your face. >> And so they get bored during the bench press part of the competition where everyone has to bench 205. They eliminate about half the guys cuz 205 it's actually a pretty strong lift. You're thinking, "No, anyone that goes to the gym can bench 205." Well, clearly they can't. These are Togei fans, the Trend Twin fans. They're hardcore gym buffs. And yet, most can't bench 205. And so, they said, "Hey, do you think that black guy can bench press 205? One bets yes, one bets no." And of course, Bradley Martin wins. >> I'm going to pick two names out of all of you guys, and you're going to do a bench off of your body weight. most reps gets the Rolex >> and a $10,000 plus Rolex given away to the man who benches body weight for the most reps. 16 reps with his body weight. And so 16 reps with your bench press. It's 16 reps with your body weight. It's definitely above average. It's not mindblowing record-breaking or anything, but hey, bros got a new watch. And following the squat competition, it all came down to this. The stepmill. Whoever could continue to do cardio the longest without falling or touching the handles, they win the car. And so, guys, have I not been preaching for you to do your cardio? And so, if you had been lifting the weights, doing your cardio, putting the fork down, you could have walked away with a brand new car. Those of you who didn't, well, you were eliminated. And so the angry granola takes the victory, wins the car, super excited. He can't believe it. Now, it wouldn't be a coach Greg video if I didn't plug Turk Builder Max. And so Togei, he's trying to be healthier. He seems to be drinking less, which is great. Using less recreational drugs, lowers his dose of testosterone, but he wants to keep the gains and get locked in. Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum, it's even better. This is what you need to lock in. So, if you're interested, code Greg, 15% off. And remember, we're getting so many reviews coming in and the reviews are absolutely amazing. People keep rebying this. They're experiencing unbelievable gains and both in size and in strength as well as how they feel. And if you don't believe in this, you're thinking, "Well, maybe it doesn't work." If it doesn't work, there's a money back guarantee. And on top of that, a $20 gift card. And so you literally can try it risk-f free. Now, if you've been scammed by Derek and other companies in the past where you've bought fake Auga Tricanica, they promise it's a Juga, but it's actually Cyanosis and or other copycat plans. Just send us a proof of purchase and you're going to get 50% off. And so you get it for half price. And if that doesn't work, you still get that money back. And so what do you have to lose? Code Greg, 15% off. Subscribe. Click the bell button, comment to boost your algorithm. Don't forget about the Momentous clothing line. It's dropping August 1st. If you're interested in that, of course, go and hit the link. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And if you're interested in the cookbook, the training book, coaching plans by me and my team, as well as Algo RX for blood work and all your pharmaceutical medications, click the link in description. And until next time, I am out.