Today's video, it's a public service announcement to all the simps, the losers of the world. It's time to get redpilled. >> Coach Greg and the Akos situation, it just got even worse. >> His money is our money and my money is my money. Do you know why I think I have like a good marriage? Um, I think it's because my husband's never here. Just when you think it couldn't possibly get any worse, his wife decides to make a response. And was this an apology? You know, after reviewing my actions, I regret them. I shouldn't have done those things. I apologize. Absolutely not. Why is it that no one can actually apologize? I mean, what is she, a Mike Israel fan? Mr. Mike, you can't just say, "Yeah, I made a mistake. After reviewing the first draft, I decided that my behavior, it wasn't right. It's gotten so bad that now even Myin is just feeling bad for the fella. Bro got friend-zoned in his own marriage. Damn. A cash testosterone levels are definitely in single digits. Now, if you do have lower levels of testosterone, perhaps you need inclus. I mean, if you have a partner that's a one and you just can't seem to get it up, you can go and click on ALGO RX. Use code Greg for 10% off. Doctor prescribed medications legally prescribed for you. And so, if you're looking for cheaper prices than last time, please go to Merkel first, compare those prices, and then you do what you have TO DO. UH, CASH has been real quiet since this dropped. I mean, you would hope that he's out there seeking a lawyer, trying to work through the divorce, or at the very least telling his wife, "Look, that was the last straw. This is not going to continue. And here's your next move. You're making a video. You're apologizing. You're going to say this. You're going to say that." But no, instead, SHE DOES THE EXACT OPPOSITE. >> HER ASS IS OUT and she's at the doctor's office and she's recording it for her TikTok. I told my husband he couldn't look at me until he got to a million followers. >> And so she told her husband he can't look at her until she gets a million followers because if you don't have a million followers on Instagram, I mean, who even are you? >> No. So I felt like I was like at a place where I was ready and then I found out he was a virgin and then I was like I mean think of it, weren't you like given the ick that he was a virgin at 32? When you have certain religious beliefs, it's perfectly okay to not have sex before marriage. Being a virgin at 32 because you're loyal and faithful to your religious beliefs, that is not an ick. It's a green flag. >> Yes. >> If he can be faithful for 32 years, not having sex with anyone because the God that they follow said you shouldn't do that. Then imagine what they could do for you. They could be loyal forever. If they made it to 32, that's not a red flag. It's not an ick. What? You'd rather be with bro that fingered your butthole the night before that you met on Tinder? Really? >> No. So, I felt like I was like at a place where I was ready and then I found out he was a virgin and then I was like great. Like do I have to wait again? But I think like we just connected very well that we it was kind of it went without saying that we wanted to. >> And so essentially she's saying well he said he was a virgin and so I just went along with it. I said, "Yeah, me too." I mean, imagine how dishonest he is. She asks him about his beliefs and so on. He's like, "I'm a virgin." And she says, rather than saying, "I popped and parted my so many freaking times." She says, "Oh, I'm a virgin, too. We we connect. We're so much alike." She wanted his money because he's a famous comedian. My wife also hadn't had any sexual partners, so that helped us connect. >> Okay, buddy. >> A lot more. >> Let me ask you this. You stupid believe her. If you've seen her, then it's hard to believe. >> I mean, there is a saying. You have to triple whatever the amount of partners that she stated. Now, here's the problem in that logic. I mean, perhaps it's accurate for most people and for most men. You you divide it by three. But 3 * 0 is still zero. And so, when she says, "Hey, I have my VC card." You're thinking, "Well, most women lie. She probably How many women lie about being a virgin?" Not many. It's like when somebody says their height to the quarter inch, they're probably being honest. I'm 5'4 and a half. If somebody says that, they're probably 5'4 and a half. Now, if they're saying they're 5'8, they're probably 5'6. I mean, I'm married. Our is married. Mark is married, right? Like Dove is trying desperately to get married, right? So, it's just like it's possible. Now, granted, we might call you in 10 years and be like, "Y'all were right." You know what I'm saying? >> I mean, how funny is it? This happened 3 years ago and they were making fun of Myin. Oh, your red pills. You think that matters? This is useless information. How could it benefit me? Because my wife's a virgin. Only to find out she's been parting her to those frat boys for years. >> I was popping my >> and she wants her freaking best friend's husband's 10-in long upper derriè. >> I'm actively trying to have an orgy. And you haven't seen Nav yet, but wait till you see him. >> And look at this, guys. This cannot stop embarrassing this bro. Her ass is out and she's at the doctor's office. >> Where's the privacy? Like, do you really want to go to the doctor and your ass is out there? You can see she's naked now. She's not quite showing all of it. You don't see the crack and all this stuff, but she's sitting there flirting and smiling while her pants are down. Perhaps the doctor can see her vag. I'm certain that he can. He's got the sunglasses on so that she can't see exactly where he's looking, but I'm sure he's taking it all in. And she's there to do what? To remove a bruise from physical activity. I mean, what exactly is going on? What are they doing? And upon doing what they're doing, she then starts FLIRTING WITH THE DOCTOR. Are you single? And why are you doing that? Is it not bad enough? I'm mad at my husband because he's too busy working and being a provider and I'm over here having all these cute outfits, cute shoes, cute bags, like want to do my makeup, want to go out and he's nowhere to be found. >> And so this is women. I want a man who's rich, makes six, seven, eight figures. six, seven, six, seven, eight figures even, maybe, maybe, just maybe. And so when that man is out there working his ass off to make all that money to give you that house and car and all the luxury lifestyle that you want, you're now upset with him because you have all these cute outfits that you want to wear, but he's not around. I mean, cry me a river. >> Bro, these women are insufferable, chat. I told y'all, man, stay away from these 304s. I need to beat my husband in followers. Since when is a husband and wife relationship a competition? The relationship is only as good as the sum of the parts. I feel like this is a Mike Isertell analysis. Skill A plus skill B plus skill C equals how you good at that sport. Girl A and boy B added together makes how good the relationship is. If you're trying to beat your partner, are you beating your partner when you're literally on the same team? Like, think of it. You're playing twoon- basketball. You need to beat your partner and how many points you make compared to them. You realize that your scores are added together. And so, how many followers you have, if it's more than your partner, it makes no difference because it's the combined unity of the partners that adds up to if you're winning or losing. For the longest time, I told my husband he couldn't look at me until he got to a million followers because like >> what >> who the are you if you don't even have a million followers on Instagram? >> Well, you could be perhaps Coach Gliss. You can get Turk Platinum. Remember, it's got a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. 978,000 followers. Now, if you want to help me get to a million followers so that she thinks I'm a worthy person to look at on Instagram, well, you can go give me a follow on Instagram. But I'm telling you, whether you have a million followers or 1,000 followers, it doesn't matter. Why does it really matter how many followers you have on Instagram? Is that really going to dictate how good of a person, how good of a human being that you really are? And if your woman only wants you if you have a million followers. Remember the saying there's the door. >> I'm not a scammer who >> I'm not going to lie. That was >> And if I'm not mistaken, I think that's Nav, guys. That's the dude that Akasha's wife was talking about had a 10-in dick and had a face card. That's him. >> And remember this guy who's I'm going to give him a five out of 10, maybe a six. Hey, I'm rounding up. This is fine. She's giving him a face card as in the hall pass that she just wants to bang this guy and use the sweet and blow on him. HE'S RIGHT THERE IN FRONT OF her husband. I mean, how bad can this get? You're literally flirting with another man, saying how hot he is and how big his schlong is. Right in front of your husband. >> I have three questions about Bae. I mean, sorry, Luigi. Okay, >> she's talking about Luigi Manion. So now we know what she is. She's a progressive. >> So you're calling Luigi Manioni the guy did a nattier knot on the guy that uh ended somebody else's uh lifespan. Let's call it like that. You're calling him a bae as in some hot dude. Like I don't care what that guy did. You're not sitting there calling bro bae in public to other people. Oh yeah, you're so much hotter than my husband. What a stud. I wish I had him. Do you want to start getting ready when I get >> He's not yelling at all. He says, "Do you want to start getting ready >> back?" >> Don't yell at me like that. >> I apologize. >> I apologize. What? >> Would you like to start getting ready when I get back? >> No. >> Anyone that thinks that your woman wants you to apologize for situations like this when you clearly did nothing wrong, there's the door. You might be thinking, "No, but happy wife, happy life. Even if I didn't do anything, I'm going to apologize. I'm going to be the bigger person. Apologize. Nope. You need to break up and move on. I'm not kidding. You can't just allow them to do this. It'll start slow. Give them an inch and eventually they will take a mile. They will continue to push you beyond what you're willing to accept only marginally until eventually your life it's no longer left. or these red pill podcast guys like >> okay >> when they tell you something when they ask you to jump you say how high you're still not a man either way. Do you see what I'm saying? Like you're still a little beta boy doing whatever these men tell you. Why are you mad at us? >> Notice how she says why are you mad at us? She's trying to empower all women to put all women in the same category. She's trying to play the woman card. I'm a weak, vulnerable woman and these men, these tates and myonss perhaps coach Gregs. And so what she's trying to say is these men are misogynists. They have toxic masculinity and they need to be put down. We are feminists. We are all powerful and men need to sim for us. But they don't use those exact words. They try to make it look like we're bad people and that we should somehow do their bidding and that if we don't go along with it, then we should be cancelled because hey, virtue signaling saying I'm a woman. The big bad wolf coach Greg said this about me. It happens all of the time. You have no idea. And the worst of it, many of you literally fall for this >> Are you mad if me and my husband aren't cool with each other? If we both make jokes at each other's expense, >> it's not the same. He is the leader. He is the comedian. That is his career. You are not. You are not. Okay. Not the same at all. At all. >> Is my husband will go on stage and say whatever the he wants about me. >> And he does it professionally and built a huge platform by doing it. >> You're not a comedian. This is how he makes a living. You're disparaging your husband. You're not making equal jokes that you both enjoy, that you both want to happen. That's increasing the success of your relationship. This is hurting your relationship. When he makes jokes, it's improving the relationship. Do you see the difference? >> She went ahead and said, "Oh, we got like 37,000 views and our video still 1.3K subscribers." >> This is all for a channel that has 1.3,000 followers. 1.3. Oh, you can't look at me till you get a million followers on Instagram. You have 1.3,000 followers on your podcast. are clicking on this and make fun of you, bro. Click. No watch time. >> Yeah. In case you don't know how YouTube works, it's not just how many views you get, it's the viewing time. That's why, for example, when all these channels post a bunch of shorts and it looks like they're getting a lot of views and they're getting a lot of followers, but it's shorts. They're watching 30 seconds. Do you know how much money you get paid for watching 15 and 30 second videos instead of compared to 10 minute videos? Sometimes it's 500 times more money for a long form video than a short. And so when you see a channel has seven or 8 million followers, but it's all shorts in comparison than long form views. Long form views are golden. They're at least 100x better than short form. And so just because said influencer has more subs, it doesn't mean anything. It doesn't mean they're making a lot of money. Making a channel based on shorts cuz you made a funny face or you said something hilarious and you got a 100 million views, it doesn't mean you're making any money. >> No one has anything to say. It's like, "Oh my god, it's so funny. It's so relatable, but then I I come on TikTok and I make jokes and now you have a problem." >> No, it's not jokes, bro. You areing embarrassing, man. If there was any hope in saving this marriage, it would have been leading with an apology, having empathy, understanding that what her words are doing is extremely damaging. But the fact that she's doubling down, that is the nail in the coffin. And so this marriage, it's over. And so my advice to a cash is to cash out. Get rid of all your finances. Put it in your parents' name. Get out of there. And then apply for divorce. And while you're at it, a cash, please go and purchase Turk Platinum, Turk Builder Max, and of course, get the frigin cookbook and become a Chad. Now, you're already a funny guy. You're famous. You have money. But what you can work on is the looks maxing. You can get more jacked and have less body fat. And so, the next woman that you're going to meet, you can present the best self forward. Hey, it'll be a funny story. Remember that time when I was with that woman and I was tricked and so on. Never again. And so you will quickly learn that there are far better women out there. Wishing you the best of luck. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch any of those two bloops. Like try watching one. Algo RX of course. If you want to sell the supplements at your stores, you can click the link. And if you want to become an ambassador and or a sponsored athlete, I'm looking for more. Click the link and apply right now. And until next time, I am out.