Think of it. Hundreds of thousands of people are going to watch this 2-hour documentary where he's essentially advertising for Eric Health. And so, who's the smarter businessman? Do you not think that Derek knows exactly what he's doing? Coach Greg? In today's video, Derek from More Plates, More Dates. He finally comes out of hiding. And what does he decide to do? a 2hour plus movie a natty or not on Andrew Tate for no reason. How many of you actually think that Andrew Tate is not natty? He's about 6'3 and only weighs about 200 lb. Why doesn't he do something we actually care about? A natty or not on, for example, Ashton Hall, Michael Hearn, Dana Lin Bailey, anything but not on Andrew Tate. They were doing a full-blown dissection of upwards of $15,000 worth of blood and urine testing to drug test Andrew Tate. $15,000 on testing, doing all the tests when $400 would have been plenty. And so he does this natty or not, spending over two hours, but doesn't spend a single minute talking about the elephant in the room, that being his Turk plex, or better put the fact that on the label it claims to be a jugistatica, but it isn't really. This to me further evidence that Derek is of course lying. There's been a lot of speculation about Andrew and if he's on steroids, and there has been for years. And so, the actual reason is Dererick is advertising his HRT clinic. I mean, that's how Dererick makes perhaps tens of millions of dollars. And so, do you really think he cares about being honest about taste when he's making hella cash from his HRT clinic? Most likely, he's going to get a 10 to 100 times return on investment on this. I mean, think of it. Hundreds of thousands of people are going to watch this two-hour documentary where he's essentially advertising for Eric Health. And so, who's the smarter businessman? Do you not think that Derek knows exactly what he's doing? And so, here's my point. Why doesn't Derek just stop selling Turklex and Eciplex? Why does he need it? Why does he need to continue to scam people when he's already making millions of dollars with Meric Health? And let's now look at his eyes. Is he looking a little fatigued? Perhaps a little bit stressed out. And so, yeah, he's making much dolatus, but at what cost to his own health? And so, let's now look over his blood work. And so, the first thing we notice is that there's a high white blood cell count as well as bacteria in his urine. And we know that he's been in close proximity to toi. This is a problem. This is a massive problem. Bro, you need to get checked out for chlamydia. What may have you contracted? And so, please go and check yourself out. Next, we know he smokes like crazy, cigars all day, has tons of caffeine, and eats a lot of red meat. Sometimes only eat one meal per day. And when you examine his blood work, he has high cholesterol and high glycation and products. And so, consider this. Andrew Tate, very athletic, low body fat levels. I mean, he just beat up 60 men in a boxing match all at the same time, one after the other. And he doesn't consume many carbs, but yet his A1c in his blood work, it shows that he's pre-diabetic. And so, he isn't actually pre-diabetic, but all of the smoking that he's doing is causing high glycation end products, which are damaging to the cells. Andrew, lay off the cigarettes. I mean, frankly, I'd rather see that he's not natural and not smoking cigarettes than being natural but smoking like a chimney. He's literally posted on his wall that he drinks 8 L of water but only one meal per day. And so, let's think about this. I believe in hydration for all. 8 L of water, it's a lot. And so, if he's drinking that much water, he's probably excessively thirsty. And excessive thirst, it's actually a sign of a disease. Now looking at his blood work, considering that he drinks all this water, you would think he would have very low levels of sodium, but we in fact see the opposite. I don't mean to sound the alarm, but it is it not possible that he has diabetes, incipitus, or perhaps a rare form of cancer. And remember, when he was in prison, he literally had a mass removed from his lungs. They said it was benign, but we just don't really know. Now, let me save you some time. Save you just over two hours. You can say thank you Greg. He's natural. Thank you, Greg. Nothing indicated that bro was actually enhanced. Bro is natural. Now, does that prove he was never enhanced in his entire life? No. It proves he's natural right now. And right now, does bro not look natural to you. Now, some of the tests, well, they're not actually required. They're wasting their money for nothing. For example, ADMA and SDMA tests, they're simply speculative. They're not as good as for example a creatinine or cistatin C test that you could get for much cheaper. And so for example that androgen sensitivity test that Merrick has been promoting I believe it's around $500 to see if you're receptive to performance-enhancing drugs. Are you really is there really any value in this? The test was made for a simple genetic disease but they're now using it off label and for what? And so Andrew Tate, why does he get so much hate? That reminds you of that new song Marwan. Do you hear about that new song? It's Turk yourself. Palms are sweaty, knees weak, gregging his ducet steady vomit on his already. Greg Ducetti 50 keys of Turk seized at the border already. It's just topping the charts right now. Coach Greg, did you all know he was a rapper? Originally, before he became famous, Coach Greg was actually that famous rapper 56. You perhaps have heard of 69 as in 79. 79. I'm coming out with my new album to go against Togei. And so, if you thought the Drake and Kendrick beef was legit, wait till you hear Togei versus Coach Greg. And so if you test for every single marker out there, essentially you Brian Johnson it, there's going to be false positives that are going to lead you to think, "Oh my god, I'm dying. I have this. I have that." And so unless you, for example, perhaps have chlamydia like Togei, you don't need to stress so much. You shouldn't order $15,000 of tests. Test the basics and if something then comes up, do the further diagnostic testing and then deal with it at that time. But remember, how much less money would an HRT clinic that's incentivized to have you test for everything order every single marker possible and prescribe Polyarm pharmacy for all of your problems? And so rather than making tens or perhaps hundreds of millions of dollars, they'd only make a few million or perhaps tens of millions of dollars. And so I wouldn't want that to happen. And I mean, I only made $10 million, but if I keep telling everyone, you need to test this, test that, do everything, then we can make more money by prescribing you what you don't actually need while all under the guide of optimization for the world. And so, what do I see about this? Well, in some instances, it's essentially legalized drug dealing. Now, remember your favorite tea plug? He's smuggling in 50 keys of Turk across the border. But this is not a drug. When you're prescribing drugs, you need to be careful. I would honestly trust Derek's Turk over Greg, lol. Derek is like the only person in the fitness industry who actually goes above and beyond with putting out quality supplements. Does anyone want to point out that he's been third-party testing.36 milligrams of Turk? That he's lying? That he's scamming you? That it's been proven? This is not hearsay. This is not some [\h__\h] drama beef that Coach Greg invented. This is third-party testing proving it with a mic drop. Why do you care? It saddens me to hear how many people don't care about people are being scammed. For example, had the same comment when I outed the Ashton Hall scam where people were losing 4 to$10,000 for things that they weren't promised. And because of that video, Ashenowl is now reached out to several of these individuals to refund them between $4 and $10,000. Yeah, I'm a bad person for calling out known scammers and helping them. And so I responded because I sell actual Ajuga Turkiststanica from Usbekistsan. And so for me to have to compete with people who pretend to sell a Juga and take advantage of consumers is not fair to me nor the tens of thousands of consumers. Now remember Derek's product, it's cheaper. I believe it was $50. It was 20% off. It's only $40. Mine in comparison is 80. But when I was offered that same copycat plant from China, likely cyanosis, all I had to do was pay $5.85. But instead, I'm manufacturing from start to finish within Usbakistan and importing said product. But you all think that I'm doing it from some scam supplement company in the United States. This is not the copycat plant from China. Turk Builder Max from start to finish, it comes from Usbekistsan and it continues to get seized at the border. the feds, they they don't like the product, but eventually they have to release it, at which point I sell it to you and it sells out in a matter of minutes. Why do you think that is? The people who are buying it keep rebying it because it works. And if you don't believe it works, that's fine. I understand why. There's nothing wrong with that. There's a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And so if you assume you're going to put on four pounds of muscle like Coach Greg or perhaps 12, whatever number that you want, and you don't put that much muscle and you're disappointed, your money, it's given back. And on top of that, a $20 gift card. Does that sound like a scam to you? You can try it 100% at no risk to you. And if it doesn't work, on top of the money you spent, a $20 gift card. And so if you're interested, click the link in description. Code Greg, 15% off. And remember, it's probably sold out. And so what I'd like you to do is become a VIP member. What happens is you then get an SMS text 3 hours before it goes live. You are then told, "Hey, get to the website, buy it right now before it sells out." And so you, in other words, get first dibs. I pray for the squashing of this beef. And so that's a valid point. The beef between myself and Derek would absolutely end if Derek stopped selling fake auga to Castatica. Now, if he wants to say, "Hey, this is the copycat plant from China. It's got ectostereroids, by all means, nothing wrong with that. But when you lie, when it says auga turkistanica on the label, when there's a photo of the turquestone molecule, and when you rightclick on the URL and it comes up as turqu, you're misleading and tricking and scamming your consumers." And so you can say Derek is the best guy in the world because well three or four years ago he gave quality information. And since that time, since going on the Joe Rogan show, what do you think has happened? Derek is a businessman. He went to university for business. Very intelligent, knows how to make the money. But do you really think he cares? How often does he post videos? And in comparison to that coach, Greg, he doesn't care. I mean, he's only got over 1.1 billion views, going to fitness seminars around the world, talking to people, helping the country of Malta, meeting up with the prime minister to help gyms become free. But no, Greg is a bad person because he suggests that you buy some turquo influencer. Well, were they natural? No. Well, what's wrong with that? Calling out the BS. How many anti-steroid videos do I have? Hundreds. Do I have perhaps a thousand? How many times do I tell people to maintain to do cardio? 150 minutes of cardio a week to put the fork down and just be healthy always. Derek, on the other hand, promotes a natty or not on Andertate for no reason. And so get mad at me if you want, but which one of us has always been there to make videos to always tell you exactly what I think. Which one of us has demonstrated greater integrity than last time? Which one of us has proven that we sell actual Auga Turkistanica? Third-p partyy tested not once, twice, but three times. every time greatly exceeding label claim. While Derek had 36 milligs and fails to even address it when in the past anytime someone attacked Derek he was quick to point out no they got it wrong. And so why do you think he's hiding? Why do you think whether your plant grows on the moon or Mars neither of you guys have a product that works? Let's assume that to be true. I mean mine is from Isbekiststan. Never said it was Mars and moon. Let's say that neither of us actually work. I'm not lying about what I'm selling. I'm selling a juga tstanica. He's lying about what he's selling. He's not selling a juganica. And so, do you see the difference? You may or may not believe that mine works. You probably tried Derek's and perhaps you didn't make the gains that you want. But you likely didn't try mine because if you did, it would have either worked or you would have got your money back. And so, where is the problem? We don't care, Greg. We love you, bro. But let's be real. GM is a better product. And so it's crazy that a product that claims 10 milligrams of tarastone and has 14 plus versus a product that claims 50 and had 36, that's the better product. I mean, it's crazy. It would be like selling milk and in the container it's water and saying that's a better product than mine that says milk that has milk in it. Do I look scared? Do you believe for one second that anything that I've been saying in my videos that I'm lying? Or do you believe that Derek is hiding because he knows I know the truth? Let me know in the comment section. Remember, I offer coaching plans. You get check-ins, training program, diet program. We'll go over your blood work. Go for everything and calls on the phone with Coach Greg. I had one yesterday. It's been my third and they are drastically reduced prices. And so, if you're interested, click the link and apply right now. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And until next time, I am out.