After years of dedicating himself in the gym, dieting, competing, doing everything, Arnold Schwarzenegger finally gets to work out with Sam Sulick. Oh yeah, come on. Coach Greg. And in today's video, you're not going to believe it. After years of dedicating himself in the gym, dieting, competing, doing everything, Arnold Schwarzenegger finally gets to work out with Sam Sulick. Frankly, I uh I can't I can't even portray the excitement as well as as well as anybody else. Look how excited Sam is. I mean, it's one win after the other. Just like DJ Khaled, all he does is win. He never loses. Unfortunately, DJ Khaled, he never loses anyway. And so, you can't help but see the excitement in Sam's face. He gets to work out with one of the greatest idols of all time, Arnold Schwarzenegger. I can already hear Greg recording a Netflix documentary in the background. Imagine getting to work out and get advice from the best bodybuilder in the world. That old man in the purple jacket is so lucky to have that opportunity, whoever he is. Honestly, Sam sharing this machines with that elderly man keeps me faithful for a respectful future. A lot of the, you know, more pro bodybuilder guys, they're telling me I'm lifting too heavy. So, where's the sweet spot? Well, there is no sweet spot. Everyone trains differently. I've come to the conclusion after decades of training that there are several ways to skin a cat. Regardless if you want to train with heavy weights, for low reps or lighter weights, for higher reps, high volume, or lower volume with greater intensity, they all work so long as you progressive overload, which is to train harder than last time. And everyone's body requires a different method. And so what I think is important is that you train the way you enjoy training because if you enjoy it, you're going to keep doing it. And the thing that separates the best bodybuilders from the lower tier bodybuilders is in fact, aside from genetics, consistency in the gym. When you see the best bodybuilders in the world, they've been at it for years. Sam Sulick himself, who just turned pro, he was at it for 7 years. Most people will never train consistently at anything in their life for 7 years. And myself, I didn't achieve an IBB program until my 50th competition. I competed 50 times. I was 35. I first started competing at 18. I was training since 10. And so one of the difference aside from genetics is you have to just keep on doing it and giving it your all. I mean, I was surgeon in my days who was doing 20 sets of 20 reps bench press. And so imagine 20 sets of 20 reps on the bench and it worked. Other people five sets also worked. People training their full body and their workouts twice a week like Coach Greg. Other people are training perhaps seven days a week. Every method can work rather than just just promoting because then it's a waste. Yeah. So don't get eyes on you just for the sake of having people watch you. Have it connected to something else. And so Sam does the exact opposite, but essentially does the exact opposite of everyone and it seems to be working. He doesn't do it for any reason. He's not trying to make any specific amount of dollars in any way. He just posts videos because he loves bodybuilding. When are you going to get Chris Bumpstead in a movie? If people are following in your footsteps, he's gotten the closest. Here's the thing. To be an actor in a movie, you have to enjoy acting and you also have to be good at it. Chris Bumstead. He's a shy guy. He doesn't like being in the limelight and it's not something that he would enjoy doing. Now, if he wanted to be an actor, if he was good at acting, absolutely, it would make sense to put him in the movies. But unfortunately, I don't think Chris wants to be a movie actor. And I'm sure many of us would want to see that. I see a lot of the news reporters on bodybuilding and they're always saying, "When's the next Ronnie Coleman going to show up?" Does that mean when's the next guy going to show up and win eight Mr. Olympias in succession? Well, the answer was Chris Bumpstead, but he chose to retire. You think there'll ever be what would basically be a pumping iron too with different people, different style, but one that would actually work? And so, here's the thing. You can't simply recreate something that was perfect on Trial number one. pumping iron in its time was an amazing movie. It was literally historical. But if you try to recreate it doing the exact same thing, it's not going to work. How often is part two of a movie better than part one? Rarely if ever. You know, coming based on personalities. Bodybuilding doesn't have right now personalities. This is [\h__\h] There is no truth to that whatsoever. There are just as many personalities right now as they were in the past and I do believe a lot more. Why do I think that is? There are more bodybuilders. Do you think there was a magical time in the '7s and ' 80s where bodybuilders were just more entertaining, where they're more interesting? They were funnier. You don't think we have entertaining bodybuilders right now? We've literally got a 49year-old bodybuilder soon to turn 50 talking to you right now and you're watching him. bread godamn you said you don't think that I offer any kind of entertainment value that you actually can enjoy watching me talk about certain things the proof is in the pudding over a billion views Sam Sulik posts every single day going to the gym you don't think he has a personality who else we have Kalisensei we have Larry wheels we even have Will Tennyson who's 100% natural as well as a host of IFBB pro professional bodybuilders it's simply spread out more back in the days wasn't pumping the iron. There was no social media. You couldn't see bodybuilders on YouTube, Instagram, Facebook, none of that. But today, we watch it on YouTube. We watch it on Snapchat. We watch it on Tik Tok. We watch it on Billy Billy. Y'all know I'm in Billy Billy getting close to a million followers up in China. And so, the reality is this. Bodybuilding is way more popular right now as in today than it ever was in the 70s, the 80s, the '90s. You all think it was more popular back then? I was competing back then. When I did my first bodybuilding competition, there were 61 competitors. In many of today's shows, there are hundreds. They've added additional categories so that more people can compete. There are so many different categories. And so, the sport has evolved. Pumping iron literally was the stepping stone that led to what we have right now. And you all don't think it's gotten better. Did the Arnold Classic not just up the prize to getting close to a million dollar for first place back when Arnold was competing was perhaps one maybe $5,000 and so of course it's gotten better you know so that's a real or a documentary if it has to be real but then you know then you have to have the personality with that bodybuilding doesn't have personalities right now as he's literally talking to Sam Sulick the only way you then can sell that is by a written script of some sort You don't need to sell it. You don't need a written script. You literally have YouTube. Bodybuilders collaborate all the time. They get together. They make videos. They talk, collaborate, have a good time, and people watch it. They consume it. That promotes the sport. Where we're from in Ohio, there's no gyms like this. 90% of these guys who are in here are actually really working out. At all the commercial gyms and the YMCA's and everything, maybe 20%. You know, I've trained at a lot of gyms, commercial gyms, good lives, and various gyms around the world, and I've never been in a gym where only 20% of the people are working out. My experience is perhaps 80% are working out. Most people are working out. Now, if you're talking about going to failure, training harder than last time, then yeah, most people are not training all that hard. But we're literally watching an icon Arnold Schwarzenegger who's going through the motions. He's literally training halfass. And is there anything wrong with that? Of course not. Bro is in his 70s. He still enjoys training. But he's not pushing himself to failure doing partial reps, drop sets, and so on. And so, do you really need to destroy yourself in the gym in order to reap the health benefits of training? Of course not. Cardio zone two. Do you all have to sprint on your bike like Coach Greg trying to win a race? Of course not. You just go and you pedal, you get a light sweat, you get your heart rate up. It's amazing. Lifting weights. If you don't ever want to train a failure, you don't have to. You can leave five reps in the tank. It's still better than sitting your ass at home and eating cookies and thinking you need red two tried or GLP-1 to lose weight. Like, if I'm surrounded by that, it's going to make me more excited. Yeah, that's why I come here. You all notice how Sam appears to be just as tall as Arnold Schwarzene? Isn't Arnold 6'2? Sam, I know, is 5'11. Is Sam Sulick been height maxing? Is he losing height induced shoulds or is Arnold just getting older and more compressed than last time? Fantastic. That one might be a little too heavy again. Remember too heavy is not heavy enough. And so Sam upon barely finishing a set of 10 where he's doing partial saying the weight's too heavy. Arnold says there's no such thing as too heavy. It's not heavy enough. And so you can see Arnold back when he was younger, he was pushing the heavy weights, sometimes perhaps eagle lifting in the gym. He made it. Yeah, we just finished. Oh yeah. What'd y'all do? Little back. Oh, okay. Little uh little more I mean, we're just outside. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Pull down, pull over, row and out of nowhere, for perhaps one in a million chance, he happens to run into Ronnie Coleman himself at the end of his workout. I got AI put a cardio bike in the garage. If you if you go to the gym, that's an extra hour. You just waste an hour of your day. And so, when are we going to get Sam Sulic on Zift? I mean, does anyone enjoy bike riding who's a bodybuilder more than me? Perhaps it's Sam Sulic. I'm riding perhaps an hour a day, sometimes an hour and four. It depends. Sam, you got to get a bike and race coach Greg on Zift. We'll make it fun. You can ride the bike. You can train. It's motivating. You'll save time. And so, in Arnold's footsteps, why not promote Turkeestone? Turk Builder Max, you're all watching the video. You're all fans of bodybuilding. You enjoy going to the gym and putting on muscle. And so, why not speed up that process? Remember, there's a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. If it doesn't work as well as you want for any reason, I don't care what that reason is. You get a 100% refund and a $20 gift card on top of that. And so try it with no risk. And remember, we've tripled the amount we can finally get in. And so rather than selling out in a matter of hours, you can most likely get it in the shop right now. I know the FDA will just release seven crates of it. And so it's in stock right now. And so if you're interested, code Greg, 15% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to see. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch any of those two moves. I'm here in Montreal watching the F1 for the first time. Not FU, F1. And if you're interested in coaching plans by me and my team, you get FaceTime with Coach Greg, unlimited check-ins, you have the training, the diet, everything. And so, what are you waiting for? Click the link in the description, apply right now, and until next time, I am out.