 d converter converter converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter converter, d converter converter converter, d converter converter converter, d converter converter converter, d converter converter converter, d converter converter converter converter, d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter I was waiting to see how long it would take. Remember, he drove over that man with the cyber truck, the whole thing. And people were wondering how many years he was going to go to jail. And so I'm looking and it's actually for something else. And so clavicular, he can't seem to stay out of trouble. He's always doing something wrong. And at this point, I actually think he's doing it on purpose. I don't know if he wants to go to jail, if it makes him more viral, if he wants to be famous for doing something wrong, essentially infamous. But whatever he's doing, it's working. And so why was he arrested? Bro, I don't have, like, maybe in Florida. Maybe in Florida, but bro, I don't have the power to just freak out like that. I don't know what he did. I don't know what he did. I didn't watch the clip, but like. Well, everyone knows clavicular. He's underage. In the United States, for some stupid reason, you have to be 21 years of age to drink alcohol. In Canada, it ranges from 18 to 19. And so only in the United States can you be an adult. Can you go to war? Can you vote? But you can't even take a drink. And so he goes to the bar. He asked to get in. And the bouncers basically says, have you been drinking tonight? And I'm thinking, why would he ask if he's been drinking tonight? I mean, isn't that kind of the point? You're going to a bar. What you have to be sober when you get there to make sure that they get drunk while in there. And he says, no, I haven't been drinking anything. And so they let him in through the back door. Upon entering the bar, he's drinking Red Bulls. He's not even drinking alcohol. And so you got to think, what are people doing when they go to the bar and they're not drinking? Do you all think that they're just sitting there sober? Do you think people just go to the bar, sober as could be, 20 years old, trying to get girls? They're using recreational substances. That is what's going on. And so this guy, perhaps he doesn't like clavicular. Perhaps he's watched Coach Greg videos. He understands he's the worst social media fitness influencer in the world. He beat out Togi. And so he calls the police on him. Says, hey, we got a guy in here who's underage. Now, generally speaking, I wouldn't blame the kid. He's 20 years old. He's trying to sneak into the bar. They let him in. Hey, to me, that's on the bar. But upon searching him, they discover he has a fake ID. And that is, in fact, illegal. A lot of people are confused why Clav got arrested for using a fake ID. This is pretty common in people under 21. And usually when this happens and you're underage and you use a fake ID at a bar, they just tell you to go home. And if they call the cops, the cops usually don't really do anything about it. But it turns out he was in the worst state possible for this. He was in Arizona. And using a fake ID in Arizona is a felony. That means he can go up to jail for 3.5 years just for using a fake ID. And not only that, does anyone think that Clavicular is walking around with no bag? And then while he was being arrested for that, they also found illegal substances on him, which is also a felony, which is another 3.5 years. That means he could spend up to seven years in jail. And so, of course, he's got a bag. In that, allegedly, he's got some creatine in there. And I'm not talking about the creatine that you go to the gym. And so, last I checked, even though some people say you're not from the United States, you don't know the laws, it's not legal to have creatine on you when you're going to the bar, at your house, anywhere. And so, if you have illegal substances on you combined with having a fake ID, add to that you're in the bar and everyone knows you and you've been kicked out of bars before, you've not let in, you've done all these crazy things. Eventually, somebody's going to be on to you and they're going to report you. And so, he actually got arrested. Now, I'm watching the videos and I'm thinking, is this actually staged? But actually, from what I'm seeing, it looks to all be true. Now, what is this going to do? Well, I believe it's going to make him even more popular. Because if you actually like clavicular, which means there's something wrong with you, then you're going to like the more bad things he does, the better. And you're going to be rooting for him. Yes, go clavicular, go. And even if you don't like him, you're going to be rooting for him to fail. And so, clavicular, whether you like him or not, you're rooting for him, either in a positive way or a negative. And so, he's currently jail maxing. And I do believe someone in a prison, if he's to be there for an extended period of time, they're going to like this. Because, I mean, after all, when you're a looks maxer, when you're trying to make yourself look as pretty as possible, when you're famous for that, eventually, he's going to be soap maxing. And so, whether he uses a soap to wash his body or to perhaps lubricate certain orifices, clavicular is going to have a good time, or, well, depending if he likes it or not, a very bad time. Does anyone remember when clavicular said he was getting that facial surgery, the double jaw massager, oral navel folds? What the hell is he getting? He's getting, like, bone max. He's going to get his cheekbones bigger, his folds here, extended his jaw, pushed out. I don't know what he wants to look like. He wants to look like he's on some M the whole time, your jaw coming out. What exactly is he doing? He's trying to look, Max. He's trying to ascend. Ascend into what? Also, he added into this, he wanted to get his legs smashed and become taller. Now, how many months has it been since he said he was getting that facial jaw surgery, that he was going to spend, like, $35,000 or $50,000 so that he could go from being a Chad to a, what's the next word after Chad? A gig of Chad. Yeah. And so, why hasn't this happened? And so, you notice he talks a lot of talk, but when push comes to shove, he doesn't actually do anything. And so, this is my personal opinion. He sends a bunch of lies. He makes a bunch of shit up. He tries to go viral. By just saying things that he knows is going to get a lot of views. For example, did he actually do math? I'm not talking about school here, guys. Did he actually do the math? Was it Adin Ross that was saying that he had seen him do this? He was saying he was doing math to be thin so that he could be thinner to lose weight. He's also claimed to have done 15 grams of RETA, RETA 2 try. And I know he spoke with Alex Eubank. Hey, guys, I watch a lot of videos. Trust me, I have to watch a lot to be able to do these videos. He said he was, at one point, doing 20 milligrams of RETA. 2 milligrams is a lot. 15 is ridiculous, and 20 makes no sense. And so, how many of you actually believe this? Like, if you just believe anything that comes out of Clave's mouth, then my opinion is you're an idiot. Or, well, you don't have to be an idiot. You just have an IQ of 79. I am not that stupid. I was too hungover. Most people in this world are average intelligence. And average is not saying much. Just like most people in this world. Well, if you look at them, there's a lot of people nearby. I don't want to say too much. How does my arm look? I don't know. And so, there's too many people nearby, but the average person looks like shit. I'm not kidding. They really do look very, very bad. Average person is like, I think men was 29% body fat. Women was like 39. And so, average sucks. And so, if you're average intelligence, you're actually an idiot. I'm sorry. That's just the truth. And so, you're believing clavicular in whatever he says, which makes you an idiot. And so, when he says, yeah, I'm going to get a facial surgery and I'm doing math and I'm doing this and I'm doing that, y'all believe it? He also said he had sexy time with over 100 girls. You believe he had more than 100? Triple digits? There's no way. Maybe 10. You really think there's 100 girls out there that are that stupid? Well, I mean, maybe. But I mean, not unless he's paying them a lot of money, of which I believe that he has a lot of money. And so, if the point is, is clavicular actually arrested or did he pay somebody to arrest him? Is he actually going to go to jail for this? And like, I mean, honestly, he should be in jail for driving over somebody with a Cybertruck. Doesn't that make more sense? I think driving over someone with a Cybertruck and having no remorse, if it wasn't staged, of which perhaps it is because that would make sense. Why is he in jail? Why haven't they arrested him? How is this just something you do and you just get on with your life? That is way worse than going into a bar at 20 when the drinking age is 21, of which it should be younger than 20. It's ridiculous. If you can vote for the President of the United States, you should be allowed to drink. Now, granted, it's a class one's carcinogen. It's poison and no one should be drinking it. Only idiots drink alcohol, which is, of course, 50% of the population. But, at least, if you can make a stupid decision, you should be able to make another stupid decision. And so, going to the bar, although it's a stupid decision, I think you should be allowed to do that at 18 or 19 years of age. Hey, it's just a thing. Either that or raise the voting age to something that makes more sense. If he leaves the state of Arizona, he is going to catch more charges and he is going to be revoked on release. Okay? One more thing that proves just how stupid Clavicular really is is Bro isn't on TurkBuilder Max. He's not using HDLT supplements and everyone knows that if you're using TurkBuilder Max, you can't be arrested. It's kind of like an invisibility cloak. Like, when I was sneaking Turk across the border into Uzbekistan, various countries, you saw me hiding out in Mexico. The authorities couldn't catch me. Remember, I'm in, I'm in, where am I right now? I'm in Miami, guys. Remember? I'm in Miami, bitch. I wasn't even allowed in the States for 11 years and yet, they let me across. Why do you think that is? It's the TurkBuilder Max. You can pay off everyone with it. It actually builds muscle. It's better than creatine. It's the best natural supplement in the world. And don't forget, you can get this by entering code Greg and you will get 15% off. And so, that proves how stupid he is. The next thing that proves how stupid he is, he's on testosterone. He's in abusing it since he was 14 and he's not getting it from AlgorX. How many think he has a doctor that's prescribing him this stuff that's telling him exactly how much to take and or not take? Or whether he should perhaps, instead of using testosterone, he should be on Enclomiphene? And when he's using Reda, Reda of the three, that's not even a legal peptide. And so, if you go to AlgorX, they don't have Reda, but they do have GLPs, Enclomiphene, testosterone, telmosartan, various peptides. And so, remember, it's all pharmaceutical. You get code Greg for 10% off. And if you compare the prices to Merrick Health, you'll see how significantly lower the prices are. And to me, that is what you want. Unless you're a multi-millionaire, you've got so much money, you just want to throw it away. Why would you want to waste money on peptides? And so, the moral of the story is use Turk Builder Max if you want to put on more muscle than last time, greater recovery. And if you don't want to get arrested, that's the whole point of the video. And so, let me know in the comments section, do you think that Clave is actually going to be in jail for a long time? Are they going to actually arrest this guy for anything legit? Is it all staged? Is it fake? What is going on with this world? Why is he even bothering to go in the bar? Why are bars letting him in if they know that he's underage in the first place? I mean, why? What is even going on? Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to Boosy Aguram, like the video if you liked it, go to Al Gorex and buy stuff, go to HLT Supplements and buy stuff. And until next time, I am out.