What's that song from the old schools? I like big butts and I cannot lie. Those other brothers can't deny when a girl walks in and be wasting round thing in your face, you get sick. Coach Greg and today's video is on body transformation challenges. In particular, Brownie and his brother. Brownie paid his brother $500 to make an incredible transformation in 90 days. He was in fact successful and then what happened 30 days later. Well, let's go and see how he made out in the transformation and then what happened in the aftermath. This is York, my 17-year-old brother. And here's the full story of how he transformed his life in just 90 days. Yeah, he transformed his entire life in 90 days cuz it was horrible as a teenager. You know, being of normal weight and extreme athletic ability. You see this kid running around doing freaking amazing flips? He looks like a ninja. He could be in some movie. He's more athletic than me. So he stopped doing that. Ate a couple extra chips, maybe some Doritos. Put on maybe 10, 15 lbs. Got a little bit softer, still at a healthy weight, maybe a little bit over 20%, something normal. So then he said, "Hey, I'll pay you $500 if you lose some weight in 90 days." He said, "Sure." So, did it work? Yeah, it sure it worked. He got under 15% body fat, looked stronger and healthier, and that's great. Guess what that's called? Extrinsic motivation. You say, "Hey, I'll pay you to do this." And you're doing it because you want that external reward. Problem is, unless it becomes intrinsic, you're not going to keep doing it. If you're competing for a plastic trophy, you're not going to keep doing what you did to get that plastic trophy once you get it. You need to exercise and do it for you. You need to want to lose weight and eat healthy and do all the good things you should do for you, not for a reward. So, what do we promote on YouTube or on Instagram or anywhere? Transform your body in four weeks, 30-day challenge, 90 days, three months, 12 weeks. No one's going to talk about the PDS you may or may not be using. No one's going to talk about the mental health issues that go along with this. No one's going to talk about did they in fact keep that weight off or they just gain it all back. Once the external reward is gone. Yay. I won the transformation contest. Yay. Show's over. Yay. I'm married. If you can't do it for life, don't freaking do it. If you're just doing a transformation just to be a cool transformation and you expect to stay there, don't do it. Warning you, don't do it. Harder on your head. Once you lose all that weight and then you gain it back, you're going to feel worse than you did in the first place. Don't believe me? Don't believe me? Sure, don't believe me. I don't know what I'm talking about. No, I haven't coached thousands of people. I haven't done it myself. No, I have no clue what I'm talking about. And I'm being sarcastic. You're going to like the abs. You're going to be like, "Wow, my veins. This so cool." Then the reward's gone. You start, "I'm going to eat now. I'm on vacation. Time to stop exercise. I'm going to relax." Yeah, it's vacation time. Why would I want to exercise? Because you love it. That's why you're going to exercise on vacation. Oh, it's vacation. I just get to eat whatever I want. Whatever you want should be what you're eating right now. You should enjoy how you eat and what you eat. Like host, I enjoy every freaking meal that I eat. I like what I'm eating. If you don't, not going to last forever. It might last while that exttrinsic reward is there. $500. Maybe it's $1,000. Maybe it's your picture in a magazine. Maybe it's the praise from your girlfriend, boyfriend, circle, parents, brother, family, relatives, whatever. Maybe it's how many likes you got on your photos. Eventually, you're sick and tired of being sick and tired. So, he's quite fit. He never really worked out or went to the gym. He just ran around doing front side flips that I haven't seen anyone do. Was just an elite level soccer player and super in shape. Yeah, he just is a normal teenager. Then he probably played Nintendo and game for 30 days and put on a few pounds eating Doritos and I'll get pay you $500 to look amazing. And did he do it? Yep. He was successful. It worked. Of course it worked. He's a freaking teenager. And he's not even a teenager who really overweight. Maybe had a little bit of pudge, couple pounds to lose, whatever. But the past year, however, he completely let himself go. He gained a lot of weight, wasn't very active anymore, and his diet was terrible. I gave him a workout program, diet, and offered my help when he needed it. It is January 14th, 2020 right now. He's going to transform as well. Let's do it. And he failed. So, he actually challenged him to do this transformation and he and he gave up. He didn't even bother. He's like, "No, it didn't work." Then he paid him $500. Apparently, that was enough exttrinsic motivation to get him to do it. If I paid my girlfriend a million dollars to lose all this weight in 90 days, she wouldn't do it cuz the external motivation is not enough. It's just not enough. Now, if all of her animals were sick and I said, "Hey, if you lose 20 pounds in 90 days, all the animals will get better." She's losing 20 pounds probably a week. External motivation very high. But then as soon as the animals are cured, pickle pizzas come back and she eats and eats and eats and gains it all back. You need to do it for you. Find a reason for yourself to do it, not just for some money, for some other person. Do it to be healthy for yourself. You need to enjoy it. Find the activity that you love, the training plan that you want to do. Even if it's not the best plan in the world, the best plan in the world is literally the one you're going to do and stick to and follow. Same as your diet. Do the diet that you can do that you enjoy. And now 30 days later, he's gained some weight back. He's laid back on a pool. He's not exercising as much. He's not eating as healthy. And he's relaxing a little bit more. And now the comments start rolling in. What happened? You used to have abs. Why'd you let yourself go? Were you on PDS? Did you stop taking them? What's up? First time I did a bodybuilding contest, I got shredded. Had a six-pack. Then I'm walking out about a month later, I put on probably 25 lbs. And most of it was fat. I ate a lot. Lost my abs. Became a more normal looking person. Comments were, "What happened? Why did you gain so much weight? Why are you fat now?" Comments when I'm dieting. Wow, you look amazing. You're so ripped. You're so lean. I wish I had abs like that. What did you do to get your abs? Wow. You get used to all these positive comments, positive reinforcement, extrinsic motivation. Competition's over. I won first place after. You're getting fat now. And this is before social media. So, they actually said it's your base. You You're getting fat. You're fat now. What did you do? What happened? How do you think that feels? It doesn't feel good. And that's coach Greg saying this. Imagine if it doesn't feel good for me. What a normal person that can't handle criticism. Imagine how they feel. Imagine with social media when you can wake up and see 1,000 comments saying you suck and you're a loser. I probably get a 100 comments like that a day. And that's probably a hundred that I read. There's probably a thousand. I just don't have the time to read them all. So, you can't let the comments affect you. If you do, you're never going to be happy. I can read the comments and laugh and say, "Ah, they're a bunch of morons and idiots." And it kind of makes my day sometimes. So, it doesn't bother me, but some people it really does. Let's ask him. So, what happened the last 30 days? Did you lose your gains? So, what happened after the 90 days? They went on vacation and he ate a lot of calories. He in fact ate all the calories. Every single last one. What happened to moderation? Why can't we just eat in moderation? Why does it have to be I'm dieting or I'm not dieting? Why can't you have balance? Balance is somewhere in the middle. That doesn't make sense to me. Then what happens? Of course, you freaking gain weight. Calories in, calories out. If you're at a surplus, you're gaining weight. So, what should he have done? He should have lost less weight than he did. Then when he went on vacation, he would have had an easy time maintaining that weight. He wouldn't have been starving all the time. He just finished dieting for 90 days. Grein is coming after him, punching him in the face. Krillin's mean he is and he wants you to eat. If you don't eat, he punches you again and again. It sucks. So he went on vacation. Krillin was coming for I'm going to hold him off. I'm going to keep eating. Eating and eating. And he didn't exercise. Why? I don't know. Why wouldn't you? I thought you're supposed to like what you do. That dude can run and do freaking side twist back flips. He's an elite athlete. Why is he being active? I mean, it's bad enough. Some people have no athletic ability and they're trying to be active and it's like go for a walk, go for a hike, maybe bike ride. This dude's a freaking athlete. He can do anything he wants. Chooses not to. Well, at least not as much as he should. Gain some weight. So, what's my advice? Maintain the weight you're at now. Stop with the transformations. Stop with the trying to lower your body fat so much. Just be happy you're at a healthy weight now. Just maintain it. Has he actually lost all of his gains? No, he hasn't gained all the body fat back. He maybe gained half of it back. He can keep it here and maintain it for the rest of his life. That's what he should do. What about his strength gains? Well, he's a little bit weaker because he hasn't been training as much. Obviously, his chin-up strength is going to go down. He's not going to be able to lift as much. He's not going to be able to do as many push-ups, and his body weight is higher. So, it makes even harder to do chin-ups. The more you weigh, the harder it is to lift your body weight. Doesn't that make sense? So, when you go on vacation, you weigh yourself the day you get back and you're up 5 lb, not 5 lbs of fat. 3500 calories are required to gain one pound of fat. You probably didn't eat 3,500 calories a day extra for 5 days while you're away, which would have been the minimum required to gain 5 lbs of fat. The point is, a lot of it was in fact fat and a lot of it was water. He was eating too much. Should have ate less. Don't want to gain weight on vacation? Don't eat so much. I'm saying it's probably better for this guy to maintain where he's at right now. He doesn't seem too keen on being shredded. And to be shredded year round, it has to be on your mind all the time. You can't just be like, "My goal is just to be 5% body fat and be happy and eat whatever I want and have the best looking boyfriend, girlfriend, circle friend in the world, and everyone will love me and I'll be a millionaire." Yeah. Keep dreaming. Keep dreaming. It's not going to happen. No, he didn't lose his gains. No, he did. Well, he did lose maybe a bit of his abs, but that's not loss in muscle. All right, loss in abs is not loss in muscle. So, he's saying just because you lost your abs, doesn't it mean you lost muscle? Are people really that dumb? Do they really think if you can't see your abs, your muscles have disappeared? No. Your fat layer has gotten thicker and it's blocking the actual visibility of the abs. Doesn't mean your biceps got smaller. Doesn't mean your biceps got weaker. means literally you can't see your abs. Okay, so that's what happened to this guy. So he says he's about 14.2% body fat. Let's go. It's not bad now, is it? Why not just maintain that? Are you feeling good? Yeah, I'm feeling good. He's flexing. He He looks pretty good. Why not just maintain that? This is a teenager. He has all the time in the world to eat and do what he wants to look the way he wants. If he's struggling, he's having a hard time. What chance do you have? You probably got a job, kids, family, all this stuff going on. He's a teenager. Don't expect to be lean. Just stay at a comfortable weight that you can maintain that's realistic for you. It's probably halfway to your dream body. Halfway. That's the goal you need. Get my freaking cookbook. Low calorie dense foods that are delicious. And if you don't know how to train, get my freaking training book. If you want to train like Coach Greg, get my training book. If you don't want to train like me, buy Jeff Cavalere, live with fake plates and be merry and never use HRT and you'll probably look better forever for the rest of your life. Imagine how good Jeff Cavalere is going to look at 55. He looks that good at 45. Going to be amazing. So, he's basically put on a couple centimeters in certain areas like the stomach and the glutes and so on. It's about an edge for those of you who don't like centimeters. Okay, that's fat. It's a fat layer. And his hips went up an inch. Booty gains. Yeah, you gain more fat in your freaking ass. How do you think all these bikini girls are looking better in their glutes? It's mostly fat. If you try to walk around at 15% body fat as a woman, your bum's going to be small because a lot of your freaking glutes are fat. Same as your chest, unless you have breast implants. If you're too lean, guess where it goes? It could go from here. lot of body fat is stored in this area as well as the glutes. So, when you're a shredded bikini model, the glutes and the boobs shrink. Okay, sorry. That's how it works. And guess what? Oh, I got glued, kids. I went offseason and I went all in. I ate a cheesecake. I ate a pickle pizza and I put on 10 pounds. And now look at my glutes. Especially when you arch like crazy and take 20 photos and you do the right angles. That's what it really is. But don't tell everyone the secrets. They post your before and after photos. They just gain some fat. Fat gets stored in the boobs and in the bum. And you look more curvaceous. And the trick is to say you got thick with at least three C's. And all that means is you got fat in all the right places. Fatter hips and bum and boobs. And the waist is small. If your waist is small, people don't really seem to care. Doesn't seem to matter. It doesn't matter who you had in mind. What's that song from the old schools? I like big butts. And I cannot lie. Those other brothers can't deny. When a girl walks in waist and round thing in your face, you get sick cuz like a toothpick. I beat that booty with a stick. Even the jeans she's wearing. Her pants are almost tearing. No baby. I want a small booty. That tutti frutti. Homeboy tried to warn me that butt you got is tutti frutti. Something like that. Might be a mix of weird Al in there, but you get the point. They like big butts. No longer do people seem to just like more of a straighter appearance and no glutes. They like curves. Curves are being promoted like crazy in social media. Okay, it's fat gains. And again, this all makes sense. He did an insane job in 90 days. Took a little bit of time off. Not even off, it's just a little bit rest. He just tried to maintain. Enjoy the 30 days on holiday as well. And uh now he's dead. Smash it. I mean, so they're bragging that he did everything right. Oh, he did so good for 90 days. Then he took 30 days on holiday, you know, doing less and he's not in shape the way he was before and he gained six lb. And to gain 6 lb in a holiday, it's a fairly significant amount of weight to gain. Okay? If he didn't lose that much weight and maybe didn't push himself so hard to win that 90-day challenge in the first place, he wouldn't have gained all that weight in the first place. Okay. So, exttrinsic rewards. Be careful. If it's a 90-day challenge, 30-day challenge, you're doing it for your husband or wife, you're doing it to go down south. Yeah, it's motivation. It helps. It's an exttrinsic goal that's increasing the likelihood that you'll get to there. But after it's taken away like that, it's way worse and way harder. Do you know the hardest part of a diet? It's when it's over. the day after or even the minute after the show's over. Whether you won or lost or whatever, that's the hardest part of the diet because now the extrinsic word of the competition, it's over. It's taken away. Now you're on your own. Now what? Do you know how many people plan out the binges they're going to have right after? Yeah. Binge eating disorders, they don't even realize it. After the show's over, I already have a dozen donuts planned. I'm going to go through these three freaking all you can eat buffets and I can't wait to gain 20 pounds in a minute. So, if you're currently dieting in some kind of a challenge, be ready for when it's over. The day after this ends, that's the day it actually starts. It's the hardest time to diet after the diet's over. You think you can eat whatever you want. You think you can go back to what you were. You can't. If you can't make the changes and maintain them for the rest of your life, you probably shouldn't be doing them. Because if you do and you try too hard, the mental challenges that they're going to bring about are going to be horrendous, looking at your body extremely lean, then you want to look like that and you gain back a few pounds and now you hate yourself. You hate how you look. You gain back the weight too quickly. It's not going to work. Trust me, it's not going to work. Be careful. Try not to strive for too much. Be happy with the goals that you are going to achieve and be realistic and true to yourself. Gregducet.com for coaching. Greg Ducet Pro. I'm blooping up two videos. Either of those are equally good today. So, choose the one you want to watch. And until next time, I am out. I like big butts and I cannot lie. Those other brothers can't deny. When a girl walks in waist and round thing in your face, you get sick cuz like a toothpick. I beat that booty with a stick. Even G she's wearing