All you hear is the good. Oh, he's with Kim Kardashian. He's saying this. He's saying that. Oh, I have the world record. I'm going to live forever. I'm the healthiest humanin the world. Is that evidence enough? Coach Greg, in today's video, you're not going to believe it. You're not going to like me, but I have to call this person out. The latest scammer. It's Brian Johnson. And no, not the Liver King. the other Brian Johnson, the man who wants to live forever. And so what we see in real life is a charismatic, well-spoken individual who seems to be passionate about one neat thing, to make the world live forever. The problem is you can't do it. And what he's letting us believe is that based on certain biomarkers, if you alter them, that you can slow down the aging process by over 50%. I believe he just posted it's 0.47 some kind of world record. And so how many people believe this that if you're 50 that you can age slower than last time and so rather than living to be 100 you could live to be 150. It's not true. And so just because a certain biioarker represents certain amount of longevity doesn't mean that if you change that biioarker through alternative means that you're going to live longer. Health Span has 403 followers. Not thousand, 403. This was an exquisite video start to finish. I highly recommend you go and watch. It states Brian Johnson's $2 million scam. The dark truth behind his longevity blueprint. And so scamming harder than last time. I now have the best biomarkers of anybody in the world. I am the healthiest person on planet Earth. Based on what? Based on your cholesterol. based on your a on your testosterone of which you're not natural. That's right. Brian Johnson is on exogenous testosterone. And so, is he really healthier than people who, for example, are doing an iron man or just bro who exercises on a regular basis? Is he even healthier than Coach Greg? Will Brian Johnson, the man who wants to live forever, live longer than Coach Greg, a man who formerly has abused testosterone? Only time will tell. I'm in basically the top 1% of every single biomarker. Essentially, it's a tool that can be used to for instance a detect disease, predict risks or monitor treatment response. And so a biioarker and how long you're going to live, there are in fact correlations. But remember correlation doesn't mean causation. And so just because you change that biomarker doesn't mean you're actually going to get better. Let's look at the bench press. It's correlated with how good of a football player you are. Now, back in my day, I broke the NFL combine record for most bench presses with 225. Does that mean I'm a great football player? I could barely even run a 5.040. Just because you're a football player, let's say you're Tom Brady, and your bench press, let's say, goes up 20 reps, does that suddenly mean you're probably better at football? Maybe, but maybe not. Goodart's law that when a clinical measure becomes a target, it ceases to become a good measure. And so Goodart's law, it's saying, look, just because this is predictive of something that's going to happen, doesn't mean if you change this that it's going to change the results. Grip strength, for example, the stronger your grip strength, the more predictive it is you're going to live a long and healthy life. But if you just trade your grip all day long, oh, I got the hack. I'm just training my grip. Why go to the gym? It doesn't make you live longer. And so, if you're a football player, say, "The heck with football, I'm just training for the combo. I'm going to practice my 40. I'm going to practice my vertical jump. And I'm going to do 225 for reps all the freaking time. You show up to the combine. You're set records. You're running faster than last time. You can jump out of the gym and you can bench press 225 all day, but you don't know how to catch the ball. Catch it. Why would I want to catch a ball? And can you tackle an opponent? Can you even run away from one? You can't run side to side. And so, just because you practice certain elements doesn't make you a better player. Nighttime erections is actually a really important marker of health. It represents cardiovascular health, physiological health, and psychological health. And so, case in point, here's Johnson. Just because he gets more erections at night doesn't mean he's going to live longer. I mean, think of it. You pop seialis all the time. You do your shockwave therapy and suddenly you're getting boners for days. That doesn't mean you're going to give longer. The reason why erections and night allow you to live longer is because of what goes into having erections harder than last time is likely a fact that you're being active, you're eating a healthy diet, and all sorts of other activities. And so people who have difficulty getting harder than last time, if they just take harder than last time, it doesn't mean you're going to live longer. Yes, it can help you to get harder, but what you really need to do is change the things that led to the problem in the first place. for example, obesity, improper diet, or blood flow issues. Now, many people with ED will use focus shock wave therapy. In my case, because I have a functioning penis, it was used for rejuvenation. And so, it's a common belief that if you're black, you're most likely have better genetics, you're likely to be a better athlete. And so, if you're a Caucasian, should you then just spray paint a tan on or perhaps put black paint on your skin and that'll make you a better athlete? I mean, the biioarker. I mean, if you have black skin, you're a better athlete, right? This would be just as moronic as thinking that what Brian Johnson's doing is making any sense. And when you're in that caloric deficit, your testosterone lowers. And so, we supplemented it with uh 2 mgram patches that I wore 6 days a week. If your testosterone levels are too low, it's not good. And if it's too high, perhaps it's also not good. And so what did Brian Johnson do? He's on testosterone exogenously. Is that necessarily going to help him to live longer? If his diet is causing his testosterone to go down, perhaps he's not eating any meat, whatever. And if he artificially enhances his testosterone through exogenous means, does that mean he's going to live longer? He's using testosterone. This may in fact shorten his life. The reason I'm diving so deeply into his biomarkers is because they're the cornerstone of how he markets his blueprint protocol. In the end, what is happening for only $870 a month, about $10,000 a year, you get to follow what he's doing, the blueprint of which he markets as saying you're going to live forever. Let's examine, for example, Merrick Health. They have a brand new biioarker. It's basically going to predict how jacked can you get? Let's test out how effective are your androgen receptors. And so this test decides how well will you respond to gear? And so what do you think is the purpose of this? And so let's say you do the test and you score very low. Well, probably should up my doses. And let's say you test very high. Oh, I'm probably going to be a professional bodybuilder. Time to up my doses. And so no matter where you fall on the range, does it really actually matter? It doesn't matter. And so for $500, what do you find out? Steroids are going to be more or less effective. Will it really though? How would you actually know? Even though the biomarker says you can use it better, can you really? Just because you score high doesn't mean you're going to be the next professional bodybuilder. And just because you score low doesn't mean you can't build a lot of muscle. It's just a waste of time. But yet, hey, let's see how many we can sell. The issue is he's trying everything at once. Hyperaric oxygen therapy, stem cells, gene therapy, plasma cells. Well, based on the scientific method, you can change one variable. He's on what, 100, 150 different things all at the same time. And so, how does he know that this product is causing that change or if it's in fact something else? That's it. That's exactly it. He doesn't. Fortunately, we have the realworld case of someone who followed the exact blueprint protocol for 180 days. And so we have an independent party. Someone else did this testing, followed all the protocols. And what were the results? First score was 0.93. And my final score at 180 days is 0.95. All right, let me process this. And so on day 1.93, day 30.94, and after 90 days.95, aging faster than last time after 90 days of following exactly what was told of her. Do you see the difference? Do you see how this is a scam? Just because you pay for his ingredients, you use his supplements, doesn't mean you're going to live forever. But Coach Greg, you're a scammer for selling Turk Builder Max, of which there's a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. Does Brian Johnson offer the same guarantee? Hey, we guarantee that you're going to live forever. We guarantee your biomarkers are going to go down. And even if they do go down, does it really matter? It doesn't matter. People were experiencing all kinds of issues. Just to mention a few, there was bloating, gas, constipation, ringing in the ears, headache, nausea, fatigue, anxiety, skin issues. What does that tell you? And so all you hear is the good. Oh, he's with Kim Kardashian. He's saying this, he's saying that. Oh, I have the world record. I'm going to live forever. I'm the healthiest humanin the world. He's a fake healthy human. He's bragging about being the healthiest humanin the world. This isn't true. That'd be like me saying, "Hey guys, I'm the most jacked natural athlete on the planet. Nobody's healthier than Coach Greg. And here's the proof. I just won a Zift bike race. Is that evidence enough? And so, we see this all the time. Bodybuilders, they constantly do it. They'll brag to the world, hey, look at my blood pressure. Look at my cholesterol. They're on blood pressure meds and statins. I remember even Mike Israel showing the world, hey, look at how healthy my blood pressure is and my cholesterol and so on. But if you're using polypharm pharmacy, that's using other medications to get those results, are you actually healthy? And my opinion is no. Just because you have a certain biomarker, if you need a drug to achieve that biioarker, that in my opinion is not the same as if you can do it while being natural through regular means, you know, like diet and exercise. One example raised by a Reddit user involved undetectable levels of vitamin B12 that had been flagged for around 8 months without resolution. The program's vegan. They're lacking B12. Month after month, they do nothing. As if this shouldn't be of a concern. Another issue pointed out is the extremely high lead and cadmium levels for which Blueprint received a 60-day notice of violations of California's health and safety code. Exceeding levels of cadmium and lead. These are not good things. A major issue here seems to be that Brian Johnson doesn't seem to fully understand his own protocol. In many ways, he feels more like the face of a brand rather than the mind behind it. And so, does Brian Johnson actually understand what he's doing or is he just the face of the company? I do believe he's the face. Derek from More Plates, More Dates had some questions of which he couldn't respond. What is the literature we're pointing to to find the utility in it to be as part of like a daily stack? I don't know. And so, when I say I could put on 4 lbs of muscle in a month, everyone criticizes Boge Greg. Jeff Nippard's brother put on 12.7 pounds of muscle in one month, his first month training, as verified by the DEXA scan. We all know the DEXA scan can have errors. Remember, he did this 100% natural. The evidence we we just shared about what this does. It's unbelievable uh in the ways it improves health and wellness. It's better than ompic. But Brian Johnson just stated that olive oil is better than ompic for losing weight. How, Brian? Yeah. So, it's like ompic is like the fire alarm. And so, for example, there's a study where people lost 5.2 lbs uh taking Evo, consuming Evo for 9 weeks. It's not better than Ompic. Ompic helps almost everyone to lose weight. If it was really better than Ozmpic, the world wouldn't need Ozepic. Hey, you want to lose weight? Are you on that their new olive oil? Yeah, I'm on the aisle of diet. You just pour it in your bowl, eat olive oil, you lose weight. It's way better. You're never hungry. Explain that, Brian Johnson. How is that better? How can he get away with outright lying? And so Steven Bartlett couldn't believe it. Derek doesn't understand it. Neither does the rest of the world. But yet, he doesn't get called out. He's scamming you of thousands of dollars with the hope of living forever or at least living longer than last time. And so imagine trying to tell people, "What thing do you think that many people fear when they get older?" Well, I don't want to die. Brian Johnson, do you realize that you're going to die? Do you think that you're going to die? No. Really? Yeah. Do you know what you're doing? You're drinking alcohol. You're only sleeping 7 hours a night. You don't go to bed at exactly 7:00 every night. Your body fat isn't single digits. You haven't improved every single biobarker. You don't have a 100% sleep score. He's scaring you into thinking you're not doing it enough. And so anyone with money, what do you think they're going to do? Take it. Take my money, Brian. Take it. What do I need to do? Oh, well, you do this. You don't eat meat. You take these 100 pills a day. You follow all these protocols. And you see, you're going to live longer than last time. The woman did it. Her score went up 0.93.94.95. Is there a money back guarantee? If it's that effective, if he believes in it so strongly, where's the guarantee? I don't know. We can pull it up. I sure. Let's pull it up. Sure. Let me see if I can find it. Ryan Johnson, I don't know. I just said it. I just pulled it right out of my ass, sniffed it, gave him a dirty Sanchez, and you all sat there and took it. What's wrong with you? And I've just been informed that Brian Johnson sells olive oil. And so guys, hey, I just discovered brand new advertising from Brian Johnson. I have something. It's called GLP Max. It's way better than Ozmpic. 10 times better. If you can lose, let's say, 10 pounds on Ozmpic, you can lose 100 with this. It's way better. Would that not be lying? And so, what have I said? It perhaps reduces your hunger by about 28%. It's not as good as Osimpic. Is it effective? Yes. Is it better than OMPic? No. If you say your supplement is better than another, and it's not. You're lying. It's a scam. This is not as good as OPIC, but it's still worth buying. This is not as good as steroids, but it's still worth buying. Remember, you're still natural with this. With testosterone, you're not. And so, if you want to do a drug tested bodybuilding competition, compete in the Olympics, and so on, can use this, and you don't fail the test. It's this paper, the diet was energy restricted, which by the laws of thermodynamics will cause you to lose weight. And so the actual study, what they're getting this from is they compared olive oil to soybean oil, not to ompic, and they were both in a calorie deficit. And so, wow, news flash. If you are in a calorie deficit, you lose weight. In this house, we obey the laws of thermodynamics. Does that mean olive oil is better than oimpic? That would be like saying, "Do you know what's better than ompic? Not eating anything. It's clearly better." And so if you want to lose weight, don't eat. Obviously, you won't eat, but it doesn't mean it's better than the medication to help prevent you from overeating. Rapomy would probably be number one. Uh, the evidence behind it is really good. I did, however, notice side effects. For example, I'd have cankers in my mouth or maybe a wound wouldn't heal fast enough. Do you not then question the validity of his statements when he goes from saying this is one of the best supplements in the world to you should never take it and remember rapamyin is a drug I call it a supplement whatever and then perhaps the thing that was most painful for me it increased my resting heart rate which as you know from watching my videos it is the most important biioarker I track and so he's taking rapomy he's getting canker sores his wounds aren't healing as fast but heavens forbid his heart rate went up in the morning well what is he now going to to take a beta blocker to lower his heart rate. But what about the other 100 supplements he's taking? How does he know that specific item was the cause of the increase in his heart rate? Maybe bro just slept slightly sideways that night and woke up and had a bad day. Or maybe it's cuz he started eating more calories. At one point he was sub 5% body fat. He's now eating a little bit more. We don't know anything. Or hey, did you ever think of this? Maybe it's cuz he's getting older. Oh, but he can't. There is such a thing as getting older. The more years you are on this earth, the harder it is for your body to do things like recover and repair for injuries and so on. And so, just because your heart rate went up, you can't say it's because of that exact thing. A preprint came out, which is a paper. It showed that rapamy accelerated the biological speed of aging in humans across 16 epigenetic clocks. And so, let me get this straight. the drug he was taking to increase longevity was doing the exact opposite. But yet, you're going to sign up for $887 a month to follow his protocol. For what? Brian Johnson does 50 billion things at once. And it's very hard for someone with his protocol to determine if a singular intervention resulted in his effects. And so, there are in fact problems with overesting. Let's take your PSA for example. If you test 1,000 men, 100 10% are going to get a false positive. That means they show a sign that it's bad when it really isn't. And so after you get that result, 100 people now have to get further testing. And some of this further testing, it's actually harmful. And so of the hundred people that then get further treatment, half of them, 50 will have treatment complications such as infections, sexual dysfunction, or bladder or bowel control problems. Out of the thousand people, a hundred are going to get a false positive. That means they don't actually have it. But for those 100 people, they're going to suffer from anxiety and have to undergo further testing. And for what? a biioarker that was a false positive. And so just because it indicates something doesn't mean it means anything whatsoever. And so there you have it. Is it a scam? Is it not a scam? Of course, it's a work in progress. I'm sure he means well, but many of you are spending thousands of dollars thinking that this is the cure. You're going to live years and years longer. Now, if it was actually this good, I'd be on it. You don't think I can afford $887 a month? If I knew that I could just alter my biioarkers, take this pill, that pill, and I'm going to live an extra 10 years. Of course, I would do it. Even if it was one year, of course, I'm doing it. But just because you take this pill, and are improving this biioarker, doesn't mean you're going to live any longer. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost your algorithm, and if you do want to live longer than last time, I offer coaching plans by me and my team. If you can afford it, I also offer free diet and training programs. And so all you need to do is click the link in the description. Apply today. Don't forget to watch those two bloops. And of course, you can get cookbooks, training books, coaching plans by me and my team, the hard and last time clothing line. Get to the website and until next time, I am out.