Seabbum also calling Mike Ezrael a clown. It started with Dorian Yates saying that Mike Isertel is a bag of >> But now we have Seabbum saying Mike Israel is a clown before GTA 6. >> I call it the clown curl. This is what Mike Isertell does. You call it that? >> I guess he's a clown or because it looks like a >> And so finally we have an actual video to listen to. None of this science-based We have sixtime Mr. Olympia champion Chris Bumstead teaming up with Jesse James West to reveal the top 10 exercises that you should be performing when you're going to the gym. >> Number 10 is the standing calf raise. If we're trying to build a balanced physique, you walk around, you see a dude like wearing shorts like your dad and they have calves and you're like, I want those. >> You got great calves, dude. >> Obviously, Chris has great calves. He's a Mr. Olympia champion. He has great everything. And so he picks standing calf raises and that's going to work more of the gastro nemius versus just the solius in terms of building the lower legs, the calves and gastrochemus. You have the big ball on the back of the leg. That's your gastro nemius. And the solius, it's that smaller piece underneath. And so when you're staring at a guy with shorts, you're looking at that ball, >> not the ball sack, the ball of calf muscles below their knees. You don't really care so much about the soius. And so if you're going to pick one exercise, you should do it with your knees straight. Whether it's standing or seated, for example, doing a leg press and so on. So long as your legs are straight, you're most likely predominantly working the gastro. >> There's some science lifting that Jeff Nippard has told me that you don't have to actually like press all the way. >> I always argue that the longest range of motion is the best way to train a muscle. So I'm sure he's right, but it's also right to use a big range of motion. >> Chris, why do you assume he's right? Jeff is saying science-based lift says you don't have to go all the way to the top. You know, long range partials is all you really need. What about what your experience tells you that you should go all the way down and all the way up. Do full range of motion. And so just because Jeff Nippah and perhaps Mike Israel that they found some study that says, hey, if you just do a partial range of motion, you know, long range partials, because there's a study for eight weeks and some soccer moms, they did that and they build just as much muscle. doesn't mean that you will build just as much muscle. Forget what Jeff Nippah told you and do what you know makes sense. Full range of motion. >> It's a tool. There's always a tool and a method to use something. >> And so Chris, he's trying to be a politician, diplomatic if you will. Yeah, you can do that sometimes. My way, sometimes. It's a tool. Everything's a tool. And essentially, the theme of this video is it depends. It depends is way more scientific than saying you should do 54 sets per week or 43 sets per week or 10 to 20 sets per week. It depends on your experience, your training intensity, how much volume is doing, whether it's the first time you've done it. Are you injured? Are you sick? Is it a D lo? Are you peaking? Are you a powerlifter, a bodybuilder? Are you a sports enthusiast? Or whatever. It depends. >> Number nine is dumbbell shoulder press. I feel like as I've gotten older, a lot of stuff comes down to like joint health. You get older and you have injuries and you start to lean one [music] way with a machine or something, you're more likely to have shoulder for life. >> And so notice Chris says in my opinion, the dumbbell shoulder press is the best exercise. But that's just in his opinion. He says whatever reduces your injuries the most. He's getting older. Isn't he 30? He's not getting older at all. Coach Greg is 50. And I'm telling you, for me, this is one of the worst exercises. I prefer machines. He says, "When you're using machines, you might sway forward, you might sway back." That's exactly what can happen when you're doing dumbbells. And so, the best shoulder exercise based on science is it depends. It depends on you. It depends on your experience. It depends on what you like to do. And so, choose an exercise that you enjoy. Go through the full range of motion and try to go hard. We all know it's about training harder than last time. For years, they tried to bamboozle us to confuse us that it was volume that was king when we knew it was intensity all along. And so, when you start out as a beginner, you can go easy. You learn the ropes. You learn how to perform the exercise. But as you get more experienced, you continue to push hard, harder than last time. And you know what can help you to push even harder? Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum. Either of these, you can head to the website, code Greg, 15% off. And if it doesn't work, if you don't add pounds of muscle to your frame or increase your strength, it's a money back guarantee. 100% money back guarantee. And on top of that, a $20 gift card. >> To build big shoulders, pressing is [music] necessary. No. I think there are people who could probably grow quads by strictly doing quad extensions, you know. But can the average person do it? No. Probably not. >> I love this. Do you need to do shoulder presses? No. Honestly, no. Chris Bumpstead is saying no. And so even if it is ranked the most important, the best exercise of all time, it might not be for you. Perhaps it hurts your shoulders. For me, it hurts mine. I can't do them. And so why would I do something just because Mike Isizertell or Jeff Nippard says, "Hey, this is number one." Should you actually do it? Of course not. Do what works best for you. >> For all these exercises, should we be training to failure? >> I don't do every single set, every single workout to failure. >> Okay? >> If you're at the intermediate or advanced level, you really need to push yourself. Now, I'm not saying you shouldn't warm up or that you have to go to failure and beyond. Drop sets, force reps on every single set, but if you look at this work and you compare it to last, you should be trying to go harder than last time. >> Number eight is >> chest supported row. >> Okay, I'm going to take a guess cuz you know Chris has like 75 of them. I'm going to go with the race car row. >> T- bar. >> Next up, the T- bar row. This is one of my favorites. I typically for back I only do two different exercises. I do one where I'm pulling down and one where I'm pulling to my chest. It's really all that you need if you're looking to get a balanced physique. There's only two exercises you need for your back. The rest, of course, you can do. They're icing on the cake, but this is one of my go-tos. I did it yesterday and I'm super sore. >> I have this poster of you in my bedroom uh of you like this. I lay down. I stare at it at night as motivation. >> It's a little sus. Perhaps he lays down at night and something happens all over his stomach. He gets a blue lobster all over his stomach. >> You know Ronnie Coleman's my dad, right? >> I did know that actually. Yeah, he told me. >> Um, did you not know that Chris Bumstead is a black natural athlete? Did Jesse James West not realize this? He's saying Ronnie Coleman's father. Ronnie Coleman is Seabbum's father. Do you not see the resemblance? Black natural athlete. This is Sebum. 100% natty. If he were on performance-enhancing drugs, he would most likely be ninetime opentime Mr. Olympia champion. They say bodybuilding is one from the back. So are crazy nights at Miami clubs. >> Do you think? >> Sure. [laughter] >> I'm pretty sure Jesse has never had a crazy night at a Miami club. >> Do you think that bodybuilding shows are won from the back? >> Bodybuilding shows are won by whoever wins the most poses. And traditionally, there's more shots from the front than the back. Technically, >> honestly. >> Yeah. Shows are not won from the back, but they are in fact lost from the back. If you're winning from the front and you turn around and you suddenly have no back, for example, Samson Dota, this is when you lose it. In comparison, Martin Fitzwwater who just beat him at the Prague Invitational. And I understand it wasn't really fair. Martin Fitzwwater, he is in fact a Martian. And seeing as he had homefield advantage, you know, Mars is the red planet. How could he lose? And so when Martin turned to the rear and hit the back double bicep, it was lights out. He easily defeated Samson from winning from the back. >> Number seven is incline dumbbell curl. >> Incline dumbbell curl. Okay, we got a little science-based lifter over here. A little bit. Is it >> a little? They just like a good stretch, you know. >> All right, it's six-time Olympia champion. And if he wants to have the incline dumbbell curl, the sciencebased incline dumbbell curl, then we're going to allow it. But we're going to assume that he still trains hard in this motion. Now, there's nothing wrong with any exercise, and if he likes it, then by all means, but using 10 lb dumbbells, which is how Mike Isertell explained, remember he had Jeff Nipper doing it or doing that with 10 lbs. I feel like tension is important, as in how much weight that you're lifting. And if it's only 10 lbs and you're an advanced level bodybuilder, it's probably not going to be as beneficial as if you actually had more weight and trained hard. >> I use various different ones. I'll go from 35° to 90°. >> Really? Have you ever done it like laying down where you're like >> I haven't done that. >> They know that this is a little bit odd, a little bit strange that he's picked one of these exercises and say and so hey we don't discriminate. If you like science-based exercises, you can still do them, but you still need to train them hard. None of this three reps in reserve That's for your beginners, early intermediates. >> I call it the clown curl. This is how Mike Isertel does. >> You call it that? >> I a clown or because it looks like a clown >> because because like everyone clowns on it, I trademarked it. Seabbum also calling Mike Ezrael a clown. It started with Dorian Yates saying that Mike Ezel is a piece of >> A bag of that gets bigger is just a bigger bag of >> But now we have Seabbum saying Mike Ezrael is a clown before GTA 6 of which cost $2 billion to make. Launches in May 2026. Did you know that? >> Thank you, Greg. >> So, what weight do you think I should use, Coach Chris? >> 25. >> 25, bro. Come on. >> And so notice Jesse wants to have a real workout here. 25 lbs. Come on. We can't just do 25 lbs. Let's put on the 30s, 40s, and so on. If he was training with Mike Isertel, he would have picked the 10 lb, maybe the 15s. >> Hold that stretch for like a half second at the bottom. >> Okay, we're holding the stretch at the bottom >> and then just bend at the elbow. >> This actually is a great exercise. So long as you have enough weight and you're training hard, you're training the failure. It's a great exercise. Also a great exercise to get the deep stretch. It's cables. You have the cables coming from behind. It's going to stretch your bicep back here and you pull it towards the front. Excellent exercise. And you know what else is great? Dumbbell curls standing up. You know what else is really, really good? Barbell curls. Standing up like that. All of them are great. All you got to do is pick one and go hard. You shouldn't be thinking, you know what, I don't want to do those standing barbell or dumbbell curls, the ones that Arnold Schwarzenegger used to do back in the 70s and so on. No, no. Science-based needs you to lay down upside down looking like a clown with 10 lb weights. It doesn't work like that. You pick an exercise and you go hard. They all work. >> I feel like I learned the things that actually matter by doing it. You know, everything matters a little bit, but are you going to stress about it every single day? Are you going to apply where you need it? >> Jesse saying, you know, you're making it seem so simple. And Chris is like, it is simple. You just pick what matters and you keep doing it. This is what you do. >> Decline dumbbell skull crusher. [music] I've never done a decline version >> dumbbell or with a cable. If you set the decline right there and you grab like the easy bar, do a cable. Okay. >> Up next, we have the lying dumbbell tricep skull crushers. He's able to get further down. He's getting a good stretch and he's going all the way to full extension. He says when you get tired, you can go a little bit deeper, get a little bit of swing action. And so, as long as you train hard, there's nothing wrong with this. You want to do it flat, you want to do an incline flat, it it doesn't matter. Pick one and go hard. When you train to failure, do you stop at technical or are you finding a way to just get that up? >> It depends. >> A lot of that today. >> There's no specific answer to anything. >> When you start speaking in absolutes, that's when you become an unscientific lifter. To say, "No, you're wrong. Dorian Yates was wrong. Mike Menser was wrong. You should be training like this. And if you train like this, you would have more muscle." You know, Ronnie Coleman, had he trained like me, he would have been better. Dorian Yates, he could have been a much better athlete had he been training like Mike Isertell. Really, he needed to have a D load every four weeks. He needed to start very easy and progress upwards in four weeks and do me cycles and macro cycles and all of this nonsense. Or could he just go and train hard? >> If I'm at a phase where it's just annihilating myself as much as possible, then it's half reps, quarter reps, whatever, just like kill something. But if the goal is technical failure, then I just stop attacking. >> Hell And so the answer it depends when do you train to failure depends what is your level of training. Did you want to train failure that day? How did you feel? If you feel totally recovered, do you really need to go and take a dload just because it's programmed that way on your app? Or can you just instinctively go to the gym and train hard? And what is the goal every time you go to the gym? To train harder than last time. Oh, but Coach Greg, he makes no sense. Yet when Jeff Nippard after five years of making a zero gains, he suddenly goes on a diet, a calorie deficit, and what does he do? He does half the volume and finally puts on muscle by doing what? By training to failure each and every time. And so what does that prove? Well, for Jeff, he decided, you know what? Uh there's an exception to the rule of volume. If you're in a deficit, really, Jeff, you build muscle differently when you're in a deficit than you're at at maintenance or in a surplus. Muscle, it builds differently now because you did a study on yourself. Sample size one. And so now you've concluded in a deficit, hey, less volume so that you can sell more programs. >> Number five is the barbell back squat. Sam was giving me He said that he thinks people who [music] squat out of the cage without safety are like reckless crazy people. I mean, it could kill you. I mean, honestly, I do think that it's reckless and it's not safe squatting outside of the cage because what happens if you can't squat that weight? There's going to come a time when you're perhaps going to sprain your ankle. You're going to walk backwards incorrectly. Your knee is going to give way. You get injured. And what then? When you tear your hamstring, your quad. Now, we don't want this to happen, but perhaps one in a thousand times, something bad is going to happen. And if you don't have the safety rack in place, a lot worse can go wrong. Bodybuilders myself are like, "Oh, I can't squat. What am I going to do? I'm going to go use machines and just inhibit my injury to get worse and worse in my range of motion to be stuck like here." And then we all walk around like this. >> And so Sebum is saying, "You look, you really should be squatting and you should be squatting deep. And if you can't squat deep, should you do a different exercise? No. You should learn how to squat deep and you should fix the problem." Now, I don't agree with this, but for seabbum, it actually works. And probably for many people, he's right. And if you can't perform a proper squat, perhaps you should be practicing your range of motion, stretching, learning what's holding you back. But for other people, perhaps they just have back problems, knee issues, their anatomy just doesn't favor that motion. And so there are other things, for example, a Smith machine or you can perform any machine of your choice. And if you can't perform that, a leg press or a belted squat, leg extensions, there are a ton of exercises. And so just like when Sebum said earlier that you don't need to use a shoulder press to build your shoulders. There's other exercises. You can do laterals and so on. The same applies to your quads. There's always a different way to skin a cat. All right. So this is like 5B. >> I normally be in socks or barefoot. >> Okay. >> I hate squishy anything under my feet when I'm training legs. And I want to be able to spread my toes. Isn't that great to be able to hear the word spread and not have somebody like Mike Isertell ruin it by saying something that he wants to do with Jesse James or Chris Bumstead? >> Finally, we get to have a normal conversation. Spread your toes out and we don't have to make any jokes about that whatsoever. >> What's the best tempo for training? >> Wait, I got it. I got it. >> It It depends. >> It depends on your training. >> Exactly. There is no perfect tempo. Oh, each rep has to be done in 2 seconds. No, it's 1 second down, 2 seconds up. It's 2 seconds down, 1 second up. It's 8second eccentrics with 1 second pause and 3 seconds on the way up because one study discovered that it's better to do this way than another. Yeah, with 8week studies using soccer moms, who cares? Soccer players, basketball players, bodybuilders, everyone is different. But do you know what is common for all these and we've been saying this for decades? progressive overload, which means to train hard. You have to keep going harder. You challenge the body once it adapts to a certain exercise, a certain movement, certain amount of weight, certain tempo, you have to now go harder. That is how you build muscle. >> Up next, exercise number four. Lying hamstring throw. Science says that seated builds more muscle. >> Just cuz science said that doesn't mean that it's actually true. Which exercise do you feel better? Which one do you go harder on? Which machine do you have? What if you have a seated hamstring exercise and it doesn't seem to feel right for you? I saw Jeff Nippard, Will Tennyson doing shoulder presses and they were measuring everything. Which muscles are firing? Which one is better? Lo and behold, it was different for both of them. And so based on science, they both needed to tame differently. Scientifically, they showed that each exercise, despite being the same exact machine, did two different things to do different people. And so just because on average people perform better from one exercise to another doesn't mean that you will. And so let your own personal experience be the judge. >> Number three, the supernated pull-up. >> Okay. >> Yeah. >> Really? >> I don't I don't know. I don't know where this is going. >> Up next, the supernated pull-up is going to work both the biceps and the back. Of course, an excellent exercise. >> Number two is incin dumbbell press. Inc. Okay, that's good. That's good. That's reasonable. >> And next, incline dumbbell press for chest. They were talking about could you go press to the sides, could you press down? Apparently down you can get a greater range of motion and Chris and Jesse both seem to like that. Although in the past they used to lift more up like that. My opinion, pick the form that you like, but use a greater range of motion than last time. Rather than ego lifting and perhaps stopping right here, thinking, you know, that's far enough. Try to go a bit lower. Lower. Get the stretch and pause. Get the stretch. Squeeze hard. Squeeze hard on the way up and take your time on the way down. I always tell people to go slower on the eccentric than on the concentric to avoid injury. It's not just about getting the most amount of muscle. It's also about avoiding injury. And so if you ego lift in the gym and you lower the weight too quickly, you bounce the weight up and so on, there's a greater chance you're going to end up hurt. >> The number one exercise I'm going to guess. Okay. >> All right. >> Deadlift. >> Yep. >> I knew it. Is sumo deadlifting cheating? >> Yes. I do believe he's being a little tongue and cheek. And so if you want to do it sumo or conventional, just do it harder than last time. If you're a powerlifter, why would we care which way you lift? Now, for myself, I don't do either. And but if I were to pick one, I personally would choose the trap bar deadlift, which is kind of like somewhere in the middle. I do believe that for me as a bike racer, being in that motion in the trap bar and being able to explode out of the hole would be similar to the power you put out during a bike sprint. And so depending on the sport that you're involved in, depending on your weaknesses, depending if you have lower back injuries, for example, myself with L4, L5 herniated discs, do I really want to do deadlift after deadlift and end up in my 60s unable to walk because I'm injured? Or do I want to train safer than last time? And so I rarely squat. I don't deadlift. I don't bench press because I'm trying to keep my physique as healthy as possible for as long as possible. I do the exercises that don't hurt. I push as hard as I can and I go to the gym and I lift weights my entire body twice a week. Aside from that, I get in my cardio approximately 7 to eight hours of cardio a week and I eat very, very healthy. I supplement with GO2 max and Turk Platinum. And so if you're interested in any of these, head to the website code Greg 15% off. Now remember, if you can't lose weight, perhaps you have poor blood work or you want to know what your blood work is going to show that you have, you can get your blood work taken from Algo RX. They have qualified doctors who can prescribe you legal medications. For example, inclines, seialis, Viagra, or perhaps you need ompic, trozipide to decrease your appetite. And so, whatever you need, head to the website, get your blood work done, and get prescription medications legally from a doctor. Code Greg, 10% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Watch one of those two bloops. And also before I go, we're looking to sponsor athletes as well as get more affiliates. And so if you're interested in working with Harder than last time, apply by clicking the link in the description. And until next time, I am out.