That's the one thing I didn't quit. >> He's 100% being serious. This drug he couldn't stop and he says it's worse or at least potentially worse than any other he'd ever done, including sniffing creatine. Coach Greg, in today's video, Charlie Sheen reveals he was addicted to steroids. And so, not only was he addicted to sniffing creatine and other forms of recreational drugs, he was addicted to girls, to partying, to having a great time, and was one of the most highest paid actors in the world. During his stint of Two and a Half Men, of which I watched almost every episode, he was being paid at his peak approximately $2 million per episode. And so he went on the Tucker Carlson program of which he was very open, honest, transparent, talking about everything. >> The head of the network, Les Moonveves, to my house with the with the with the Warner jet like fueled up and idling on the runway to take me to rehab. >> Look, right after the ABC interview. >> Yes. >> And so during his stint on Two and a Half Men, they never offered him this private jet, but upon seeing him in an interview, they said, "Look, this is it. you need to go to rehab. It's just gone too far. You need to do something about it. >> I'm going to do this at home." And then the look on his face was, "Man, I felt he he he he was saddened." >> Well, I can only imagine if you have a loved one, a friend even, and you know that that person has a substance abuse problem and you're trying to get them to go to rehab and their solution is to say, "No, no, no. Don't worry about it. I got it, bro. I'm going to do the rehab at home on my own." You're thinking there is no way that this is going to work. And so of course he was concerned. >> So you never went to rehab? >> No, I I I did a rehab at home. >> Tucker saying, "Look, what exactly is a rehab at home? What does that involve? Could you please explain exactly what you did?" >> There was no dope. There was no drugs. There was no Yeah, there was girls. >> I can understand that. Perhaps there's a lot of ladies to keep his mind off of doing those other recreational items. And so maybe that helped him. I'm not sure. But he's saying there was one thing he continued to abuse. Only one. And it wasn't a recreational drug. It was a different type of drug. >> Yeah. There was girls and testosterone cream. That's the one thing I didn't quit. >> He's 100% being serious. This drug he couldn't stop. And he says it's worse or at least potentially worse than any other he'd ever done, including sniffing creatine. >> That was probably the one thing I probably should have stayed on the and got gotten off the cream. Can you imagine like a doctor like recommending that? >> I mean, no. I personally can't imagine a doctor saying this, but is there something to this? Is it possible that testosterone cream and remember in high doses? I mean, he's lathering on the entire bottle. Imagine how much testosterone is coursing through his veins. And another concern of mine is when you rub testosterone cream on your skin. Remember, I have many clients who have used this in the past. You can actually transfer it to your partner. And so, if you're having sexy time and you just lthered on an entire bottle, they're most likely going to get some of that testosterone cream. And so, the females likely also on testosterone cream and could experience negative side effects. And so for the guys out there who are using testosterone creams, be careful. It perhaps takes two to maybe 4 hours to absorb through the skin. And so you might be thinking, "Yeah, but it's just testosterone cream. What could it possibly do?" Well, imagine this. If you're putting your entire week's dosage that you're supposed to spread out, remember, with testosterone cream, it's absorbed fairly quickly. You have to use it perhaps two, maybe even three times per day. I mean, some people perhaps do it once a day, but remember, you're going to have peaks and valleys. If you do it once a day, it's going to absorb into your skin. It's going to be higher at one point than the other. And so, by doing it two or three times a day, you're getting more stable blood levels. Imagine you're doing perhaps three doses a day. Well, let's call it two. Two doses a day every 12 hours. Instead of doing two doses times 7 days, which is 14 doses, you say, "You know what? I'm going to do the whole entire bottle and do 40 doses all at one time." And you just lather it up like it's some kind of cream. You know, I got some ashy elbows. I'm going to rub it here, rub it there, rub it all over my body. And I'm just walking around. I'm eventually in the next several hours going to absorb perhaps an entire two weeks, maybe a month worth of testosterone all at once like that. >> That was probably the one thing I probably should have stayed on the cir and got gotten off the cream. Can you imagine like a doctor like recommending that? If you spread out your dosages of testosterone normally, like for example, you're doing HRT once a week versus you're using a cream in very high doses all at once. It's not going to give you the same feeling. Your testosterone levels for the entire week or perhaps a whole month. You're going to get it in a matter of hours. And so, your testosterone levels are literally going to be through the roof. It's going to be super physiological to an extreme amount. If you were to do this, you're going to have a high level of blood pressure. You're going to have anxious energy. you're not going to feel good. You you'll certainly feel something. You may be more aggressive, but it's not really positive because it's too much. Now, I don't know about you, but some people sometimes they do too much creatine. They sniff a major line or perhaps three in a row and it's too much. They also feel bad. They feel sick. They might want to throw up. They have anxious energy. Do you not see that? Regardless of the drug, if you do way too much of it, you could have negative experiences. Just to make this point clear, both testosterone and creatine are both lethal if taken in high enough doses. Now, testosterone, you'd have to do approximately 10 times more than the sniffing of the creatine, but if you do enough of it, it can in fact kill you. And I'm talking about instantly like like that. Not in 10 years. Not the way it could affect Togei or other professional bodybuilders, but people who would be so crazy as to do ridiculous doses all at once. The most I've ever seen somebody inject of testosterone at once was an entire 10 ml vial. And he's no longer with us. I'm not making this up. He didn't die from that specifically. He died from using recreational drugs. But I did witness him do this. Sometimes when you abuse any form of a drug, it's basically a gateway drug to other things. Now, I'm not sure which one he started first, but when you start injecting things in your body, you're more likely to inject other things into your body. And so, what he told me is, Greg, whatever you do, do not ever inject drugs into your veins. Once he went from using recreational drugs, you know, snorting, swallowing, and so on, but then went to using IVs, he said it was game over. He couldn't stop. He was addicted. He was full-blown. He couldn't stop. He was getting in car accidents while driving. And so, please be careful. Remember, no one plans on eventually being addicted to what they're doing, saying, "Oh, you know, I'll just use steroids. I I'll never become an addict. I I'll just start using this drug. I'll start sniffing creatine, but I'll never inject." I believe most people say they probably won't, but then one day they do, and then they cannot stop. And so, this is a warning. Please, please be careful. >> The testosterone cream used at 40x recommended doses was worse for you than >> Well, I I I I think it was doing more damage to my psychological state. >> Let's imagine what that actually means. Perhaps if you're on HRT at 100 milligrams a week, 40 times as much as that would be 4,000. That is a lot. But we have seen professional bodybuilders and others using doses similar to that. five grams of testosterone a week. I have heard of people doing that. Now, remember, when you suddenly cut out recreational drugs, say you're sniffing creatine every day, you're partying with your friend Molly, she's such a sweet gal. You're using other recreational drugs. When you suddenly cut out these drugs, your body's in a hyperadronic state. What? When you eat that steak and it's hypoadinurgic, guys, I can hardly pronounce these words. Words. See, there's something wrong with me. Perhaps I just suddenly cut out using creatine as well as testosterone cream. Who knows? And so your body is making a lot of adrenaline. You're not feeling good. You're perhaps going through withdrawal symptoms. You're sweating. You're feeling agitated. And when you take testosterone, especially at 40 times the doses, you're going to increase it that much more. And so if you're trying to quit recreational drugs and you're on high doses of testosterone, it's going to make things that much worse. If anything, you would want to stop using testosterone, get your testosterone lower than last time, so that you have much less adrenaline, anxiety, and so on, and it would be easier to come off. And so, bro did the exact opposite of what she should be doing. >> Are there any drugs in this house? >> If there are, if there are, you better find them and give them to me immediately. >> Now, if he were in a medically supervised clinic or trying to go through withdrawals, they likely would have prescribed him Clonodine. This would literally lower the amount of adrenaline in your body. And so rather than getting clonine, he's giving his body something testosterone that's doing the exact opposite of what the clonine would do. And so just imagine how difficult it was. And so although he's using some bro science here saying, you know, the testosterone was worse than the cocaine. He does in fact make a good point >> cuz the the perk is is kind of predictable. Of course, you know, look at Tucker who's sitting there saying, "Yeah, you know, sniffing creatine, the results of that, it's kind of predictable." Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, it is. Has Tucker ever done a line his entire life? Is he the bro that's showing up a party with a bag? Hey guys, I want to be the popular guy in the room. I BROUGHT A BAG. WHO wants to get to the bathroom with me and do it off of my ass? In what way is sniffing creatine predictable? There are so many different side effects of using creatine, sniffing creatine or perhaps boofing creatine up the you know where in the back end area um somewhere where Wes Watson would like to be dig >> perhaps he's doing it that way himself right now. I mean we've all seen he does appear to be addicted to certain substances. Did by the way did you watch the movie The Substance? It's a very good movie. You should watch this guys. It's uh it's like uh Demi Moore someone. She's like 50 and she's having a midlife crisis and she wants to be younger and feel rejuvenated and be her prettiest self. And so they say if you take this substance it's going to like reverse time and you're going to be the youngest, hottest thing on the planet again. And so it's kind of like steroids. If you take this, you're going to rewind the clock. You're going to get all your energy back, your muscle back, and so on. And so the problem is you could only live 50% of your life that way and 50% the other way. And so she would look amazing. It was like 25 years old again and that was for a week and then she'd go back to being 50. Problem is she didn't want to go back to being 50. She loved the feeling of being 25. And so it takes over. And so when you're on steroids that takes over. You love the feeling of being bigger than yourself, larger than life. Kind of like the rock. Do you think the rock enjoys being now called a pebble? Imagine the rock's watching all Coach Greg's videos. You think he's having fun with that? The Rock used to be the largest man in the room. Now he's a pebble. Well, it's better than being a tombstone. And so, do you think that's any different with sniffing creatine? Once you sniff the creatine, you don't want to stop. You're going to feel better than ever before. The dopamine rush, it's high. It's perhaps almost as high as having sexy time. I'm not sure. I've never had sexy time nor sniff creatine. So, I wouldn't know. >> You sure about that? You sure about that? But what I can tell you is once that high goes down, once the high becomes a low, you're quickly want to go back to it. And the more time to do it, the more you're going to need to do it. You're going to need greater doses. And if you do too much, well, it could end you. And so Charlie Sheen, he was able to do this in his career. He was able to perform as an actor, but eventually it took his toll and he eventually had to stop. This is the same thing as using steroids. I mean, how long before Brock Lesnar becomes the next superstar to have to stop taking steroids? Now we see Brock Lesnar, 48 years old, bigger and more shredded than ever. Guys, you can't use steroids. You can't sniff creatine forever. >> You know what you're going to, you know, how it's going to Yeah. how you're going to behave in certain situations. Yeah. Um and that other stuff was just like it was a trip to the outer limits. I do believe that for most people the use of uh sniffing creatine would be worse than testosterone. But remember he was using 40 times the recommended dose and doing it all by lathering his body and going to super physiologicals like crazy high doses and then stopping. And so perhaps his experience is it was in fact worse than than sniffing creatine. Perhaps he just progressive overloaded his use of creatine. And so after years of this use, it was very predictable for him. He knew exactly what he'd do. He was used to it, but he suddenly used more testosterone than last time. And it wasn't like Dura using the dad cycle. He was using crazy amounts. And so if you're a new user and use very high doses of testosterone, you perhaps might feel like Mike Isertel. You may look out at the pond and rather than seeing a beautiful sight, all you feel is rage. You might want to perhaps fight a dog. You might have horrible things happen to you. >> Man, it'd be cool to like like fight a dog with just your hands. >> You know what you're going to know how it's going to Yeah. how you're going to behave in certain situations. Yeah. >> I really don't think you're going to know how you're going to behave in certain situations. I do believe that sniffing creatine is very unreliable, especially with considering things like you never know it's what it's being mixed with or cut with. I mean, the creatine that I'm selling, you know, it's a 100% cure creatine monohydrate, but if you're getting creatine out on the street, it might be mixed with certain other compounds that are very deadly or dangerous. And so, you need to be careful. And so, I really don't think you can predict what it's like to sniff creatine nor to visit your friend Molly. Yuji, she's a great and sweet gal, but perhaps on one day she wasn't quite herself. it was something different. And so you need to be careful. And so if you are doing this, remember you can always do half the lowest dose that makes you happy. The less you use of these items, the lower the side effects if you get what I'm saying, >> but like the really like kind of the the angrier part of the outer limits, like the testier part. Perhaps the testosterone levels were so high that his libido was uncontrollable that he needed to get all of these girls. Perhaps three or four at the same time. >> More than Kirk. >> Yes. >> Well, that's the most interesting thing I've heard today. >> The day is young. >> One thing I want you to understand is if you don't already have a stable mind, like you don't have your together, like you're perhaps you're a depressed person, you're some just you're just somewhat different. Steroids are not for you. I don't know if you've heard of this, but some people will blame steroids as causing, for example, uh ending themselves. I can't say the word. It starts with an S. Now, my experience with talking to friends or people that have used these performance-enhancing drugs is it's not while they're on it. They don't take it and suddenly think, you know, I want to end it. They're feeling pretty good. The problem is when they stop. And so another thing is that steroids can increase your impulsion to do certain things. Um for example, Togei who's a gambler, if he's using steroids as well as uh empmphetamines and so on, he's more likely to want to gamble more. You're thinking about maybe cheating on your girlfriend and you take steroids, tren and so on, you're probably going to want to cheat that much more. It makes you more likely to do the things that you're doing. And so if you're a very impulsive person, you're perhaps having these negative thoughts about doing harm and so on, it's most likely going to increase those thoughts. And so consider this. Perhaps the same number of men and women contemplate not wanting to be here on this earth. But men attempt that thought more often than women. May in fact that be because men have higher levels of testosterone than women. And so they're more likely to go and attempt to do the things that they're thinking or wanting to do. I do believe so. >> Testosterone cream when slathered in the amounts you're slathering is like pretty heavy. Did anyone ever say that to you? >> Um, yes. >> And so what the doctor should have recommended to Charlie would have been to use Turk Builder Max as well as Turk Platinum and GO2 Max. And because he's not on testosterone, he should be using G Test Platinum to raise testosterone levels naturally. And so if you don't want to use steroids, we of course have natural alternatives. We also have G Focus Limitless to help with your brain, your mind, your ability to think, concentrate, and so on. And so perhaps that's what Charlie Sheen could be using next time. Remember, if you're considering getting your blood work done, please go to Algo RX. You can click the link in description. They can also prescribe you things like seialis and viagra talisartin or perhaps semiglutides, tzipotides, whether you need to lose weight to to get harder than last time. These are prescription medications from doctors. 100% legal and it's pharmaceutical. Very cheap prices. Click the link in description. Algo RX right now. The cookbooks as well as all the H shield supplements can even get blue lobstered rather than sniffing creatine. Try swallowing this with water. This is the way you should be doing it. Better workouts than last time, better mood, feeling better. And until next time, I am out.