Charlie Kirk's life is no more. It is real life. It's not a movie. It's not a script. And you need to feel something. Coach Greg, in a horrible day in the world of well, in the world, Charlie Kirk was murdered for simply being a Christian conservative. He was very polarizing. He got into debates with a lot of people. Some people loved this guy, others hated him. Now whether you agreed with him, disagreed with him, that doesn't matter. It's irrelevant. We're all human beings. And so what we have to understand is that this is not okay. I personally think that the world has been desensitized. Like people don't care. They've been trained to think that violence is not that big a deal. And following violence, people are quick to go into the comment sections and make fun of them or say they deserved it or or that they're happy about something. Like, can't people put themselves in other people's shoes? Imagine what's like for his family, his kids, these his loved ones, his friends, or anyone for that matter. And so, this is beyond awful. Like, I don't have words. And this happened a few days after that incident in the subway. the things that man did to her to her neck and she passed away perhaps a minute later that it was racially motivated. The fact that the news only covers certain stories depending on the narrative that wants to be pushed. If it's a certain type of person or a certain color of skin, there's going to be one narrative. And if it's another color of skin, a different narrative. We're all the same inside. I don't care if you're black or you're white or you're brown or you're green or you're blue. if you're male or you're female or you're transgendered, if you're gay, if you're straight or whatever. Like, how does it matter? We're all people and murder is wrong. Now, perhaps I get demonetized for saying the mur murder. If you're a kid, you're watching this video, you shouldn't end somebody's life. It's not okay. It's not cool. It's not funny. It's not something to brag about. It's bad. And if no one taught you that, then I'm sorry. You were not raised properly. And so me and my friends are talking about this. I'm going to read one response. Brother, I'm so [\h__\h] upset. I don't know what to do with myself. Like visceral [\h__\h] rage. I loved Charlie Kirk. He was murdered simply for being a Christian conservative. My sister called me sobbing hysterically. It is beyond awful. That summarized exactly how he feels, how I feel, and how many of the people around the world are feeling. But some people don't care. What is wrong with you? We're so desensitized at this point that some people actually are into it. They love it. It's kind of like the car accident that you can't look away from. And so I was watching every video talking about this. It's completely got me upset. It's just demoralized. And I don't see it getting any better. I don't think we've hit rock bottom where there will be a paradigm shift in thinking where people will finally realize that we don't need to all hate each other that we're allowed to think differently and that that's okay. And so Sean Strickland, the UFC fighter of all people, he really puts it into perspective. I want us you to see what he's saying and understand that this is how many people are feeling. >> I'm on Twitter and somebody says, "Hey, did you hear that uh Charlie Kirk got shot?" And my gut reaction was like, "No, I [\h__\h] didn't, but I'm excited." Like, I felt this little dopamine spike in me where I'm like, "Dude, I want to see the video." And then I seen the video real bad, real bad, but I I still kind of excited from it. Like, oh [\h__\h] You know, like I could feel like my muscles tensing. And the reason for that is because we've been desensitized by social media, by movies, by video games, and we almost think that this is normal. I mean, think of it. the president of the United States was almost unal alive, shot in his ear. I mean, that's literally inches away from death. And it's almost as if it never happened. Like, we don't even hardly talk about it. But people now, they're playing video games. They're shooting people up. They're acting cool. They're seeing things they shouldn't be seeing at a very young age. They have access to porn at such an early age. There are so many simps in the world. Dating is a mess. and masculinity is on the attack. And so, where are we to go? What are we to think? What are we to do? >> And then you start thinking, man, like, how the [\h__\h] did I become such a sociopath? Like, how am I so disattached from human beings? When people walk down the street, I don't even see people. I just see potential threats and problem. >> And so, he's saying, "Isn't it crazy how we're literally now sociopaths? Like, we don't care." Like if you look at this story and you just feel excitement, like you're like, "Oh yes, that's going to be some excellent news. I can't wait to see what people are saying, the drama. I can't wait." If you're feeling that, instead of empathy, instead of feeling like, "What is wrong with this world?" instead of innate anger towards what's happening and thinking, "When will it ever end?" If you don't think like that, then there's something wrong with you. And I don't even think it's your fault. I think that we've been brainwashed by the movies, the games, the social media, by other people, and they're doing it on purpose to all of us. It needs to stop. They want us angry at each other. They want us pointing the finger, left versus right, conservative versus liberal. I mean, until this year, I'm going to be honest, I didn't even know the difference between a liberal or a conservative. I didn't know. Now, you can make fun of me. You didn't know or you think I'm lying. I did not know. But in the last several years, I essentially stopped watching television. I started reading books and was finally waking up to the truth that the world is a mess. That I was blinded by never being told the truth. Y'all think that we had to wear a mask. You all think it. You still do, perhaps. Really? Why? Cuz somebody said it. Some person of power told us this. What does that mean? Right now, we're raised from children to listen to adults. When we're kids, we go to school, listen to your teacher. And so, they want us to hate each other. They want us to point the finger at each other so that the other people who are controlling the world can do what they want. Now, who knows who pulled the trigger? I don't know. Is the person black or is the person white? My personal opinion is it doesn't matter. Were they on the left or on the right? I wouldn't have thought it mattered, but it does matter cuz where does it end? If it's someone on the left or let's say we find out it was racially motivated or someone on the left, whatever, what then happens? Retaliation. Oh, you did that. We're going to get you back. This is the world that we're talking about. Innocent people. And it doesn't seem to stop the hate that people have for each other. I can't believe it. Like, I literally can't. But yet at this point it's happening. Like literally when that woman was attacked in the subway, I thought the guy just has mental illness. I didn't think it was racially motivated. I thought we have some form of a psychopath. He has mental illness and wrong place, wrong time. That's what I thought. Then I did some research. Turns out racially motivated. And then it doesn't even make the news. And so people are thinking, well, why is that? Oh, if it was the other way around, that would make the news. Oh, okay. And so people need to stop looking at whether it happens to somebody who's white or black or male or female or trans, gay or straight. It's all exactly the same. It's either good or it's bad. Not who is doing it, but what did they do? Was it evil or was it not evil? And report it equally. If you can if people continue to do this, it's going to get worse. one race is going to say, "Hey, you're picking on us all the time, and so we're disliking you." And that will bring the divide yet again. People will start pointing back the finger and start fighting even more. And so racism, which was even stronger than last time years ago, it will come back with a vengeance. It will get worse. whether it's the color of your skin or your race or your sexual orientation or your political views, your religious beliefs, they'll find anything to divide us. And I just watched a man get murdered and that was exciting. And I have to ask myself like, how did we become a generation of sociopaths? >> When you've seen something 500 times in a movie, it becomes almost boring. It doesn't have the same effect. The more times your brain is accustomed to something, the more times it's seen something or gone through something, the easier it gets. And so, of course, this is happening. People have seen murders happen so many times for so often, especially in movies and so on, that when you see it happen in real life, you almost think it's like a movie. I mean, did we not see this with Rawa Jackson when he beat that man 23 times? He punched him as he was unconscious. And people were cheering watching this on live stream. Do they not understand that this is not a movie? That it is real life. Charlie Kirk's life is no more. It is real life. It's not a movie. It's not a script. And you need to feel something. And then I think about the '9s. And I think about the or the early 2000s. I think about the second Iraq war. And I think about how the government, you know, linked up with video games to make Call of Duty. And we would stay up until [\h__\h] all hours of the night with our friends shooting each other. Guns are cool. War is cool. >> Exactly. Guns are cool. Wars are cool. Call of Duty video games. People play them day after day and they're desensitized. Listen to the frigin filth of music that we listen to. And I'm also to blame. I love this music. The music we like is for degenerates, racial slurs, everything. No holds barred. This is the music that we listen to. and we wonder why we're all messed up. Think of what we watch and what we listen to on a dayto-day basis and how could it not affect us. >> Slowly they've just manipulated us to be sociopathic consumers and the only thing we want is stuff and things stuff and things and it just it's it's so sad that we let these people ruin America. And it's like >> exactly we've been manipulated. We've been altered. It's not even our fault. But we need to now realize that we have to do something about it. It's time to wake up and you need to do something about it. You can't just say, "No, I'll let them do it. It ain't affecting me. It's affecting all of us. >> Taken the soul from us. They took God from us. They've taken everything from us. And we're just mindless sociopathic consumers. I don't know how to fix it." But >> mindless sociopathic consumers. That is what we are. Now, not saying it's your fault, but now that you're aware of it, you need to bring about change. You can't keep saying, "Hey, I didn't know any better. You know better now." >> Because I'm being told that by coming here and listening to you speak that I'm either a racist or a fascist or against the LGBT. And isn't fascism when someone doesn't agree with your beliefs and your views and they want it either your way or the highway? >> Yeah. The people that deffriended you on Instagram, they're the fascists. So, I do not have hate for a group. How how could I hate that which I have a heart for? >> Thank you. >> And I I I might not agree at that for some of the lifestyle choices that some people make, but of course not. And if someone said, "Charlie, what's your view on marriage?" I say, "I believe marriage has been one man and one woman." But if if you ask me what do I do I have hate in my heart for somebody that doesn't that doesn't choose the lifestyle that I believe that God laid out in the scriptures, of course not. >> Yes. I was told that Turning Point USA is against LGBT. >> Well, you you could be told a lot of different things. almost >> I rest my case. Thank you so much. >> God bless you, Charlie.