Coach Greg and in today's video, clavvicular vehicular manslaughter. >> Oh my lord. >> This guy. >> Oh my [\h__\h] >> Should I draw him with this guy? >> And so I've been saying Clavviculum is the worst YouTuber in the world. And people have doubted me. Oh, he isn't all that bad. Well, he just ended his career and perhaps the life of another individual. Now, what exactly took place? And remember, it's Christmas Day and Clvicular is perhaps hoping for a Christmas miracle as he's been kicked off of YouTube already and most recently kicked off of Kick. Kick doesn't hardly kick out anybody. They almost allow you to do anything. But you can't live stream yourself attempting to end the life of another human being. And so Clavicle, who I do believe is a sociopath or perhaps a psychopath. You pick your pick. And so he's been stalked by a fan. Fan is a little bit too excited about clvicular. He wants to meet up with him. I do believe he threw perhaps some water on him at an event and he keeps showing up in order to get on a clvicular stream. We've seen this in the past. Famous guys like I show speed. People show up to him and they do crazy things. And so what we have in today's video is a guy showed up while clvicular is driving essentially a tank. He's driving a cyber truck. He has passengers in the vehicle and this fan, this stalker if you will, shows up and essentially goes and does some googly face. He does that trying to get his attention perhaps trying to get on a live stream as many fans they seem to do this and he kind of jumps himself up onto the vehicle onto this tank if you will this bulletproof truck. And so Clvicular who has no expressed emotions whatsoever I don't personally believe that he knows how to experience normal human emotions. Now you might doubt me. You might think I'm exaggerating. And so what does he decide to do when this guy essentially jumps onto his vehicle? He decides to run over him. And so upon driving over this individual, Clvicular had no emotional response, not a oh my god, not a my goodness, what have I done? Not a sense of fear, nothing. And so people on the internet are divided. Oh, it's selfdefense. He's going to get off scot-free. The other side, people who actually know you're not allowed to end someone's life over being a crazy fan. If you were in eminent danger, the person has something in their hand and if they pressed a button, something could dislodge and perhaps that could end you. If that were the case, by all means, you have the right to defend yourself. If the person's life is finished, can't say the proper word, it would be second degree ends with starts with an M. That's the worst case scenario. And it also could be considered vitilicular homicide. And so, unfortunately for Clavicular, he can't use self-defense as an excuse because without an immediate threat, once it's over, you can't then drive over the individual using deadly force. And a cyber truck is in fact considered a weapon. a stalker slashfan, if you will, who jumps onto a bulletproof cybert truck is not considered a legal threat. And so he has no justification to drive over them. Now, where it's caught in 4K, you can see does Clavicle appear to be petrified, to be losing control, scared, scared for his life where he JUST DRIVES OFF. OH my goodness, what's going to happen? Absolutely not. He's calm, collected, and upon driving over the individual, what does he say? >> Is he dead? >> I don't know. >> Hopefully. >> And so if somebody is annoying you, throwing water on you, pop on you, yelling at you, making fun of you, calling you names, teasing you, saying, "Why do you use the n-word? That's is not cool. We don't like you." And then he jumps on the hood of your car with no weapons, no ability to do your harm. You can't decide to end his life. I'm sorry, but many of you think it's okay if somebody says a mean thing to you, [\h__\h] around and find out. Well, when you [\h__\h] around and find out and then you do something to that person, you are then subject to the harshest penalties of the law. Now, does anyone think it's going to look well for clvicular? Let's see his prior history. Well, he's punched a 56 year old woman at a wedding as well as a 63 year old man. hitting elderly people. It doesn't really look good for you. Kicked out of university. Had a kilogram of I forget which name of the drug it was. Caught with tons of steroids, which in the United States it's highly legal. Now in Canada, it's legal to buy steroids. In the States is not quite so much. Also crashed his car. We've seen that while intoxicated. I believe he was high on drugs. I don't think he was drinking alcohol. And somehow managed to get off those charges. Is this the end of Clavicular? I mean, if he's not able to stream, if he's not on YouTube and not on kick, he was on live stream with Adden Ross who says, "Hey, say nothing, do nothing, continue to film, don't answer any questions, and I'm going to hook you up with some lawyers on Christmas Day because I have lawyers that well, they don't mind working." Look, um, just hang tight. Record. Don't say anything. Um, don't say don't answer questions. >> Um, and and and just don't say anything, okay? I I let it play out, but you need to be recording. Somebody needs to record you. >> Even if he were to get off, it's illegal to do a hit and run. When you get into an accident, you drive over somebody, the first thing you should do, 911. Yeah, this is an emergency. Uh, I uh accidentally drove over somebody, a a crazy fan. I mean, do you guys know how often this is going to happen to people who are excessively famous? people who have more fans than last time eventually people are going to show up to you and they're going to be excited and just because you think oh I don't like this person he's annoying me he approached me he was too close to you can't simply try to end their life over it and so many people stated this has to be fake it has to be AI there's no way clever would do this have you not been following his story he's been on steroids since 14 clearly effective his mind and he himself tells the world I'm neurode divergent that is not an excuse No matter where you fall on this [\h__\h] spectrum, I don't care if you start doing crazy things, expect crazy results. Florida law requires proportionality and necessity. And so, unfortunately for clvicular, you can't simply try to end somebody's life because you're annoyed and they jump onto your vehicle. You could argue, hey, what if he scratches you? You might have smudged my vehicle. Well, that's not enough. You have to actually believe that this person could end you right now. And based on the video evidence, does it look like Clevicular was even concerned? Was even scared? And so some of the key evidence that would destroy Clavvicular's defense, you know, what is it looking like? Why is it that in court things are going to go very poorly for him? The video recording, the calm demeanor, statements like, "I hope he's dead." No attempt to escape safely. No attempt to stop or to call the police. Vehicle used deliberately. He didn't turn to the left. Notice he was to the right. He turns to the right towards him rather than backing up. Could he have not backed away? Hey, this guy's on my vehicle. I'm backing up. I'm going to GET AROUND HIM. BACK UP AND drive away. But when you steer towards somebody, what do you think is going to happen? And so perhaps they'll make an example of clavvicular. Now remember, if he is in fact alive, it still causes serious bodily injury. And so he still could go to jail for a very, very long time. And so essentially what this does in fact look like is retaliation. I'm going to get my revenge. Now, if they can prove that that person had a weapon, something in their hand, or that person was actively trying to enter the vehicle, of which clearly it was not. We've seen it on video. That could have been a fence. But unfortunately with video evidence in 4K, it's not looking good for clvicular. I do believe he's going to be found guilty if charged. I think it's ended his career. Now, you can debate me. You can argue with me and say, "No, he isn't all that bad." Does anyone want clavvicular to continue to make these videos? If you do, you're perhaps a psychopath, sociopath, and you like watching dangerous things unfold. If you're a parent and you have a kid and he's watching Clavvicular, would you want him to continue to watch this person to cheer for him? Rud, what a great guy. If Clavvicular is a great guy, I would hate to meet someone who is not. Now, rather than being on steroids with perhaps messed up Clavvicular's mind, you should give the gift that keeps on giving. Turk Builder Max, Turk Platinum, the list goes on. Coach Greg's HCLT supplements. It's the gift that keeps on giving for the whole year. Give the gift of gains. Enter code Greg for 15% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch either of these two bloops. The selears code CICO for 50% off. Don't forget about the cookbook and of course Al Goreex code Greg. And until next time, I am out.