I think these two should date. I think they make a perfect match. I've seen them interact. Clvicular eventually going to meet a woman. She's probably going to be interested in her. They'll probably get along. And so, who knows? It's possible even Clavicular can change his ways. Coach Greg in today's video, has Cleav met his match? If you aren't aware, Clavicular, who thinks that being a fashion model somehow makes him better than other people when all it does is make him more gay, more pretty in the eyes of other men and the fashion industry. As if anyone, any real man cares about what the fashion industry thinks about them. Finaxing versus looks maxing. I mean, frankly, isn't it the same thing? Clvicular. He stresses to people that he's on math in order to lose some weight that he's experimented with reetta taking up to 20 milligrams a day about 10 times more than he should and he's stop lifting weights he's too busy streaming and so on and so he's lost a lot of muscle and so essentially he's becoming her what is the difference clav the looks maxer is looks minimizing as he's only getting smaller and so if you're going to tell me that the best way to look more pretty is to just lose all your muscle and be way thin, then I'm not for that life. >> I'd say I'm pretty skinny. I'm, you know, I lost a good amount of weight since I kind of >> You used to be fat. >> No, I used to just have muscle. >> If you're actually a representative of looks maxing, perhaps the CEO. Shouldn't you be doing one of the number one things you can do to improve your appearance, which is to lift weights? I mean, does that not make any sense? >> I guess there was a video that was like Liv Schmidt walks so clavicle. Is that your name? Clavo. How do you spell >> clvicular? Oh, sorry. Clvicular. >> And so, frankly, he's been framemaxed by the ACU of whatever [\h__\h] is going on. Guy had wider clavicles than him. And bro is named Clavicular. And so, I get it. The embarrassment. Clavicular who's literally named after a bone of the shoulders, the width of the shoulders. And bro has wider shoulders than him. And so, he mobbed him. But so what? >> I'm thin maxing. Your looks maxing. Oh, so you're like known for like what? Like the starve maxing [\h__\h] >> I mean, what's with all this starve maxing, lean maxing, sniffing creatine, and all you really need to do is to get my freaking cookbook, get some GO2 max to help you with cardio and obviously some GLP max oral. Reduce your appetite by 28%. And so if you just do these basics, the minimums, go to the gym, do some cardio, eat properly, you're going to be looks maxing and you don't need to learn from these other influencers. I just don't have time with the streams, you know. >> Wait, you stream? What do you do? >> I Yeah. >> Wait, are you streaming right now? >> YEAH. >> OH GOD. ARE YOU KIDDING? >> Look at the change of pace, the glow in her eyes. The smies, if you will. As soon as she finds out, you're a streamer. 14,000 people are watching us right now. All of a sudden, she's realizing, "Wait a minute, I can benefit from this." She has over 300,000 followers. She's doing quite well on her own. She looks above average, but she stands to gain by the infamous Mr. Clavvicular. >> I was going to say, you look a lot better on Instagram than when you have eyebrows. >> This is like not my makeup. >> I mean, you've got the makeup covering your eyebrows, your foreheads coming out of nowhere. And so, you're actually very attractive. And so, she's feeling good about herself right now. Remember, looks maxers essentially all they care about is how people view them in terms of their appearance, their self-worth. It comes from other people's approval of how they look. The number one compliment a looks maxer could get would be from being validated by, for example, the fashion industry as literally being called a model. I mean, if you're a bodybuilder, the ultimate accolade, you win the Mr. Olympia title. But if you're into looks maxing, you become a model. >> I'm getting plastic surgery on February 17th. So I'm like, "Okay, what are you getting? >> I'm getting a nose job, a CO2 laser, and an eyebrow list." >> I mean, does anyone think that she needs to get surgery to alter the shape of her nose? And for what? Even clvicular of all people says there's nothing wrong with your nose. What message does this give to the younger followers? If these people who are models are not happy with their appearance, what chance do you have? Most of you watching these videos do not look as good as Clavicular and this female equivalent of him. And so what chance do you have? And so imagine being so insecure that she was worried, hey, what if they have bad photos? Well, I'm going to be getting surgery and so I'll negate all those bad photos because I'm changing my face and they're going to be painting over my eyebrows and so on and no one's going to see the real me. And so I can get away with it because imagine what if bro from Bangladesh says, "Hey, you're not attractive. Why do you care so much about the opinion of other people? Your nose isn't bad. >> Yeah, but I'm like, you can always be better. >> I agree with that. >> Thinner and look better, you know? >> I mean, what is this? We always look better. Absolutely. But when you're 20 years old and you already look very, very good, trying to look better, it makes no sense. Now, if she looked like she had a honker, it's sticking out 3 in. It's deformed. She got it in an accident. She has a broken nose. She's a UFC fighter. I get it. But when you already have something that's above average, you already look great. What is the point of going through a serious surgery just to try to improve on something that's already good? >> But like literally tell me cuz I will fix it. >> You like barely have a dorsal hump at all. Like this is I mean yeah it's like extremely extremely minimal. If you have to fix every small deformity, everything less than perfect about your face, your body, you're going to be getting surgeries forever. It's a slippery slope. And please be careful. >> You realize the recovery time is going to make your nose look Yeah. But your nose is going to be swollen and look worse for like 6 months. >> Yeah. But that's fine. >> I mean, from the side, from the front, her nose looks fine. And I would argue better than fine. I would think most women who would get a nose surgery, if they ended up with her nose in the after, they would be very happy. And so why are we getting this? >> Everyone loves me. >> Really? >> Yeah. >> Maybe not after the this interview. >> You don't think they're controversial figures? Why do you think they have Clav involved in New York Fashion Week? Clav has thousands of followers. He's very controversial and people are talking about him everywhere. I mean, case in point, even I am talking about this man. And so, they realize that if he is in the fashion show, it's going to bring even more eyeballs on the clothing, which is the entire point of having a fashion show, to show the fashion. And so, you pick people whether they're attractive, not attractive. As long as they're popular and they can show the fabric to the world, that's all that matters. I'm a bit of a >> questionable figure, I guess you could say. only elevate you and make you look better. >> You're welcome. >> How could she not? Is it possible for Civicular to dig himself in any kind of a deeper hole than he has already? Bro was just arrested at the bar, was charged, charges were dropped, he drove over someone with a cyber truck. Anyone that isn't essentially in jail that associates with him is probably going to make him look better. >> Okay, let's be real. >> I'm being honest. I'm doing you more favors. Okay, let's let's be so for real. >> And frankly, I am going to agree with Clavicular. Even though I think he's the worst YouTube fitness influencer in the world, I still think he's accurate when he says he's doing more for her than she is of him. There are thousands of models out there who are thin, who he could stand next to who look just as good or better than her. But there's not a lot of claviculars. He's getting 14,000 people following him on a stream. He's being talked about everywhere and many people around the world know Clav now. He's infamous. He's not known for good things, but does anyone know this girl? She has over 300,000 followers on Instagram. So, yeah, there are some, but she isn't as mainstream as Clavvicular. And so, although I don't agree with Clvicular on most things, I agree with him on that. >> You don't know it right now, but you will later. All right, that's the point. >> I think someone needs to humble you. I think these two should date. I think they make a perfect match. I've seen them interact. I think that Cleavvicular is a little off. She's a little off. I think they make a great couple together. And so, I'm cheering for them to date. Clvicular eventually going to meet a woman. She's probably going to be interested in her. They'll probably get along. And so, who knows? It's possible even Clvicular can change his ways. Why they kind of cute together? This is my thoughts exactly. I'm crying. He met his match. Is he flirting or is he naturally delusional? No, that's absolutely flirting. He's doing so in an appropriate manner. He's not being overly complimentary and he's putting her in her place when he needs to. He's not sing for her. He's simply telling it like it is. And so, if you actually analyze his mannerisms with this girl, he's doing exceedingly well. When girls say they can't lose weight and get skinny are the same ones who refuse to switch out their everyday sugary matcha latte for a green tea cuz it doesn't taste the same. Is there any sacrifice you're willing to make? Are we going back to the 1990s when I was in high school? I remember this was the look all the girls were going for. The thin look, the waif look. There was no thicker than last time. That wasn't a thing. It was thin or die. I wasn't a fan already at that time. I like girls who had a little bit more muscle. girls who worked out, who were fit. And so, why are we bringing thin back? If you like being thin and that's your thing, hey, that's fine. There's nothing wrong with that. Just don't try to get there through unhealthy methods. For example, the starve maxing, the taking performance-enhancing substances to help with that or perhaps recreational ones. Just try to do it through healthy means. need to be absolutely invisible and looks maxing and thin maxing and skinny maxing for Valentine's Day. And so essentially this is the female equivalent of clavicular the looks maxing as a female it's essentially thin maxing to become smaller. Now remember in other parts of the world, other countries, for example, China, Finn is in. In North America, the average woman I heard today is a size 16. I don't really ask those questions. They kind of just said New York Fashion Week, you're invited. Yes or no? And I was I first it was no cuz I was in jail, but then they let me out. >> What you need to know about Looks Maxers is that it's not just about trying to get girls, about being your best self. When I say I want you to look better, to feel better through healthy eating, exercise, lifting weights, these are all positive things. But if you're only trying to looks max, that your goal is to become a model for self validation because you have no self-esteem, no self-worth, and you get that from the validation of others commenting on your appearance and that's all that it's for. It's not healthy. You are more than your looks. Your looks are the icing on the cake. If the cake doesn't taste good, no amount of icing is going to make me want to eat it. There's nothing wrong with trying to ascend to to mog other people to try to look your best, but please try not to compare yourself to others. I get wanting to be your best self, to look your best. But if all of your self-worth is based on how you look, it's never going to end well. Because do I really have to tell you all this? You're only going to get worse in time. It's one of those things where age is undefeated. It's inevitable that you're going to eventually look worse. Last I've checked, I've never seen a woman above the age of 70 that I thought, man, if I could only get with that. Time is ticking. It's coming for you. Now, if you do want a life max, of course, you can get all the supplements. You can get the Blue Lobster pre-workout. You can get all the things. You can also go to Algorex. You get your blood work done. You find out if you have low or high levels of testosterone and you get the medications that you need. Do you need a GLP? For example, you're obese. You want to lose some weight and you're struggling. You could perhaps get a GLP. Do you have lower levels of testosterone? You could get inclapene or perhaps just HRT. You can't get it up. You're above the age of 40. You're trying to please your wife. Seialis, Viagra, high blood pressure, telmaartin. Do you need some glutathione, antioxidants, and so on? There's so many different things. And it's pharmaceutical. It's about half price of Meric Health. And so what you need to do is go and compare prices everywhere and you will quickly see why Algo RX is the number one choice for thousands of individuals. Doctor prescribe prescription medications with no gatekeeping. Isn't that what you want? And so interested code Greg 10% off. Click the link in description. HDLT, we're bringing it to the mood. I can't wait to talk about all the things that are happening, but we also want more of you. We want more sponsored athletes as well as ambassadors. And so, if you're interested, please click and apply as well. If you own a store or gym and you want to carry our supplements, you can click the link and apply. And if you want to get coached by myself and my team, you know what to do. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost your algorithm. Please like this video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. code Greg for 15% off all the supplements. Don't forget about the famous cookbook. And until next time, I am out.