 X They're a rare species. It is. It's okay. They're very wild. You see them very rarely. I'm an endangered species as well, so be careful, guys. That's crazy. Alright guys, we are at New Tech Gym. We've arrived. You know me, I gotta bring all my videographer calls on my bag of trickeries. Here we go again. Start is 800 and we're gonna leave with... Okay, so what happened? We lost. $50 worth of equipment and a $5 million gym. Exactly. I got my yoga blocks, I got my squat wedge. I'm ready to fucking cook right now. I don't know what's coming. I'm about to get Janakie-fied. You don't need to warm up. You just go outside. Yeah, we're doing good. Apparently we're going to a Cybertruck. Oh, it's an IFBB Pro, obviously. Oh yeah, I have to do mine. IFBB. Alright, we're at... Just the intro. New Trek Gym. We've got Mepstagram. We've got Eric Janakie. We're going through an intense full body workout. We're gonna see what happens. With the Cybertruck. Yeah. I'm not a fan of the Cybertruck. We're not getting one of those? I don't really know. I don't think we're gonna get one of those. It's not my thing. Yes. Got it. You want to go ahead? I really want to experience that kind of frame. It would be awesome. I am. What are you doing today? I think I did a good job. You want to get a picture of me? Sure. I'm a huge fan, man. I think... I would say that. Sorry. But I think the shape is undeniable. So I think it's just a matter of kind of filling the gaps and... You want to get a picture of me as well? I think people will think... Oh yeah, sure. How long it really took. Like, you know, let's say... I'm just gonna do some like chest stuff here. Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! I would say you're not natural. Okay, maybe. It's possible, but I doubt it. Your waist is really small. Your legs are not small, but not like huge either. You feel like a front double bicep. Yeah, you look great. You just have to get like grip, do you know what I mean? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, you look great. I think you could win a show of classes. Probably, eventually, I don't know which one you would do better in. You look great. Thank you, thank you. Hard ass, hard ass. How much do you charge for body ratings usually? Have I ever charged for body ratings? I don't know. Some guys would actually send me photos and I do phone consults. And I used to have to rate physiques all the time. Body fat percentage, can I compete? But yeah, it's fun. Coach Greg, and I'm here with... Tristan Lee. One of the leanest bodybuilders in the world who's not yet to compete yet. No, not yet. Why aren't you competing? I mean, look at this guy. He's so shredded. He's way leaner than me. It's on my bucket list, but it's not in my desires right now. I honestly, I genuinely just love training. And I feel like the sacrifices that I would have to make with regards to my social relationships, my connections, and just the mental state that I would put myself in, in order to get into a competitive bodybuilding state, would be too much of a sacrifice for what I really want at this moment. It's crazy that you say that because to me, this is a stage ready bodybuilder on the fly. You could literally be competing on Saturday. I don't know about stage ready, but I find this like, this is something that I can maintain with relative ease. Like I don't feel terrible. My energy is good. My sleep is good. And all the other factors contributing to like, whether or not I feel like absolute garbage are good. So, yeah, I just, I guess the competitive aspect, I think the mental state that I would put myself in, in order to get up on stage, I think it would be negative for just my genuine love and passion for training. Okay. Well, my personal opinion for a first show, 7% body fat or less is perfectly acceptable. Like I don't like people to over diet for the first show and then like really suffer too much. And you know, if you really like it and the next show you can get even leaner. So why don't we test your body fat, see where you stand, see how lean exactly are you based on the calipers. They're not a hundred percent accurate, but we're going to see. Yeah. And if your number is low enough, maybe you can jump on stage real soon. We'll see. We'll see. Let's start with the biceps. Have you done this before calipers? Yeah, we did like years ago. All right. Let's see. We'll see how it matches up here. All right. This is essentially paper. There's no body fat under the skin here. Literally 1.9 is just lean. I've never pinched a bicep under two in my life. This is like thick skin shredded. So are you memorizing the numbers? This is my thesis memorizer. 1.9 for the biceps. 11 years of university. This is, it comes down to this. There's some pressure. Tricep. Relax the arms. Jeez. There's nothing here. My God. It's nuts. 3. This is insane. This is insane. That's about the same as mine both put together for just my tricep alone. Oh, really? This is my weakness, the back. This is where I carry most of my body fat. So, so far, these numbers are lower than anyone I would see who's actually a competitive bodybuilder. Like if he was competing tomorrow, he would be on point. All right. Under the subscap. 5.2. I mean, honestly, I was saying he was going to be shredded. I've never tested anyone as low as this so far. All right. So, we have 1.9. The last spot we're doing is. Blue. We're not right. We're doing down, down on the side of your abdominals. Let's get one arm above your head here. All right. Just relax as much as you can. Try to loosen the skin up. Oh, I thought that was gonna be the spot. There's no... I mean, honestly, there's just skin on this guy. So, run the total up. I don't even know if this chart's gonna go that low. What are your guesses? Like... I don't know. I mean, this is like... 4% body fat probably like... I don't know. There's no, I mean, honestly, there's just skin in this guy. So run the total up. I don't even know if this chart's going to go that low. What are your guesses? This is like OG. 4% body fat probably? I don't know. I mean, is that the only test? You just do the only four points? These four, that's all we're using. This is the sum of four skinfold tests. What's the grand total? 13.6. Are you kidding? Okay, so the chart bottoms out at 4.8% body fat at 15. I don't think that's accurate, though. It's pretty close. Now, I've, in my lifetime, been leaner than that, so I added some lower numbers. You did that. So at 14, it would be 3.8%. What was that? 13.6. So 13.6. So roughly 3.5, 3.6%. I don't think that's accurate, man. Come on, let's be serious. It got 3.8%. We watched it. It's documented on camera. The sum of four skinfolds. What's the most accurate, DEXA? The DEXA scam is not very accurate. I would trust more the hydrostatic weighing test, which I've seen you do at 4.4. 4.4, yeah, yeah. But I still don't trust. I don't know. I'm always skeptical of it. Because when I see a stage level bodybuilder, so when I see you, for example, when you were absolutely peeled on stage before when you were competing, I would think that you were way leaner than what I am right now. It's an illusion. If I put as much muscle as I have, or like Eric Janicki, on your body, with your level of body fat, the muscles would pop through and you would see all those striations. So the only difference between you and these guys is they're much bigger than you. How does like diuresis affect body fat tests? On the skinfold caliper, if you're really dehydrated, you will have slightly thinner skin folds, but not by much. It might affect it by like 1%. Would that affect a hydrostatic or a DEXA? Absolutely. DEXA, you can trick how much body fat you have by a lot, especially how much muscle mass you have. So if someone wanted to do the most accurate method, would they do hydrostatic? I would do hydrostatic, but you have to be on a special diet to not have a lot of fiber so you don't get bloated and have a lot of gas. So they would like prepare you for the test? Yep. And you have to be very comfortable at blowing all your air out. So that's pretty accurate. But honestly, we did this and a hydrostatic and a DEXA and maybe divide it into the three. That's pretty accurate. But I find my laser eyes to be fairly accurate. I mean, you look like 4% to me. I don't know about that, but I'll take it. I'll take it. And the MRI, if you ever get a chance, that one is right on. So if you do an MRI, it'll be the gold standard. That's the one. Okay. But this is 100% he's stage ready. So you're saying, I wouldn't want to change my life for it. You literally just get on to proper 10 and you're good. Like you said, I don't have the musculature right now to compete against top level bodybuilders. And everything I do, I go all in on. I want to be the best at whatever I'm doing. And so if I was to put myself up on stage, I know there's a lot of areas. Like my chest, for example, my side delts, my back, like my overall density this way. My thickness. Did you have the striations in the legs and stuff too? I mean, we didn't test it. Oh my God. Are you? What are you? All right. I just, for my own personal knowledge, because I have really lean legs and I test them like this. We can see, look. Do you flex it when you test your legs? No. Relax. So I'm four and a half. I have, I'm having pretty lean legs. But. Are you able to maintain this like no issue? This is easy for me, but I race on a bike eight to 10 hours a week. So I do like a thousand calories of cardio in an hour. So I have an, okay, I have an interesting question then. Do you think that it's the body fat that causes issues for most people? Or do you think what it takes to get to that body fat is what causes more issues? I think it's a combination of both. I'd say half what you're doing and half what you're born with. So if you try to get too lean, but you don't do a lot of cardio and have the proper diet, you're going to feel like garbage. Right. But if you do a lot of cardio, it's ways you're staying lean. I'm leaner now at 50 than I was when I was dieting for bodybuilding. I feel great now. For example, I don't do any standard cardio right now. I just do steps. And I'm an active person. I could go, I could run around and all that stuff. But I don't do any standard cardio. And I eat a decent amount. I eat 26, 2700 calories. So it's not like, obviously it's relative to how much muscle and that much whatever. But I don't find this difficult to maintain. So when I last met you, which was like- What was it like three years ago maybe? That was like in Toronto, right? When you tested my body fat or you said my body fat back then, which was around, I don't know, it was low. It was like 6% or whatever it was. I was doing like 20,000 steps. Hit cardio three times a week. Training seven. So my lifestyle shifted a ton since then. But I'm still able to, after I went through the bulk that I did where I went all the way up to 178, I was able to diet back down and not have to maintain the same cardio regimen that I was doing before. I'm still able to maintain this body composition with like much less stress and just craziness of doing so. I don't know because back then I felt like I was running myself into the ground. But now I'm like, okay, I'm able to maintain this with relative ease. So I don't know what. That's why I was asking. I was curious about the question. I feel like you have the genetics, obviously like one in a, I don't know, a thousand that could be this lean and not feel like garbage because I couldn't do that. I would never be able to- But I mean you're really lean right now. One more percent and I have no energy. If I lost 1% body fat, I can't handle it. I think it is a fine line. Yeah. I got to test this quad though. I got to see the millimeters on this. Oh yeah, this is just paper thin. It's insane. 3.3. There's no, let's see. I got to see a hamstring flex. Oh my, I mean. Honestly, I'm going to be 100% honest. I saw photos online. I'm like, yeah, but when I see him in person, it's like probably like the lighting and stuff. He's not going to be this lean in person. He's lean in person than I expected. Thank you. Thank you. It's insane. Like my hamstrings are really quite lean. Yeah. And if we compare them, like mine are not even close. Like it's insane. Are you bulking right now? Right now I'm gaining half a pound a week. That's good. Pretty slow. But for the past, like since I finished that dieting phase, I pretty much maintained or hovered like slight surplus. I just kind of hovered around similar weight. But now the plan is like going to another offseason. Probably try to get up to like 170, 170. And what do you weigh now? Like 150s probably? 153, 154. 153. Yeah. But I'm going to try to get back up to like 170 again. Probably better body composition than last time. Because last time I was like probably like 14% body fat or so. It's hard to imagine him at 14%. I mean, the photos of me like puppy is just like, I don't know. I just, I can't. When I was in it though, like when I was bulking, I was like, yeah, this is a good body composition. But I think like past 170, when I got up to like 175, 176, all the way up to like 178, I didn't really notice many like performance benefits. So I'm probably going to try to like stay around that 12% body fat mark and then just kind of like keep progressing in the gym, you know? My natty or not predictions are based on 51% chance. Yeah. I'm like if there's a 51% chance, I'm like not natty. I'm not offended in any way, shape, or form. I don't feel any type of way about it. Awesome. Yeah. Well, I'm impressed. There's the video. He's 3 point, what was it? 3.6%? 3.8. This is insane. Thank you. I want to see on stage. Everyone wants to see on stage. You just got to do it one time. Maybe in the future. We'll see. All right. Great catching up. Looking incredible. Keep it up. Appreciate it. Thank you.