Honestly, if he had added in HRT and or steroids and went up one rep on his bench every single week, I'd say, "Yeah, of course he did. That's what you would expect." But this is from a natural supplement. This is simply from taking creatine. Coach Greg in today's video, alpha male, almost 7 million followers. He ties creatine essentially for the first time. He tried it once when he was 20. Didn't really work. But now that he's pushing 50 and ain't 50 keys of Turk across the border, he decided to give creatine a second chance. And wow, if you watch this video and every time he says creatine, replace the words TRT, aka testosterone, and that would make sense. Got to see just how amazing this transformation really is. And do I believe it was just from creatine or was it perhaps serendipitously something else? I'm going to share with you the results of a clinical trial I did on myself using creatine monohydrate. >> Can't do a clinical trial on yourself. I mean, this is ridiculous. This is essentially a self-experiment or an anecdotal case report, but it's not a clinical study using randomized control trials, placebo, and all of those things. And so, already off to a bad start. I have not taken a workout supplement since the nutrition store days. As you guys know, I used to own a nutrition store. >> That would be like me saying I own HDLT supplements, but that I don't use any of the supplements. How much faith would you have in me if I'm not even using my own products? >> I knew about the benefits. I just never really took it because I honestly at the time didn't want to spend the money because I was broke. >> 6.91 million followers. He's finally decided, hey, I can afford it now. I mean, I get it. People want to hide how much money they have so they can appeal to the masses. They can seem just like everyone else and they don't want to get on. But I don't buy that you couldn't afford creatine as a grown man who owned a supplement store. I want to stay as natural as possible. I was taking my multivitamin and I was getting good results. I was also super lean. I was competing in natural bodybuilding. >> He was competing in natural bodybuilding and using multivitamins and so on, but he wanted to be as natural as possible. And so he didn't use a natural supplement called creatine. What's next? You wouldn't use protein powder. I wanted to be as natural as possible. >> Even though I don't take any workout supplements, I've always been a huge fan of multivitamins. Vitamin C, vitamin D, vitamin B complex, larginine, lcitrilline. I mean, why cherry pick that way? I can afford creatine, something that I mean, is there anything that's more studied than creatine that's been proven to be effective? But this man who's essentially a fitness influencer didn't understand the benefits until almost the age of 50. This is a picture of myself that I took basically 2 months ago at the start of this whole creatine journey. I wanted to get documentation and so this was a picture of me. Let's point out the fact that this man is about as old as Coach Greg. He's 100% natural. He has a six-pack, full chest, greatl looking arms. This is a 99 whatever percentile physique. His physique is way above average. He's been training his ass off for over 30 years consistently. And father time is catching up. You can't look your best the way you did perhaps in your 20s and 30s forever. Unless, of course, you're Michael Hearn and The Rock, who are both 100% natural. >> And I'm being sarcastic. >> And it's honestly embarrassing for me to show you this. >> This is what causes people body dysmorphia. He posts a picture of him which to me is amazing. 99% of the world would show that and say this is my after. Look at the work I put in and this is my after. He posts the picture and says I'm embarrassed by this. This physique is stupendous. Bro is almost 50. Why not just show your physique and say, "Hey, this is a physique I'm proud of. 100% natural, but I wanted to see if I could make it even better." I wasn't as tight or strict on my diet as I should be, but my muscles just weren't as full and as big as I felt like they used to be. >> Why have we photoshopped out the muscles? Are we trying to say that this is the transformation? I'm looking at the photo on the left in comparison to the right and it's a significantly massive improvement. But last I checked, your bicep doesn't go like this. Like when you're hanging down like this, there isn't an indentation. The bicep, it comes outward like that. that it doesn't go inwards. I'm seeing a photoshopped arm or shall I say photoshopped away the muscles so that you don't see anything. This is before Turk Builder, guys. No photoshopping, nothing. And this is after. It took 1 second to make that transformation. Turk Builder is amazing. Code drag 15% off. Why do we need to lie? Can we not just be honest? Even though my body fat has creeped up to around like 15%. I'm still relatively lean. You can still relatively see my abs. I'm glad that he says that it's still relatively lean. 15% is literally ideal body fat percentage. The bro is 50. There is absolutely nothing wrong with this. And 99% of people likely not going to get a physique as good as this in their entire lifetime. >> That's the other beautiful thing with creatine. It's not an expensive supplement. >> 100% correct. Creatine is not very expensive. It's very effective. We know the studies support that this is perhaps the safest supplement that we know works in the entire world. >> A serving is 2.5 g of creatine. >> A serving technically isn't 2 1/2 g. I do believe that a serving is 5 g of creatine. Now, some people can benefit from taking a little bit more. I take normally six or seven grams a day. I am a little bit bigger, but I do believe five grams should be considered one serving of creatine. >> I wanted to take it basically twice a day. I was going to take 2.5 g in the morning and then 2.5 g in the evening. >> You don't need to space it out to in the morning and then at night. You don't need to divide it in multiple doses. You don't need a capsule. You can just use the powder creatine monohydrate. It really isn't that complicated. Whether you want to take it in the morning before your workout, during your workout, after your workout, before bed, as long as you're getting it, it's going to be effective. >> So, for the first, I would say, week, I didn't really notice much. Now, the way that creatine basically works is it goes into your muscle fibers and hydrates them. >> And so, what he's saying is true. When you take creatine, it causes more intracellular water retention. And so the water that you're adding is inside the muscle like non bloated puffy moonface type of water retention but water attention where you want it in your chest, shoulders, arms, quads. And so essentially your muscles get swollen and they look bigger and so you're putting on muscle. Now people are going to argue is it actually muscle or is it lean tissue? I know we can get pedantic and argue that it's not actually muscle, but to me, if the muscle gets bigger, then you put on more muscle. >> It's going to increase your ability to work out longer, to recover faster because your muscles have more energy. They're more hydrated. But it also is going to make you a little bit stronger. >> And so, it increases your strength by allowing ADP, adenazine diphosphate, to convert to ATP, adenazine triphosphate. And that is what you're using when you do a hard set in the gym. And so you can get an extra rep because you have more ATP, which is the energy that you need to perform the action. >> Taking my creatine and I'm getting great workouts. I think that a lot of it was placebo effect cuz I knew that I was taking something and so I wanted to work out harder. I wanted to go a little bit heavier. Of course, it's possible that it's a placebo effect that's taking place. If you expect the supplement to work, it may in fact work even better than it actually is. Does that mean that the supplement isn't working just because you believe that it's working? No, but it can make that supplement work even better. >> I'll work out with 185 lbs. I could do for about six reps before I started the creatine. Week number two, I got eight reps. Already, he is a hyper respponder. When I surveyed over a 100,000 people who took creatine, 50% said they couldn't notice any benefit whatsoever. Now, does that mean that 50% of people were scammed, that it didn't actually work? No. It just means that some people benefit more from it than others. He went from 185 for six on the bench to 185 for eight in 2 weeks. That's a huge gain. When you add two reps to your bench press at almost 50, when you have no more newbie gains left in a tank, he's been training hard for over 30 years. It's very difficult to make gains. Now, if he just joined the gym and started taking creatine, I'd say, well, you would have gone from six reps to eight regardless. But this is a man who's been training hard for decades. >> Fast forward two more weeks, I'm actually doing it for 10 reps. >> And so in a month, he goes from six reps to 10. It's almost double the reps. This is amazing. And so if he had said, you know what, I've been using Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum from HLT Supplements and I went from six reps on the bench to 10 in 4 weeks, I would say, wow, that is amazing. This is a huge difference. I mean, you can disagree with me if you want. Say it's just four more reps. It's placebo. But do you really think you can placebo your way from getting six reps on a bench press to 10 in 4 weeks when you're already at your peak and training for 30 years? I mean, honestly, if he had added in HRT and or steroids and went up one rep on his bench every single week, I'd say, "Yeah, of course he did. That's what you would expect." But this is from a natural supplement. This is simply from taking creatine. >> After 30 days, I was eating cleaner. I was cleaning up my diet. I also was doing a little extra cardio and my body fat basically dropped to around 13%. And so he takes creatine, decides to cut. And I did the math out. He's in a 375 calorie daily deficit. He's added in cardio and he's eating fewer calories. And so he's in a deficit. His starting weight 160 and after a month 163. And you're thinking, well, that's not that much. It's 3 lb. 3 lb of muscle in a month. That's very impressive. I mean, remember when I said I took Turk Builder Max and I put on 4 lb of muscle in a month and you said that's not possible. There's no way. Bro went from 160 to 163 while dropping 2% body fat. And so, do you know what that means? He added six lbs of muscle. Now, you can be pedantic and say it wasn't muscle. It was water weight. He got leaner. His muscles were fuller. And he was stronger. He bench pressed more from six reps to 10. He looked better, felt better, was stronger, and six lbs of lean tissue was added while in a deficit and dropping 2% body fat at the same time. But month number two, things start to change a little bit more dramatically. And I'm going to explain what I mean by that in a second. >> And so his results were going so well after 30 days. He decided to keep on going. And so he should. >> My strength once again jumped up again. I did 185 for 12 reps. The next set 225, I did it for four reps. >> And so the second month, his bench continues to go up 185 for six, it's now 185 for 12. >> As opposed to the first 30 days where a lot of the weight gain that I got was from water retention within the muscle. Now it's kind of plateaued. 5 g is basically like all your body can really handle. The amount of gains you get from creatine, it's on a spectrum. It's on a bell curve. And so most people are getting somewhere here. But there are extremes, outliers if you will, that gain even more than everyone else. And so, for example, someone might gain four pounds of muscle in a month or lean tissue, call it what you will, from taking Turk Builder Max. Somebody else might gain six. Somebody else might gain one, and someone else might gain none. If you gain none, hey, the beauty is there's a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And so, you can try it riskfree. Code Greg, 15% off. >> Morning. I also measured my body fat. My body fat now is down to around 11% and my scale weight has stayed at 163. >> And so if you're just trying to argue this is just water weight and he didn't actually put on any muscle, the second 30 days he kept his weight at 163 lbs and dropped his body fat from 13 to 11. He's losing.5% body fat per week. Has dropped four percentages of body fat, which is 6 lb of fat in only 2 months. 375 calorie daily deficit. Remember, he's added in cardio and his bench press reps have doubled from creatine. >> Real muscle mass has also started to increase, not just the water retention that I'm feeling or getting in the muscle. >> Essentially, one could call this maintaining. I mean, he's maintaining his weight and instead of adding in more body fat, he's lowering his body fat and replacing muscle tissue at the same time, allowing him to maintain. One could also say he went on a bulk. He started at 160 lb and he went up to 163, but he bulked while being in a deficit. Does that make any sense? It actually does. There's more energy in body fat than there is in muscle. And so, one could go in a deficit and use the energy in the fat tissue in order to create muscle mass. And so, despite the fact that perhaps he went on a cardi and in cardio and went in a calorie deficit, his body actually bulked. It got bigger. And by definition, when you're bulking, you get bigger. And so I don't know if you want to call this going on a cut, going this on a bulk maintaining. Call it what you will, but it freaking worked. >> What happens if you stop? You will lose some weight. You will lose a little bit of muscle size. >> Who cares? Wait, why would you stop? Creatine is so cheap. And it's working. He's stronger. He looks better. He feels better. He's literally added 9 lbs of lean tissue. If you don't want to call it muscle, call it what you will. His lean body mass has gone up 9 lbs. and his body fat has dropped six in 60 days. You can criticize me all day long. I said I put on 4 lbs and since that time I've continued to improve. I've gained significantly more muscle. Well, if he can do these kind of gains on creatine where 50% of the people using it say they didn't even notice it. Do you think he noticed it? This transformation is amazing. It's as if he went on HRT. I mean, think of it. If you went on HRT, for example, I'm on HRT, 140 milligrams a week, and in 2 months from now, you found out that you gained 3 lbs, but at the same time lost 6 lbs of fat, and you had 9 lb more lean tissue, would you not be happy with your HRT? I mean, that is a lot, even for a guy on HRT. >> I'm going to continue to take this for another 30 days. I honestly think this is just going to be part of my supplement routine. >> This is so amazing that I would never stop taking it. any supplement that's that good, why would you ever stop? And so when I tell people to take GO2 Max, Turk Builder Max, and so on, I speak from experience. I'm personally taking it, and I personally believe in it, and I've seen tens of thousands of others also benefit from it and continue to reby it. If you don't believe me, that's okay. It's okay to be skeptical. You can try it risk-free. money back guarantee, $20 gift card, and you can use code Greg for 15% off. And so, what do you have to lose? I mean, if you can get even half of the gains that he did from taking creatine, then it's absolutely a win. 9 lbs of lean tissue in 60 days. I have loved the results that I've gotten from creatine monohydrate. 100% I'm stronger. My muscles, they are bigger. They're fuller. I'm not so much a fan of having a proper tan in the 60-day transformation. I mean, clearly he's put on more muscle. He looks leaner. He looks better. But is it fair to compare a before photo without a proper tan to an after photo which has a proper tan? It's not exactly fair. And I don't know exactly how he tested his body fat, but I personally don't think that he dropped 4% body fat. He looks like he dropped maybe 2% body fat, which would skew the results because to think that he gained 9 lbs of lean tissue in 2 months from creatine alone. I mean, it's possible perhaps one in a million could do this. But it's very rare. I think most people wouldn't get these kind of results in 60 days. Perhaps it would take a year, even more. But even if you only get half of those gains, a third of those gains, 3 lbs of lean tissue in 2 months that you never had, that is a supplement worth taking. The truth is, gentlemen, aging is inevitable. But how you age, this is optional. >> Remember, if you're aging, you want to check out your blood work to see how you're doing. Get prescription medications. For example, seialis, Viagra, talisartin, inclapene, or you're trying to lose weight. You need semiglutide or turzipide. Click the link code rag 10% off. Algo RX has doctors that can legally prescribe you medications for significantly lower prices than other HRT clinics. For example, Merrick Health, it's going to be about half price in comparison. And so, do what you will with your money, but most people, unless they're multi-millionaires, are going to care about saving a significant amount of money for their medications. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Watch one of those two bloops. Don't forget about Momentous Clothing as well as HDLT supplements and coaching. Please, if you're interested, apply by clicking the link in description. And of course, the cookbooks and the sec protein bars. Ender code cico for 50% off right now. And until next time, I am out.