Real talk. Some of you perk piss me. >> Join the club. David Coach Greg. And today David Gogggins is calling everybody out. People they've been chirping. Oh, where are you David? And so go David. He did. He decides to record a video. During the video, he's like, "You all thought I've been gone that haven't been doing anything for years. The last time he done a competitive running event, it's been 5 years." But remember, you don't have to compete just because you can. Just because you're good at something, you don't have to compete. If you do, you do. If you don't, you don't. But listen to David Gogggins. >> Real talk. Some of you piss me. >> Join the club, David. Yeah. Um, David, I I get it. We're me and you, we think alike. So many people piss us off. But here's what you need to do. You got to not give a [\h__\h] about what other people think of you. You can let it get to you or you don't. And clearly David, he doesn't care. >> I disappeared and come back with 200 mileer. I'm 199 miles into this race. >> He records the video 199 miles into a race. In case you don't know, this is a 200mile running event. It's an ultra endurance marathon. He puts on a backpack filling with a couple liters of water and he says, "Yeah, I'll be back in about 66 hours." >> What were you doing for the last 65 hours? >> Well, I raced my bike. I went to the gym. I recorded about 17 videos. I went to Montreal and bought a Ferrari. And so, I had a busy time as well, but none of it was as hard as what David Gogggins did right now. >> I was running all up and down the mountains getting it in. The only getting it in was with meepsagram last night. And can somebody answer me in the comment section? I've had this question. I've been trying to figure it out. How many grams are there in a mess? Can somebody please answer me, y'all? He's 50 years old. Let that sink in. Y'all think 50 is old? Do you think I'm old? I'm literally turning 50 in another month. 50 ain't old. Hey, 50 is the new 30, guys. I watched I did research on this. There's people in their 80s that are doing this. 80 years old, saw a guy, he could barely stand upright, literally walking like this. He could barely stand up and he averaged over 3 miles an hour for 200 miles. He's probably watching David Gogggins and saying, "Yes, hey there, young child. talk to me in 30 plus years and you can't do 150 minutes of zone 2 cardio a week. Frankly, it's embarrassing. It's sad. It's pathetic. You're literally a loser. If you can't do 150 minutes of cardio a week and you're physically capable, you know, if you're in a wheelchair, in a coma, whatever, that's okay. But if you're sitting there and you're physically able to do it and you don't, you are a loser. a loser in life. You're literally throwing away perhaps 20 years of living for no reason. For no reason whatsoever. You sit there as a fat piece of [\h__\h] loser and you don't care. When other people, they would trade their entire lifetime likely to have the fitness that you have. You exploit your body. You don't take care of it. Your body, that's your temple. And so David Gogggins says, you know, stay hard and you are a soft piece of melted ice cream out there in the sun doing nothing, laying there leathery as an old fart, and you won't go for a freaking walk. And why? And you know what YouTube then decides to do? The platform has now decided to minimize recommendations of videos with content that could be problematic if viewed in repetition. YouTube has decided we don't want to be a bad influence on people. And so, do you know what we're going to restrict? Well, let me read it for you. Idolizing specific fitness levels or body weights. Any video that I promote doing 150 minutes of cardio a week, any video that I say you should put the fork down, any video that tells you to eat healthy, to lift weights, how to be fit, they're not recommending it for you. And why? Well, I don't want to go into any conspiracies, but why do you think they don't want you to be healthy and or fit and or strong? We're not promoting that because that over time might make people feel bad about themselves. You know, body positivity. Everyone can be a fat piece of [\h__\h] and love themselves for it. That's the message that they're trying to put out. And so, what's next? Let's ban David Gogggins. I mean, I'm looking on his channel. He has a six-pack. He's saying, "Hey, did you expect me to see here running? No, you just ran into me. Look at me. I'm a leading example. I'm running on my own. I don't need to post about it. You saw me in the wild. Are you not motivated? Well, David Gogggin has a six-pack. Well, that's bad. And what about David Gogggins in the gym? Stacking days for life. He's literally chest pressing the entire stack. And so, we can't show David Gogggins cuz what if a teenager sees it and sees that they're not as hard as David Gogggins? And so, we have to not promote that. But yet guys can do mukbang videos and eat 25,000 calories a day for an entire week. I ate the fattest perk piece of shit's diet for an entire week and I'm up 33 lbs in a week. Three and a half million views in five days. That is what YouTube allows. Mukbang after mukbang after mukbang. But if I try to say, you know, mukbangs are bad. It's going to make you fat, unhealthy, high blood pressure, develop cancer. Oh, that's bad. Does any of this make sense? Make it make sense to me. This is during the same week where I would get a $25,000 fine. Oh, plus tax and victim fees if I go for a walk in the woods. But yet, a fire breaks out in Halifax, nolva Scotia. And why? cuz they're using jackhammers to break apart rocks next to the forest. What do you think is more dangerous? Me going for a swim in a lake? Me walking, hiking in the woods, riding my bicycle, or industrial equipment breaking rocks apart 5 years after we were forced to wear those masks. And you sit there and act like it doesn't matter. Oh, it's no big deal. Just listen to them. What's next? They're going to make a rule. You can't pick up your dog's [\h__\h] with a dog poop picker upper bag. You got to eat it now. Oh, here's a new study. Dog food, it's it's great for your health. It has probiotics and so eat the [\h__\h] and you would sit there and eat it cuz you don't question anything. I try and do my part. I try to present the facts. Oh, you don't know what you're talking about. Okay, sure. Everyone else knows more than Coach Greg. Certainly YouTube does. Certainly those organizations which I can't even name cuz my channel gets shut down. But oh, coach Greg, he doesn't know any better. I rode 10 miles today on my Pelaton in 30 minutes. Felt pretty good about myself. Then Gogggins posted this comparison is the teeth. Like why are we making these comments? I get it. You're probably just trying to give a compliment to David Gogggins. You know, I felt good about myself for doing 30 minutes of zone 2 cardio. You should feel good about yourself. I'm sure that David Gogggins would be proud of you, but you got to insult yourself and put yourself down and compare yourself to other people. This is what other people do with bodybuilding. Oh, you have more muscle than me and you say that you're natural. Well, I hate my life. I give up working out. I'm using steroids because you put on more muscle than me. Why are we comparing ourselves to other people? How does it matter? Be the best version of yourself. That's what I've been saying since day one. But you all complain and get mad at anyone who's done anything better than yourself. Why do you care? It's you against you. It's not you against the planet. There are several David Gogggins type people out there in this world. You're probably thinking, David Gogggins is the only one. He never placed in the top 20. There are people who are much faster than him. He did it in 66 hours. I believe the record's 45 hours. It's almost a day faster. And so, some people out there are truly remarkable. They're truly freaks. You don't have to compare yourself to those people. Did David Gogggins feel disappointed? Oh, you know, there's 20 people that were faster than me. No, he did his best. It's him against him. You need to stop comparing yourself to other people. You do the best that you can. If it takes you five freaking days to do this, it takes you 5 days. If you can't run 200 miles, can you run one? Some of you don't even try one mile. You don't even know if you'd be good at something until you've tried something. I think the rule is like 10,000 times before you perfect something. And so if you've only been to the gym a couple times and you have no muscle, how do you know that if you didn't train harder than last time for 5 years that you wouldn't have a very impressive physique? Look at yourself. Are you doing your best? Are you trying? Stop thinking that person is leaner than me. That person is taller than me. That person is more tan than me. Who freaking cares? And so whatever it is in your life that you're not happy about, try harder. >> Do rap preach about. Stay hard. I love the message. I really do. He practices what he preaches. Stay hard. What other motivation do you need? He went and at age 50, he ran 200 miles. Now, is he the fastest runner in the world? No. Is that the point? Of course not. A lot of it comes down to genetics, your cardiovascular system, how well your training is, and so on. But every one of us can go harder than last time. I'm sorry, but you can. You progressive overload, and you put in the work. For any of you out there interested in doing 200 mile events or let's call it something realistic, perhaps running a marathon or even racing on a bike, go Max. It's going to improve your cardiovascular performance, improve your recovery. And so that is what you're looking for. And of course, you already know to get Turk Builder Max. And remember, this is the authentic Ajuga Turkiststanica from Beckistan. There's a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card in case it doesn't work for you. way better than creatine. And stop complaining. >> Mr. Stay hard, brother. >> If you're interested in losing weight and getting the best cookbook in the world, of course, cookbook 3.1, this is the one you want. Also, if you want to get the circle diet book, the Blue Lobster pre-workout, it's my number one seller. And so if you're interested in this code Greg 15% off, don't forget if you need seialis to get harder than last time or telmartin for your high blood pressure and clomophene to raise your testosterone peptides go to algo RX half price of all the other companies I've checked out. Pharmaceutical grade medications and doctor prescribes it to you. It takes only a couple minutes. They're not going to prevent you from getting what you need. And so if you're interested in Algo RX, click the link in description and get your medications right now. You all know about Momentous Clothing. If you're interested in Momentous, click the link in description, subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algo, watch one of those tube bloops. I don't know what to say about YouTube. It's very frustrating, but I'm just going to keep on going, doing the best that I can. And until next time, I am out.