And so come a little bit closer. You're lying. You're scamming. And I have proof. We tested it. Chain of custody. Come at me. This is a mic drop proof. If this was taken to court and if they were sued, they would lose. They would say, "You lied." And so I brought in amateur analyst Marwan who went to Isbekistan. And it's way too complicated for me to explain. I'm going to prove it to you. Today we're going to be talking about a popular YouTuber. His name is >> Derekmartates.com. >> Coach Greg. In today's video, call it out Derek. Yet again, in case you think that Derek is not a snake oil salesman, that he has integrity, that he would never lie to you, we've tested Gorilla Mines's Turklex yet again. And so I'm on the website and I noticed it's currently sold out. It's in fact their number three seller and it's not even on the main page. And so what I think is happening is rather than putting one of their best sellers, third place out of all their products, Turklex. Well, let's put it later down the list because there's going to be a lot of haters that know that they're scamming, know that they're lying, that it's not a Juga Turkistanica. I have proof yet again. the newest batch, newest lot number and so on. And so they don't need to advertise. I do it for them. Coach Greg says Turkeestone works. Oh, it's amazing. A Juga Turkistanica. And so let's lie and say it's a Jugat Turkstanica even though it's not. And people are going to buy it anyway. And why? Well, it's only $49.99. It's a lot cheaper than Coach Greg who's $79.99. And so I'm looking for a deal. I'm buying Derek's. It's got to be the same thing. Derek wouldn't lie to us ever, now would he? Now, I know many of you been lied to. You've been scammed by guys like Derek Gorilla Mine and others, of course. And I want you to try the real thing. And so, I'm so confident in what we're selling, Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum, Platinum's even better, that I'm going to give it to you at 50% off with proof of purchase that you've bought it from somebody else. You've been scammed. You've been lied to. you've been cheated. The accountants have told me no one of any other company they've been working for has ever had repeat buyers as much as us. And so all I need to do is get you in the door and you're going to be a customer for life. And so are you ready? 50% off. Get to it. I'm sorry to disappoint you, but I tell you what you need to hear and not what you want to hear. And if you don't want to hear me with the mic drop proof yet again, then you can X out of this video. But those of you who want to know the truth, the real truth, I'm going to prove it to you. And remember, I've already called out Derek and I have proper chain of custody, everything in order because I'm not scared of them. Oh, but Bubba said that you only tack people when they're down. The catabolic twig. You only tag them. Derek is more famous than Coach Greg. Makes more money than Coach Greg. And I wonder why. And so break out your products. If you've got this lot number 241027, this lot number, this is exactly what we're talking about. I don't know how many bottles there are exactly with this lot number, but this is what you actually have. Sample name Turk Plex. And so this is Derek's certificate of analysis, or shall I say gorilla mine. And it says report date 1223 2024, lot number 241027, PO number GM Gorilla Mine 0008. And so everything is in order. This is what you're seeing. And it says botanical identification by HPTLC. Auga Turkiststatica. That is the result. It says result Auga Turkiststatica. ID confirmed. test sample has characteristics of the standard. And so on Derek's labs, it's saying they're not lying. It's a Juga Turkiststanica that they have proof. And so come a little bit closer. You're lying. You're scamming. And I have proof. This is on your website. Oh, and Coach Greg, why are you calling? Just mind your own business. He's literally posting a lie on the website. Every single person that's bought this lot number, you've been lied to multiple times repeatedly. Oh, Coach Greg is wrong. We have proof. Go look at the lot number, the sample. We prove it. It's a scam. We tested it. Chain of custody. Come at me. And so here's the actual results. when we sent their products to be tested, you know, before they perhaps, I don't know, forged the documents, change it, pay off the manufacturers, pay off the testers. I don't know what happened, but this was the actual results. Certificate of analysis. And so, let me draw your attention to the lot number 241027. It's the same. There's no possible way for me to alter this. This is third-party testing. I didn't do the testing. Third party, same lot number. And so, notice where it says ecsterone. You see that peak. And what exactly is the amount? The amount says 8.96 mg of ecsteroid per capsule. And so that is factual. That is what's inside the bottle. And next, turquestone. And so the amount is ND. Last I checked, ND is not an amount. It's not a number. And it stands for none detected. Remember coach Greg used to say that a zero. And so how much turquestone is in Turpplex? A zero. And so here's what you need to know. There is no auga turkistanica that exists without turquestone. If there's no turquestone in it, by definition, it's not a juga turistatica, which is what they're claiming on the label. And even more concerning than this, I mean, as if it's not bad enough, it claims 10% ectostereroid content. 10% of 500, it's it's 50. You cut off a zero. It's very easy. Total phycti steroids, the total in the entire capsule, it's standardized for 10%. Okay, remember it's only $50. It's a deal. Why would you buy Coach Gregs when you can get Turpplex from Gorilla? >> What's up guys? Derek moreplace.com. >> The percentage it's it's 1.4. That's 14% of what they promise. So you're getting seven times less than you're supposed to. And so that $50 price tag, it should be divided by seven. And so what you're doing is you're paying seven times too much for what you're getting. You thought that mine wasn't a good deal cuz it's $79. Dererick's is $49. There's only 8.96 mg is supposed to be 50. >> 79. >> What's up, guys? Derek moreplace.com. >> You can hate me all you like. You'd say, "Oh, you shouldn't be calling him out." But anyone that bought Turpplex, you clearly got scammed. And not by a little bit, by a large amount. Did you get any ecsteroids in there at all? Yes, a marginal amount. 1.4% 4% when it claimed to have 10. That is a scam. And so if this product were $9.99 a bottle, I'd say, well, I mean, it is what it is. If you take 10 or 20 capsules per day, well, maybe it's going to have an effect. Just go crazy on the doses. I mean, one capsule of mine has more than the entire bottles of theirs. But hey, do with it what you will. Now Derek gorilla mind they might say oh but there were other minor ectostereroids present that added up to make it 50. Now let me now draw your attention to the graph. You see how there's one peak and it says ecione one peak. You see it if you look all along the line there's kind of minor little bumps of nothingness. This is not enough. There's one product in there ecsterone. And so remember this is only 9 milligrams approximately and not 50. And so in order to have 50, you would need five peaks of roughly this amount of size. In order to explain the discrepancy, there isn't. It's clearly a lie. This is a mic drop proof. If this was taken to court and if they were sued, they would lose. They would say, "You lied. This is not allowed. It's not okay. You can't sell this. You need to change the ingredients. You need to change the label. It's a scam." And so, do you see that little swoop that goes like this? The bigger that swoop and the higher it is, the more of this, it goes like this. If it's a small one like that, it's a little bit. If it goes like this, it's a lot. There's only 8.9 to make it to 50. That line would have to be through the roof or several more of them. Hopefully, that makes sense. There isn't that. It doesn't have 50. They lied. And y'all don't care. Oh, Coach Greg, you shouldn't call out Derek. He He's such a nice guy. I give so much science, you know, four years ago when he would make those videos. He was so cool back then. Where's he been lately? >> What's up, guys? Derek moreplace.com. >> Have I not called him out? Where is his response? >> Hey, scientifically dismantling what Coach Greg said about my Turklex. >> I don't see that video. And do you know why? Cuz he cannot. He can't scientifically dismantle it. Because there is no dismantling of something that we've already described in detail 100%. There's nothing missing. This proves it next. I mean, as if it's not already enough, but we wanted to prove beyond any limitation. If anyone made a comeback video and said, "Oh, but what about this?" And so, again, it's not a Jugga Turkiststanica. That is what Turklex promises. They tell you it's a Jugga Turkiststatica. It's not. That is a scam. How can you with proper conscience then say, "Oh, let's go and buy all his other ingredients. Let's buy all his other products. Do you trust in Gorilla Mind if they're willing to do this and to try to cover it up?" Remember, they've been failing this for years. They did not learn their lesson. They did not change anything back in the day when the whole Turkeone scam occurred and everyone got bambooled, got tricked. Wasn't their fault. But now they know better. And now I'm going to show you a proper HPTLC, an actual test, the real test that shows you if it's a jugistica. This is what we use at HDLT supplements. We don't use testing. We don't pay off some scammers to pretend it is what it is. Oh, we think it's a juganica. Here's $1,000. Please save. Sometimes they won't even test it. They'll just say, "Yep, thanks for the money." Proper testing. And so I brought in amateur analyst Marwan who went to Isbekiststan and it's way too complicated for me to explain. So I don't understand the HPTLC testing and so Marwan explain this stuff to the average viewer. So in lane four and five that is our product that's being banded in comparison to some reference standards. These reference standards are academically validated by academic institutions. So this HPTLC compares uh Turk builder to various different standards that need to be present to confirm the identity of the plant. And if you look at the bottom, it explains the academic sources for how these reference standards were validated. Explains where they got them. And the other lanes are aerial parts of Ajuga Turkiststanica which they sourced from Chromodex and other companies. So this uses various methods to confirm the identity that this is Jugga Turkistanica. >> When you say lanes four and five, it's those two things right there. >> That's Turk builder. So it should be on the same level. So >> I have no idea. So no one's going to understand what you're saying cuz I was watching you right next to you and I don't get it. >> You have to explain it like so that people are >> four five Turk build up guys. Derek moreates.com. I didn't know that and I'm smarter than 99.9% of the people watching this about adjuga and even I don't understand. So >> it's like see this is the problem. Like it's too sciency. You guys don't get it. But it's it's actually legit. This is how hard it is to explain that we have the legit stuff. You need an expert to even read what's going on. Okay. To simplify it, if I do this test and I look at the bands, everything has a barcode, right? So the barcodes for our product uh they have traces of all the other standards that confirm if it's a Juga Turkiststanica a proper reference material of auga Turkiststanica. What likely happened is certified laboratories they got their reference material from China. So they compared a Chinese auga to a Chinese auga and what do you know they were the same. So they basically got a copycat plant and said this is actually a juga and they compared it to the copycat plant and says yeah you got it but what you got is the copycat plant and so when you compare it to actual auga that you know is a juga and they compare it. It's not. They've been outed and so they do a shitty ass test. They don't do the HPTLC test. We do. And then you think I have snake oil and Derek gets to sell it and be the number three seller in his business. Do you know how much money he's making from scamming all of you? Do you think he makes more money selling fake Turk than I do selling real Turk? >> I'm not I'm not good with numbers and I'm very good with financial aspect. >> I know that Gorilla Mine sells like 5x what we sell. They're selling a ton of supplements. Trust me, a lot. The reason you should want to consume the real auga and not the fake azuga is because of these minor compounds. They make a difference. You can expect to have a different physiological effect from these minor components than taking for example the Chinese extract which doesn't have these unique compounds in it. That being said, it's not the testerone content that we necessarily care about. Otherwise, we would have purified it to an 80% 90% turquestone. >> Right. And pure turk isn't what works. It's actually the plant adjuga tkistanica that has testerone in it. And testone is one of the markers that proves it's a juga. >> Exactly. >> No turquestone. No adjuga. And so if you just have a plant that has says it's a juga >> and it doesn't have testone, it's not a juga. It's probably cyanosis. Am I right? >> Cyanotus arachnophobia. >> Cyanotus. What's the whole thing? Cyanos arachnophobia. >> Yeah, >> that sounds like roughly there. We are using testerone for two reasons. We're we're testing it to make sure that our extraction process is consistent. If we have the same amount of testerone per each batch, we know that most likely the other minor compounds are relatively in the same range. Number two, we use it for plant identification. It tells you if you have Turkistanica. On our website, it says turquestone and most people think we're selling it for the turquestone content, but that is an oversimplification. Yeah, understandably it's very confusing, but we are not scamming anyone. We have more than we promised. People said we didn't test all our labs. Like every batch we sing I have tested personally. I send it out. We test it for the salidide, the heavy metals, the actone, the testerone, we test it one batch two times. We test it one inbistan in the institute of bioorganics. Very high-tech um testing that they do there. And then when it comes to America, we test it again just to >> just to be sure. Hey, maybe they shipped us the wrong stuff. We need to prove it. Derek just gets away with sewing some tests. Claims it's freaking what you want, but it isn't. You've seen it. Had 1.4 out of the 10. It was like less than 20% of what it should have had. 50 bucks. Oh, it's a deal. >> And I will say though, these uh fake extracts do have a physiological effect. We've already seen multiple studies showing that enough doses, it still can work. >> Absolutely. But it's it's the reason that people are buying this product is because they want something they can notice and they can feel. And we believe that our extract is superior. We wouldn't have taken the risk to re-release it after what has happened in 2022 if we didn't personally believe that this was a game changer, for lack of a better term. >> Yeah, you all know what happened 3 4 years ago. It wasn't cool. It wasn't >> What's up, guys? Derek moreplace.com. We didn't know what was happening, but we now guarantee exactly what's inside. >> This whole uh supplement industry relies on trust. And the issue with that is that we place our trust in our manufacturers. We place the trust in the labs that tested the products. And in that process, we were burnt by trusting our >> Yeah. We bought the same stuff that Derek bought and Chris Bumstead bought. Everyone bought the same stuff and people like, "Oh, they still buy from them." We literally get it from Bebistan. Do they not understand this? You were actually there for like a week. Oh, they just buy for the sake. No, we make it and manufacture all in Isbekistan. >> The first uh step that went wrong in 2022 was the labs were um giving passing results for everything despite not have actually putting in the methods to do the correct tests which led us to have the labs that said everything was testerone. >> FDA said it's good. We went with what they said. Now we don't trust anything. We do everything impartially twice. Isbekistan, United States. It's guaranteed. It is what it is. And if it doesn't even matter because if it doesn't work, you just get your money back. $20 gift card. How complicated is it? Derek's product. Well, you can buy it and if you use the whole bottle every other day, maybe you get some benefit. I mean, it's not like there's no ecsteroids in it. >> Just way less than in ours. You can get it for a deal. It's only $79.99 and it's the actual Luga. And so if you had to compare a $50 bottle to an 80, mine should be 200 in comparison. If you use three bottles of Derek for 50 bucks each for $150 or one of mine, mine way better. And so this is a deal only $79.99. >> $79. >> What's up guys? Derek moreplace.com. >> Yeah. And I will say you are going to see some videos of us in Usbekistan. We are trying to grow this in the villages, help the economy there as well as protect the crop from going endangered from overcolction and teaching the uh villagers of how to collect it. So we preserve the roots and they come out each year. We're doing a lot of work to increase the supply and it is not our intention to scam anyone. It's not our intention to sell snake oil. Uh we put our hearts and souls into this. >> He says it's not our intention. I could rephrase that by saying we're absolutely not. Not even a small consideration. It's not our intention. It's almost like well maybe they might indirectly. That's what gorilla mind's doing. >> And I will say >> we are not. >> My uh my my income here is is a yearly income. So if we sell more Turk, I don't necessarily make more money. I'm not You do, but >> I'm going to be honest. I make way more money. I'm the one that is in charge of kind of making sure uh things are appropriately tested, they're safe, effective, and whatnot. So, I don't have a financial incentive to lie because regardless of what happens, I get paid the same. You wouldn't lie anyway. >> Did I Did I pronounce it wrong? >> It's not It's not quite on. >> Who taught you that? >> Who taught me that? We had Hussein. We had uh uh Eric Janicki. We had the whole crew of us. >> Yeah. And uh >> my disclosures, I work for coach Greg and I believe in what he says and of course you know there is a financial incentive based on the fact that I do have an income from the company but that income does not change based on how much Turk we sell. It stays the same and I can only say that my intentions are not to scam anyone or to pull any weird >> if he found out that I was bullshitting you guys. He wouldn't be working for me. He would literally leave the company. He's already done this in the past with somebody else. We're not going to name. >> Yeah, >> I would love to just name it and say who it was. That would be even crazier. But anyway, enough of that. >> All righty. Well, thank you so much for listening. >> All right. If you're interested, code Greg, 15% off. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost the algorithm. Like the video if you liked it. Of course you liked it. Probably didn't get this far, but if you did, you probably liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And if you want to get any of the supplements, the Blue Lobster, Harder than Last Time, the Delta Sleep, there's so many things. If you have an appetite, GLP max, lower testosterone, G test max, G test platinum, all of it, website, cookbooks, training books, coaching plans, all of it. And until next time, I am out.