going to do is leave it to the medical professionals to give their overview of everything. >> Find any excuse possible in the world, I don't care how rare the disease is, you name it, to explain it. Sometimes the simplest explanation is the right one. The simplest explanation is bro is on steroids and lots of them. Coach Greg in today's video, the aftermath of calling out Prosper Fitness as a fake natty. And so, as you know, went over the blood work and it proved that he's a fake natty. Did he then come out and make a video and say, you know, I'd like to apologize. No, he said they got it wrong and here's doctors that are going to say I am natural. And so, of course, what they do is they double down. It's going to be exciting to go through the response video and tell you exactly what's going on. Greg is going to have a field day with this video. AMG Bros finished. Least convincing unbiased doctor report I've ever heard. No verification of who the doctor is. Nothing. No explanation as to why the markers are all out of range. is I've went to a series of doctors and gave them my blood work so they can analyze my blood work and give an unbiased opinion of my blood work. >> Let's address that. They gave an unbiased opinion of his blood work. When I first recorded the video, I said, "I believe he's natural." And so I went into it assuming thinking he was going to pass. I wrote him, "Hey, I want to prove that you're natural. Can you send me the blood work?" Absolutely. Get the blood work. And I'm thinking, can't wait to make a video. Lo and behold, so many markers were off, pointing, staring at the fact that he is not natural. >> And what we're going to do in this video is counteract them series of allegations. Going to do is leave it to the medical professionals to give their overview of everything. >> Second of all, you think that doctors are experts in reading blood work from people who are using and abusing performance-enhancing drugs? Remember who used to sell them? This guy. And so these doctors would go and say, "Yep, bodybuilders. They might use 50 mg of dbol in a day." That was a cycle literally in court. And I'm thinking, "What about the test, the trend, the mastone, and about 20 other things we're taking at the same time?" Literally, this is a cycle. That ain't no cycle I've seen. You're just using 50 milligrams of dbol. And so they're standing there with their expert opinions talking about the steroid cycles that people take, the risk factors and so on. And I'm thinking they have no idea what steroids actually are. I was saying, "Oh, what about DECA?" The doctor had not even heard of DECA. You think doctors are experts? You walk up to a doctor and say, "Hey, you know, I'm on androl, dbol, some VAR, and I take nolva, and oh, by the way, I also added in some Austrian, some LGD, and MK-677." And see what they say. They have no clue what those things are. And so, guys, I had uh medical doctors, endocrinologists testifying in court against me that did not know the names of these drugs. They said that Tadalapil, you know, Seialis, that that was a steroid. in court. That's the level of intellect that we're dealing with. And so unless you have somebody who's trained at reading blood work from people who are using admitted to using performance dancing drugs, they have no clue. >> And in the second video I'm going to post later on, I went to a >> endocrinologist. >> Endocrinologist. And he also gives his opinion. >> Did I just hear someone in the background tell him what an endocrinologist is? Is this his girlfriend in the car? Who is this female? Did y'all hear that voice? analyze fully analyzes my blood work. I know there's been a couple of questions about supplementations I've been taking, which I'm going to list out on my second video as well. >> And so, do you know what these unbiased opinions are? Hey, a doctor, I want to pay you to tell me things that could prove that I'm not actually on steroids. Find any excuse possible in the world. I don't care how rare the disease is, you name it, to explain it. Sometimes the simplest explanation is the right one. The simplest explanation is bro is on steroids and lots of them. But rather than that, let's find every rare disease possible to explain it. Oh, and he found one comment that agreed with him and so he pinned it. And so before it was pinned, it's down here. I'm going to read it. As someone who has their medical degree and understood the video, there's more than likely no anabolic use. Why or how could you say that? And so you have your medical degree from where? Where did you get the degree from? A cereal box? How could you say it's more likely not from steroid use than actually using steroids? I also found it odd that you would send Greg blood work if you were not natural. So, I knew there was more to the story. And so, you're assuming he was natural and sent me the blood work and that he wasn't just formally on steroids and got off of them and then sent me the blood work thinking that he had passed. Bro couldn't say endocrinologist. You really think he looked at his blood work and thought, "Oh, that's going to come out as being a fake daddy." Or do you think he thought, "Oh, testosterone's in the normal range, and so that proves unnatural." >> This is a lab report for Prosper Noah, a 29year-old male who has had his blood drawn to look for evidence for the use of performance-enhancing drugs. >> I know that first lady's voice, that is Winter Adams. She is not a doctor. She's a wellness competitor. No disrespect in the slightest. I love Winter and I respect what she does. One of the best UK wellness athletes. I'm just saying I don't remember her being an actual doctor. That's all. And so we have a wellness competitor. Most wellness competitors are not natural. And so perhaps she knows a little bit. But he's saying it's a doctor. I'm reading it's a wellness competitor. And she's not actually a doctor. She's not his girlfriend. She's studying medicine. So take that. >> Whilst the use of those steroids as well as the use of enlomophene and SARS can lead to a raised panel in the liver such as this, >> the first doctor or wellness competitor, whatever you want to call her. She just agreed with me. It can do it. It can cause that 100%. >> It's also possible that training intensely, taking any form of supplementation can lead to raised liver enzymes. And so she's saying if you take creatine, if you take Turk Builder Max, Turk Platinum, GO2 max, or harder than last time, or any of those supplements that it could cause this, are you kidding me? Any supplement or training hard can triple your liver enzymes. There's no way that's an actual doctor because if it is, she should lose her license. There's no way you actually believe that. And so, listen, you don't know what you're talking about. We're talking about ALT and GGGT both elevated in unison together. It's not from overtraining. If it was just one, maybe it's overtraining. Probably not that high. Not this elevated cuz if it was, well, you better stop training. But training doesn't elevate your GGT. Did you know that? And so, how are you reading blood if you didn't even know that? And so if it was from some weird strange genetic mutation and it caused this kind of damage to take some normal supplementation from ashwagandha or something it would be such an extreme event his liver would be shutting down. It would be a medical emergency. It wouldn't just be hey it's elevated go have a good day. It would be bad. >> Or having any undiagnosed liver condition or liver stress can lead to raised liver enzymes. If he had an undiagnosed liver disease, he would have extra hippatic symptoms. You would see it. He would have at least some of the following. For example, the jaundice, the yellow of the eyes. He would have distended abdominal veins. He would perhaps have armpit hair missing from under his arms. And also, not to mention edema, which is fluid retention around the ankles, the lower extremities of the legs. Do we see any of this? Not to mention his albamin is normal. And so, the stuff his liver is supposed to make, it's being made. And so, how could he have both? And so, your explanation, it's maybe possible, one in a million, probably less. And so, why are we going with that? We're going to go with the one in a million chance that he has this rare diagnosed condition that wasn't diagnosed that should be or he took steroids. And look at his physique. >> Also, having any viral infections can lead to raised liver enzymes. >> Yeah, viral infections could cause this, but if you look at his white blood cell count, it's normal. and so he doesn't have a viral infection and so why are we listing things that he could have when it's impossible that he has them? It would be like saying you know he might have this rare disease that could have caused it. It's only caused in Caucasians and bro it's black. You really going to give that explanation? >> The use of a product peak which includes ingredients that cause mild dehydration such as dandelion root and u ersy. >> You know what it had to be? These herbs, herva ursy leaves and dandelion root which can cause mild dehydration very very mild. It had to be that you know all the damage to his kidneys to his body. It's caused from these over-the-counter herbs. Don't you know do you remember that thing called an intake form where you're supposed to list all supplements that you're taking? He didn't even list creatine. He said vitamin C. Why was it not saying Irvy leaves and dandelion root? Or did they have to concoct some kind of a story afterwards saying, "Hey, I know we'll write that you took this and write what you took that and I'll say it in a doctor voice and make people think that that's what you had." >> Can also lead to these raised liver enzymes. So there is no evidence to suggest that anabolic steroids have been used. >> Not even alcohol would do this. Alcohol dehydrates your body. Think of caffeine. Bro could had two liters of caffeine and had 10 beers likely wouldn't have got those results. Do you really think ursile and dandelion root are going to cause this? And so listen, your ALT, it's not going to be affected by your dehydration status. And so just because you didn't drink water, you had a cup of coffee, drank pre-workout, it's not going to cause your ALT to be this greatly elevated. And so what I do believe is she's confusing this marker with creatinine, which can in fact be greatly elevated through dehydration, of which it was. but they're not related. And so she may know a little bit of one thing over here, but she's confusing with another. And so she has some understanding of blood work, but clearly not enough. >> There's also no evidence for the use of enlomophene. >> There's no evidence of inclin at least say, you know, inclus. This is ridiculous. The ALT and the GGGT are both elevated. The creatine is through the roof. The LH was above normal. How can you say there's no signs? >> These don't show any of the typical recovery patterns. If he had recently stopped using Enclomophane as was claimed. >> And so she's saying, I said that he took in that he stopped. No, I said that he's on enlomine as a part of his PCT to get his testosterone back to normal. >> In that case, you would see a suppression of LH and FSH. In addition, if he had recently stopped using Enclomophene, that would also go back down into normal ranges. >> But the problem is he hadn't just stopped previously, if he had stopped several weeks ago, then yes. But if he's still on it, or maybe he stopped taking it a day or two ago, it's still going to be elevated. >> And then this SHBG, the binding protein, being on the higher end, what this does suggest is that there has been some natural suppression of testosterone. >> Okay, listen. Natural suppression is mediated through the hypothalamus pituitary axis. And so the brain would stop producing LH and FSH in response to a stressor. And so we are not seeing a natural suppression right here. We're seeing suppression due to taking something in the past. And so if we saw a natural suppression and let's give you an example. Jeff Nippert who's been dieting very similar. Jeff is looking excellent. His lean is down to about 155 lbs. His LH and FSH were very very low both of them around 1 1 point something perhaps 2 point something but it wasn't exceptionally low like 0.3.5 whatever in comparison Prosper Fitness LH was through the roof and that is a sign of using something not natural suppression. Do you get it now? This may also be linked to the liver enzymes that we saw were elevated as SHBG is produced by the liver which can then lead to that reduction in the free testosterone. >> You were saying maybe he has an undiagnosed liver condition. Now if that were the case, he wouldn't be having SHBG this high because the liver is what produces that. It would be damaged. He would have lower SHBG. And so the fact that it's high means his liver is functioning properly and doesn't have some undiagnosed condition. Additionally, SHBG is elevated through the use of enclomophene. And this is due to the estrogenic effects of clomophene. And so, do you now get it? Does it make sense to you? It couldn't have been this rare one in a million chance rare liver disease that was undiagnosed magically. They just didn't notice it. The guy's almost 30 and much more likely from enlomophene. Now, trembolone suppresses the hypothalamic pituitary gonadal axis significantly and the recovery is quite slow. So, we wouldn't expect the FSH to actually be in range. >> It can be if you're using inclapene after if you're doing a PCT. Yeah. Tren is very suppressive. Why do you think bro would have been then using inclapene to get unsuppressed? This is what it does. That's why people go through PBCTs. And so the whole reason that I said this in the previous video is that you use either Nandrallone, Deca, and or Tren because that is going to increase the prolactin. And so because the prolactin was at the upper end range of normal torite the fact that he's on a diet despite the fact that you'd expect it to be lower is because he had previously used Deca and or Tren in the past. And remember, prolactin suppresses LH and FSH, but yet LH was through the roof. And clomophene raises the LH and Tren and deca would increase prolactin which would decrease the LH and so how are we seeing elevated LH unless he's using inclin >> there are also other markers that are found usually in line with the use of tremblone in particular raised cortisol levels which we can see here is not the case as the cortisol levels are normal and in range >> and so one more thing she's saying that trenone increases the production of cortisol when it actually does the opposite it and so she got it 100% wrong. >> Therefore, this profile shows an endocrinological system that is working to optimize the free testosterone >> or it shows an endocrinological system that is not working due to prior use of performance-enhancing drugs. And so, yes, the blood work shows that his body is trying to optimize the use of testosterone, which is the opposite of what happens when you diet to this extent. But it's exactly what happens when you're using clomophene. >> Therefore, the testes are functioning normally. What this indicates is that the luteinizing hormone is still signaling to the testes to produce testosterone. >> If you're actually natural and your LH is above 10, you don't have properly functioning testes. It's not happening. She's got every single thing wrong. It's one point after the other. It's simply illogical. And so if you take her word over mine, we've lost hope. Believe her, then go ahead, be my guest. If you want to believe that he's 100% natural because this woman who I think is a wellness competitor, perhaps it's his girlfriend, maybe she studied medicine at some point in her life, I don't know. But if you believe her over mine, I don't care. Believe him. He's 100% natural. Yay. Does that make you feel better? Or you can go with the science. If there was damage to the testes or atrophy of the testes, then this testosterone would be much lower. >> Not if you're on inclapene. And so the only way to actually prove this would he would need to be willing to show the testicular size on camera. You would have to have an off account. He could show it. And so ladies, if you want to see if Proper Fitness is actually natural and Oh yeah, people have DM'd me and told me some stories. That's right, Prosper Fitness. People have told me in the DM, but I'm not going to read them. But people have outed you. People that actually know and so you ain't natty. You can have this person say that you are, but trust me, there's people out there that know and they've told me >> suggesting the use of anabolics such as Trembolone. Now, this is inaccurate as the use of tremblone and andone actually suppress LH and FSH. >> Of course they do. He used Trend, got off the trend, got on in Clomene, caused the LH to go up. Why are you straw manning everything that I say? Because you know he's a fake natty and you're covering for him. What's more likely? He looks like this and has her up blood work. And so what blood work would he have to have to show he's a fake daddy? How much would it have to be? Would every single marker have to be through the roof? Oh, he probably has this rare disease. He used dandelion root. He slept wrong. He's black. You can't win. In addition to this, the use of those anabolic steroids would actually result in a low SHBG. >> He was on them and now he's not. Does he look like a lifetime natural? Lifetime means his entire life. That's what I stated. And so all you're doing is straw man arguing me. If you steal man me, you would agree with every single point that I've made. The filtration rate of the kidney being on the lower end, ura being on the higher end again can be a result of a diet high in protein and also dehydration present at the time of testing. >> If natural bodybuilding actually caused all this and caused all these stressors and that VARY leaves and dandelion roots does this, they should all be banned. >> Prosper's LH and FSH pretty normal. The LH is very very slightly raised. Um, and that can happen if someone is recovering from anabolic steroid use, but usually you'd see a lower total testosterone >> unless they're on clomophene. >> His total testosterone is about 50 50% like in the middle of the range. >> And so his testosterone, he says, is about the 50th percentile, but yet his LH is at the 99th percentile. And so explain the discrepancy. Oh, that's right. You did not. can increase your muscle mass by maybe two to 5% but nothing like the kind of changes uh which can happen from using much more traditional anabolic performance-enhancing drugs. >> And so he's saying well if he had taken inclapene it might only help his physique grow up by perhaps 5%. But remember this, he could have used Tren, Deca, testosterone, SARMMS, MK-677. He could have used a host of other drugs previously and then stopped all those steroids and then taken inclapene and got these exact same results. And so you can believe that he didn't take anything if you want. If you want to believe, you know, Michael Hearn, he's likely also natural, right? I mean, you can believe that or you can believe what's most likely happening, which is in Clomophane having previously taken steroids. That's what it shows. >> Like I said, this is just one moment in time, but a blood test, it's not really enough to tell you anything. You can also do things like DEXA scans. >> And so, you know, this doctor, his suggestion is that the blood work, it doesn't really do all that much. It's just just one blood work. But what you could have done was a DEXA scan. Is that what I now have to say with fake natties? Show me the DEXA scan. How would a DEXA scan help decide if he's natty or not? That is literally I'm showing him saying it. I'm not making this up. This is not AI. He said to see if he's natty or not, you should use a DEXA scan. >> Doesn't really tell you a huge amount. You can't prove something with it. Um, but also there's lots of information there about someone's health and about the effects of anabolic androgenic stories. >> Yeah, that's right. With blood work, you can't prove that they're lifetime natural, but if you have blood work like this, you can prove that they're not. Ending it here. And so, HLT is looking for a sales distribution manager. We're trying to get HLT products, for example, the Turk Platinum, the Turk Builder Max, the Geotax, all of this into stores worldwide, primarily in North America. And so if you have experience in this, if you worked in this field in the past, apply by clicking the link in description. And of course, we're looking for ambassadors as well as sponsored athletes. And so if you want to work for HDLT supplements, you believe in the brand, click the link, and apply right now. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. And also, if you're looking to get your blood work done and get analysis from a doctor, a professional that knows what they're doing, I've partnered with Algo RX. I'm part of the company. I want you to get your blood work, be healthier than last time. You can get supplements from them. And so, if you're interested, click the link in description. And until next time, I am out.