Hey guys. Snap. I just got a BBL tummy tuck mommy makeover and now you can see my abdominals. Coach Greg. And in today's video, Drake thinks we're all morons. He thinks that we're idiots. He shows a photo of himself with the glaring six-pack. He looks like an old He-Man or perhaps a G.I. Joe figurine. And get this. I'm going to read what he says. I'm wide awake for the nights that separate the type of guy to get it till they get it right from the type who just type. And so basically, is bro just trying to brag? Is this a flex? He's flexing his abs, saying, "Hey, I put in the work. I'm not the type of guy that just types about I go and get it done." And so if by getting it done, he's referring to surgeries where you suck out the fat between the abdominals, essentially a BBL for your abs, then yeah, you're the type who gets it done. But if you're trying to make it look like you put in the work, that you dieted, that you trained, you did your cardio, you did your crunches, we don't believe you. And so you're thinking, well, where's the proof? Okay, well, let's examine the abs. When you go to the gym, your whole body goes to the gym, dude, not just your abs. And so if you only look at his abdominals, the six-pack, you're thinking, "Well, that actually looks kind of legit." It seems possible. The problem is when you have abs that defined, the rest of your body also has some kind of definition. Drake, who for the most part appears to have 20 to 25% body fat, would not be possible. Well, perhaps one in a million that he would have abdominals looking like that, but would not have striations in the delts, perhaps a bicep vein, some chest striations. Very unlikely that he did it while being natural. But let's really hone in on his obliques. Does anyone notice that there's a hole on the side of his obliques? Why is there a hole? Your obliques are right here to the side. Why is there something missing? A gap? Kind of like you have a gap in your teeth and there's a hole. It's like, why is there no white right there? Why is there a glaring hole? And so if you look at the old GI Joel figurines, He-Man and so on. It kind of looks like that. Let's see a photo of Drake in the past. Now look at his abdominals. You don't suddenly target the fat loss from your abs. He has not lost a significant amount of body fat from that period of time until now. And so, why is he so much leaner in the abdominals, but not as lean everywhere else? I mean, does he not look like a Hulk Hogan figurine? I mean, look at this guy. It's just simply too fake. We have Rick Ross calling him out saying, "Bro, is this the second time you're going through this operation? You had fake abs last year." And so, the only person that seems to be defending him is Nick Trilogy from Bodybuilding and BS. He's saying, "Hey, he's proud of his abs, and I don't care where he got them. He should be showing them off. He looks awesome." But here's the thing. The reason we respect abs as men is because we know how hard it is to get them. We know the amount of work that you put in. It's one thing to use ompic or a GLP, reat, and so on. And it's another thing to simply suck out the fat. If you're taking a peptide to make you reduce your appetite, you're still perhaps putting in the work. you're doing your cardio, you're lifting weights and so on and the entirety of your physique, it's going to look better. To me, using a GLP like ozic and so on, it's not much different than someone who decides to use steroids, serarmms, peptides, IGF, MK, all of that stuff. You're using something foreign to the body to help you to reach your goals. And so, whether you decide to do that or not, well, if it's legal, it's on you. But you're not going to get the same level of respect from other men if they know you got your physique through cosmetic enhancements. Even Phil Heath said, "Look, I'll train you. This is not how you do it. If you just get surgery to improve your abdominals, but you don't improve the rest of your body, it doesn't look good." If he hit me up and was like, "Hey, what's it going to take to, you know, the to meet up here and there and and go over everything?" Not a problem. the body. It's about looking aesthetic. It's about balance, symmetry, harmony between body parts. If you have amazing abs and everything else looks like garbage, well, it doesn't look all that good. How is this any different than the females who are getting the BBLs? The world has been calling out Drake saying, "This looks bad. This is embarrassing. You don't have the self-awareness to understand that you're a joke. This is embarrassing." To the same extent, it's very comparable to females who get those massive BBLs. They have huge booties, but they have stig legs to go along with it. And so, it doesn't look right. It looks fake. Add to that the fake lips. Looks like they have a pair of hot dogs on their faces. And people just don't like that. And so, women are thinking, "No, but men, they like a big booty." Yeah, they do. Not denying it. But not when it's fake like that. And so if you get badass from an implant or BBL, it's not going to have the same impact as if you got it through hard work. Everyone pointing the finger at Drake for supposedly getting this ab incisioning procedure done. And guess what? Who gives a turk? His abs phenomenal. Now who gives a turk? Everyone that I know. I haven't spoken to anyone. Trust me, everyone wants me to do this video. I haven't spoken to a single person that respects the abs that he's got. He looks better before. To me, standing by the beach with those abdominals looking realistic and he's actually, in my opinion, actually looking at it right now, I think he was leaner back then than he is now. And so, you can't just let yourself go and get abdominal etching, implants, whatever, and think that you're going to look better. You look worse. His abs look phenomenal now. Hence, that's why he was confident enough to post the selfie. And so, was he confident enough to post the six-pack or too delusional to understand that he's going to get a lot of hate? Sometimes people are either narcissistic or just morons and they don't realize that what they're going to do if they post that and talk about it is actually get hate and perhaps he wants the hate and so perhaps he's just so high up. I don't care. I'm going to show my abdominals knowing everyone's going to make fun of me and because I'm Drake, I don't care. And if that's the case, well, good for him. He doesn't get impacted by the opinions of sheep because, well, he's a wolf. Well, if that's the case, bravo. But I'm going to suggest to the rest of you that you don't copy this, that if you think that you can just get these surgeries and get the abs of your dreams, it's going to end up being a nightmare. Why not just put in the work? I mean, if you really want those abdominals, and hey, maybe it's too hard. Maybe watching Coach Greg videos and getting my cookbook, it's just too freaking hard for you. Maybe doing 150 minutes of cardio, it's not something that you can do. You understand? I have GLP max, an oral version of the injectables that can reduce your appetite by about 28%. You go from an 8 out of 10 hungry to a 6 out of 10. That makes the diet a lot easier. But if you really want to, you could opt to get peptides. That is something that is a viable option for many. Remember, don't break the law, but if it's going to help you reduce your appetite and get you to go to the gym, train hard, and stick to your diet, then well, I'm all for it. One thing I don't like is when you post the photo of the six-pack, he clearly wants you to focus on the abs. He's covering his face. What is up with men that cover their faces? It's bad enough when women do this. Guys, I got to love with you. When you show a selfie with the phone covering your face, this is pathetic. I don't know why you would do this. And so that's the first thing I noticed. The second thing is why are we bragging about all this alcohol is he's saying, "Hey guys, look, I drink poison all the time." And you realize that alcohol is a poison, right? I mean, it's a class one carcinogenic. And so if you drink alcohol, it's like drinking poison. It can cause cancer. And so if you want that, well, that's fine. It's on you. You have a right to smoke cigarettes and to drink alcohol and so on. But is he bragging? Look at all the alcohol that I'm drinking. Hey, this is my life. and yet I still have abdominals. Is that really the message that we're going for? In comparison, if he were in the gym and said, "Look," and he showed a photo of his abs and said, "I've locked in for the last 3 months." Maybe he's on OMIC, perhaps he's on GLP, or perhaps he's on Turk Builder Max. Which person would you have more respect for? He's showing his body. He's saying, "Look, I'm putting in the work, and here are the results. Got the leaner arms, the chest, and so on." in comparison. Hey guys, snap. I just got a BBL tummy tuck mommy makeover and now you can see my abdominals. Which is the greater message? Which has the greater impact? I'm certainly thinking that most people would rather see you work out and show off the hard work because of your hard work, that's why you have abs, hey, this is a result of surgeries. And notice he doesn't say he got surgery. I mean, if he says, "I had a BBL. I got a tummy tuck, a mommy makeover, whatever you want to call this abbe etching thing. Whatever you want to call that, he admits that he got it and he posts it. Then I got to say, well, at least he's being honest. 100% honest, open, and transparent. And so, you'd have to at least respect him for that. But I don't see him mentioning this here. I see him bragging about the abdominals, which look moronic, which look stupid. And I don't see him admitting how he got it. Would this not be equivalent to somebody who doesn't go to the gym, injects himself with a bunch of synthol, hyaluronic acid, has all the fake body parts, you know what I mean, the oil body parts. It says, "Look at me. Where is the brag? How is that a flex?" Drake mercilessly roasted for fake six-pack abs. Arms and chest sold separately. Exactly. I mean, the abs, they're not bad. The six-pack itself, the obliques look so fake, however. But where's the chest and where are the arms? It's the total package. And so when I first saw this photo, I'm not going to lie. I thought, "Oh, this is just some AI Photoshop This is not a real photo. This is not actually Drake's abdominals. I didn't think that Drake would actually post this. I I was sent the photo. I thought, "Yeah, yeah, this is a scam." You type in do some AI thing. There's perhaps a third eye or there's three belly buttons in the mix. But in 2025, you can do these AI photoshops and you're actually going to believe it. And so to find out that he thinks this actually looks good and that it's not AI, well, it's got to have been achieved through the knife AK from surgery. If you don't want to go through surgery, perhaps it cost $40,000. I don't know. It's very expensive. You can get HDLT supplements as well as my cookbook. You can get Blue Lobstered and go to the gym, have an amazing workout, and if you get Goto Max, you'll have better cardio than last time. It's certainly going to help you to burn fat and calories. And of course, if you're trying to build muscle, Turk Builder Max. If you have lower levels of testosterone, you're crash dieting and so on, we have Gest Max as well as Gest Platinum. And we have a host of other supplements. And so, head over to the website, code Greg, 15% off. And as you now know, as you're aware of, I've drastically reduced the coaching prices. And so, if you're interested in being coached by me, click the link in the description and we can get you into the shape of your life. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like this video if you did in fact like it. Watch one of those two bloops, the cookbooks, the training books, the circle diet book, all the amazing tried and tested supplements. People are overjoyed with the supplements. Trust me, this is the supplement company everyone's talking about, in particular with the Turk Builder. And so, if you haven't tried it out already, don't forget about the money back guarantee and the $20 gift card. You can try it riskfree. Don't worry, we have the labs to back it up every single time. And so, we unlike the competition, we deliver. And until next time, we're out.