We're going to do a Dexter scan. Did he literally do this to troll me? Eddie, what are you doing to me right now? Who weighed the plates? 79. I mean, a DEXA scan, it's perhaps better than an inbody exam. Inbody exam, which was used to try to say that Turk Builder didn't work. This guy, Jose, he doesn't like Coach Greg. I've got the receipts, the emails. Wanted me to donate $200,000 to a charity so that he could do research on Turk Builder so that no one would know the study comes from Coach Greg. He wanted me to do that. I had the receipts. And so, because I didn't do that, he takes one of these pills, does a test for a month, doesn't have any of the athletes work out. They don't have to train. And there's only 25 total athletes in the study. And guess what? that they use an inbody and say there's no statistically significant difference. Does anyone think that could have happened? They could have been using Anavar and there wouldn't have been a change. They weren't even working out. They were using an inbody. What's next? We're going to put in Eddie Hall the mountain and index scan and say, "Oh, their body fats didn't work. The guys don't even fit in the bloody machines." So, it's going to give you a composition of what your muscle mass is, what your body fat is, what your bones are to the decimal, which it does. It might not be accurate. I will agree with that. It's off by up to 15% and in particular, it's off by larger athletes. You know, the kinds that don't fit in the machine. At the end of the day, why the DEXA scans exist? Are they just there for fun? Well, DEXA scans primarily are to detect bone density to see the density of your bones. For example, if you have osteoporosis, if your bones are strong or not, and it's not ideal to assess body fat, muscle, and so on. As you know, a lot of your muscles is water, about 80%. And so, if you go in a DEXAC scan rehydrated versus dehydrated, makes a significant difference. And so, it doesn't really know. And so if you know how to fool a DEXA scan, of which I certainly do, I could say I gained 10 pounds of muscle in a day by using a DEXA scan. But did I really did I really gain 10 lbs of muscle or did I just dehydrate and rehydrate? It's a guess. You'd probably be more accurate by asking a child saying, "Hey, how fat do you think this guy is?" All pretty fat. And so the eye test, if you got titties, you're probably not le I would rather trust a machine that's been designed by scientists and, you know, German manufacturers over a dirty snake. And so would you also trust that machine that was designed by a scientist researcher to assess Mitchell Hooper's bicycle strength? He came out at 6800 watts. Peak power. 6,800. Do you know what the world record is? About 2500. And remember, there are millions of people around the world at bike ride. Coach Greg is one of them. And what is my peak power? It's in the 1500s. I'm an elite level sprinter. Very good on the bike. Does it not look like I would be strong on a bike? I have a Guinness World Record in the deadlift. And so very powerful. Mitchell Hooper, who's way stronger than Coach Craig. I give him that. I expected him to be double coach Greg. And so if he had said, "Hey, I broke the world record. I had 2900." I'd say, "Congratulations. I believe it." But when you say 6,800, when the world record is 2500, that's more than double the world record. And so it would be equivalent to this. What is the world vertical jump record? Somebody say they jumped 4 feet. And he writes me and says, "You know what? I just broke the vertical jump record. Wow, congrats." What do you get? Two inches over the record. No, two and a half times more. 10 feet. It's so far-fetched that I don't believe it. And that doctor, he was involved with Lance Armstrong and they proven that he was sketchy. And so you not think it's more likely measurement error. In the video, they literally said, "We need a bigger flywheel." And so there's often times measurement error. Sometimes I'm using the Garmin and Bamo, it shoots out 2900 watts. It's an error. Things happen with machines. They're not always accurate. And so when he puts out 6800, you think it's more likely that Mitchell Hooper is more than twice as powerful as the most powerful cyclist in the world? Have you ever seen Robert Forceman? Have you seen his quads? Bro is squatting five plates on each side with one leg. And so this is the man who has done this research. Coyle and Armstrong research errors evaluation. Literally an article talking about the inaccuracies of that coach. admitted to making what he calls a minor error. Wild widely criticized from the beginning. The test explaining efficiency measures the first response criticism of methods and over interpretation of data. And so I don't want to confuse everyone, but he ain't doing the right thing. This is no way possible. And although Mitchell Hooper is excited to have more than doubled the world record, and by the way, that would be four times stronger and more powerful than I am. And I do in fact race bikes at an elite level. And I'm telling you, even at his current body weight, if he could actually do the numbers that he was saying, he would win every single bike race in the world. Any sprint, no one could beat him. No one has that kind of power. We're talking 40 watts per kilo for peak power. It's ridiculous. Oh, I say turquestone is way stronger than creatine, but I doubt it's going to add on 16 extra pounds of muscle in only 90 days. Why is he editing out the box? He's pushing a product there called Turasterone. Um, don't know what the it is. I don't really care. And so he doesn't know what it is and he doesn't care. Maybe he should. If Eddie Hall were perhaps taking Turkesterone, aka a Juga Turkistanica from HLT supplements. Perhaps he would get stronger than last time. Perhaps he could lower his doses. But he pretends that I'm the one selling the fake Turkest. I just know I would not trust a singleing word that comes out of that man's mouth. And so he says he wouldn't trust a single word coming out of my mouth. Yet I'm the only company that's been vindicated. Remember vindication as in it's proven that I'm selling real Auga Turkistanica after all. Trust me. And if you don't, that's okay. You can still buy it and then you can get a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And so if it isn't already sold out, you can get to my website and order it now. Remember, it is not snake oil. The other companies, for example, Gorilla Mine, they have been proven to sell snake oil. And you don't have to trust my word. Third party tested. Not once, not twice. In fact, let's see if Greg Ducat uh Turk the Turkeestone scandal got deep. Oh, my response to Greg Det. And so they show a guy named Menow who posted a video where they're talking about Turkeestone being fake. They did a study on it. Only thing is that study didn't use a Juga Turkistanica. We've proven it with receipts. You've seen that video. He didn't care. And why? because they have a grudge against me. They don't like coach Greg and so they'll do anything to try to disprove me. You can't disprove facts. Fact is this is a Juga Turkiststanica from Usbekiststan and not the copycat plant from China. Yeah. Charged with possessing important trafficking and distributing steroids. And so what does formerly selling steroids 10 15 years ago have anything to do with selling testerone right now? And so coach Greg sold tidal labeled as seialis and also anavar for example other performance dancing drugs years ago had 20 months house arrest back then how does that have anything to do with the fact that I am selling turquestone right now from the plant adaistanica adominum attack you're attacking my character but you're not attacking facts we've proven with the receipts that this is real and so if you for example cheated on an exam in grade seven. Does that mean that you don't know anything about nutrition now that you're 40? It's [\h__\h] Independent lab work not actually containing turquo. That's right. And so three years ago, do you remember the testerone scandal? And so what happened is HDLT supplements as well as Chris Bums said, you remember Chris Bumstead told and also Gorilla Mine, all of us as well as perhaps the entirety of the fitness industry, we were all selling fake turquest. We didn't know it. Why? Because third party testing, FDA standards and so on, they didn't use a test that's sensitive enough to detect turquoise steroids. And so essentially what we were getting was a plant from China. And so from this plant there was in fact eciids but not enough from turquestone. And so that plant although it still works it's not as good as the real thing. Think of it as getting for example cheap marijuana. There's different grades grade A grade 2 A 3A 4 A. Some have different cannabonoids. Some perhaps have more indica versus sativa. And so it's not exactly what you were expecting. And so since that time do you know what we did and we're the only company that did? We changed our product from Turk Builder to Ecuer to more accurately represent what was in it. And you know what Gorilla Mind did? They did nothing. They continued to sell the exact same thing and even did 3 years later and still are doing so. And since that time, we scoured the globe. We found a legitimate Auga Turkiststanica and an independent party and guess which one? New at Tropics Depot. The same company that outed everyone. Gorilla Mine, Chris Bumstead, Coach Greg. Every company, not just me. You're thinking it's Coach Greg that did this. We were law-abiding. We got it third-party testing and they said it's legit, but they were using the FDA testing that wasn't accurate enough. It wasn't a mass spectrometer. They didn't use the most expensive testing in the world. And since that time, we did. You know what Neutropics Depot found out? After testing 10 of the top sellers in the world, we're the only ones that had it. And so what did they do? They reached out to us and said, "Where on earth did you get this? No one else has this. You're the only ones who are legit. And so if you're thinking I'm making this [\h__\h] up, we have the receipts. We literally did an hour and a half podcast. The testing is there. We've shown it to you. And so the botist, the experts, they agree. HLT supplements, the only one selling legit turquestone from Auga Turkistanica. And so it feels so amazing to prove this to you with the receipts. Do I look scared? Do you think that Eddie Hall can simply just call me out without me having the receipt? You think he somehow got me? He got Derek, got gorilla mode. Can't wait to go and buy their product compared to mine. Do you think I'm scared? I have known this for more than a year. I've already tested their products, but I didn't out them because I thought no one would believe me. But now that third-party testing has proven it, now you know. And so Eddie Hall can grin from ear to ear, but he doesn't know we have the legit auga turkistanica. Three years ago, myself, gorilla my Chris Bumstead, the list goes on and on. Yeah, we're all duped. We were selling eci steroids. Did they work? Yes. Do they work as well as this one? Absolutely not. This is the cream of the crop. The best of the best. Well, as I said, how the could you trust a single word that comes out of a goat dealer that sounds fake and gross? And so, if you understand what happened 3 years ago, do you think I was lying? I'm a new supplement company trying to learn the ropes. I buy from them a juga turistanica. They send the lab work. This proves it is what it is. It's the same product that you're buying that we're selling to Derek, to Chris Bumstead, the same thing. They're also selling it. And so I believe them. After all, it's third party tested. I'm thinking, "Yes, it is what it is." And so I sell it. Lo and behold, third party testing from a different lab with a more accurate test discovers it isn't legit. And so what do I immediately do? I change the label from Turk Builder to Ecuador. I do what is right. I try to make amends. Other companies, they do nothing. They continue to sell the same thing. And so in the future there's a company Gorilla Mine selling Eciplex and Turpplex. Oh, but they made it Plex complexed it. It works so amazing. It's literally the exact same plant. The same plant exactly sold with one name and another. Oh, but since Greg called him out, they changed it. We don't now claim to have it any tester. We don't claim that. Literally, the tester molecules on the bottle. How do you explain that? And when it was tested, 36 milligrams of trigesterone mine at over 14. And so who's laughing last? Who's actually selling actual Auga? And so Eddie, I can't wait till you make your apology video saying, "Oh, I didn't know all of this. I didn't know it's actually Gorilla Mind that's continued to sell this." And so Eddie, where's the video? I'm a drug dealer that sells fake drugs. And he actually thinks I sell fake drugs. When you label something as tadalapil or seialis, is that fake? If somebody says this is anavar and they say, "No, it's not anavar, it's Alexanderlone." Or somebody says it's Winnie and it's Winstrol. Are you going to get mad? It wasn't fake, Eddie. Why would I have had 20 months of house arrest? Remember, in Canada, it's not illegal to use steroids. It's illegal to sell them. And so, if you're just using them in Canada, it's legal. In the United States, it's illegal. I don't know the laws of your country, but I'm assuming it's legal for personal use the same way as it is in Canada. And so, Eddie, you're allowed to say you're on testosterone, you're on HRT, you're on peptides. You're just being honest. But I was in no way selling fake steroids.