This is the body of a guy that started to take steroids after training for 9 years to get to this. He just bought his abs from the surgeon. The world has lost hope. Big Sean ab implants. Are you kidding me? I mean, it was bad enough with Drake. The world calling him out. What's with the BBL? What's with the mommy makeover? Isn't it obvious? And so I'm afraid the bar has been lowered so bad that in 2025 if you have any sign of abs whatsoever, well, you probably got it through surgery. You probably paid for it. It's ompic or it had to be from steroids. Perhaps I'm to blame. The nats undone, the video on Drake, the videos on the liver king. And so maybe I'm to blame. But let's examine this. Big Sean, I don't with you. So, he apparently doesn't with the gym either. He just bought his abs from the surgeon. Big Sean is getting accused of having ab implants. So, I'm going to tell you whether or not I think these little things are real or fake. This video is going all around the internet because he seems to have extremely defined abs sitting on top of a bubble gut. Look at this. The bar has been lowered so bad in 2025 that this is considered to be extreme ab definition. Funny thing is if it was on a fitness influencer, you'd be calling him fat. Be like, "Hey bro, Alex, you letting your diet slide? When are you going to get on that Reddit too?" Try. You've let yourself go. This physique is mid. Trust me, everyone would be saying it, but when it's on a singer, broken rap. I don't jerk. He can't have abs. I mean, what is wrong with society? Hot take. But untrained skinny bodies are so attractive. Untrained. Untrained skinny bodies. And so if you have abs, you're an untrained skinny body. But if you have abs and a little bit of muscle, well, it's surgery. It's steroids. Or what else could it be? Turk. It's got to be the Turk. Guys, if you're on Turk Platinum and Turk Builder Max, you could take one of each. You could take one or the other. Trust me, the world is going to accuse you of being a fake natty. After all, how is it possible to have abs and muscle at the same time? Well, I'll tell you, it's Turkey. You've all seen the charm crab and the lobster crab, and you've seen what it's procured, the baby lobster. Now, have you not seen the lobster meme on the internet with the abs? This guy, he has an incredible body. And it's not from being in the ocean. It's because they're on Turk Platinum and Turk Builder Max. Code Greg, 15% off. Every one of these people that were shown are not only extremely dedicated to the gym, but they also are extremely disciplined with their diet. And you know what? They all have better abs than Big Sean. His abs are mid. They're decent. They but they're not exceptional. If Big Shawn stood up on a stage, he would get last place. And so you're saying it has to be surgery. All it has to be is genetics and he doesn't have too many hog and pizzas on the weekend. But to judge whether or not he had implants, we have to look where he started at. Now this photo is from 2015. It's not a bubble gut. I It really bothers me when you see a guy with abs and it's not peeled. If it's not completely flat, you're thinking, "Oh, he's got a bubble gut." Now, there's a big difference between having your gut stick out a little bit and Mike Israel. Mike Isertell has been on growth hormone steroids for years, and so he has a large protrusion from his abdomen. But to just stand up and have a little bit of a stomach, it it sticks out a little bit. It's not a bubble gut. Oh my goodness. You have a bubble gut. No, I'm not doing this. That's the difference. It's not that big a deal. Just because his waist isn't pancake flat, it doesn't mean he's on growth hormone. It could be he had a salad for breakfast. He had any kind of breakfast whatsoever. He's not on a keto diet. And so when you look at his abs from 2015, doesn't he look like he has pretty respectable abs? His body isn't very big. You probably say, "Oh, he doesn't work out. He just shows up and sinks." He probably work out and sinks and follows a healthy diet. And he does have fairly good abdominal development. Even back then, they kind of look fake, right? They absolutely don't look fake back then. They just look like he has good genetics. If you line up a 100 men and lower their body fat below 15%, which is rare because most men are fat pieces of [\h__\h] Sorry men, you need to start going to the gym and putting the fork down. If y'all ate fewer calories and worked out, many of you would have abs looking like this. But we don't see them because you're fat. Sorry. I mean, he's not the liver king. The liver king. We made speculation. Hey, are these abdominal etching? Is this Liver King ab implants? And if you compare to Liver King's abs to this, it's unmatched. And we can see that at almost any body fat he's adding at almost any body fat in the teens. At almost any body fat in the teens, this is not almost at any body fat. I mean, we even see Eddie Hall. Remember, you know, the guy that's one green spray tan away from playing as Shrek in the upcoming reboot. That guy even he has abs. He's 360 lb. But since pictures can always be edited, videos are a much better tell. And in this workout video he uploaded a while back, his abs look completely different than before. Yeah, because it's a video. He's not standing and flexing and going like this and going. He takes a 100 photos and one one photo makes the cut. Bam. everyone. He has fake abs or he had one goof photo. And so during a video of which he probably had breakfast, he probably had some oatmeal, probably a scoop of harder than last time protein powder mixed in it. Wanted to get some extra protein. And so now he looks fat. He's bloated. He's not. He's doing abdominals. He doesn't have a growth hormone stomach. He doesn't have anything. He looks like a normal bro who's going to the gym. But the thing is, they kind of look worse now. Like less defined. Yeah. because his body fat went up two percentage points and he's not posing. If you pose in the ultimate lighting where the lighting is coming from the front or above you in the morning and it's the right angle, you can have amazing looking abdominals. So much so that everyone says you're a fake natty. For example, Hussein Farad, he adds it in structure and oh, he's a fake natty because he structured his photo and they made him in real life. Oh, I now believe that you're natural, but you're a lying piece of [\h__\h] loser that scams everyone for millions of dollars for coaching. Or he put structure on his photo. Take your pick. I would think he either started taking steroids in his muscles, including his abs, got a lot bigger. And so, this is the body of a guy that started to take steroids after training for 9 years to get to this, or he got some sort of abdominal etching because even throughout his past, we've never seen his abs stick out this much above his belly. No, this is just him bloated. This is him not flexing. This is not a guy with 30% body fat that has abdominal etching. You actually see his chest muscle. You actually see his arms, his shoulders. He's actually leaner than most people. This isn't even a dad bod. This is much better. Big Sean, I guess. Big boy Blake here. He doesn't hurt with you. HGH gut. Everyone thinks that if you don't have a six-pack, flat as a pancake, that you have an HGH gut. You just have a normal stomach. There's something going on. Like, it's normal for a man to have abs that look like this, but when people see it, they think it's HGH gut. It's not. If you have any kind of stomach more than 23 in around, you're pregnant. Okay. Close. He got that BBL drizzy. N them abs is cap. Ain't no way. OMG. BBL abs. Fake abs is crazy work. Lol. What's wrong with bro's body? He got the knuckle stomach. Bro got abs and love handles. Bro went to Turkey for those abs. I'm reading the comments one after the other. This is insanity. He looks like a normal fit guy that works out in the gym. I mean, does he have to train with his shirt off so that people don't make fun of him? He's clearly under 20% body fat, probably approaching 15. He has good quads, decent abdominals, well-formed chest, biceps, triceps. Bro is doing really good for himself. And to me, this is representative of physique that's 100% natural. And so, I guess if you're natural, you're doomed because even when you're natural, you're going to get fake ab accusations. Well, well, well. I didn't see this one coming, but here we are. Users were eating up Big Shawn in the comments asking what is going on with his abs. And they are alleging that he got the Drake abs. Did he get his abs done once upon a time? He definitely got them done. 71% No, they were real. He just gained the weight. 29%. I can't stop watching it. I'm in disbelief. I guess this is equivalent to the thighs don't match. I think he just got older. I mean, he has a little bit of fat down here, literally. And he's leaning forward a little bit, so he has some abs. He got a six-pack going on up here. He's got a little bit of folds there. And he carries a little bit of body fat there. Now, remember, I'm 8% body fat. If I was 18%, I wouldn't have the same abs as I have right now. And so, bro has a little bit of fat down here. He's not shredded, nor is he fat. He's healthy. And y'all are making fun of his abs. Shame on you. The world is over. I have no hope. Uh, let's get out of here. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video, watch the bloops. And remember, you want to get Blue Lobstered because that'll make you have a good time. And if you want more ripped abs, get GLP max cuz it makes you less hungry. I got Gest Max. That'll maximize your testosterone. I got Delta Sleep that makes you go to sleep. G-Sh makes you shred very simple, harder than last time. That one makes you harder than last time. And G2 max, it makes your G2 all the way up to the maximum. I'm kidding. It makes your cardio get back much better. GO2, it's a playoff V2. Did you know that? V2, like the amount of oxygen your body can use during effort. V2 max, if it goes up, it actually predicts you live longer. And so, it can make you live longer. Code rag 15% off. Don't forget about the cookbooks, the training books, the circle diet book, all the clothing line. And until next time, I'm gay.