 X 하나付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付 300,000 big reasons not to lose weight. They're called followers. Over 300,000 morons, including you, right? You follow this girl. Yeah. Like, why do you want to see what fatties eat so that you can see what you shouldn't eat yourself? Is that why you're watching her? Are you watching the train wreck? Why exactly are you watching a morbidly obese woman eat herself to death? Are you sadistic? Is that what's going on? People- It's like it turns me off from food. Like kind of- I mean, as soon as I watch that, I go soft. And so- No, that's not what I mean. Harder than last time. You're going to need a double dose of this. Eight pills I'm going to take today. Because imagine trying to get freaky after watching this. Gorging people, gorging themselves overweight and not giving two shits about doing cardio or eating healthy and just thinking it's cool. But remember, they have hundreds of thousands of reasons to do this. They're making money. Is it worth the money when you're going to die? Let's just watch what she eats. We're starting out the day with some breakfast. Yeah, of course we start off our day with breakfast. But the problem is, what is that big brown thing you're putting into your mouth? And so she shouldn't eat the donut. You might be thinking, yeah, but no foods are off limit. Yeah, donuts for her, they're off limit. Especially for breakfast. You don't eat this. And we also had to get some protein in for breakfast. I mean, I think it's acceptable to have the fried chicken. I mean, it could be better. Go easier on the sauce. Those calories, they quickly add up. But it's all about portion control. You can't eat a massive donut and a massive fried chicken with a massive amount of sauce and not think you're going to eat too many calories. I mean, honestly, all I saw there was the crust, the fat part. I didn't see a whole lot of chicken. Why don't we just eat some chicken? Perhaps at the end, you could have some protein anabolic donuts from my cookbook. Did you know that there's a bunch, like I think six different protein donut recipes? And they do in fact taste exquisite. So why not go with that? And what about for something to drink? We got that sprouts. It's a red drink. It's not diet. You got to have none of that. For sure, a shit ton of sugar in that. Like, I just see it from here. This fatty, all she needs to do to become a baddie, rather than being a fatty, is reduce the calories in her diet. I mean, she probably actually would be hot. If she lost 190 pounds, she'd probably be attractive. I feel like she has potential. Most people are attractive if they're not fat. That's a good point. All you have to do if you're a female is not be fat, and you're kind of good looking. Like, you could get a man. It's not that hard. It's not that deep. Honestly, most people are good looking if they're not at their healthy weight. Yeah. Like, if you get lean enough, and you can see some bones, you look smacks a little bit, you're going to be kind of all right. Yeah, decent, right, yeah. Decent, decent. So just don't be fat. And so when you watch this girl, understand that this is proof. She's caught in 4K of exactly why she's gaining weight. It's not because of the obesity gene. Remember Oprah Winfrey? She tried to convince us that, hey, obesity, it makes you fat. It's not the fact that you're eating all this shit. It's obesity. And so you have no excuses. If she had Diet Pop and some normal chicken that wasn't deep fried and had a smaller donut, she would lose weight. We got cauliflower pizza for lunch. Let's not eat the whole pizza. Cauliflower pizza, it's still pizza. You didn't need lunch. You ate enough for the entire day at breakfast. Ice cream tea with peach and raspberry. Why are we drinking sugar calories? Like, just drink the diet version. Like, if she did no change whatsoever, and instead of having the sugar laden drinks, she had non-nutritive sweeteners like aspartame and Splendas, you know what I'm talking about. If she had the Diet Pepsis, she'd probably lose 50 pounds. She would make no change. She would still eat like a piece of shit. She would still eat like an asshole. But rather than having the sugar calories from the drinks, she would drink, you know, water and Diet Pepsi and Gatorade Diet Zero, whatever, she would lose probably 50 freaking pounds. Probably a pound a week, 50 pounds in a year. That's how easy it is. For dinner, we're eating a burger bowl. The first thing that made sense, a burger bowl. This is lowering calories. She's removed the BUN. I would have that. I mean, I would eat three of those. But we could eat that and the BUN. You lost four pounds last night because you rode in a bike race. I did a bike race and I was... And so if you race bikes, you do a lot of cardio, you basically eat whatever you want. We ate out, went out, had pizza, I had no key, and we're getting up and we're losing weight. Why? Cardio. Like, I bet I eat more calories in a day than this woman. I mean, it's close, but I probably eat more than her. But I burn it off. That's the difference. Why does she wear that nose ring thing? What is that doing? Is that to bring the attention away from the 400 pound gunt? I think so. So like, you see that and your eyes up here. Don't look at the gunt, eyes up here. I mean, what is that thing? This is what really mesmerizes me a little bit. She's wearing an aura ring. So she's so hardcore into tracking her sleep and her resting heart rate or REM sleep score and all this bullshit that you don't need to know. But she won't track her calories. There's the low hanging fruit and the high hanging fruit. Like, it's way up there. The aura ring is so high, I can't reach it. I know I'm a five foot six manlet, but even with my stepladder, I can't reach how useless it is to track your sleep REM cycle with the aura ring. You throw the ring in the trash and you track your calories. Like, if she traded in her ring for my cookbook, she would lose 100 pounds and she would be happy. Happy is a fat kid eating cake until that fat kid grows up and realizes that it was a big mistake and they lost 20 years from their life and they're having a heart attack and life sucks. Sorry, zero sugar cranberry to end the night. Finally, the zero sugar cranberry. Why isn't she having more of that? You are so beautiful. Why do you do this to yourself? I mean, that, I like that as a comment. Why do you do this to yourself? Well, she has 300,000 reasons and she's getting a bunch of DMs saying, hey, you're beautiful. She's getting attention and she's kind of infamous. She's famous for doing something wrong and so whether she's getting positive or negative attention, attention is still attention. Do you guys grow up knowing this? Like, as school teachers, we'd have some students in the room and they would do bad things and some would do good things and honestly, they didn't care. They just wanted attention. Perhaps they weren't getting attention at home and so sometimes a kid will act up. They're acting up. They're talking when they shouldn't and all they want is the teacher to say, shut up, Jimmy. All the student wants me to say is say, ferme ta gel, little Johnny. Sté verti. Ça va rentrer. Allez, ça, t'es toi. Ferme ta gel. Je te plie, blue. They get the attention. I'm not sure what you meant by that. Oh, ferme ta gel. Alexa, if I have to talk to you one more time, principal's office. Lexa. I hear you're having a tough day. Shut up. What I would do sometimes is I would have to ignore said person. Ignore them because they were craving me saying ferme ta gel. And so sometimes people do something for negative attention. So, she's doing this on purpose knowing fatties probably shouldn't be eating all this fatty food. But yet, she posts it because she's getting so much attention, hundreds of thousands of followers. And so, she's motivated to keep going. What you would think would motivate her more would be to lose the weight and be healthy and to live longer. But people, they don't see the future. They don't listen to Coach Greg until it's too late. And so, there lies the problem. Let's watch what fatty number two eats in a day. But before we watch what fatty number two eats in a day, she wants to offer a warning, a trigger warning. In case this is happening, let us see. It has come to my attention that there is multiple brands that are using my face to promote their products. And I just want to say right now, I do not give you authorization. No one is using this to sell products. It's not happening. Unless they want to go bankrupt and last I checked, most companies they want to make money. Now, if you see Coach Greg advertised on Facebook and so on, I'm sure you've seen it. Promoting BPC-157, some oral version, it's AI and they spice me doing an interview with Transcend where I was talking about injectable peptides and they use me to sell these products. Why do I know this? Because I go to the gym and every second day somebody says, oh, you're the BPC guy. You're selling these oral PPC on Facebook. I'm like, no, no, that's not me. It's AI. And so remember, unless it's with Algorx, it's not actually me. I'm a part owner of Algorx. You can go there, you can get your Enclomaphene, your Tadalafil, your Cialis, the Viagras, NAD, Glutathione, peptides, whatever you're looking for. Perhaps you're trying to lose weight, the peptides, GLPs, all that kind of stuff. You go there, code Greg, 10% off. Let's get back to the video. The company needs to steal content from another creator to fake a promotion. She's talking like this, bird hens. This is a woman, as soon as you see bird hens, you walk away. What I eat in a day as a fat girl. I'm always starting with my Diet Coke. All right, this is great. She starts with a Diet Coke. I mean, there's no calories. It's got some caffeine, probably going to reduce her cravings, and so we're off to a great start. We have a, looks like a fried platter. It's got like chicken tenders, chicken tenders, Asian plum wings, mozzarella states, and fries. A family-sized fried platter for breakfast is not ideal. It's for a family. I mean, you're the size of a complete family, but this is too much food. Why is it that some of my videos get demonetized for talking about how to lose weight and to be healthy, but yet you're allowed to show this shit? What is this to do? It promotes people to binge eat. How is this allowed? How are you allowed to do mukbang videos, but I can't promote living a healthy lifestyle, 150 minutes cardio, fork down, going to the gym, training, all that stuff? It's so good, and our waitress is so sweet, and I have to ask her for a soup. Of course, the waitress is sweet. She's being paid a ridiculous amount of tips to walk over and bring your fried platter and say something nice like, enjoy fatty, I mean baddy. I feel like the waitress called her a baddy, so then she's like, oh my gosh, she's so sweet. She's so sweet, and you're going to tip her, what, 20% for bringing over a plate of fries when nurses make less money than you? Think of how much money you're paying a server to just bring over a plate of fries. How many tips do you get, Mepsogram, when you like, cure people's eyesight and stuff? How often do you get 20% tips? Not even once? No. And how many eyes have you done? 14,000? More, yeah. So 14,000, no tips. No tips. We have a Italian sausage flatbread, coconut, FD, and a blackened chicken bacon ranch. No, there's no way. She's eating more than the family platter. The family platter was just the appetite. That was just the start? That brought it into the day. I'm surprised that she can eat that many calories despite being that weight. Like, any one of these meals is more than she needs to eat probably for the day. And so one thing I'm going to say with near certainty is that she did not eat all the food that we watched at that breakfast. I think she's playing on the fact that she's a fatty and she wants people to make fun of her. She wants a Coach Greg video kind of like this. She's hoping to go viral from being an absolute moron. There's no way I believe that she ate all I saw there. I couldn't eat that much. I certainly think I can eat more than her. Many of you are just going to watch this video and think, yeah, guaranteed that's what she eats because look at her. You don't need to eat that many extra calories in order to quickly become overweight. If you eat 500 extra calories of surplus from what you're supposed to eat, so let's say your BMR is 2,000 and you're eating 2,500 a day, that's not that much food, 2,500. That's 500 extra calories. You could gain about one pound of fat a week. It's about 50 pounds of fat in a year. By just eating in a small surplus over years, like 10 years, 100, 200 calories extra per day, not way more, not eating the entire platter of chicken, burgers, fries, and so on, you're slowly going to gain a lot of weight and you might not eat that much. I believe that for breakfast it added up to more than 6,000 calories and I don't believe that she ate all that food. I don't know how she got 163,000 followers and it says, a blogger, it says, sweet treats and hot girl eats. See, the problem is, I don't understand this kind of clickbait, like, hot girl eats. I'm scrolling and I don't see one. Unless, I guess it could be clickbait, that she's basically always sweating from eating so many calories and so she's a very hot girl. As in, temperature wise. Mucho caliente. So I came to Costco for this and I ended up with this. I mean, she went to Costco to get high protein snacks, ended up with a foot long sausage in her mouth. Lazy to get a bowl to shake them up so I just poured the sauce on top. I've had enough. Why are we watching this? Why am I even doing a video on this? Why are you watching this? This is what you need to know. These women should be on GLP Max. Reduce your appetite by 28% and you eat less. I don't even think they actually would need it if they just made healthier choices. If they got my cookbook, ate from it a couple of times, even per week, they'd probably lose some weight. Stop drinking the sugary drinks. Just drink diet. And if that is not enough, obviously you would have to do cardio and all these things to help even more. But if it's not enough, you can go to Al Gorex, try to get some GLPs it's going to reduce your cravings, the food noise, make it even easier as if it's not already easy to lose weight. It's excessively easy to lose weight. It's hard to get shredded. Like I don't think these two ladies are going to walk around at like 130 pounds, but they definitely could lose 30 pounds without very much difficulty. And so why not try? With every 20 pounds of body weight, you're going to certainly see a reduced blood pressure, improved health markers. And so I encourage them to lose weight, but I know they're not going to because the algorithm is going to force them almost subconsciously thinking I want the validation. I have all these thousands, hundreds of thousands of people following me, watching my videos, writing comments, writing me my DMs that they want to eat a donut off my ass and all these stupid, dirty, crazy things that people are thinking. And so they're motivated to keep going. They're not going to stop anytime soon. If people never watched them do this, they would stop. If people watched them lose weight and encourage them, they would probably continue to lose weight. And so that is how the mind works. If you're interested in Al Gorex, getting all the things, code Greg 10% off. If you're interested in the Turk Builder Max, the GLP Max, anything to the max. You're trying to health max, go to HDLT Supplements, code Greg 15% off. Subscribe, click the bell, comment, algorithm, bloops, videos. Looking for sponsored athletes? Click link. You want to sell my stuff in stores, gyms? Click link. And until next time, I am out.