I was on like all kind of weird steroids like uh it's called SAMS. You know what that is? >> He doesn't give a [\h__\h] He's just like I'm going to tell it like it is. >> Coach Greg and finally a Hollywood actor has openly admitting to using performance-enhancing drugs in order to play a movie role. And so we all knew it. But finally someone had the courage to do it. And who is that actor? none other than Shia Labuff. And so this guy was the main actor in the movie Transformers back in the day. Most people have seen Transformers. And you've seen his physique. He isn't a mountain of a man. He's not the mountain who recently deadlifted an all-time record. 510 kg looking easy. Looked like he had 10 possibly 20 more kg. And so he lifted,24 lbs. It looked like he could have lifted over,50. It's ridiculous. Diabolical. I personally hope that he retires because I want him to be around for a very long time. I'm sure most people want him to just keep using performance drugs. You don't lift those kind of pounds natural, but we shall see. And so Sheila Buff, he went from 165 lbs to 220. That is a lot. That's 55 lb. And no, it wasn't lean muscle. It wasn't all muscle, but it was in fact 55 lbs. And so if you were to just see his physique at 220, you'd probably say, "Yeah, he could have done that natural, you know, natural." But with the time frame that he did it in, and remember, he's now 39 years of age. He didn't do it natural. And I'm not making this up. I'm not the catabolic twig. I don't just pull stats out of my ass. He admits it himself. He's very open. Tell us a little about a bit about the process and how >> train him. We did train him. There's some pad work. There's some bag work. >> And so he had to play the role of a boxer. He's 5'9 in tall. And so 5' 9 and 220. It's a very big man. I'm 5' 6, 190 lb. And so it's bigger than me, but it's not all lean weight. And so because he wasn't lean, many people thought, oh, you know, he just ate a little bit more chicken, broccoli, and rice. And that's what happened. Perhaps some ice cream on the side. It's like hard dance. Hard dance. Yeah. Like boxing in movies is not like his what he knows, you know? It's hard dance. And so, as we're seeing him in this interview, he's got the massive mustache, the shorts on. He doesn't even look like he works out. Like, if I didn't know any better, I would say this is just a guy that just goes about his daily life. He just perhaps plays video games, eats, goes for walks, and doesn't do anything physically active. I wouldn't call him looking like an athlete, but yet this was the guy that betrayed the boxer. An athlete, a man who's very, very fit. But people I know in the past, for example, Hussein Farhat, they think that he used to take steroids and that since that time he stopped and just kept all his gains. Where are his gains? He went from 220 lbs down to 165. Why? Why didn't he keep his gains? What I'm trying to teach people is that if you decide to take steroids, you don't just keep all of those gains. Let me think if I can think of another example. There's this guy, people call him the pebble, the guy who didn't want to be a tombstone. He wanted to live longer than last time. He used to be called a rock. He lost 50 or 60 pounds of muscle. Do you think he's 100% natural? Like, do you really think that he just what did ompic to lose all that muscle? But yet he lost it. How? Because he stopped abusing steroids. And so when you take steroids and you stop them, your muscles is going to go down. No matter what you're thinking, try not thinking that anymore. And listen to reason. And so as he's hitting up the front double bicep, bro is over 25% body fat. I mean, maybe he's 30% body fat. He's certainly not lean. And so when people see before and after transformations, if the after doesn't end with a six-pack, people think, well, it probably was natural. If you use steroids, you're going to see abs. It doesn't work like that. Steroids don't give you abs. This is comes from a calorie deficit. So just because you take steroids, you're not going to be lean. And so for most people, if you just go to the gym and work out and you don't care about your diet and you don't do cardio, this is the kind of transformation that you're going to make. the way you see his finished look right here. Most people who take steroids, that's what you're going to look like. You can see how he looks now that he's off of them. And so, if he were to go back on steroids, most likely that's the kind of physique that he would have. And so, it gives you an appreciation of what you would look like. Many of you think you'd look like perhaps coach Greg Hussein Far Hat or Chris Bumstead, but that is very, very rare. And so, just because you take steroids doesn't mean in the end you're going to end up with your fantasy physique. out of the world is super sexy. I knew I was, you know, um, >> and so you can see he's working on the tricep press downs. He doesn't have abs. He doesn't have a six-pack, but he is significantly bigger. If I had to guess, I would say that this is what people actually think of when they think of a dad bod. They're thinking, "Yep, this is a dadbod." And my opinion is it could be a dadbod. Certainly bigger than most dads that I know. His current physique right now at 165 in comparison to 220 in my opinion and more representative of a dadbot. an average dad. It's more what they look like. The average dad doesn't go to the gym and take steroids and weighs 220 lbs at 5'9. That ain't average. They're talking of his transformation, saying he had to transform both his accent, the way he speaks, as well as his body. It was like, well, how how am I going to fit in this world? I'm so tiny, you know, small. And if you go meet any of these fighters, these travelers, even guys in my position who are just kind of bookies, they're big boys. They're bigger. And so he was thinking, "How am I going to play an actor, a boxer? These guys are big. I'm just a small man. 5' n, 165 pounds. It's not big." You can see his face is a little bit more gaunt. It's smaller around here. Same as The Rock. When Rock is off the abusive drugs, he seems to have a leaner face. Even myself. Myself right now, I have a leaner face than I did when I was blasting, even on stage. And steroids obviously give you a puffer look in your face, but also make you a lot bigger. And so he felt small. Perhaps he had some body dysmorphia or perhaps he just knew, I'm an actor. I'm expected to play this character and this character should look this way and I'm going to do whatever it takes. Coined by famous rich piano to do whatever it takes. And what it took was steroids or in his words, >> you know, and I didn't want to act a lot. So I figured if I was bigger, I could be quieter and kinder. And so merely by his presence, remember he's an actor. Part of acting is not just what you say, it's how you move, how you talk, the way you present yourself, and just by having more muscle, taking up more space. That allowed him to be a better actor. It allowed him to play that part that much more. Rather than having to use words, having to say so many things, his body spoke out loud for him. >> And he's kind of like this bridge. So he's like Peter Pan, you know? He's like a up uh Peter Pan meets like who's that shitty boxer we always talk [\h__\h] about the Irish what's his name >> the way that this guy talks in interview he's like this shitty boxer this loser this guy that we talk about is like he doesn't give a [\h__\h] he's just like I'm going to tell it like it is so I like this guy reminds me of myself he's just going to tell you what he thinks he doesn't care he's not like the rock carefully scripting out every single word making sure that everyone likes him just puts himself out there and if you like it, great. If you don't, also great. >> He's got to be a bit you got to get the passport, you know? You got to get permission. So permission was like the size. >> And so he's talking about you got to have permission. The passport, the size. You had to have that look. Without that look, he couldn't play the part. >> And how much weight did you put on as well? Just out of interest. And they told I was about to die and we had a cardiologist tell me, "You got to stop." >> And so he's like, "Bro," they bring up his side. How much did you put on? He put on 55 pounds. His cardiologist said, "Whatever you're doing, you've got to stop." Obviously, they're getting their blood work done. They're getting examined by doctors. These are multi-millionaires. They do, in fact, care about their health. Now, if you care about your health and you want to make sure that your wife or your loved ones, your girlfriend, your kids, you're there for them. Of course, consider going with Algo RX. They can look at your blood work. You get your blood work taken with them. They can give you prescription medications to reduce all the dangers of what you're doing. Do you need inclin? Do you need a semiglutide or trozipide to help with your diet? Do you need seialis to you know get harder than last time? What exactly do you need? And so if you're interested code Greg 10% off and of course they can in fact read your blood work. Many people get their blood work they don't know what to do with it. They can also do that. Click the link in the description. >> I was on like all kind of weird steroids like uh not steroids but it's called SARMMS. You know what that is? >> And so he says they encouraged him to take some weird steroids. They called them SARMM selective androgen receptor modulators. Now it shocks me that he couldn't have found a doctor. Perhaps they could have prescribed him HRT. Then if he wanted to get leaner, perhaps he could have prescribed tzipotide or a semiglutide. Now a lot of people are talking about reatride, but you're essentially a guinea pig if you're using that because it isn't legal. It's not legally prescribed. It might be in the future. They're doing tests on it. But if you want things that are legal right now, semiglutide, trozipide, they work exceedingly well. Now, I don't personally use them. I don't need them. I do a lot of cardio. But if you're struggling with food noise, you're obese and so on, I do think that there are more benefits to taking them than there are cons. Now, no drug is safe, but if you do so monitored by a doctor, I believe that they can be very beneficial. And so, if you're interested, code Greg, 10% off. >> Yeah. some weird new steroid that they gave me that I got big. >> So, isn't it interesting that it says it's a weird new steroid that they gave me? Who's they? The movie director, the people who hired him, his personal trainer, his coaches. Who's they? And why was it a SARM? Now, if it's in the United States, perhaps it's because steroids are illegal unless it's prescribed by a doctor. But I do believe he could easily have gotten a prescription. He could have gotten a prescription for testosterone. And so why not do it healthier than last time? I believe that HRT is healthier than SARMMS. He may have used RAD-140. It might have been Austrian, LGD 4033. The list of potential SARms goes on and on. Many people they're taking MK-677. Dr. Mike said this is the gains pill. A lot of people think no negative side effects. Well, if you don't consider type 2 diabetes a negative side effect, then well, perhaps it doesn't have that many. But, uh, type 2 diabetes, it can kill you younger than last time. It's not something that you want. And so, please be very careful. Now, I would have wished he would have contacted Coach Greg. I could have trained him. I could have coached him. I absolutely would have put him on Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum. Would have given him G2 max and of course Gest Platinum to increase his testosterone. So many supplements you could take. the creatines, the preworkouts, the secl bars, all of this would have been beneficial. I'm sure he can also afford it. He could had a personal chef making him the recipes for my cookbook. And so, hey, it's not too late. I mean, you're 165 lbs, 5'9. If you want to get some muscle back on, it's not too late. Do it healthier than last time. Code Greg 15% off. And so, Shia, if you're interested in getting me as your coach, please reach out to me. And for those of you who are not famous actors, you can also do the same. Click the link in description code Greg. 15% off. >> How did you lose it? >> Uh, stop doing SRMS and then stop eating. >> And so he says, I ate a lot and I took Sarmms. That's how I put on all the muscle. Of course, I train. And he's like, "Well, how did you lose the weight?" Well, I stopped taking the SAMS and I stopped eating a lot. It's as simple as that. And so, why didn't you just keep all that muscle? I mean, can't you just go on a bulk and then when you go on a cut, you keep all the muscle that you gain? No, not if you stop taking the SARMs and or steroids. That is how it works in the real world. And so, this a much better depiction of what it's actually like to take steroids, SARMs, and so on in order to make a transformation. It doesn't last. >> He's clean. He's clean. >> It was It was really big, and now it looks like Gollum. >> And so, he's size shaming him now. He's like, man, he's really big. Now he looks like Gullum. Like, what the frig? like how are you so small? You were a big guy boxing not too many months ago. You can lose weight pretty fast. We've seen it in the rock. And so please understand that just because you use steroids or sarmms briefly that you're not just going to keep all those gains. >> Thought I was 220 220 220 and now 165 sort of. >> So that's a lot of weight to put on and lose. But you you actors do kind of extreme [\h__\h] don't you? >> All right. Why don't you slow down making me feel small? And he's like, "Look, like, are we really needing to size shame me right now?" Yeah, I was 220. At 5'9", it probably puts him as being obese. At 165, it's actually a lot healthier. And considering the fact that he's not abusing SARMMS right now, that his doctor told him that it essentially was going to die if he kept doing this, then don't you think he made the correct decision? But if you keep making fun of him, putting him down, and he wasn't a confident man, what do you think would happen? What do you think happens in the real world? People make fun of people. They belittle them. And before you know it, these guys are getting limb lengthening surgery. They're now 6'5 after being 5'7. And they're literally walking on crutches and in a wheelchair. And just because people made fun of them for being too short. Please don't take what people say to you so seriously. Like so many people in this world, almost everyone is just trying to get by on their own. They're trying to keep their own self-esteem intact. And so they say a lot of things to other people in order to cope themselves. And so if you get a lot of hate, people putting you down, making fun of your looks, you're too ugly, you're too skinny, whatever it may be, just don't listen to these people. It's hard not to. Of course, you're going to hear them, but in one ear and out the other. That's what happens when they give you insults. When it's a compliment, in one ear and let it resonate. >> It sounds like a conversation you can have at the bar afterwards and you can measure up. Um, >> the host is like, I got to get them off topic here. We're trying to promote a movie and these guys are admitting to taking performance-enhancing drugs, to taking SARMMS, making fun of each other and their height and weight and so on. Yeah, let's change the subject. Let's talk about this at the bar. This isn't something we want to talk about. >> Tell everybody else what compelled you to write this story. >> So, I mean, I'm personally more interested in the the guy's weight loss transformation, the weight gain, and how he felt about that. I think it's an amazing story. I recently just watched a movie from China in subtitles. The woman lost about 100 pounds during the movie to play the end of the movie where she got motivated to lose all that weight. She was 220 lbs, got down to about 123 lbs and it showed her lose the weight. It took her just over a year. That was for a movie. And so that to me made the movie viral. That's what everyone wanted to see. And so a big transformation I think it's important to talk about. Imagine in the smashing machine. Imagine if they put the rock on a panel like this and people started asking questions and the rock was like, you know, my circumlex artery was, you know, it was really getting shut down. And so I made a conscious decision to top blasting hella trend, which I've been doing since I was in my 20s, perhaps even in my teen years. And so I lost 50 lbs of muscle since that movie. People would be losing their minds. They would be laughing. The Rock would be praised for his honesty. Wow. You actually admit you abused Tess Tran and so on. Yeah. I was trying to play a superhero like Black Adam and I was the biggest wrestler. I was famous and and it got the best of me. I wanted to be what everyone expected of me. But I realized now at 53 that I can't keep doing this. And so I'm on doctor prescribed HRT and that's it. And I care about my health and I'm going to get significantly smaller. And I want to tell all the young people out there, you know, I should have been more honest. I should have been more open and admitted that I was taking steroids to get this look. I was scared I would lose my fans, my audience. I I just didn't have the courage. And I just want to come out and tell you guys, you know, I want to be vulnerable and and tell you that you don't need to use steroids. I did these things and it worked, but I have regrets. Look at my circumlex valve. The doc said perhaps I'll be dead in 5 to 10 years. And so it's not worth it. I want to be around for my wife and my family, my kids, and so don't make the same mistakes as I do. Imagine that interview. How would that go on? Versus just saying, "And so how was it acting in that role? How much did you train?" Nobody really cares. But if you're vulnerable and explain exactly the things that you're going through and you're 100% honest like this guy, that would make for a great interview. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those taboos, the cookbooks, the training books, coaching plans by me and my team, Algo RX. Enter code Greg for discount codes on wherever you see fit. And until next time, I am out.