You were extremely irritable. You were depressed. Your skin looks unhealthy when you're like really peak bulk. Your downstairs area doesn't work. >> The most important person out of all of this is not listening to him. Bro, listen to yourself. Coach Greg, in today's video, genetic anomaly, he comes clean. Previously, he'd explained the dangers of steroids, but in today's video, he holds nothing back. The video is titled Steroids Ruined Me. Well, in today's video, we're going to go over all of the horrendous side effects he experienced from taking steroids, and he describes that the mental is even worse than the physical. If you're on the verge of taking steroids or perhaps you're using them right now, this is a mustwatch. Please pay attention. >> Wake up. We need to make videos, bro. It's almost midday. >> And so, you see, he's waking up in the morning. He's taking off his CPAP machine, something to keep him alive while he's sleeping. When your neck gets bigger and you put on a lot of muscle, it's very difficult to breathe while you're sleeping. It negatively affects your life or recovery and can take years off your life and or kill you while you're asleep. >> So, I'm kind of going to the gym for no reason. I'm getting pissed. Like, I'm getting annoyed cuz it's like it's been almost 5 weeks of no training properly. >> Unfortunately, since he's come off steroids, he doesn't have the energy, the drive that he once had. Very difficult to train with any intensity. And so it's really pissing him off. When you're on steroids and off, steroids, on and off, back and forth, and you're going through a roller coaster of emotions, you're sad, you're depressed, you don't know what you're doing. He's having a very difficult time. He takes his Starbucks coffee and throws it against his car. And so essentially, he's going crazy. When you go on steroids, it's not something you can do for the rest of your life. Typical steroid cycle, perhaps it's 12 weeks. People push it to 16. But after that, you either have to come off or go on lower doses. And during that time, it's going to suck more than you can imagine. You don't have any idea. And genetic anomaly, it's only been 5 weeks. He's only now just starting to feel the ramifications. Every week he goes to the gym, he gets weaker. He has less energy, less strength, and less size. How fun do you think that is? While on steroids, hey, it's hunky dory. go to the gym, you get stronger, you get more swole, everything feels amazing until you have to stop. And so remember, steroids are not forever. They're more temporary than last time, as well as your gains. Don't get mistaken. You're not going to put on 20 lbs of muscle and magically keep those gains when you hop off, despite the fact that several influencers who don't take steroids tell you that, oh yeah, if you go on steroids, you keep all the gains. You do not. don't listen to guys like Scott Herman or Tanner Shuck. They mean well, but they have no experience with using steroids. And so they think, "Oh, you just hop on, you hop off, you you keep all your gains if you do a proper PCT, right?" Of course you don't. I mean, Derek from More Plates, More Dates, he can't even keep his muscle. And he ain't freaking natural. He's on steroids right now. And yet, even he's losing his size. Even if you go on HRT doses, you're still going to lose some muscle. But if you come totally off, you're going to hate how you feel. >> I want to get serious about this cuz a lot of kids nowadays are looking into gear. Please do not take steroids ever. Like, you don't need this [\h__\h] >> And so, oddly enough, Genetic Anomaly, he's doing an outstanding job of warning people against the dangers of using steroids. The only problem is the most important person out of all of this is not listening to him. And I'm not talking about Togei. I'm talking about Genetic Anomaly himself, Sven. Bro, listen to yourself. It's not too late. Yes, you abused steroids in the past, but you don't need to continue. >> I'm only taking gear cuz I need to get big as [\h__\h] so I can actually compete with people who are already on steroids. This is what everybody says. They're blasting 10 times the much as me. I need to take steroids because they're taking steroids. No, you don't. There's something called natural bodybuilding where you get drug tested. Now, you're going to argue, well, some of the people are cheating. So what? If you have amazing genetics and you train harder than last time, you can win a bodybuilding competition while natural against people who formerly have been enhanced. And if you can't, so what? Why do you have to win? Comparison is the teeth. If you compete against yourself and continuously try to improve, isn't that enough? And I know you're going to say, "Yeah, but coach Greg, you're a hypocrite." No, I'm not. When I was 22 years of age, do you really think I was using or abusing performance-enhancing drugs? I was 100% natural. You don't need to believe me. That's fine. I did have amazing genetics. But I started training at 10 and I trained for over 20 years. That's two decades. 100% natural. I competed 42 times in bodybuilding competitions before I took performance-enhancing drugs. Did I win every competition? No. But did it matter? Of course not. So long as I saw my physique improving, I had a great time. As soon as you go on steroids, you then have to compete against everyone else who's on steroids. As a natty, who does he have to compare himself to? Jeff Nippard, Jesse James West, Will Tennyson. Although they have amazing physiques, I'm certain that genetic anomaly if he were natural, by the time he's 30, remember he's 22, most certainly would have had a better physique than all three. So I got gyno. I always had gyno when I was natural and then when I took steroids it just made it like triple the size depending on my estrogen. >> Clearly gynecomastia aka [\h__\h] tits. Men hate this. Testosterone converts to estrogen. And you're seeing that puffy hard glandular tissue under your nipple. For many people especially if they're genetically sensitive to this as Anomaly clearly was. He had some gyno before he even started taking steroids. It made it far worse. And so he had to get surgery, which for most people gonna cost over $5,000 USD. That's a lot of money, probably more than you spent on your cycle. >> You were extremely irritable. He couldn't even take out like a trash bag because if it didn't take out in 0.2 seconds, he'd get pissed. >> Imagine being stuck in traffic having roid rage or road rage. Take your pick. Somebody looks at you the wrong way. Somebody doesn't listen to you. Somebody is disagreeable with you. And you're pissed, angry, and you're thinking, "Well, this is normal. Why did they do that to me?" It's not because while you're in it, as Fen explains, you don't notice it. You think, "No, this is how it should be." But you're getting angry or getting aggressive, and you don't know that there is, in fact, a better way. The way you were before you used steroids. >> You were depressed. >> Yes, I was. Anyone who's been depressed can imagine it's not something that you want. And so perhaps while you're on steroids, you're not feeling depressed, but eventually you come off, you're sad, you don't know why, you just don't feel like yourself. Before while on steroids, well, the gym, it made you happy. Every time you went to the gym, you got stronger. You looked better. And that gave you some motivation, but it's temporary, very fleeting. the feeling of getting stronger, even while on steroids, it's not forever. I don't care how many steroids you're taking, how many drugs that you're on, you're not going to see your strength go up indefinitely. If you go on a 5year cycle, I don't care if it's a,000 milligrams of test, thousand milligrams of trend every single day, eventually all good things come to an end and you plateau. Now, of course, at some point, you should be hopping off these steroids or ideally you don't go on in in the first place and use Turk Builder Max instead. If I were you, I would wait until you reach a plateau. If you're already gaining, don't even bother buying this. Maximize your genetic potential first. And then when you hit that plateau and you're thinking, "Well, how do I get any stronger?" That's when you add in Turk backs. It'll push your workouts to the next level. You recover faster. you'll push yourself harder and you'll see significant increases in your strength, recovery, and so on. And so, what are you waiting for? Remember, it's a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And so, if for some reason your genetics don't work out for you, you can't improve, you just weren't as impressive as you thought, money back guarantee. And if you are scammed from other people who are selling a Jugga, but they're lying, it's actually a cyanosis. Send us a screenshot of your purchase, and we'll sell it to you for half price. It's my favorite to you for having been scammed by other companies such as Gorilla Mine, who sold Turk Plex. >> Cuz gear puts you in a mindset where you're just fully locked in to that one thing that makes you happy. >> This is an excellent point. And so this is one of the benefits of steroids, but it can also be a negative. And so it's both a pro and a con. The steroids can help you to lock in. You're on steroids. Every time you go to the gym, you're making more gains. You're getting stronger, looking better, and so you're like, "This is what it's about. Every day is about the gym, which feels amazing." But at the same time, you're forgetting about everything else in life. You think that the only thing that makes you happy is going to the gym and putting muscle on. There's a lot of other things in life. >> So it can be very addicting. You can get addicted to it and then there's no escape. And so what happens is you get addicted to those gains, the dopamine surge of improving your bench press, deadlift, squat, or getting bigger biceps. And do you really think you're going to want that to go away? You've just put on 15 lbs of muscle and your bench press is up 75 lbs. Do you now want to stop taking that drug and have your bench press go down 50 lbs in a matter of months or perhaps lose 10 pounds of muscle? that hard earned muscle that you just put on, all the compliments that you're getting from other people, suddenly they're thinking, "Hey, you're looking kind of soft. What happened? Have you not been training as hard?" How do you think that makes people feel? And so, why do you think it's so difficult for people to actually stay off cycle for as long as they want? They'll say, "Yeah, I'm going to come off for about 3 months and about 6 weeks later, nah, it's time to hop on." They can't handle losing their gains. But you get addicted because the good side effect is that you're extremely extremely strong and you feel like you're on top of the world >> and that no one can tell you anything and then you get irritable. >> Exactly. When you're on steroids, I describe it as you feel like you're Superman. You're Clarkhead. Suddenly you take steroids, you feel like Superman, but then you stop. You go from feeling like Superman and you think, well, you're just going to go back to where you were. No, you're going even lower. You're now feeling like a man who technically feels like a woman. Let's say you're at 800 natagrams per deciliter. Very, very healthy, great levels of test. You then inject more testosterone. Now it's at 3,000. But then you go off and now your testosterone, it doesn't go back down to 800. It's down to 100, closer to that of a female. And so, how do you think you now feel? Your testosterone is lower than last time. Your libido is lower. Your energy is lower. Brain fog. and you're literally melting away. That muscle that you once had, the pumps you got in the gym, they're essentially gone. And so, what motivation are you gonna have to go to the gym when you know every single time that you train, you're going to get one rep less on your bench press? Your pump is going to feel a little bit smaller. >> Roid rage. >> Yeah, that's basically it. >> And most of the time, like when I feel irritated and I'm I start losing my [\h__\h] like there's different points. >> Roid rage. Many people think this is a myth, but do you not remember Mike Isertell, who's very open and transparent about his steroid use? Remember when he said, "All I feel is rage." He wasn't joking. When he looked out at that pond, he could remember the wonderful feelings he had from looking at it, but he couldn't feel them anymore. >> Man, it'd be cool to like like fight a dog with just your hands. >> That was from taking steroids. The cognitive effect, mental. It's going to get harder than last time. you will slowly lose the way that you were. You might think, "No, this is normal." But you won't return to normal until you go off. And so in that moment while you're on steroids, you don't even realize it's happening to you. >> But for most people, they do get a lot of acne or >> on the back and stuff. >> You do get a little your skin looks unhealthy when you're like really peak bulk. >> And of course, don't forget about acne, the pimples. We've seen some have cystic acne. Some have it worse than others. This can happen while taking the steroids or while going off. The change in hormones. And so for many people, the trade-off isn't worth it. Is it really worth putting on 20 lbs of muscle if no one wants to look at you or feel your skin? Your skin is a wonderful organ. And if it's speaking out to you in braille saying, "Please stop." Well, maybe you should listen to it. >> I don't know if like Sam like his back is >> No, no, no, no, no, no. You don't get that. And so he says, "Look, I don't get crazy acne the way that Sam Sulic has." He believes that he's onetenth the doses of other people. I do not believe that to be true. I believe it's a little bit of copium. You want to convince yourself that other people who are using steroids, they're all abusing doses much higher than you. And so it's okay. You're going to be healthy because you're doing small doses. It's not small. Unless a doctor prescribed to you testosterone, whatever you're using, that dose is not small and it can have a long and negative impact on your life. >> You you're just a very excessively sweaty person. >> Yes. And I've become more sweaty as well. >> And so they described increased sweating. Very notable is trenomia. You're going to bed and you just can't sleep. You wake up in the middle of the night and your bed is soaked. It's happened to me. It's not makebelieve as well as the trend cough where you're literally coughing so much you're thinking is this going to be the end of me. Am I ever going to stop coughing? You're scared some people will even pass out. Very, very dangerous. >> Everything connects if you're very unstable right now and your life is going to [\h__\h] Do not even think about gear cuz it's going to make everything even worse. >> Another great point, a lot of people, they're going through some tough times. I know that when people break up, they become single, their girlfriends leave them, and they're thinking, "Yep, this is the best time. I'm going to do some steroids. I'm going to lock in, go to the gym, get over my ex, and get swole to attract some more ladies." It's one of the worst times to do it because it's going to be even more addictive. You're coping and trying to deal with the stresses of your life by taking a drug. Steroids are drugs. How is it any different than, for example, using alcohol or smoking weed? If you get addicted to that drug and you rely on it to deal with the feelings, the emotions that you're feeling, you're not going to get over them. You bottle it down and eventually it's going to come out. >> The influencers, the people that are trying to push you into taking gear, you know, like like Togi, for example, he's praising gear. >> And so he brings up Togei. He says, "Look, there's a lot of influence out there pushing you to take gear, saying, "Look what it did to me." And for Togei, it did work. I mean, how am I supposed to argue with that? He's making millions of dollars and he's been a negative influence on the world taking performance-enhancing drugs. But people love him. He's interesting. He's of character. He's donating lots of money to people in need. And so, people still love him. He still motivated thousands of young people, teenagers to hop on steroids in the hopes of, well, if it did this for him, maybe it'll do it for me. And so what's happening on social media is you're seeing all these transformations, people who are coming out and saying, you know, I use steroids and they're perhaps making millions of dollars or have hundreds of thousands of fans. And so you're thinking, well, if I do that, too, maybe I could be famous. But here's the thing. Perhaps one out of a thousand who are trying this will actually be successful. And so your odds are very, very slim. But you're only being shown that people are successful. Do you really think you're seeing the 999 people who got no followers from posting before and after transformations from using steroids or talking about them? You're not seeing that. You're seeing those who are successful. And so, you're being biased or manipulated by social media into believing that that is what you should be doing when you should not. And by the way, just because you have a lot of money, a lot of fans, doesn't guarantee happiness. We've seen other people come out and express they have depression. We've seen people who are no longer with us who had everything going. And so just because you have a large following or you're driving a fancy car, it doesn't mean that you're happy. It may sound cliche, but health is wealth. I would trade every scent I've ever made in order to be healthy if it was taken away from me. You might be thinking as a 20-year-old, 30-year-old, and so on that steroids are worth it because at this point, you haven't experienced any of those negative side effects. You haven't gotten a heart attack. You haven't had a stroke. You don't have type 2 diabetes, and you're thinking, "Well, what's wrong with this? This is great." But then you're in your 40s and you go to the doctor and they're saying, "Look, you can't do this anymore. Your kidneys are shutting down, your heart, your blood pressure." And at that time, you're thinking, "I blew it. If only I could do it over." You don't have three lives. You're not a cat. You don't have nine lives. And so, please make this one and only life of yours the best one. >> You need to add your downstairs area doesn't work. >> Mine always works with that. >> Your downstairs area doesn't work. And so, here's the thing. It's probably going to work very well while you're on performance-enhancing drugs. While your testosterone levels are through the roof, most likely your libido is going to improve perhaps three-fold. That happened to me as soon as I did steroids. I wanted more sexy time than ever. Once I went off after about 6 weeks, that's when it began to get difficult. Went from wanting to have sexy time multiple times a day to perhaps once a week, if ever. Trust me, when that starts to go, you're going to say, "This isn't worth it." And so, you'll do everything to get it back. But what if you can't? Trust me, it's not something you want to have happen. >> No, I'm saying like for other people >> so that they know. >> Ah, wait. Mine works more cuz me I have a lot. >> And so apparently Sven is packing. He's got a lot in the downstairs. And so even if it isn't harder than last time, as long as it's hard enough, well, it's more than enough for him and her, I suppose. >> Lipido. >> Oh, yeah. >> That's another side effect. You know your thing doesn't work. have fun. >> Remember, Sven, you're 5 weeks off. It started to go downhill for me after 6 weeks. And so, you haven't even been long enough to know exactly how it's going to feel. And so, my advice to you is to stay off for at least 12 weeks. You got seven more to go. You're not even halfway there. I would prefer if you never did steroids ever again, but perhaps you'll need HRT. But if you don't take that time off, you won't know what it's like because steroids are still influencing your brain. >> You need to put yourself in a good position to live a good life. That's why I want to show you guys all these side effects that I've either experienced or that I know of. >> Clearly, it's worked for Sven. And so you're thinking, well, why would I listen to him? Is he not being a hypocrite? Well, all he can do is express what he's done. How many people from Malta can you name who are famous social media influencers who take steroids? One. Him. That's it in the whole country. I can't think of another famous social media influencer from Malta who's on steroids. And so, how well does it really work? It worked for one guy. Out of how many people in Malta do you think actually use steroids? Probably at least a thousand. What are the odds you're going to actually be successful? It's very, very slim. And so, please don't think that just because you take steroids that it's going to solve all of your problems. >> I'll see you guys in the next one. Bye-bye. A reminder to get the best tasting protein bars in the world. 230 calories, 21 grams of protein, absolutely unbelievable taste, softer than last time. And if you enter code seco with something else in your cart, you can purchase them for 50% off. It's about $20 for a box of a dozen. An incredible deal. And so head over to website and while you're there, of course, pick up Gest Platinum as well as GLP Max to help reduce your cravings to help you stay leaner than last time. And remember people, if you're about to do steroids or you're on steroids, please get your blood work done. You can get it taken at Algo RX. I'm literally an equity owner in the company. They have significantly reduced prices, about half of Merrick Health. And so if you're not rich and you want to check out how you're doing, contact Algo RX. Their doctors can prescribe you prescription medications such as Seialis, Telmardin for high blood pressure, incl. And so if you need something pharmaceutical from a doctor with a prescription that's easy to get, contact Alorex. Click the link in description. Code Greg, 10% off. If you're looking for coaching, click the link in description as well as supporting us by purchasing Momentous Clothing by clicking the link. Everything is the link. Just keep clicking. And don't forget about cookbook 3.1, the best of the best, the best cookbook for those of you trying to lose weight in the world. Amazing recipes. You got to get the book code Greg. 15% off. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost the album. Hope you enjoyed the video. Watch one of those two bloops. And until next time, I am out.