Mike's PhD is a moral confusion stylistic distortions of work and basic errors is the key to understanding the disconnect between the persona and the reality. Mike Israel's PhD thesis is a failure. Professor Greg, PhD specialist. And in today's video, we're going to be going over Mike Israel's PhD. >> You are presuming, you know, more than me. >> Mike is bigger and stronger than Mike Menser. He perhaps has the highest IQ in the world. I'm both on a raw IQ scale smarter than almost every coach. >> So much so that he absolutely shits the bed in his PhD. And by the bed, well, that's actually giving his PhD a compliment. >> Other JD students at Melbourne Law School use their database access to read case law. I used mine to download Mike Israel's PhD thesis, which I read in its entirety. >> Solomon likely spent more time on this singular video than Mike did and in his entire PhD. Get your popcorn ready. >> I'll conduct a critical analysis of the doctoral research that forms the basis of Mike's credibility as an exercise scientist. >> Here's my two cents. You guys think that Mike is the only one? that he's the only one that has a PhD as horrible as this. I mean, well, there aren't many worse than this, but listen, is it his fault that he passed? Think about it. I'm blaming the teachers. What teacher passed this? There was a professor that read over this paper and said, "Yep, you deserve it." To the same extent, Mike has a black belt in jiu-jitsu. Does Mike even know how to perform jiu-jitsu? He has a black belt. He should be able to destroy anybody. But Kenny, depending on where you get the PhD, depending on where you get the black belt, well, that's going to make you better or worse than other people. You might be thinking, well, does this absolutely destroy his career? I don't think so. Do you really think that people watch Mike because he has a PhD? They watch Mike because he's funny, because he says interesting things, because all he feels is rage. because he screams at the top of his lungs. You watch him for the pure entertainment and the joy. Perhaps similar reasons you watch coach Greg. I say things that are funny. I do the things. You learn some information and you go about your day. >> Thank you, Greg. >> And so, let us think of other YouTubers who also don't have a PhD. Jeff Nippert. Jeff Nippert studied university to be a dentist. He doesn't have a PhD. He doesn't have a masters in exercise physiology, but yet we learn from him. And so even though Mike is going to be proven to being essentially a in terms of his PhD thesis, does it really matter? With 320,000 views in one day on Solomon Nelson's channel with 28,000 subscribers, I think people care. >> What I got was a document so sloppy, shallow, and confused it could only pass in a system that had already failed. If this was a firstear university paper, if I was his teacher, I would say, you know, this is not bad. It's your first try. Please go and proofread it a couple more times. I mean, you're on the right path. You have potential. But this is his PhD. I taught high school kids that high school kids could have done better than this. Damn. >> I'm sorry. I'm just telling you what I know. I don't have a PhD. I have my masters and I would be embarrassed if I did this. I'm a perfectionist with a PhD. Yeah. Hell yeah. That's why I say like that. >> Dr. Mike. Jeez, that's a big deal. And I've noticed that carries a lot of weight. >> It's like when I partnered up with a couple of students to do a paper in university and I'm reading their section and I'm like, their cholesterol is as high as the moon at night and I'm like, delete, delete, delete. And then I delete their entire section and I rewrite it and get an A+. we're getting the grades back. And bro is like, "But where's the part that I wrote?" I was like, "Don't worry about it. I just fixed a few things. I deleted all of it. I wanted to get an A. I didn't want to get a B or a C cuz bro couldn't freaking write. No way. Solomon dropped the Israel files. You all thought it was the Epstein files. It's the Israel files that really mattered." A PhD holder's worst nightmare. Someone who actually read it. I have a PhD in exercise science and now I am a professor and I can tell you this isn't a Mike Israel problem. It's a the entire field problem. I have seen far worse dissertations passed even at big universities. And so remember my twin brother Allan, he has a PhD. He's a professor at Delhaus University but I'm not. I don't have a PhD. But does that mean I can't tell you fitness information? That if my brother were to start up a YouTube channel and start talking about getting jacked, losing weight, going over SARMMS, and so on, do you think his channel would be better just because he has a PhD? And so what you should realize is PhD don't mean You're telling me I could have gotten a PhD by writing a paper that says, quote, "Athletic people are athletic without even grammar or punctuation checking it." I have horrendously awful spelling, worse than you can imagine. But there's something called spellch check. I used it. Now, there was one paper I was in a rush. You remember I had the highest GPA every single year. Sometimes I studied a little bit longer than last time. And I passed in my paper and it said Greg douche. When you spell check, this is a true story. When you spell check douch set, it comes up as douche. You can try it. And so when I got the paperback and the teacher had circled it in red and Greg douche and I got an A instead of an A+ my friends for example Gary he said Greg douche and for three straight years people were calling me douche because of my name. It wasn't cuz I was a douchebag. It's cuz I literally spellch checked it to be. So perhaps it was foreshadowing. To be fair and balanced, Mike has made it clear he was on low carbs when writing this. I thought he was permabuling back then. Low carbs. He was on a high carbide diet. This is what I had said. When a single YouTube takedown video involves more rigor than a PhD dissertation. >> That's your comment. >> That's a more eloquently put reaction to what I had stated. >> Okay. I like the word rigor. >> Run it back, editors. I said this. Before reading this comment, >> Solomon likely spent more time on this singular video than Mike did and in his entire PhD. >> This makes his advisor and panel look very, very bad. Not just Mike. You guys were young once. You take shortcuts. You don't want to do the work. You perhaps copy from your bro. People in my university class did that. I went to the bathroom. I took a lot of shits back then. It's the same as now. I'm the king of fiber. These are all true stories. And while I'm at the bathroom, my classmates, they steal my paper. I'm writing the paper. I got the whole thing. It's for class. They steal it and they photocopy it real quick. They then pass in said assignment, the exact carbon copy of mine. Three other students. I go to get my mark back about a week later, and lo and behold, I see a zero. A zero. And I'm thinking, I always get the highest mark. How could I have gotten a zero? I know that this is bang on. I go to the professor. What is this about a zero? He said, "You worked together with three other students and you passed in the exact same assignment." I said, "This did not happen. Are you calling me a liar?" I did not lie. And I said, "Let's just look at my grades. You know, I'm pretty cocky. I have the highest mark and so on. Do you really think I needed somebody else's help to get me these answers?" And so they thought about it and thought, "You know what? You got a good point. Why would I have to cheat in order to get my grades when I already had the highest average? And so those three students, they got zeros and I've got my grades back. But I had to complain. I had to fight for that. And so, trust me, there are students out there that are going to try to sneak their way into getting a PhD. They're going to use chat GPT. What do you think Mike does every single day? Chat GPT is everything. He didn't know how to research. He didn't know how to quote other people. He just makes things up out of thin air. He has a lot of great ideas, but they're not backed by research. I think this, I think that. I'm going to just write a paper and say that that person over there researched it and proved it. You think he's the only one? He's not the only one. >> You're learning all these stories of Coach Greg in university. They also thought I was gay in university. >> Did you know that? >> Gay. >> I was a cheerleader. I was very good at it. And I also went to aerobics class and became a certified aerobics instructor. And so when I went to aerobics class, the only male and that that trans guy before that was even the thing. Way back then, we had a guy who was trans dressed up as a woman. And so they thought, well, anyone that goes to aerobics class is probably gay or trans. I didn't mind bro being trans. He didn't make a big deal about it. This is in 1994. And so they thought I was gay. And so I'm asking girls, really? I thought you were gay. Why? Cuz I'm in aerobics class. Yeah. Mike frequently highlights his status as a PhD holder across all his platforms. >> You know what's really funny about this whole thing is I already knew all this. One of my closest friends, his wife, she read his PhD and upon reading it was flabbergasted like how are you not going over this paper? Like make a video and show the people, show the world. It's the mic drop. It's the slam dunk. All you need to do is talk about his PhD thesis. I said, "People aren't going to care. You know, it's been done years ago. No one will care." 320,000 views later in a day from Solomon says, "The people, they actually care." >> Dr. Mike. Dr. Mike. Dr. Mike. Dr. Mike. Dr. Mike. Dr. Mike. Here. >> But what about the academic rigor of the PhD itself? In this video, we'll examine just that. >> I mean, he's a Dr. Mike with a black belt in jiu-jitsu. I mean, it writes itself. How many of you think he would pass an actual black belt test? Like really, like at another gym, like if he came to Halifax, nolva Scotia, and he was training at Titans Gym and so on, do you really think that they would say, "Yep, he deserves a black belt." Or did he just go to a gym that gave him the black belt? The same as the PhD. If you go to an easy enough university and the professors don't even read your paper, you might be able to get it. investigates how various fitness traits, including strength, rate of force development, power, vertical jump height, short distance sprinting speed, and body composition, relate to one another in division 1 collegiate athletes. >> I mean, that sounds like a fun paper I would write in thirdyear university in exercise physiology class. And so, in thirdyear university, I did a paper on the effects of hypole hydration on strength. I wanted to study this because I was dehydrating a lot for powerlifting competitions, for bodybuilding, and so on. And I really wanted to know what would that do to me. And so I think I had more relevant information in that paper alone than in this. While doing that, I was also studying what would the effects be on cardiovascular endurance. Just from reading, you can learn a lot. And so whether or not you have a PhD, if you just read the research and you understand it, it's almost the same as having a PhD. A PhD just sounds cool on paper. I'm Dr. Mike. I'm not Dr. Greg. I am no doctor. Not your doctor. I am not a doctor. But does it mean I know less? If I read the exact same material and I understand statistics probably better than Dr. Mike. Oh, on a raw IQ scale. Perhaps I understand statistics more than Mike. Well, my brother is a biostatistician, has his masters in statistics, and my twin brother has his PhD in chemistry. So, do you really think that it's that difficult for a family full of people who are studious? They they care about academia to understand these very simple concepts. >> The results demonstrated that one, strength strongly correlates with muscularity. Athletes with higher relative force and power output demonstrate superior jumping. >> I learned so much from that paper. It's a good thing. I mean, what else to do? Um, people that don't smoke cigarettes in in general have less lung cancer than those who do. People who eat in a calorie deficit, they're not as fat as people who eat in a calorie surplus. It's a good thing Dr. Mike came to the rescue. >> To be awarded a pass, a doctoral thesis must a demonstrate authority in the candidates's field and show evidence of command of knowledge in relevant fields. >> Doesn't he say that all the time? >> And whatever it is you think you're good at in your life, I'd probably take about a year and and become an authority in the field in which you think you're good. He can't even win a pro card in 10 years, but he's an authority in one year and what you know best. >> Make a contribution to knowledge that rests on originality of approach and/or interpretation of the findings. D demonstrate the candidates's ability to communicate research findings effectively. When I did my masters, what they wanted me to do was to go for my PhD. And they wanted to advance the research on female participation rates in physical education. As women get older, as they go into high school, there are fewer and fewer females who take physical education. This is why, for example, I got my certification in being a power cheerleading coach, why I wanted to become a dance instructor, why I wanted to do aerobics, and so on. These were things that allowed more females to enjoy physical education. When I had been a student, hardly any women liked Fizz. By high school, the women weren't taking those courses. And so, I needed to offer things that women would like. And so, this was my passion to spread awareness to allow males and Now, I didn't end up getting my PhD. I didn't want to go and study all the time. I'm more of a doer, not really a reviewer, a researcher. I didn't like just sitting there and researching and so I chose not to do it. >> Mike's thesis falls short of fulfilling one of the most fundamental requirements for doctoral research, a significant contribution of original knowledge. >> And so what new research did he create? Stronger athletes produce higher rates of force development. And so how did that help us anyway? Stronger athletes can put out greater force. A bigger, stronger athlete is stronger. >> Thank you, Mike. >> And that leaner athletes perform better in these tasks are not only unsurprising but also extensively documented in prior research. >> It's important to know that because I didn't know that. I didn't know that if I went to the gym and lifted weights, shoulder press, bench press, and so on, and was 300 lb of muscle that I would be better at throwing a shot put than some guy who's 5'6 in fat. You know, we needed to know that perhaps that's why Mike Isertell, that's why he stopped his dream of bulk. Remember, he was 270 lbs at his quote 30% body fat, of which it was closer to 40. And it caused him to have permanent love cells. Perhaps he should have done his PhD on what effect overeating has on the permanency of the love cells on your body. Mike's thesis proposes no new theories, investigates novel mechanisms nor methods, and makes no methodological innovations. >> And so what he should have done his PhD thesis on was Turk builder Max should have took inspeistan Auga Turkiststanica and given them to these athletes, the guys who were jacked and strong and so on and said this group you take it, this group you don't. And then answer me these questions. How do you feel after after a month? People who take Turk builder bags are going to say, you know, I felt stronger. I had more energy, better recovery, and I feel like I put on more muscle. Code Greg, 15% off. Don't forget to torque for Turk. As I'll detail later, the literature review in Mike's thesis is uncritical. It's just an inventory of past findings rather than an evaluative synthesis. >> There's different types of intelligences. I do believe that Mike has an excellent memory. I think he can memorize a ton of So if he reads something, he can remember it and say, you know, I read this in this study and it said this and it said that. It takes a different type of brain, perhaps someone with an even greater raw IQ score that can reynthesis data and create something new. Create a new cookbook. Invent Are you Did I hear a laugh? Was there a smirk of a laugh in the background? >> I just love that you're a best-selling author. >> I mean, best-selling author, Coach Greg. I made a cookbook out of recipes from scratch that I invented back in the '9s and early 2000s zone. While everyone was having chicken, broccoli, and rice, my athletes were eating French toast pancakes and getting peeled and winning competitions. I said, "What ingredients do we have and what can we do?" I reorganized it. I created something new. Other people, they memorize, do this, do that, the top 10 things, the top 10 that. I was creating new data, training new ways. I had back in the day I was famous for saying power bodybuilding. Power bodybuilding is lifting the bench press, a squat and a deadlift for very high reps and putting on tons of gains was being creative. >> A legitimate research gap demands a theoretical reason to believe that something unexpected, different or revoly might be found. >> You just go like this. Hey Chad TBT, give me all the relevant research related to female and it's done. This is why Mike likes it so much. He doesn't have to actually do anything. He just gets chatbt to set him up. Hey chat, I got to do a video on like I don't know what are we going to do today. Um uh does strength training is there different ways to make it better for for kids to put on more muscle? Yep. Okay. Uh give me a title. This is how hard it is to do a YouTube video now. But then people make fun of me because I react to other people. Do you not think you learn from me reacting to others? Like when you watch my videos, how much do you actually learn? A lot. Why do you think people keep watching my channel? Oh, he's just reacting. He's a TMZ. Yeah, the TMZ of fitness while giving you valuable information. Go watch my Eric English video. You think that there's nothing that you can learn that I'm not trying to save the world? Watch the videos. >> Mike's lack of independence in thought and approach is evident in the methodology as well. All performance tests, analytical techniques, and interpretative frameworks appear to be taken directly from existing literature. when I studied in my masters and so on and I had, you know, brilliant people in my class and we're talking about certain things. We're having debates talking about certain topics, I realized that probably 90% of people don't understand anything. They memorize but they don't actually understand it. Like, they can quote off every single thing, what date something happened, what they said. But I'm like, "Okay, explain to me how that's going to work." My opinion is that most people, even those who are very, very smart, don't really understand anything. they just have memorized a lot of things and having a memory it's a wonderful thing. I don't really have a great one. I have AI would say below average memory but I'm able to make sense of the things that I'm seeing that I'm reading that I'm understanding and I'm able to explain it to the world and I do believe that that has helped me to get people to watch my videos. A lot of people are not as smart as you think. The average IQ is about 100 with standard deviation around 15. This is going to come in later in the video. Standard deviation is like it's on a bell curve. Most people are in the middle and it goes out. So most people are within one standard deviation it's like 68% and then two standard deviations is like 95 97% whatever it is. And then as you go more and more on the outliers things are a lot weirder for those people. They're not normal people. And so when you read research and you're thinking oh this says this this is that you know 10 sets to 20 sets per week on any given body part. That's how many sets you need to do because the research said so. Did it say that from me? Oh but the research said it. Greg you also need to follow. I don't need to do 10 sets. I do cycling. Won the race yesterday. I spent three hours going over graphs last night. Understanding other people's graphs, learning what's going and it just it's just it all flows and makes sense. Other people see a graph. Look at this graph. And they're like, "Yeah, it's a graph." They see colors. It doesn't jump out with a hundred meaningful things happening all at the same time. I see a graph. It's it's a graph. This oh my god this summarize my life PRs on the bike >> my whole life. >> I mean it's Do you see what I see guys in the blue with the sprint and the green with the attack and the climbing in the orange and what it all means and how close the purple is DJ and what I can do to improve and what it means physiologically like this is my gem. Look at this graph. I could do a PhD on this graph alone. Across the thesis, Mike presents impossible and contradictory data, inflates simple points with jargon, and allows hundreds of basic grammatical, typographical, and formatting errors to remain uncorrected. >> And so, who read over this? I mean, yes, Mike screwed up, but who approved this? Like, who went over this and said, "Yep, check." How many of you think that these professors who are actually going over these papers actually read it? Or did they think, uh, I'd rather party. You know, it's Saturday night. I'm going to visit my friend Molly. I believe that many of these professors don't give AI'm not being paid enough for this. They're not paying enough wages. And so, why bother? Is it really going to affect me? I mean, what are the odds that Mike Isertell is going to one day get like 4 million followers on YouTube and that somebody's actually going to read one of his papers? Let's party. It's Saturday night. These are numbers so fundamentally wrong that they could only result from incompetent data entry. Which is exactly what's happened here. >> Oh my god. There's not meme for that. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god. Was this a guy? Oh my god. >> Oh my god. >> Oneird of the lowest performers was either taller than 3.459 459 m taller than any human ever recorded or shorter than -6.1 cm. >> In his defense, he doesn't like negative numbers. Who likes negative numbers? I don't like thinking of negative. Who wants to be in debt? You owe $8 or I have $8. It's like a toy scheme. Rather than thinking of as being a negative, think of it as being a positive. I mean, isn't it 2025? Can't we just identify everything as being positive? And so if you have anything that's negative in your life, just add a line on it. It's the toi way of thinking. >> The reported correlation is positive 653 suggesting bizarrely that higher jumpers were actually slower sprinters. >> Perhaps you're not one of those types of people that where graphs jump out at you. You see these things, it doesn't like immediately like snap. I'm for Solomon that it does. Maybe you're watching this and it's not a big deal. You have a male that's negatively correlated with jumping high and running fast. Like, hey, if you can slam dunk, you probably has fast twitch fibers. You you can jump really high. You can probably run very fast. You probably also have an easier time pulling on muscle. Would it make sense that it's the opposite for women? You know, the higher a woman can jump, the stronger, more explosive she is, the slower she is for running. Probably also means that she has a really hard time putting on muscle. Just gender differences. If that was something that he actually found out that it actually happened, well, that would be groundbreaking. Gender differences. The more muscle women have, the more explosive they are, the slower they are at sprinting. But it's a lie. It's not true. And so, how could he not see this such basic information? I mean, it's not like he doesn't brag about having a raw IQ score, perhaps greater than anyone. I mean, when you brag about how smart you are and then somebody points out that you perhaps you're not all that smart, that you make really simple, silly little mistakes, it's not looking good. Now, if Mike had never bragged about his intelligence, never said anything about it, this paper probably wouldn't have been made. But when you go to that extent to brag that you're better than everyone else, that's when people are going to come at you. When your tables repeatedly include sprinters who haven't been born yet, athletes shorter than 0 cm, it's no longer just sloppy, it's disqualifying. >> I mean, we're only at 21 minutes in the video already. It's not just sloppy like sloppy seconds, it's disqualifying. Like you you get the DQ, you don't get the pass. You have to do this over. Like if you're the professor and you saw this many mistakes and this is a PhD. This is a higher level of education than even I have. Imagine if I made these mistakes in thirdyear university. They'd say, "Greg, this is embarrassing. Like, you need to do this over. You fail. It's a fail." Did he copy this from someone else? Was he just too busy, you know, picking up the HU? Couldn't bother to do his own paper. And so perhaps he just paid off his friend say, you know, do it for me. I'm a ladies man. I got some honeys. It ain't worth it. I'm not doing this. I mean, how do you explain it? Like, explain this to me. How could it be this bad? We're 21 minutes into the video. >> Throughout Mike's thesis, simple ideas are inflated with verbose, pseudo techchnical language. >> Yeah, it sounds like Mike. People use unnecessarily big words to try to explain things, to try to look smart. Sport performance depends on the athletes ability to execute a combination of skills. >> It's so great that Mike was able to explain this. You know, your ability to play sports, it's from a combination of your ability to perform sport skills. Wow. Wow. No one knew that how good you are at a sport is how well you do the things that you do during that sport. But >> for now, let me draw your attention to how on page 33, >> speaking of your attention, this is half price. If you enter code seco, it's only 20 bucks, 21 g of protein, 230 calories, it's soft, and there's two flavors to choose from. Back to the video. Mike's tendency to over complicate sometimes backfires. Theoretical constructs that obviate the input of any sportspecific technique or psychological variables. >> Obi, excellent word that he didn't need to use. That's a Chad word. I don't need to say obvious. Not one time in your life do you need to say obvious. >> What he's trying to say is simple. Fitness characteristics are physical traits like strength and speed independent of technique or mindset. >> If you really understand something, you can explain it to a child. >> Why don't you explain this to me like I am an 8-year-old? >> Like if you really get it, like calories in, calories out, that's the only way to lose weight. You could explain it to a six-year-old. Six-year-old, if you know it enough, you can dumb it down. Make it simple enough that even they'll get it. Mike over complicates things so that you don't get it. It's almost as if it's on purpose so that you seem smarter than you actually are. You know, if you say it with enough big words and enough confidence, then no one's going to question you, even if it's on the most basic and simple task. >> But Mike Israel's thesis doesn't just have a few scattered mistakes. It contains literally hundreds of basic grammatical, typographical, and formatting. >> I mean, it's possible that many of you never went to university and you think this is not a big deal. When you pass in a paper, you get one or two of your friends to proofread it for you. Like, you probably know that there's a spell check and so it's probably not going to be able to correct the spelling on strength because it's spelled right, but it's there again. And so, if you just read it and you take your time, you're going to notice these things. You then get your friend to read it and then their friend and two other people fresh eyes and you notice certain mistakes and this can be avoided. >> No reasonable standard of academic quality could justify a thesis this riddled with elementary errors. >> How many of you people right now raise your hand think they actually read over this thesis? like the professor sat there with a red pen and spent I don't know six hours reading it and circling the mistakes and giving it that rigorous attention to detail that is required to give him a sufficient grade. How many of you people think that this was done? >> Perhaps the most common mechanical failure in the thesis is Mike's inability or refusal to press the space bar. >> It is annoying to have to press that space bar when you're trying to get your paper done fast enough to go out with the HU. I mean, think of how much time it takes to do this. I mean, why would you do that all the time? Why not just write one long drawn out paragraph without any punctuation, uh, spelling, spacing whatsoever? Why worry about that? I mean, frankly, does this not read the way that I post on Instagram? I don't even read it back. You think I have some guy checking on my spelling? I write it once. I don't look back. I voice the text half the things. and that's what I do to post on Instagram. But imagine for a PhD. >> Mike claims to summarize the results of an investigation as illustrated in table 3.4. However, a quick glance at table 3.4 reveals a complete disconnect between the text and the table it purports to describe. >> And so imagine if the professor actually read this paper and he went to table 3.4 and was like, "Well, uh, that's not it." They would have said, "You have to redo it. Mike, this is embarrassing. I'm gonna give you one pass, one extra try. You know, I like you, Mike. You know, I I I want to see you succeed. You got to redo this. This is embarrassing. I'm just going to say I haven't read it. You're going to pass it back." >> Mike has therefore attributed his thesis's foundational premise to sources that don't support it. In fact, Mike repeatedly misrepresents the sources he cites. misrepresenting the sources that you site. Basically, you're just cutting corners. You don't have the proper research to back up your findings and you say, "You know what? I'm just going to say that they said it. You know, these researchers, they're very good researchers, and if I say that they said these things, then they can essentially back me up. That's wrong." All variation in athletic performance can be explained by these three factors. Yet, as Bumper and Half make clear, other contributors are also essential. You're undoing research at this point. You're not contributing to research. You're dumbing it down. Why would you do that? Like, why? I don't understand. I don't know how that benefits him. Was he just too lazy to talk about those two other factors? You know, it's going to take more time to talk about all those five things. Three. Uh, that's enough >> about the thing I'm one of the top experts in the world in and also the thing I'm literally involved in myself. Just right off. >> He isn't showing expertise. He's hiding behind the appearance of it. And >> so perhaps you're thinking, well, why does this matter? And the reason is because so many people use the appeal to authority. They blast the fact that they have a PhD. And you're thinking, well, he has a PhD and because he says it, then that means something. But I'm telling you, just because somebody has a PhD, just because they've gone to university more than you have, doesn't mean that they know more than you do. And so the next time Mike says, you know, I have a PhD and I'm smarter than you and I'm on a raw IQ scale this or IQ scale that, don't just take what he says for granted and assume that it has to be right because Mike said it. Just because Mike says something, don't assume it to be true. So, when Mike slaps PhD approved on a product, as he did with this protein drink, just remember it isn't a mark of trustworthiness. >> PhD approved. Like, do you really think a PhD in exercise physiology gives you a better stamp of approval on a protein powder? Like, why would it matter if you have a PhD? I have a PhD by Turk Builder Max. This is irrelevant. What are they actually saying? Listen to the information. Listen to the arguments. Does it actually make sense? >> If a flimsy PhD can boost the credibility of someone whose work doesn't hold up, then people are well within their rights to question those who wave around their credentials at every turn. >> And so you might be thinking, well, he's just jealous. Why making this video? Like, why do you care? Well, if somebody can brag about how smart they are and that they have a PhD and that you should listen to them because of that or that somebody else isn't as good as them because they don't have a PhD, then do you not have the right to question that PhD? How valid is it really? How much work did they put into it? And do they look like they know what they're talking about? Understand? We have every right to question anything. You can question me. He can question me. Anyone can question anybody. You can defend it. You can argue it. And that is what it's all about. People should be allowed to question what they're hearing. They should be allowed to have their opinions. And we can discuss it on the internet. >> Because whether your doctorate is from MIT in quantum mechanics or East Tennessee State University in sport physiology, the title doctor is conferred all the same. >> Sounds just like black belt in jiu-jitsu. A black belt's a black belt. even though it's five times harder to get a black belt in that camp than this camp. Well, you both have black belts and so this is the same with a PhD. >> Dr. Mike, jeez, that's a big deal. And I've noticed that carries a lot of weight. So, for me, only by signaling, if only by signaling, my PhD was a really good idea. >> And so, if Mike didn't have a PhD, it would almost be better for him. He would just say, "Hey, I'm Mike. I read a bunch of stuff and I know a bunch of things and this is my opinion." that would make more sense because most people with PhDs, they're careful with what they say. They don't just throw things out there even if they don't know if it's actually true. They're very careful. They wouldn't say, you know, drinking one or two glasses of wine a day, it's probably healthy, when there's a good chance that it's not, and we know it's not. It's a class one carcinogenic by the World Health Organization. And so, don't drink one or two glasses of wine a day. It's bad for you. This analysis belongs to a larger project of understanding Mike Israel's delusions of grandeur. Mike Israel speaks as if he's a towering intellect in the fitness space. >> And this is why it's so bad for Mike because he brags. He rubs it in your face how much better he is than you, how much smarter he is than you. >> I know more about physiology, body responses, etc. than they do. >> You've never met anyone with as much willpower as me. >> Mike has more willpower. He uses tzipotide and ratatouide to stick to a diet and still can't get in in shape. But he has more willpower than all of us. Really? Mike does. Mike of all people has more willpower than we do. >> I've uh taken the Ravens Advanced Progressive Matrices test and I pegged at scale high. So he had every single question right and so my IQ is above 160 and we don't know how high because they don't do standardized IQ tests above. understand for a guy with the highest raw IQ score in the world possibly I mean well over 160 they can't test you after that why did he just write a really good paper for being that smart was he not smart enough to say you know what someday in the future somebody's going to read they're actually going to read it my PhD thesis and so on and they're going to see that it sucks like didn't he have the foresight to know not the foreskin but the foresight to know that eventually somebody's going to do this >> I'm bigger and stronger than Mike Menser. That's it. So all of a sudden that changes the game. I I'm more educated than Mike Menser. I know more things than Mike Manor. >> Are geniuses not able to like self-criticize themselves to selfanalyze themselves? Like if you're a genius, can't you look at yourself and be like, "Okay, me sloppy bag of milk getting surgery remove fat cells. Mike Menser, uh, Mr. Olympia caliber bodybuilder. I'll just settle for being a, you know, jiu-jitsu killer famous millionaire. >> Jiujitsu killer famous millionaire. Does he actually have a real black belt? I mean, now that we know that his PhD is a scam, it's a scheme, if you will, like Togei would say, what about his black belt? >> This isn't an appeal to a higher standard. It's an appeal to the minimum standard. The fitness community and anyone who values intellectual honesty deserve better than this. And so in conclusion, I mean, what can you say? What a video. I mean, Solomon should get an honorary PhD just for exposing the Israel files. I mean, can you believe this? This is, in my opinion, shocking. You wouldn't have thought that he could have gotten his PhD, but what is more shocking, the fact that he wrote something so bad or the fact that they accepted it? But my own opinion is I don't think this is going to hurt Mike whatsoever. I mean, more people are going to be talking about Mike. Like, often times people that see people above them, they don't like it because they're they're above them. And so, they cheer for them to fail. Like when Tiger Woods was winning too much, then all of a sudden he went on the downfall. They were cheering for him to fail. Then when you fail enough, then they cheer for you to come up. And so, because people can now laugh at Mike, they can make fun of him. They're like, "Yeah, you're no better than me. You and your flashy PhD that was worth crap. It was worth nothing. You're no better than me." They'll come to his channel. They'll watch him for his humor, his gay jokes, and the crazy things that he's saying. He thinks that AI is God, that he one day is going to give AI a hug, that he's eventually going to turn into a robot, and all the surgery. It's just like Mike is one non-stop, I don't know what to call it. Interesting is what I'll say. Mike is interesting. And so, people are going to continue to flock to his channel. He's going to probably get 5 million followers by next year. And so I don't think this hurts him despite the fact that he I don't know if you called this cheating. I don't know if it's cheating. It's just maybe just doing things that are unethical. I don't think it's cheating. It's just bad. It's not like when the students university stole my paper and they copied it word for word. It's not like that. It's not ethical. That's what it is. It's unethical. And so when he flashes, hey, it's Mike Isertel, PhD. You can just add PhD from nothing from university. This is what it is. Sorry. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you liked it. Don't forget if you're interested in the cookbooks or any of the supplements or ALGO RX, you can click the link, get your blood work done, purchase all the amazing supplements, click the link in the description, and until next time, don't forget to enter code Greg for various discounts. I'm out.