Okay, it's uh Thursday, like 5 days after my Toronto Pro experience, and uh I've had enough time to catch up with all the new clients in training. Got close to 30 clients on the go. Um either doing contests or just trying to get in shape or, you know, just trying to reach your fitness goals. So, that's taking up a lot of my time, but I'm enjoying it. You know, I like training from the beginner to the advanced. So, if you're looking for someone, hit me up on Facebook. Um, so for today's video log, I just wanted to go over basically the experiences I had. Um, was starting off in New York. It was a really, really difficult um, experience to go. Uh, the flights got cancelled because of the wet weather. It was really windy. I missed a flight on the way home. Uh, all the carbing up and stuff occurred at the airports. Um, so I just had to basically, you know, buy whatever they I could find and uh on the way home, missed a flight, luggage was on the plane. So basically, I had to go in and I had a couple Quest bars I had left. I ate that, did my cardio, um, and, uh, you know, made it through it. In New York, I placed 15th, which would be the last placing that's ranked. There was 21 guys. I only made it into the final call out with seven people, but I did manage to win that call out, which got me that final 15th ranking. Um, I felt really happy with how I looked. Um, I was leaner than I'd ever been before. Um, felt good. Um, you know, it was an amazing experience. Got to meet a lot of the pros that you've been looking up to for years in the magazines and whatnot. And, uh, the crowd was was awesome. They cheer and it's just a completely unique experience compared to say competing at your provincials or your nationals cuz every guy on that stage is a national champion or at an extremely high level. So just to compete with them is great. You don't have any expectations of trying to win the show. Um just competing is amazing. Uh moving on to Toronto. Uh basically I felt I was probably in the same condition maybe maybe a point or decimal two or something body fat percent lower. I was right around 4%. One of the leanest pros in the show which was uh you know my goal. I knew I wouldn't be as big as some of the big guys like Jose Raymond who's like oh at least 15 lbs of muscle bigger than I am plus a couple inches shorter which makes him just look like so thick. And basically I think there might have been two guys smaller than me in the in the whole show of the uh the pro. So just to make the second call out felt amazing. It was actually felt better to get the second call out than it did to win like the national title. Um so you know cuz it you work so hard for it and you're not you're not your goal isn't to win. It's just to improve and just to to hang with them. So I got the second call out. Um six guys in the first call, six in the next one. I got fifth in the second call out of six guys. So, I made 11th place. 10th would have been a dream come true fantasy because uh the top 10 get to do their posing routines. I would have loved to have done my my 3minute routine. I had a uh some good uh poses that I wanted to show which I didn't really get the chance to. Uh if you don't place in the top 10, you only get like 10 15 seconds to go and hit like two poses. So, uh that's what I did at the night show. But in the morning show, they they get you to do a one minute routine that's from scratch cuz they play just random music and you just bose. So it's different than you'd expect. Um then you get your call outs and if you're not in a call out, you know, you're you're just standing there waiting and you're like, I hope I get the next call out. Uh but uh I basically am more than as satisfied with my my presentation on the stage. I had good color. The comments and feedback I got were that I was extremely like in extremely good condition, like just that my leanness was good, shape and symmetry, balance, all perfect, just need to be more big, more muscle to hang with like the top five kind of guys like um I competed I weighed in at 192 and that's on uh Friday I think it was and I'm actually lighter than that on stage by couple pounds. So, I'm hitting it right under 190 basically the whole time. Um, so considering the class is 212 and I'm 5'6 and 1/2, I mean to most people around here, I uh I kind of look big, but on a stage next to everybody that's in the 205 lb range and almost everyone's shorter than me, I look relatively small. although I have good condition. So, that's what allowed me to to get 11th place even though the guys are mostly bigger than me. So, you know, I was really happy with that. Everything went great and uh I did couple photo shoots that should hit some magazines in a few months. Um the photo shoot pictures were were great. Got to see some some pros um at the gym like Mike Johnson and Antoine, some other guys doing their thing in the in the same gym at the same time. got a few pictures with them as well. And uh so yeah, it's a it's a really incredible experience to not only compete as a pro, but to walk around and then kind of take pictures with people who actually know who you are, which you you kind of feel like you no one really knows you and you go away and then you realize a lot of people actually kind of follow your your training and your progress and and your motivation for them to do well. So, in summary, it's like the most amazing uh bodybuilding experience of my life by by a long shot. Better even though I didn't place top 10, it still was more satisfying than winning any show I've ever done. Um, as I've said before, winning doesn't really matter. It's about improvement or coming in at your best. So, I mean, if you gave it your all and you came in at your best and you get last place, then that's still a win because you're your best. So you can't just compare yourself to everyone else. So that's the attitude I have. I just want to be better than last time. And if I am, then that's a win. So I'm happy with that. And hopefully I get more clients to train and believe in my uh diet methods. I have the what I think is the best diet going, the most enjoyable and satisfying. Um since the show, I've gained uh 4 lbs mostly just water weight. So, I'm still relatively, you know, in the same condition and I'm eating the same foods. I don't crave anything. I just want to eat what's on my diet. I just eat a little bit more of it and I have lots of energy in the gym and things are great. So, if you're looking for a prep coach and who's really dedicated, like I put in a lot of hours and I will get back to you like as soon as I can. I don't mess around. I really am 100% there for you. Um, message me on Facebook or or email. Um, and uh, I'll get back to you. So, looking forward to talking to you more and I'll post again next week.