A Hellifax bodybuilder accomplishes a record-breaking feat. Details are next. Stick around. Okay, so here it is. The big day at Fitness Effects. Guinness book a record-breaking day for me. I've been training this for a long time. Um, if you don't know me, I'm a powerlifter, a bodybuilder. I did triathlons for 13 years. So, I kind of have a mix of strength, endurance, a little bit of everything. Um, so what I did was I applied to the Guinness Book of Records to set the sumo deadlift record for most weightlifted in a minute. So, it's not conventional, it's sumo, so I'm doing it the way that we're supposed to. A lot of people want to know, how tall are you? How big are you? 5'6 and a half and I weigh 212 lbs here. and I'm an IP pro bodybuilder in the 212 class. Um, turning 40 years old in September. So, what's going on right now is the weights are being officially weighed in with a one of those expensive calibrated scales because I can't just go by the weight. So, you can see they're they're nice uh weights here, but they still need to be calibrated exactly. Uh, it ended up being 402.7 lbs, which was weighed in kilograms. Guinness requires kilogram weights to be converted to pounds. Um had two official judges. One is a level four personal trainer with almost 20 years experience. The other one a world champion powerlifter and record holder. So they knew if the reps were done correctly or not. Basically, um the training for this basically I started lifting really heavy weights like you know I could lift around 700 lb or so and then because this is an endurance strength event every week I basically just lowered the weight to say 620 for a set of 20 550 for a set of 30 500 for 30 that kind of stuff. And so as I got closer to the meet the reps were higher and higher and higher. So my last training day, I had done 400 for 50 reps. Um, so what I noticed was I could never lift for a minute. So even though I have a minute to lift, I couldn't push that much weight for a minute. So I was thinking, okay, lift the weight as fast as you can. Get as many reps as you can in. Um, looking back, I probably would have lifted even more weight had I gone with a lighter weight, but I thought 400 lb sounded cool, so I went with that. So, you can see they're just getting it all set. Weights ready. Um, I'm really motivated here. Couldn't wait to do this. You had to wait two months to get Guinness to to allow the lift to go. Getting set up. So, in training, I'd been able to do about one rep per second for 20 seconds, and then I usually slow down a little bit. But here with the the camera crews rolling, CTV News and Radio Journal, some another French radio station. I can't really pronounce it. I'm not that French. But um yeah, crowd cheering you on. A little bit more motivated. So I'm lifting the weight absolutely as fast as I can. It it wouldn't have mattered. I don't think about at 100 pounds on that's as fast as I can lift that. Um, so yeah, I was at 10 reps at 10 seconds, which was exactly where I wanted to be. And I found I was even picking up the pace here. The weight felt so light at this point. Um, 21 reps, 20 seconds. I was ahead of my fastest pace. Still ahead of pace of 30 seconds. Really, at this point, I'm thinking, man, I might get 55 reps. But after about 40 reps, the lactic acid just became ridiculous. It felt like you're running that 400 meter dash and you're just on that last stretch and you're just dying. So here I am thinking, geez, I might not get 50. And I'm just like locked it out and then done. Falling to the ground. Couldn't have done another rep. So I actually had 10 seconds left. I didn't know I had that much time left. I could lift any more. Congratulations. [cheering] Hellifax bodybuilder Greg Ducet was trying to break the Guinness World Record for the most amount of weight deadlifted in a minute. By all accounts, it sounds like you said accomplished that goal. Just over 20,000. He did. He did uh 50 reps in a minute of 402 lb. 402.7 lb. The entire time I'm thinking go faster, faster, faster, faster, faster. Cuz you can only lift a weight for so long. Then your body could fatigue. So, if I went slower, the time limit would have been passed before I got to my max reps. So, I'm thinking speed, speed, speed speed the entire time. Kind of like a a a sprinter would in a 100 meter dash. The same feeling. Now, the video will be sent to the folks at Guinness for verification of the record, which often takes a couple of months. In the meantime, Ducet says he's not done breaking records just yet. Next, he wants to push for the most weights sumo deadlifted in an hour. Fore [clears throat] Book of World Records. Um, the Guinness Book of Records. Foreign Guinness book in minutes. You