Let's pay attention. Get your popcorn ready cuz trust me, some you're going to agree, some you're going to disagree. Coach Greg, in today's video, I'm going over the top halfnatty supplements. I'm going to give you my rating. I'm going to tell you how much muscle you can put on from them, how much fat you can burn. It's a highly educational video and so you can turn away right now if you're just here for the drama. And so I'm going to be telling you exactly which of these supplements would I recommend, which ones would I stay away from, which are the best, which are the worst. And so if you're up for it, well, dig in. And so in no particular order, I just feel like starting with this one. It's going to be Sealis. Seialis, it's not banned by water. And so you can in fact take it and you're still considered to be natural. Should you be considered natural taken sealis? Well, that's up for you to decide. It is a prescription medication and so you need to get it from a doctor. I know people are getting it underground and it does do wonders for your physique. How much muscle can you expect from using Seialis? ATO. >> How about strength? ATO it doesn't help you to get stronger and it doesn't help you to put on more muscle. And so how is it beneficial? It increases dilation of the blood vessels. And so you're going to get more blood flow to your muscles and you're going to look definitively more jacked if you are in fact lean enough for that effect to take place. If somebody's 100% natural and they take seialis, they very could fool you into thinking they're a fake natty. We've seen guys like Will Tennyson do experiments with this. It is in fact incredible. You will literally feel the difference. The pump is unreal. >> I have never had a chest pump like this in my entire life. The amount of blood that's in my chest, the amount of detail, like I I have not seen this many striations. >> Visually, it's going to make you look better. And so, when I'm coaching athletes, say, "You're going to go up on stage and compete." I'm going to be telling them, I want you to use some seialis. How much? Well, the maximum dose that I would suggest that anyone take is 20 milligs, but that's for sexy time if you're really trying to have a good time. And you know what I'm talking about, boy. >> For bodybuilding purposes, I don't really think you need to go past 10 millig. And even at five, you will notice a difference. And is it safe to take it? The answer is yes. I see no negative downfall on taking for example 5 milligrams each and every day. In fact, I do believe it could be beneficial for your health. Of all the supplements I can think of that's half natty, this is the best one I can think of. I'm giving it an S plus S tier. Excellent. It's amazing. It is a prescription medication. And so if you enter certain bodybuilding competitions that are drug tested and they tell you you're not allowed to take prescription medications, then you have to abide by their wishes. Some federations or I do believe most federations will allow it. It isn't banned by water. You can use it in the Olympics, but be careful. Don't say, "I watched Coach Greg video. He told me to take Seialis and now I'm failing a drug test." You won't fail a water drug test, which is restrictive of them all, but it's possible that there are federations that will not allow you to take it. If you do want to get this medication, I am in fact sponsored by Algo RX, and they sell it very, very cheap. It's cheaper than last time. And so, if you're interested in Tadalaphil, which is Seialis, or you could even get Viagra, click the link in description, code Greg, 10% off. Next, inclenine. You know what this is? It's going to help boost your testosterone levels by perhaps twofold. We know that Chris Williamson was taking this. Remember, he used to be taking this from Merrick Health. I did a video on this. He since that time admitted to being on HRT and it allowed his testosterone levels to go up to over 1,000 NOGS per deciliter. It is in fact banned by water. And so if you are entering drug tested bodybuilding competitions, you can't take this. It's also what I believe that Alex Eubank was taking when his testosterone levels went up to over 900 nanogs per deciliter when previously it was in the 200s, 400s, 600s at most. And since that time, Alex has been on HRT. Without question, inclane will boost your testosterone levels to higher levels than last time. Perhaps sometimes to super physiological levels and it will revoke your natty status when used in drug tested competitions. But for some people, they don't care. It isn't using steroids. It's not going to shut down your HTTP axis if you do in fact use this. And so you can use it and eventually go off. It is something that could be used instead of HRT. How much muscle will it actually literally put on? For example, you're a normal guy. Your testosterone levels are perhaps 6 7 800 nanogs per deciliter. In other words, you're doing fine just on your own. Approximately 1 to 2 lbs more muscle than if you hadn't used it. Are the differences stupendous? Absolutely not. Would I recommend it for anyone who already has very good testosterone levels? The answer is no. I don't think it's worth it to boost your testosterone levels up a couple hundred nanogs per deciliter when you quite literally could do it while being 100% natural. Why go to the dark side and use inclapene when you could use gest platinum? This can increase your testosterone levels by about 1 to 200 nanogs per deciliter. Are you going to put on a ton of muscle? The answer is no. Sean Nalawick said you're going to absolutely gain 0.0 g of muscle in no matter how many months from boosting your testosterone levels naturally by 200 ngs per deciliter. I wonder if he included in clomophene in this. He thinks that if you don't boost your levels by tenfold of that thousand to 2,000, it's going to do nothing. I 100% disagree with Sean. And I don't know if he's changed his opinion since then. I don't know if he just rage baits on purpose so that people won't buy test boosters. But raise your hand right now. You're listening to this. Think that if you use inclapene, you would add zero pounds of muscle in 6 months in comparison if you didn't do it. I don't think anyone believes that it doesn't do anything. But it doesn't do a lot. If you already have really good levels of testosterone, 500, 600, 700, 800, or even more, I don't suggest use it. But what about if it's low? If you're bro and you've got 250 nanogs per deciliter or god forbid 150. In other words, you literally have low levels of test the bottom quarter or even worse and you're debating if you should use testosterone or HRT, whatever. In 6 months, if you have low levels of testosterone, expect to gain four to six, perhaps even eight pounds of muscle if your testosterone levels are really low. And so the lower your testosterone levels, the more Enclomophane is going to help you. And so for those individuals, I think it's amazing. Do I think that you're natural if you use it? Absolutely not. But many people are going to say it's half natty because you're not after all using testosterone. You can use it and stop. It's not going to be unhealthy if you do that. And if you don't abuse it, for example, you're using 25 milligrams every other day, not 50 milligram per day like some people are prescribing. I do believe that it can be very beneficial. However, it's not the solution to putting on a ton of muscle. There are negative side effects. It is a prescription medication and yes, you can get it at Algo RX if you're interested. Of course, code Greg, 10% off. And so, I'm giving it a B. There are better supplements that are safer and so I'm not going to give it S tier like Seialis. Seialis I do believe any natural could use this get huge benefits from it in terms of your appearance and no negative side effects. But if you're just an average guy going to the gym, I don't think you should run out there and start getting inclined because I do believe there are some negative side effects that you should be careful of. Next highly controversial this one and I'm going to group this up into all of them in one. I'm talking about the GLP ones for example ompic or tzipotide or reatutride basically all of those injections that you can get to reduce your appetite to reduce your cravings get rid of the food noise slow gastric emptying and basically make it easier for you to stick to your lower calorie diet putting you in a deficit allowing you to lose weight. It doesn't burn fat. This isn't magic. It just allows you to actually stick to your diet. And so if you stick to your diet without this, of course you're going to lose weight. Of course, I would rather you have you buy my freaking [snorts] cookbook. I would rather you do 150 minutes of cardio a week. I would rather you put the fork down. But if you do use it, it can be extremely beneficial in helping you to lose weight. And I don't care if it's a child. Many people are going to say, "There's no way kids could use this. There's no way. They should just join soccer. They should play basketball. They should go for runs. The parents should give them a better diet than last time. I was a physical education teacher for 11 years. I saw children every single day who were 100 plus pounds overweight. I couldn't convince them that they shouldn't be eating chips at recess. They should be eating healthier meals at lunch. And so what are you to do if a kid is 100 pounds overweight, morbidly obese, make being made fun of, having a hard time getting friends, knowing what it's going to do to their health for the rest of your life? I personally think that these GLPS are better used than not. Now, do they have negative side effects? Absolutely. They have tons of negative side effects. They're not healthy. They're not good for you. There's horrible things that can happen. We've seen the lawsuits on ompic, people going blind, people having stomach upset, diarrhea, nausea, pain. But what about people who are morbidly obese, 300 lb, 400 lb, or even 50 lb overweight? Are there any negative side effects to being fat? Being a fat piece of [\h__\h] lots. Being called a fat piece of [\h__\h] Who wants to be called that? Not fitting in your clothes. Not being able to get a date with the person that you like cuz you're not good-looking enough. There are so many downfalls to not being what society wants you to be, which is to be thinner. In terms of the average person watching this video, you're probably not 400 lb. Well, maybe you are. Many of you are just going to the gym and trying to look good. Perhaps you're a bodybuilder. Perhaps you might want to compete someday if you use a GLP and it allows you to not be 35% body fat in the offseason for men, let's say, and being obese or even 25% body fat. If you're 25% body fat in the offseason, it's not good. That's obese for women over 32% like 33% body fat, you're obese. It's not healthy. It's not good. And then you think you're going to then diet down 20% body fat. So women, you're going to go from 33% to 13. You're going to get up on stage, enter that bikini competition. How easy do you think that is to lose 20% of your weight in body fat? How long do you think that will take? Well, for the average person who diets hard, 20 weeks. 20 weeks of dieting. How much muscle do you think you're going to lose during that time? Will you go insane? You're going to have to be on a strict diet for 20 weeks because you're fat in the offseason. For men, same thing. You're 25% body fat. Now you're down to five. 20 weeks of hard dieting. It's not easy. Imagine if you took these medications and rather than being 33% for women and 25% for men, women were 23% offseason and men 15% which is healthy for both men and women. I believe there are more health benefits to doing this than there is harm. If I were coaching someone, they said, "Hey, you know, I'm thinking about using a GLP. I'm about 20% body fat, more than I should be for my on stage. My body fat percentage right now is 20% higher than I wanted to be on stage." I'd say, you know what? Let's use it in the lowest dose that makes you happy. The lowest dose that gets rid of enough of that food noise so that you can stick to a healthy diet. I'm not saying that they should be at singledigit body fat year round. You don't have to look like Coach Greg in the offseason. By the way, I do not use these medications. I don't personally need them because I actually eat from my cookbook and I ride a bike for about eight hours a week. And so I have the hack. I have the magic pill and it's called exercise. Not everyone is as disciplined or has the genetics that I do to not be overweight. If you want to use these, I am not going to stop you. I tell you the good, the bad, the ugly. There are bad and negative side effects to using them. I don't care which one you use. There are some negative side effects. I think the lowest dose that you use, the better. And many are going to say that's the easy way out. You're taking the shortcut. You're a cheater. Yep. That's why they're half natty. Now, are you in fact natural? According to Wada, the number one drug tested uh organization in the world, they're not banned. And so, you can use them and still be considered natural. Now, personally, I don't think that you're natural. I can't really argue against water, but personally, if I were on water committee or whatever, I would say, you know what, these give such an athlete advantage that I think it should be banned. I don't think it's fair that if you're using these that you should be allowed to against other drug-free athletes that don't want to use them. It gives you such a huge advantage. For example, if you're at, I don't know, 10% body fat year round as a bodybuilder, pro bodybuilder. Let's take Nick Walker for example, because I know he's on, I think it's reatr. It's no problem. If it makes it that much easier to stick to a diet, to stay lean in the offseason, then you're having a significant advantage over your opponents. Now, a lot of people think, "No, you need to bulk in the offseason. Everyone should bulk, get to 15 or 20% body fat." Yeah. Yeah. That's been proven to be [\h__\h] Why are you telling people that they should be using these things or that they could be using these things when you know that they could be dangerous? Let's compare the alternative. How many people do you think that do bodybuilding competitions don't use clenbuterol? They don't use T3. They don't use other drugs, dangerous drugs. And don't get me started on how many competitors are literally using things like ADD medications. I don't want to name them because I feel like if you do, you get the video demonetized. And so, they're using much more dangerous drugs as well as using dangerous dieting practices. or perhaps they need to do 3 hours of cardio a day or take a bunch of pills, let's call it diuretics, go through crazy dieting protocols in order to get in shape. In comparison, if they use this in the offseason or during their contest prep, imagine how much easier it would be. I'm giving it an A rating. I can't give it S tier because there are dangers, there are negative side effects, but I have to keep it really high because I do see the value in these supplements. I see how much easier it can make for people who want to diet. And there's a lot of people out there that just don't give a [\h__\h] Do you really think they care? Do you really think they care about the potentially negative things that it's doing to their bodies? You can write in the comments that you hate me. You don't want to follow me anymore. You're unsubing cuz I'm promoting it. Listen, I'm not a doctor. I'm telling you what I think. Prescription medications that you can get from Algo RX. Remember, they have doctors. They will prescribe it to you legally. It's not from some sketchy underground site. These are legal medications that doctors can prescribe you and they do so at significantly cheaper prices than their competitors. And so if you're interested, code Greg 10% off. Click the link in the description. Now reatras a guinea pig. And I'm not saying it doesn't have any benefit, but it does have the most side effects of the three. It does result in the greatest weight loss, but I don't think that you need the greatest weight loss. Any of these are going to be effective. And I do believe that ompic is by far the cheapest, followed by tzipide and red are likely the most expensive. Next, a fat burner known as ephedrin. Ephedrin is extremely underrated. Back when I was your age, back in, I don't know, 1994, let's call it, about 30 years ago, I was using ephedan. We were stacking ephedrin with caffeine and going to the gym and having the craziest workouts ever. It was unbelievable. It was in nearly every fat burner stack. This was the best fat burner back in the day. In comparison to Clen, for example, I like this more. And then eventually people died and they said, "You know what? It's too dangerous. You can't combine it with caffeine. You can't sell it like this anymore." And so they started selling them on their own in 8 milligram pills. Back in the day there were 20 milligram pills and 25 milligs and they had some stronger ones and so on and but of course people abused them too too much and some people died and so they banned it. Now up until about a year ago they only kind of banned it. Since then it's like really really banned. You know you could buy it. I've been using them on and off for decades now. Do I believe that it's safe? I believe it's safe enough for 99.9% of people to use it. problem is there's that 0.1% that can't. Now, there's a lot of things out there that are dangerous. Like Tylenol, if you take the whole bottle, what do you think is going to happen? It's not going to be good. You're you're not going to be with us very long. In moderation, used by people who are healthy, I think it could be very beneficial. Any of the things that we're listening, if you take a whole bottle of it, it's not good. Don't do that. Do not do these things. Ephedrin, I'm giving it an A rating. It can boost your energy, can reduce your appetite, and taken responsibly, it can be a benefit. What supplement companies did in the past, they removed a federan and they took other ingredients and put them in. I think they put in cinephrine. They put in different items and said, "You know what? It's 1,800% better." I remember the muscle tech ad. 1,800% better. I'm like, "Okay, so if the old formula helped me to burn one pound of fat, this one helped me to burn 18 pounds of fat." And they did the graph a certain way. And you know how they do studies and [\h__\h] They still do them to this day. They can confuse you. You can make any study look the way you want it. You do enough studies enough times with a few enough participants, you can make it look the way you want. There's no way I thought, oh yeah, it's 18 times better. Remember 1,800%. Not 18%, 1,800. And they use that in order to sell you products. Now, since that time, you can't use it. If I had to compare the dangers of using Clenbuterol to ephedrin, I'm going to say Clen is way more dangerous, way worse for your heart and so on. If you're using ephedrin instead of other more dangerous drugs, I do believe that things for ADD I guess I can say now for example aderal I think aderall is more dangerous than ephedrin of course depends on the dose but overall ephedrin I do believe it to be effective now will you lose your natty status it's actually banned by water in competition what does this mean it means if you're in the Olympics you're say you're doing the 100 meter dash you're swimming or whatever and a veteran is in your system above a certain threshold you fail the drug test and so you are a fake natty. Now in the offseason, as in when it's not competition, they allow you to train with it and you're not banned. And so it's certainly in a half natty category. And so eedan overall, if you're looking to burn fat, get energy, a tier half natty status. I wish it wasn't still banned. I do in fact love this. But if you don't want to use that and you want to get some energy, I do believe you should try out my preworkout, the blue lobster with celidraide. Cidraide is 100% legal. It's not banned by water. It makes you get blue lobstered. In other words, it makes you more talkative. It has more energy. You're going to feel better. You're going to be in the proper mood in order to go and work out harder than last time. And so, who doesn't want to get blue lobster? Code Greg 15% off. Next up, GW-501516, also known as Carterine. This is band by WA. And this is all about cardio. It's not to help you build more muscle. It's about increasing your endurance, your ability to go set after set in the gym or to do more cardio than last time. There's some people that are concerned that perhaps it can cause cancer. Now, I do believe that that's only in very high doses, not in lower doses. But do you really want to take that chance? I took that chance. I used it a number of times back in the day and I do believe it was beneficial, but it is a scary thought. I'm going to give this a C tier overall. Now, the reason I'm giving it a C tier, even though you could get benefit from it, is because, well, why risk your health even for that maybe when there's an alternative that's just as good. This also starts with the G. It's G2 max. In other words, it's going to improve your V2 max, improve your cardio, and it's safe and it's been studied, and you don't lose your natty status. And so, I don't see the point of using something that automatically makes you fail a drug test when there's a natural alternative that's just as good. And so, I'm giving it a C tier. This isn't a half natty supplement. It's 100% natural. And so, it's not on the list. Now, some people are going to say, "Oh, there's no way it's as good as GW because this is natural and that it's not." Just because something's natural doesn't mean it can't be more beneficial than something that's not natural. That is ridiculous. For example, Turk Builder Max, Turk Platinum, as well as creatine and beta-alanine, those are all natural and of course they offer benefit. beta-alanine, for example, if you're not doing a bunch of reps, you're only doing one rep maxes or you're resting five minutes between sets, it's not going to help you. But if you're racing bikes like Coach Greg or you're doing a set after set, super sets, or you're going and doing agonist antagonistic training, you do a set of chest and a set of back and you go back and forth and you're not resting a long time. Absolutely can be a benefit. Now, you might be thinking, yeah, 3.2 grams, this is what you need. It's more than that. 3.2, it helps you, but more is going to help you more. But here's the thing. The science, new research just came out. It says you want to take up to 6.4 grams. Somewhere from 4 to 6.4. It could be even 10. Who knows eventually if they keep studying it. But the thing is, you need to take smaller doses over a longer period of time. You can't just take five grams at once, you get the itchies and the tingles and so on. But if you did, for example, a couple grams here, a couple grams there, you sip it throughout the day, that is when you really notice the benefit and it does accumulate in your system, you have to take it for several months. And so if you're a cardio phenom or this really matters to you, like if you're running the 400 m in the Olympics and you're not using beta-alanine or you're a crossfitter and you're not using it maximally, you have no idea what you're missing out on. Like I can imagine if I took all the best crossfitters in the world, the Olympic athletes, and I taught them the supplements to take. For example, I got them on Turk Platinum, GO2 max, beta-alanine, and creatine. Perhaps they're already taking some of these. And I took identical twins, equal abilities, and I put them on HDLT supplements, one twin, the other twin not on the supplements, my athlete would win every single time if you don't care about one, two, three, perhaps 5% differences in improvement. You don't need any supplements at all. But if you really want to make a difference, like you care about every pound of muscle matters. Every improvement in performance, it makes a difference for you. HDLT supplements. That is the go-to. Code Greg 15% off. And so, last but not least, we have BPC-157 and TB-500. Now, if you use these, it's banned. If you use these supplements, you're not actually natural. But, not everyone cares. Not everyone is competing in the Olympics. Not everyone cares about this. BPC isn't technically used to help you build muscle, but it's helped to recover from injuries and so on. And so, for example, I sprained my ankle quite badly two weeks ago and I've been limping along and trying to recover and I'm using BPC and TB-500 to improve my performance. Now, is it helping me to build more muscle? Well, not really. But if I'm able to train and it's allowing me to heal faster, then indirectly it's allowing to build more muscle. And so, not everyone cares if they're labeled a fake natty. Some people just want to get the most out of their training. whether that takes away their natural card. So what is it? A miracle cure? No. You can't just recover from a broken bone or or if you sprain your ankle, it's not going to just suddenly repair in a couple of days. Does it make every single person repair faster than last time? I don't think so. But let's say 50% of people notice an improvement, then I believe that it's worth it. I mean, when you give creatine to a 100,000 people, I surveyed them. How many people noticed it worked? 50%. And so the number one natural supplement in the world, half the people don't even notice it working. And so if BPC57 can improve 50% of the people who use its recovery time, then I think it's a benefit. I'm going to put it as a C tier. It's not guaranteed to help you. It does cost a significant amount of money. It's not all that cheap. You have to inject it. I don't recommend you use it if you're not injured. I don't think you just shove this into your body every day thinking, "Oh, I'm just going to recover so fast. I'll train every single I don't think it improves you that much. It does have benefits for people who are injured. It loses your natural card according to water and so on. And so C tier BPC57 and TB-500. Hopefully you enjoyed this educational non-drama based video. Hopefully you learned something. Perhaps there's some of these supplements that you could use in your own arsenal or perhaps you want to stay away from all of them. I'm not saying any of you should use any supplements at all. You don't need to use supplements. I just explain the benefits. I personally believe in supplements. Obviously, I've been using supplements for over 30 years now. And so, if I think they're of benefit for me, I'm going to explain to you what I think. You can listen, you can not listen. You can say I'm selling snake oil. You can say I'm benefiting. Say whatever you want. Just please continue to watch my videos. And please write as many hateful comments as humanly possible. It helps with the algorithm. And remember, if you're interested in hiring me for coaching, I'm doing that yet again. You can apply by clicking the link in description. That includes average people trying to lose weight as well as competitors. And so, if you're interested, apply by clicking the link below. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, and if I get lots of views, of course, I will make more videos like this than last time. And so, watch the video, write as many comments as possible. Watch one of those two bloops. And of course, we got the cookbooks, training books, the circle diet book. You can get all those on the website code Greg 15% off.