Don't respond to this video. I will [\h__\h] >> bury you. Hamza, >> if you want to go ahead and maybe like hurt me more, you have the >> to do that. >> He couldn't [music] let it slide. No, I don't care. I don't care what he knows about me. I have to say my part. And [music] so he lied. Coach Greg, in today's video, you're not going to believe it. Hamza outs himself as a fake natty by accident. And so before I get into that, I have to explain a little bit about why he would do such a thing. Remember, Hamza has over 2 million followers. He enjoys making fun of Coach Greg. And so it's come full circle. Essentially, Hamza's ended his entire career. And I'm not putting it lightly. Oftentimes, people say ended their career, and they just throw it out there as if it's nothing. This guy has been losing thousands and thousands of followers each and every day, and it's just began to go viral. And wait till you see the [\h__\h] storm that's been going on. Let me just read a few comments on his former videographer, his best friend. They're going toeto toe explaining everything that they did wrong to each other. And I have to admit, this guy makes Jeff Nippard look like an angel. And that's saying something. I mean, when he's makes a video and throws his friend under the bus and says, "You know what? I'm going to relieve some secrets." When I met him, he wanted to end himself. He didn't want to be with us. But after a couple weeks with me, he was so swell and I helped him and I allowed him to do this and I gave him a chance and I'm a donusist. He's just a Jeffrey. What makes you think that you're so special? Bro is a manipulative [\h__\h] And trust me, I don't say these things lightly. Release the Hamza files. Kendrick versus Drake at home. Huge day for the unemployed 2.1 beta. Every comment is going harder than last time. This video, there's something nefarious about Hamz Amed. It's similar to a Solomon video where he took out both of the trend towers. >> Jeff Nippod. >> Jeff Nippod. Jeff Nipod. This man worked his ass off as his editor, as his videographer, the man behind the scenes who helped him to grow millions of followers. And while he was with him, he was growing about 200,000 followers per month. He was doing amazingly well, but Hamza just had to let him go. So jealous. Had to be the superstar. Couldn't let anyone work well with him. The jealousy, the control, the lying. Let's get right into it. >> I met my friend Sam in the COVID lockdown in December 2020. I actually hired him to be my video editor for this channel. He wears that stupid robe all the time with the hood on or the white shirt and he acts like he's better than everyone. Oh, this is how you should live your life. This is how you should grow. This is how you put on muscle. He's a freaking fake natty and he outed himself. It's the best freaking part. If you watch this video, you automatically hate Hamza. Automatically. >> This entire video he made was just in reaction to the the text that I wrote. Just this title is insulting enough. Imagine your your old best friend says that about you. >> Hamzamemed is a narcissistic, disingenuous manchild. That's the title of his friend's video. He's telling you the behind the scenes little bit and said, "You know what? >> Hamza, if you're watching this video, don't respond to this video. I will >> bury you, Hamza. >> It's just like when Jeff Nippod started talking smack about Solomon. Solomon said, "Really? You ain't seen nothing yet." And so he brought the Nipstein files. >> If you want to bury me, if you want to go and expose every bit of my private details, bro, honestly, you could >> destroy my life. Go ahead, >> Hamza, who has over 2 million followers. He couldn't let it slide. No, I don't care. I don't care what he knows about me. I have to say my part. And so he lied. Lied about so many things in this video. And so Sam made a response video over an hour long. And so unless you've watched all this, I don't have the time to go over all of it. be a two-hour Netflix documentary. You have to simply go and watch it. >> Hamza, if you entered a call with your best friend, someone who means so much to you to gain clarity, why did you record the call? >> This call, remember from a concerned friend, he recorded it. Oh, I want to talk to you. You know, we we we used to be best friends. Let's get on a call. I really want to help you. Records the call. If you just really care about your friend, are you going to record that call and take snippets of it and then put it in your video to attack that person? That's Hamza. >> It was an attack on my reputation, not because he gave his own opinion about cold showers that he's entitled to do, but that he knew that people would think about me when he was saying you've been sold lies about self-improvement. >> He has been sold a lie on self-improvement. this guy whose essentially his channel is to tell you that you're a loser and that you need to stop wanking that you need to stop watching the porn on TV and you need to go to the gym every single day and meditate and to put the fork down and train hard because you're not a Chad. This man, how did he do it? Testosterone. He doesn't mention the fact that he's on testosterone. And not only that, you're thinking, "Oh, but does he really need to talk about it?" He literally made a video on testosterone a month ago. It didn't mention anything. Said, "Oh, my testosterone levels when I was younger, they were in the 400s." But then I meditated and I thought positively. I thought, YOU KNOW WHAT? I DO HAVE HIGH testosterone and it got it up into the 700s. He doesn't mention that it's actually at 1500 and that it's from taking steroids. Now, he calls it HRT, TRT, testosterone replacement therapy. I'm on 140 milligrams a week, and I've posted my blood work a number of times, and I'm in the 700s, sometimes in the 800s. And so, do I look like I'm not benefiting from HRT? I mean, we've seen the biceps. I'm 50. I ride bikes every single day. I lift weights twice a week. His testosterone levels are double mine. And so when you look at Hamza, you're thinking he's probably natural. He's not that impressive. And so there lies the point. In secret, he uses testosterone, lies about it. Says he got higher levels of testosterone from working out and not wasting his life, from being sober, from not doing uh recreational things like sniffing creatine and so on. But he omits the truth. It would be equivalent to if I said, "You know what, guys? All of the muscle that I have on my body, it's only from Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum. What would you then think? You would say, "Well, aren't you on HRT?" And so, imagine he's been lying about this, never talked about it until now because his friend, he said, "I'll expose everything." >> Sam hasn't been consistent in even exercise for the last few years. Not meditation, not cold showers, not reading, not gratitude journaling. And so, heavens forbid he hasn't been journaling and taking cold showers, exercising and reading and meditating. And so, he hasn't been listening to big old Hamza, the Adonis, everyone's favorite mad, the Chad, the one that all girls want to be with and men want to emulate. And so, what else are we going to say about your former best friend? >> This is the worst thing I'm going to say, but his physique shows it as well. >> Last I checked, he is not on testosterone. He's not on steroids and you are, which gives you a significant advantage. And so, let's see your physique without the steroids. Have you been perfect? You admitted that you don't always lock in. You haven't meditated every day of your life, trained every single day, eaten healthy all the time. What makes you so special that you can make fun of your former best friend for what? For views, for attention. cuz you need to be one step above him. >> I can forgive Sam because I genuinely still, you can see it in my [\h__\h] face. I genuinely still have so much love for him. >> If this is the kind of love that somebody can have for me, then I'll choose hate. I love this guy so much. Really? Yeah. Okay, sure. What a toxic relationship. >> If you want to go ahead and maybe like hurt me more, you have the >> to do that. And so without even watching the entirety of that video, Hamza posts this. Please don't comment on other videos and posts because I told my team to only allow comments on this post so we can have the conversation in a place instead of fragmented comments everywhere distracting people who just want to watch normal videos. translation. I'm going to delete all your comments unless they're right here because this is a place where hardly anyone is going to look. It's not going to be on my videos and I don't want everyone to find out. And so, just like Mike Isertell, whose team is deleting the comments that are posted on his wall right now. You can go check it out. I was talking with John Bravo. We're making videos on this stuff. Hamza's doing the same thing. He's admitting it. He's saying, "Hey, we're not allowing those comments. You can only do it here." And so, why do you think that is? If only 5% of an audience goes to a certain place and that's the only place you're allowed comments, well, that keeps 95% of the people in the dark because he doesn't want everyone to know about this. Hamza made the same mistake that others have and others will continue to have. They think they're above everything, that no one could possibly cancel them. And so, he knows every single comment is going to be about the drama, the fact that he's a fake natty, that he's on testosterone, that he's a liar. And so, what does he do? Well, he tries to hide it. the same like Mike Isertel. Notice Mike has never addressed anything on his channel. I've always told you I'm not perfect. I'm the Jeffrey in all the videos. It's funny because he makes it look like everyone else is. I'm the Adonis. The Chad. My former friends like Sam, he's a Jeffrey. He's a loser. He can't even meditate every day or journal. Right? You really think meditating and journaling is going to be the secret to all your answers and prayers? that is suddenly going to turn you into a jacked man. Look at their most popular videos and it's always the Hamza hate videos. Maybe there's a reason for that. Did you think that? Like why would people like Hamza hate videos if there wasn't a reason to hate them? Like imagine if we did Will Tennyson hate videos. You think people would like that? Because he doesn't do or say things that create the hate. It's just business for them. That's why many of us don't even take these drama videos serious anymore. Many of us don't take the drama videos serious, but yet those are the most popular. The Hamza hate videos are the ones that are getting the most views. Is there maybe a correlation? >> What? >> I'm not on steroids. Saw people commenting that he said this, but I didn't see where in his video. He knows the truth as well, but if he said I was on steroids, he was just trying to make it more dramatic. And so he basically says he knows I'm on steroids, but if he said I'm on steroids, then he's a liar because I'm not on steroids. I'm on TRT, testosterone replacement therapy. Testosterone is a steroid. If you're on testosterone, you're on steroids. And if you're taking abusive levels of testosterone, aka your testosterone levels are through the roof. you're way above the normal physiological range, which he states is somewhere between 250 and a,000. Hardly anyone is actually that high, but it's possible. But if your body normally is in the 400s, and then when you do everything perfectly, you're in the 700s. And suddenly with testosterone, you're 1500, you're on abusive doses. You're on steroids. Testosterone, that is not being dramatic. I'm on TRT, which is where you take your testosterone level to more like a caveman, lol. TRT is testosterone replacement therapy. It's replacing what you should be making, and it's prescribed by a doctor or endocrinologist because your testes are not functioning properly. You're not producing sufficient testosterone in order to be healthy. It's not to put you way above the reference range and turn you into superhuman. 1,500 nanogs per deciliter instead of 700, what it used to be before. Now, I had an anthropologist write in and he said, "This is [\h__\h] There's no proof that a caveman had testosterone levels of 1500." And why are we trying to be like caveman? Does this not remind you of the liver king? The liver king and his ancestral tenants. Perhaps he was just trying to be like his ancestors by taking testosterone, growth hormone, and so on. And so, right there, it feels awesome. And notice by saying his testosterone should be at 1500, that shows you that he doesn't know anything about testosterone. There's no way a doctor endocrinologist would have explained to him that he should have testosterone levels at 1500 because I know that I have so many guys who might start taking it after hearing me hype it up. Wow, the virtue signaling. I'm such a good guy. I kept it a secret, a lie, if you will, because I care so much about you guys, you know. I didn't want you to benefit from feeling like a superhuman like our cavemens did. I wanted it all for myself. Why would I want young people who look up to me to hop on and cheat using steroids when it feels so amazing? You know, I didn't know anything about it. I'm just telling you now. Everyone hop on steroids. You teach men, young men, how to be Chads, Adonis. You're supposed to try to help them. And so what do you do? You keep all the good secrets to yourself. Testosterone. Oh, it helps me. I'm feel so good. But for you, you guys go meditate and sleep and um uh medicate again. Wow. You get to select which things that they should do and you choose to put exogenous testosterone into your body and keep it secret and sell programs. Yay. I wanted to wait until I've been on it for ages to really understand what it's like so if I do speak about it, I can come from a great place of actually knowing the pros and cons. So, let me get this straight. A man supposedly educated with millions of followers who explains to people how to be healthy and get their dream physiques and so on, he doesn't even know what testosterone is, but then jumps on it. What research did you put together to ensure that your programs were efficient, effective, and that other people should buy them from you and follow you? You couldn't even research the drug that you're putting into your own body. Says a lot about you. Imagine jumping on testosterone and not knowing anything about it. And so when you say your testosterone level should be 1500, how do you know that? Hasn't been enough ages for you to realize that that's way too much. No shame at all for me here. You're coping. There's so much copium that you're on, it's even higher levels than the testosterone. No shame here. Then why didn't you just admit it? Then why didn't you say, "Hey guys, I'm on testosterone. My testosterone levels are 1500 NOGS per deciliter. And I just want to be open, honest, and transparent." And so when you see all these extra muscles that I have, it's it's from the steroids. Oh, which are not actually steroids. It's testosterone. And in a few ages from now, I'll explain to you what it's all about. I just don't know right now. natural testosterone levels are so low with pollutants and microplastics and I'm always looking to feel like I'm super human. Okay. And so if you believe that the microlastics have destroyed your testosterone levels, why don't you cut out the microplastics? Why isn't that part of your repertoire of advice for the younger generation? Hey you guys, you need to meditate and sleep and stop playing video games. Don't sniff creatine and cut out plastics. That's so important. Those microlastics, they're destroying your testosterone. And so, please be careful. Don't drink out of plastic water bottles. Always use glass. And that is very, very important. You kept the secret to yourself. And you lied. It's been great actually, and I only regret not starting it earlier. Like, if it's so great and you were scared, worried that, you know, your younger audience would follow in your footsteps, then why are you encouraging to follow in your footsteps right now? I mean, if I'm reading this and I'm a fan of you, I'm using testosterone. You didn't say, you know, wait until you're older. I didn't use anything till I was in my 30s. It was 100% natural. And then I wanted a pro card and I abused steroids for 10 years. And then because I had abused steroids, I couldn't get my normal testosterone levels back. And so the endocrinologist prescribed me HRT. My doctor, he wasn't quite expert enough on it. And so he sent me to an endocrinologist in estrogen hormones. That's how I got my HRT. How did you get yours? Are you even on HRT or you just buying testosterone from bro at the gym? I would want to hear that story. Why is there no video from Hanza going to my doctor getting prescribed HRT? If you want to get your blood work done to see if you're healthy, and this includes guys like Hamza who are on performance-enhancing drugs, I highly encourage you to go to Algorx. Algorx get your blood work done for way cheaper prices than their competition. You don't believe me? Compare them. Go to Meric Health, look at all their prices and compare. That's all I ask. Perhaps you do have low levels of testosterone. Let's say it's in the 400s. You have low sex drive, low libido, and so on. Did you know there's something called inclapene? It's an oral pill. It's not an injectable. And you don't have to use it for the rest of your life. When you're on HRT, it's for life. You can't just use HRT and then stop. If you do, your balls, they shrink down when you're on HRT, unless you're on HCG. And it becomes polyarm pharmacy at this point. I'm not on HG. I tell you what I'm on. I'm on testosterone 140 milligrams a week. If you get on in Clomene, typically it's going to double your testosterone levels. I do believe that that's what Alex Dubank originally started when his testosterone levels were in the 400s and suddenly they were at 921 923 somewhere around there. And after that, following that, and only following that, he then went on HRT. Hamza should not have been on testosterone. Why didn't he start with inclapene? Now, if you're interested in inclapene, doctors from Algores will legally prescribe it to you and it's a prescription medication and so you need to answer a couple questions. It's not going to take all that long. Couple minutes and doctors will prescribe pharmaceutical enclaphene to you. It's not from some sarms website. They don't sell [\h__\h] Everything they sell 100% legal prescription only. Code Greg 10% off. Remember, I didn't just want to be sponsored. I wanted to be an owner. I wanted to do so much more research. You need to do the research before you take the drugs. You're going to start taking the drug and then research about it. Before I started steroids, I knew more than 99% of bodybuilders who are already on them. I studied it for 2 years. I wanted to be an expert. If you don't feel that I'm an expert, go watch all of my old videos. Many of you are sad that I don't continue to make those videos. I don't continue to take steroids. I'm allowed to get older and change my mind on the way I saw. I was on abusive levels of steroids. I was taking Serum's MK-677. I was taking everything. And eventually I thought, you know what? I don't want to shorten my life. I don't want to end up like a Mike Isertel. Do you think Mikeell is even going to make it to 50? And so what did I do instead? I do cardio. I race bikes. I'm fit. My V2 max is 56. Guys, I am healthy. In comparison, my kissertell, he can't even jump a nipper. Is he actually healthy? He ran a half a mile in 5 minutes and 27 seconds. Half a mile. Not a full mile. Full mile. 5 and a half minutes. Amazing. Great shape. A half a mile, FIVE PLUS MINUTES. PATHETIC. HORRIBLE. AWFUL. I taught great primary kids. And that would be a slow time for them. Black belt in jiu-jitsu AND CAN'T RUN A HALF MILE in under 5 minutes. This is embarrassing. I might make a video on it if you guys think it's a good idea because some of you might even be considering it. But still, we don't want teenagers to consider it. Lol. So that's why I didn't make a video on it before. Before we didn't want teenagers to do it, so we didn't make a video on it. But now, if people want to watch a video, we'll make a video now. But we still don't want teenagers to do it. And so if it's so good and there's no negative side effects and you wish you had done it sooner and you've been on it for ages, why don't teenagers do it too? [clears throat] What's bad about that? Should teenagers also meditate or are they too young? Should teenagers get enough sleep or they too young? Should teenagers stop playing so many video games? Should teenagers avoid using recreational drugs? Should teenagers train in the gym? Should they eat healthy? And so why is it that all these things that you promote are good for teenagers to do, but suddenly the testosterone is not? And so does that net make you want to think about is testosterone for you actually good? Why are you on it? This is video one on the Netflix documentary on the life story of Hamza. Oh, and before I go, you can buy the Turk Platinum and the Turk Builder Max. You can also buy GO2 Max. GLP max. It's going to make you less hungry. If you're more hungrier than last time, this makes you less hungry. If you're eight out of 10 hungry, this will get you to be a six out of 10 hungry. G Focus helps you concentrate more clearly. If you're studying for exams and so on, the Delta Sleep, it helps you go to sleep. Great name. GEST Platinum is my best booster. It can improve your testosterone levels by 2 to 400 NOGS per deciliter. And so, Hamza, for some reason, he didn't tell you about this either. And so rather than just jumping on testosterone, why not start with a booster? We got Blue Lobster pre-workout. We got tons of that here. And the Kao protein bars. Uh 50% off. Use code CICO. Please go and watch Sam's channel. Go and watch the videos. If you knew all of the [\h__\h] the background story, I'm sure you would be as mad as me. This man took his advantage of the guy who made him who he is. the man behind the scenes who worked his ass off and was there for him when he needed him most and he tried to put this guy down. Remember, he warned him. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment the booy out with him. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And of course, the cookbooks, the training books, coaching plans by me and my team, Algo RX, ALL OF IT. HEAD TO the website. And until next time, I am