That's what most people who use steroids look like. You all think that steroid users look like professional bodybuilders, that they all have six-packs, that they look amazing. Most people use steroids, you can't even tell by looking. Coach Greg, in today's video, we've got a guy, and unfortunately, he's barely survived because he abused steroids. So, we've got a 40-year-old bodybuilder. He's a bouncer at a nightclub and he's been using steroids for more than 10 years and he's been doing them in very high doses now. Unfortunately, it caught up with him and we see a photo of him and you're going to be saying, >> "Bro doesn't even look like he works out." >> And so, you see him laying there. He does look larger than average, but you're not going to say that this guy has well-formed abs, an amazing looking chest, arm definition. He just looks like a bigger guy. That's what most people who use steroids look like. You all think that steroid users look like professional bodybuilders, that they all have six-packs, that they look amazing. This is much more typical. And how would I know that? I used to sell them. Do you guys remember that? I don't [\h__\h] about these things. I used to do all of these things. And so, I'm speaking from experience. Most people use steroids. You can't even tell by looking. They don't look amazing. And so, if you think that, oh, if you just use trend, you would look like your favorite social media superstar. It's very unlikely to be true. And so essentially this guy was taking everything including the kitchen sink. He was doing Tess, Deca, Tren. He was using several different orals like Windstrol, Deanna Ball, you name it. Bro was using it. And also in high doses. For example, his Trend dose was as high as 5 to 700 milligrams a week. I once did this for about one week and I had to lower the doses. I couldn't handle it. I felt horrendous. And so eventually things caught up with him. And at age 40, he almost died. And so he started to experience shortness of breath. He was feeling fatigued. He wasn't feeling all that good. And so he said, "You know what? I'm going to stop taking steroids. You know, hey, let's just stop." And so one day this probably going to happen to Togei. We already know it's likely happened to The Rock. We've seen Batista stop. We We've seen it all the time. Eventually, you just don't feel good. You think, you know, I'll just stop. It was so bad that he had to stop exercising. He didn't even feel well enough to go to the gym. Here's my advice. As soon as this happens, you go to the hospital right away. But because he's a man, you know how guys are often times they think, you know, I'm not going to do this, I'm not going to do that. He waits an entire month. Eventually, he walks in, but by this time he's experiencing so many various side effects that the doctors, they don't know what to do. His skin began to get yellow. He had jaundice of the skin, the yellowing of the eyes. He was throwing up. He couldn't get the food down. And so now he decides to go to the hospital. I mean, imagine waiting that long. But many people, they do this. They wait until their symptoms are so severe and by then it's too late. For example, if you wait until you have stage 4 terminal cancer to go to the hospital, well, why didn't you go in it with stage three or stage two or stage one? And so, as soon as you're presented with something bad, please go and get it checked out. I don't care if it's an STD. I don't care if it's something that you see on your skin, a mole, why not be proactive and please go and check it out. Now, if the doctors don't decide to test for you and they don't do what they should be doing, well, that's a different story. But please do your best to be healthy. Immediately upon viewing this guy, he's like, he needs to be in the ICU. This is a medical emergency. He is not well. Very quickly, they were able to determine that nearly all of his organs were failing. So, for example, the heart, the kidneys, the liver, none of these are working properly. His ALT was approaching 8,000. Now, normally it's double digits. It's not even a hundred. When you're using steroids, sometimes you're using them a lot. It could be several hundred. And even that is bad. Bro is in the thousands. When you're in the hundreds, for example, you might have cerosis of the liver. When you are in the thousands, in the thousands club, your liver is shutting down. In conjunction to this, he had a high risk of bleeding and a high risk of having clots. And so Bro could have had a heart attack, a stroke at any time. And on top of that, he could have had Molina, a GI bleed. He could have bled out internally. And so it's really not looking good for him. And remember, this is the guy that waited an entire month to bother going to the hospital. And so to summarize, bro's in the hospital. He's 40. Use steroids. He doesn't have an incredible physique. And his heart is failing. His liver is failing, his kidneys are failing, and so his body is failing. He's essentially ready to die. And so upon doing an ultrasound on his liver, they found out his liver is absolutely massive. And I'm not talking about a low taper fade. >> And the reason, >> you remember that joke? Do you know that joke? >> Somebody does. His vascule is at this point leaking out water into his skin. He has edema. He's a swollen ankles. This is often a sign of something going wrong with the body. It's not normal to have this kind of swollen ankles. If you are a bodybuilder and you're dieting and then after the bodybuilding show you have cankles that are just going out of nowhere, you perhaps did something wrong. It's not ideal and so please be careful. And so due to the fact his kidneys and heart are failing. He's got water outside of where it should be. It's pooling everywhere. Due to this, he's now developed hyponetriia, which is not enough sodium in his blood. And so, there's a saying, when your blood sodium goes from high to low, your brain is about to blow, as in about to blow up. Literally, kind of, almost literally, figuratively. They assume this is a drug induced liver injury, but bro had already stopped. He'd stopped a month prior to this. And so the problem is he had two massive clocks in both of his ventricles which was preventing the blood from flowing down into his liver. And so because his heart was failing, his other organs were failing because the heart pumps blood to the other organs. I'm sure you knew that. And so it wasn't directly the steroids that were causing this. It was the steroids had previously caused the problem in the heart which resulted in not enough blood going through his organs. his heart was so bad his ejection fraction rather than being like 55 to 70% which would be very good it was down to 15% and so hardly any of the blood was being pumped out and I had a friend who had something similar to this and his was down to 30% and it was horrible he wasn't sure he was going to survive and so 30% is bad this was 15% remember it's supposed to be four times more than that and so his body hardly getting any of the blood that he needs And so in addition to this harder to breathe, there's water being pulled in his lungs. It's so feels like you're choking. This is not good. And so they start him on some IV dopamine in order to force his heart to push stronger, to push out more blood, as well as admitting diuretics such as Lasix to force him to pee out more of this excess fluid. With all of this, as well as some anti-coagulation, he suddenly began to get a little bit better. Thankfully, the clot began to disappear. He began to feel a little bit better. He remained in hospital for 16 days and was discharged with anti-coagulants. Upon his release, he was given a class 2 heart failure. There are four classes. And so, if he's just resting and doing nothing, he perhaps could feel normal. But if he does go and do exercise or try to lift weights and so on, he's going to be very limited. What becomes of all this? Well, he has approximately a 30% chance of living 10 more years. And so, remember, this was all to look the way he did as a bouncer in a bar. This was not to win an IFBB Pro card. This was not to win the Olympia title. This was to have perhaps 30% body fat and have a little bit of size on when he's at the bar. And so, do you think that this is worth it? You know, imagine Togei in 10 or 20 years from now, this happens to him and they say, "You know what? You got a 30% chance of making it to 50. Would it all be worth it?" Like, really think about it. Like, at the time when you're young, when you're 20, you're trying to impress the girls or perhaps you're trying to just look better, whatever, trying to win your pro card. You're thinking, "Yeah, this is absolutely worth it." But then when things go wrong and they say, "Hey, 30%, 50%, whatever percent chance of living 5 10 years." Do you think it's now worth it? I mean, let's go and take about the best example we could ever get. The Rock. He's almost a billionaire. He's perhaps one of the most famous people in the entire world. Many people love this guy. Hundreds of millions of followers. But at 53, we know about the circumlex artery. We know it's beginning to be closed off. If the doctor said, "Ro, you have a 30% chance of living to 63." Do you think he would do it all over again? Many of you who are young would say, "Absolutely." You know why you're saying this? Because you're young. I know my dad told me this story many, many times. He said when my grandfather when he was 89, my dad said to him, you remember my dad, it's his dad. He says, "Wow, you know, look at how healthy you are. You're 89. I mean, even if you don't make it another year, you've had a great life. If I could live to be 89 like you, well, I would be happy. Lord, he could take me away. And he looked at him and said, "You won't be seeing that when you're 89. I do not want to die one more year. Are you kidding me? That is not what I want." Remember, my dad would know that I've abused performance-enhancing drugs that I've done steroids. And so, he also had a heart attack two years ago. And luckily there was someone there, a paramedic and was able to keep him alive and was able to go to hospital and he feels better than ever. But imagine if you made all those mistakes, you abused the steroids, you did the test, you did the trend, you did all the things and then suddenly this happens to you and they told you, hey, you know what? You have 30% chance of living this many years. You're not going to feel the way that you do right now. At 20 or 25 or at 16, you're thinking you're invincible. But when you get older, you're not going to think that you're really that old. When I was 25, I thought 50 was old. That was half a lifetime away. Now that I'm 50, I feel 25. I don't feel any different. And so, just because you've lived a certain amount of years doesn't mean you don't want to get those years back. And so, I'm telling you, make the proper decisions now so that you can live your longest and best life. If you're on steroids or even if you're not, I strongly recommend that you go and check out Algo RX. You can get your blood work taken there. Doctors can prescribe you various medications. Remember pharmaceutical ones for example seialis Viagra or perhaps it's telmicartin perhaps it's for your cholesterol for high blood pressure. Do you need inclin? Do you have lower levels of testosterone or is it a semiglutide or tzipotide? Are you 100 pounds overweight? Do you put the fork down? Do you do your cardio? Are you healthy? You might be taking your health for granted. Perhaps you're healthyish right now because you're young, but how long is that going to last? Why not take the things, take the medications that can be prescribed to you by doctors to help you to live a longer and healthier life? And so, if you're interested, code Greg, 10% off, click the link from Algo RX. So remember, they are significantly cheaper than the majority of HRT clinics and so on. And so if you're looking for cheaper prices prescribed by doctors, click for Algo RX. The majority of these problems are not acute. They're chronic. It's not something you did on any one given day. Oh, you partied harder than last time one time. Probably not going to end you. It might. Probably not. Oh, you took steroids one time, one cycle. It's not safe. It's not healthy. but probably not going to end you right away. But when you continue to do it month after month, year after year, it all adds up. Perhaps you only do 1% worth of damage in a month. You probably wouldn't even notice. Instead of being 100%, you're at 99. So what? Well, what about 10 months? It's not 90%. What about 5 years? Now you're at 40%. And so it's no different than, for example, eating a healthy diet. You think that one cheat meal, I don't care if you eat 5,000 calories, 10,000 calories. you think that's going to make you fat. It's never the one thing that you did. It's what you continue to do, what you continue to abuse day after day, week after, month after month, year after year. And once you get into decades, that is when the most problems are going to happen. And so, please think about your future. Remember, we all make mistakes. We do some bad things. Perhaps you've already done bad things. It's not too late to stop. I've used steroids for 10 years. That's not good. It's horrible. But you know what would be worse than that? one more year or five more or if I were to start back up again. This guy, it took him 10 years. Perhaps I got lucky. I did the same thing for 10 years. Perhaps because I was doing cardio or eating healthier or I wasn't morbidly obese that was making it healthier for me. Perhaps I just had better genetics. But other people would have done the exact same thing as me and they would not be with us right now. And so I'm urging you to consider being healthy, to do the things that you need to do to ensure that you're healthy. And one of those things is of course getting your blood work done and making sure that you're healthy. The other's eating healthy and doing your cardio. Of all the things I do believe you could do, I think cardio is the most important of all. I believe it's more important than eating healthy. I believe it's more important than anything. And so if you can do one thing to be healthy, please do your cardio. Interested in hiring me for coaching? apply by clicking the link in description. Of course, we have the healthy foods to help you lose some weight by getting the cookbook. We have all of the supplements. For example, uh we've got Turk Platinum, Turk Builder Max, Gel Platinum, as well as GO2 max. This one improve your cardio, which of course is the most important. Delta Sleep to help you sleep. GLP max help control your cravings. Better than sniffing creatine. You can get Blue Lobster, which contains solid. Have the workout of your life. More energy. feel better and so interested in any of these code Greg 15% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video, watch a bloop, and until next time, I am out.