Are you guys ready for this? >> No, I wasn't ready for this. Sit there and be shocked the way I was upon hearing what her coach put her on for her very first cycle and how he got away with it. Putting a woman on trend for her first cycle. It's diabolical. It's crazy work, guys. her cycles, they're absolutely out of this world. And the problem is that yeah, it's stronger, bigger than most people, but many people, in fact, most are doing the exact same thing, only in smaller doses or to a lesser degree. My first cycle, I don't actually know what it was. My coach at the time put me on what he said was anavar. Looking back now and knowing what I know now, I know that was not Anavar based off the symptoms, the fact that it was an injectable and some of the side effects that I got from it. What he really gave me was either testosterone or tren. >> Guys, listen. She's young. She's gullible. She's going to believe whatever people tell her. This is her coach. And so he says, "You know what? There's a brand new Anavar. It's got none or very low side effects, much lower than the regular Adavar. And that's what I want to put you on. If your coach told you that right now, you would probably believe it. If I said, "Guys, there's a brand new SARM. It just got invented. And it's kind of like Anavar except it's a SARM, a selective androgen receptor modulator, and it's available orally, and it doesn't cause any of the verilization, and it's five times more potent than Anavar. You would want it." Yeah. When Mike Israel made a video say, "Hey, there's this new myostatin inhibitors. It's a super pill. It's going to make you muscular." And he never talked all about the dangers, but mostly just the positives. You all wanted that drug. And so, trust me, if Mike were coaching you and said, "I want you to take this. I want you to take that." And it's not just Mike, any coach out there. The brand new SARM, it's called Austa 5617. It's better than all the rest. You're taking it. And how do I know? cuz you already have. Oh, guess what? There's a new drug out there. It's called Austrian. It's better than Anavar. It's got no side effects. It's not going to turn you into man. Oh, you know what's out now? RAD-140, LGD, MK-677. Oh, a new fat burner 176-191. Peptide CJC-1295, BPC-157. The list goes on and on. And you're all taking it. And so when she says it was super anavar and I had to inject it, you'd believe it. You'd be thinking finally medical science has caught up and we can now inject our anavar and get five times the gains and that's why she did it and you're doing the same thing. I think it was half a cc two or three times a week. He did tell me it was a new kind of anavar that you could not find anywhere else that it it was super strong. This revolutionary no side effects kind of drug and that it was just going to get me jacked. >> Too good to be true. Sounds like myostatin inhibitors that Mike Isertel went over. Only we found out that 28% had to get out of the study and 10% had serious adverse effects as in it puts them in the hospital or you could no longer be with us. And so she began these drugs at 21. A super anavar only it was trend. She was injecting it two or three times a week. trend needs to be injected daily if it's an acetate and or at least consistently if it's an antate. If she's doing it two or three times a week, it's going to peak very high in the bloodstream, go back very low, and you're going to get way worse and horrendous side effects. I used Tren in the past, and when I did it every 2 or 3 days, it was horrendous. Had to do it daily to get more stable blood levels. Trend is for no woman ever. And I mean ever. even if she wants to transition into a man. >> It happened to me again back in 2023. A highlevel coach approached me, told me he was going to put me on trend. He told me that the weight and the amounts and the dosages of Tren that we were going to use would not cause me side effects. >> And so, girls, if you're a woman and you want me to say guy, doctors are going to probably put you on 100 milligrams of testosterone a week. trend is five times as androgenic. And so if you do 20 milligrams a week, that's like doing 100 milligrams of testosterone. And so what do you think is going to happen if you use trend even for a matter of months and or even weeks or even days for that matter, you're going to turn into me. >> So to recap, my first cycle, it was not for a show. There was no end goal. There was no structure. It was just the mindset of more is better. And so when your coach says you can take this, no side effects, that should never be heard. Coach can say take this and take that all they want, but they have to say, hey, you know, there is a possibility that this could happen, that that could happen. Your voice could change, you might have to shave, there's acne, hair loss. They have to explain to you all of the dangers. When coaches say side effects of steroids, what they're talking about is a direct effect of steroid. side effect. It's on the side. It's like your side chick. You hardly ever see it. It might give you problems once in a while. A direct effect is literally what the drug is supposed to do. And so if you say you aren't going to get any side effects, well, you are. There are direct effects. If you get one, you can't have one without the other. If you take any androgen, androgen means it's a male hormone. And so anytime you take it, you're becoming more of a man. direct effect. >> I wanted to get as muscular as quickly as possible and he told me this is what you do and I listened. >> And so ladies, you got to take your time. Saying I want to get as muscular and as jacked as fast as possible, well, Tren is the answer. If you don't care about turning into a man and you just want to get huge quickly, well, Tren is going to do it. But at what cost? And replace Tren with Anavar at a high dose. Oh, 25 milligs. Why not 50? Yeah, it's going to build muscle quicker, but do you need it? Do you really need to? >> I was very small. I know I don't have pictures for you guys, but I was super super skinny when I started this. I was under 100 lb. I went from 100 lb to quickly 118 lb. >> And so when you go from 100 lb to 118, that's 18% growth quickly. And you're noticing your voice changing immediately. You're having trouble pain swallowing. You feel like you're getting sick. you already know what's going on. And so if that's happening to you, you just need to stop. I don't care if your coach said there's no side effect or direct effect. It won't do this, it won't do that. If it's happening, it's happening. My voice dropped fast. Like fast. Giving me crap for this enlargement of certain things. It was very intriguing to you guys. The clits, my [\h__\h] got bigger. It also drastically increased my sex drive. Like use your imagination, but it was very high. As men, we don't really want to use our imaginations. Most of us, we want to see it in 4K. And so, she explains how her downstairs part, you know what I'm talking about, got dramatically bigger and her sex drive was through the roof. And so, for all the men out there listening to that, you're thinking, "Well, that's the direct effect that I want." But guys, it's not permanent except for what you see down there. And if it's the size of 2 in and you're thinking, "Am I with a mini micro me?" You probably don't want that. Girls, men don't want that. They really don't. I mean, there's some people out there that want anything. There's guys out there that are chubby chasers. They like women who weigh over 600 lb, but for the most part, men don't want that. >> Was most likely Tren at 150 to 200 millig a week for about 17 weeks. And so 17 weeks of 150 to 200 milligrams of Tren a week. I wouldn't do that myself. 17 weeks. I've never used Tren for that long. Even for men, I wouldn't suggest, and this is for competitive bodybuilder men, I wouldn't suggest use it for more than 8 weeks. This cycle is 20 times stronger than a strong cycle. It's ridiculous. It's crazy. But notice she went from under 100 lbs to 118. All muscle. She lost breast tissue. She probably got leaner at the same time. Her face got puffier. She had acne breaking out. And for sure, she's starting to lose some of her hair. >> Side effects were voice, clitoreral enlargement, high sex drive, acne, hair loss and growth on the body, water retention, possibly shutting off my own testosterone production, and I'll explain that later. Jumping into my next cycle. Now, my second coach put me on orals only. He had me on Winstrol at 10 milligrams a day. after going on her first cycle of 150 milligs of Tren, her next cycle, 10 milligs a day of Winstrol. And so in comparison to the Tren, this is almost like doing nothing. She says it's not really a mass builder. Well, not so much in men, but if you're a woman and you've never tried steroids before and you take 10 milligrams a day of Winstrol, trust me, you're putting on a lot of mass. Now, it doesn't put on a lot of water retention and so it's that dry, clean, hard muscle, which is what all women want. However, it's way more dangerous than Anavar. It's also cheaper than Anavar, which is why I call it poor man, or shall I say in 2025, poor person's Anavar. And so, if you can't afford Anavar, you're very likely going to use Winstrol. It's perhaps slightly stronger than Anitavar, but the side effects are work. It's more hepatxic than Anavar. It's going to cause more side effects than Anavar, more deepening of the voice. And so, if you're a woman, don't use Windstrol. Now, I'm not telling you to take anything except, of course, Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum, the Turk Twins, if you will. You got to try one and or the other. No horrible side effects. None. none of the side effects, the direct effects of taking steroids, except you're going to have more strength in the gym. You're going to put on muscle more quickly, except for you're going to have more energy in the gym. You're going to train harder, you're going to put on more muscle and get stronger, which is exactly what you want. And it's good for both men and or women. Stay away from Winstrol. And so, if you're using Winstrol right now, I want you to show your coach this exact video and say, "Why am I not using anavar instead of Winstrol?" what whatever dose it is, even at 5 milligrams Winstrol, I wouldn't trust it. I have never coached any of my women in the past to take Windstrol. I've coached a lot of women. And so, if I don't think it's safe, for example, if my sister or my girlfriend said, "I would like to use Windstrol," I would say immediately no. No. And you're blocked. You're not taking Winstrol. It's not a thing. It should be for men only. He also introduced me to diuretics which we just used for show days and T3. >> And so for her first show after already having used Tren after already experienced side effects she's now using Windstrol as well as T3 and a diuretic. Now many women that drug protocol would be very common. I know far too many females in bikini who do far greater doses than this. I think that if this is all that she'd ever done, if she had non- got up in doses, then one could argue, hey, it's her body, her choice. And so, as far as T3 goes, a lot of people are using this in competition, I know I did at one point, the final 6 weeks, maybe only four weeks before competition. I'm not personally a fan of it. It doesn't actually burn as many calories as you're thinking. Let's say it burns an extra 150 calories. I'd rather just walk a mile. It really is that simple. And hear me out. Like, listen to my logic. If you don't consume the extra calories, you don't have to burn the extra calories off. If you don't eat those extra 150 calories, you don't need to take T3 to shake and burn those calories off while shutting down your own body's production of T3. And so after the competition is over, what do you think then happens? The rebound effect. Do you see Larry Wheels gain what, 55 pounds in three days? How many of you out there are gaining 10, 15, 20, 30 pounds in just a week following the competition? And I don't need to go into all the stories about some females I coached in the past. They end up after show gaining a lot of weight and then upping their dose of T3. They're on 150 to 200 micrograms in the offseason. I [\h__\h] you not. They're literally doing this because they want the physique they had on stage. Why not just take GLP max? It reduces your appetite, reduce your cravings so that you're not cheating on your diet all the time. You're not eating like an [\h__\h] and you can put the fork down. Then you don't need T3. These drugs like T3, clenbuterol, they are in fact very dangerous. People think, no, you're still natural because it's not a steroid. But some of these are more dangerous than actual steroids and or SARMMS. And so, hey, if this isn't working and you can afford it, you go to your doctor. You can get OMIC. You could get for example tricepide or retatuitride. You can get all of these things but don't rely on T3 and or clen. All of these drugs are arythmogenic. They increase your body's chance of having arrhythmias in the heart. And so for example the T3, the clen the steroids. And so with each one it's a compounding effect. Increased risk here another increase there and another increased risk. All the while dehydrating at bodybuilding competition with diuretics. another arhythmagenic one in a hundred who do this at an extreme risk of having cardiac arrest. And so it's not a matter of if, it's a matter of when. And when? Well, at several bodybuilding competitions that we've seen, we had a woman in bikini. She was in her 30s last week. She literally died at competition. She had competed eight times in two years. She's no longer with us. Why do you think that is? That's one example of a woman in bikini. And so if you're thinking, "Oh no, this only happens in bodybuilding." Women, they're 100% natural. Look how beautiful that they are. That's a [\h__\h] >> My very first show was in July of 2013. And I competed in the figure category. I ended up getting second place out of 30 girls. And at that point, I really felt like I had found my community. >> And so she competed at nationals, got second place. She's doing amazing. And so with success comes more demand for success. Higher drugs, higher doses, longer cycles, everything. Hey, if you come in bigger and leaner and work on your posing, you could get first place. And so what do you think the athlete then does? More steroids, more drugs, longer cycles, perhaps no offse, diet even harder, and they compete again. And listen, if you're looking for getting your blood work done, I'm with Algo RX, the cheapest prices you could find, almost all options half price or more than Merrick Health. And so if you're looking to get your blood work done to get the Enclomaine that you need, the Seialis, the Viagra, the Telmardin, everything that you need, get to the website, click code Greg, 10% off. >> So when Nationals came around, I actually ended up passing out backstage due to the diuretic usage. And so she took a diuretic that coupled with the fact she's clearly taking steroids likely had an arrhythmia and in fact passed out on stage. She says, "Well, I cut out my sodium." Well, most competitors add in more sodium when they do compete on stage. Sodium allows you to have a fuller look on stage, more vascular, and so that is often the look people are going for. Now, if you don't use steroids, if you don't use diuretics, of course, your chances of passing out on stage are much lower than last time, but this is part of the sport. That is what the judges are looking for. They're not looking for people that have water attention. In fact, if you have any water retention whatsoever, well, you're soft. To look good on stage, it doesn't look good in real life. You look like a freak. If you saw that person on the beach, your head would turn and but not for a good reason. And you'd be thinking, "What is wrong with them? Why do they look that way?" And this goes for both men and women. >> I did notice that I was having more depression issues. I did lose my period, but also my calories were super super low at that point, and the diuretic could have killed me, plain and simple. So, to recap on that second cycle, it was 10 milligrams of Winstrol a day, which comes out to 70 milligrams a week. Um, and then I was on T3. I believe I got up to 30 or 35 micrograms. >> Her steroid cycle 70 mg of Winstrol of course combined with T3 diuretics at the showtime. She passed out. She could have died. She's very concerned and she's saying I didn't verilyize that much more. But remember that's in comparison to the first cycle. That first cycle it was basically a man cycle and not even a good one. And so in comparison to that she's thinking, well this isn't really a big deal. She did complain that she had perhaps some depression. She was sad. That does not mean it's from the steroids. You know, I'm obviously trying to discourage you from using steroids, but it could also be the fact that you're eating 1,200 calories a day for months on end, having to do a bunch of cardio, that you have no energy. It could be just something going on in your life. Uh you don't have a boyfriend, girlfriend, they dump you. You're not feeling healthy and losing your period. It's very common for people who are doing excessive amounts of cardio on low calorie diets with low body fat levels. And so, yes, steroids may have contributed to this, but you can also be amenoric even without taking steroids. >> In 2016, I got with my third coach, and he's probably the first one that I would consider a good coach. Before he let me do anything, he had me get blood work, which showed low tea, and that was probably due to my previous cycles. >> Her third coach, now she's trying to move up the ranks. a good coach says, "You know, we need to get your blood work." And so, noticing her blood work, she had very low levels of testosterone. And so, they put her on HRT. She also had hypothyroidism. Why do you think that is from taking T3? And her thyroid is now shut down. >> My endocrinologist at the time prescribed me 8 millig of testosterone. >> Her doctor then put her on 8 millig of testosterone. Notice it's eight. It's a low number. It's single digits because women don't need HRT the same level as a man. a woman taking, for example, 100 milligrams of testosterone, that's going to transition her to that of a male. Now, in addition to that, you know, probably behind the doctor's back, the coach put her on 15 milligrams per day of anavar, which in my opinion is safer than 10 milligrams of Winstrol. Very much not safe, but of course safer than Winstrol, as well as 50 milligrams of injectable DECA. And so that is her cycle. It's not safe. It's likely going to cause viralization, but in comparison to that first cycle, it's still not all that bad. >> I did several shows with this coach and I did pretty well, but the feedback from the judges kept coming back. They wanted me to come in bigger and leaner. >> You can see she has a lot of muscle. She has great quads. She isn't lean enough in the stomach. She needs to lose some of that water retention. The cuts simply aren't there. And so if I were coaching her, I would have said, "You need to get leaner." And looking at her back, that is a freaking [\h__\h] ton of muscle. She just isn't lean enough. I'm looking for the tie-ins, the hamstrings, and the glutes. Although she has a [\h__\h] ton of muscle. She could have been leaner. And do you know what gets you leaner? It's not adding in trend. It's not adding in more deca or anavar. It's adding in more cardio or taking out food. Those are the two ways to get leaner. I could have coached her 100% natural and she would have been leaner than this. Would she have had as much muscle? No. Should had 25 pounds less muscle, but she would have been in shape. Everyone can get in shape. Are you going to be hungry? Absolutely. Would you perhaps be miserable? Of course you are. With the addition of GLP max, she would be less hungry. And so, if this coach had given her a GLP, she probably would have performed better even on lower doses. Bigger isn't necessarily better. Better is better. And what the judge is looking for is shredded shapely muscle. The advice from the judges again with the judges. Remember, I used to be a judge. Wouldn't you want Coach Greg to be judging yet again so I can tell the athletes proper feedback? You just need to be leaner. That's it. You don't need to get any bigger. If you get any bigger, you're going to be a bodybuilder. Perhaps women's physique. When I look at this, check this out. Just check out this girl's back. Does that look like a girl that needs to be bigger for women's figure, not bodybuilding? >> Oh my god. >> Oh my god. I'm hearing on the size of her back. And so when you have, oh my god, as a response, do you say get it bigger? Well, in bodybuilding, sure, but not in women's figure. And so that was horrendous advice. And so what do you think happens when you're a young impressionable female and or male and the judges are telling you bigger and leaner? What do you think comes next? >> And of course, me being me, I wanted to be bigger and leaner. So at that point, that is when we added the 50 millig of NPP per week, but the feedback was still to get bigger and leaner. What I really respected about this coach was he straight up told me he was not comfortable doing the things that he thought would be required to get me to where the judges wanted me. >> And so this coach like me says, "Look, I know what you want. I know that this is what you should do and what other people are doing, but I don't want to be part of it. I'm not going to prescribe you those drugs." I've coached men and women like this. I want to have the biggest cycle ever. Okay, I'll put you what I'm on. They then double it. It's a real thing. I'm not making this [\h__\h] up. People that do whatever they want. You remember when you told me that only take this that I should never go above that. Well, I just doubled your doses. I mean, what am I supposed to say to that? >> But sometimes coaches giving you special treatment can be a red flag. And again, I'm going to cover that in a future video. And >> so, of course, the coach is going to give you special treatment. You're going to make the Olympia stage. You have all the potential in the world. I'm going to make you have a crazy before and after transformation. After all, you're saying you're willing to take whatever you want. I'm going to show your photo here and your photo there, and I'm going to use that on all my advertisements to get other women to follow suit. And then when somebody says, "Hey, I don't think I should take those doses." You can say, "You see that girl? I coached her. Take it or leave it." They're going to take it. And why? Because while you're on steroids, your brain chemistry has changed. you can't now think clearly. Why do you think you shouldn't be signing contracts and so on while you're high or intoxicated? Because you can't make clear and rational decisions. She cannot. Her judgment is impaired at this moment. And so she's thinking with delusions, thinking, "I'm going to be the champion. I don't care about the side effects. I'll worry about those tomorrow." And by tomorrow, it means after winning the competition. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Of course, we're going to go over her crazy cycle, what's coming up next. Watch those two bloops, the cookbooks, the training books, and of course, you want an actual coach, one that's not going to endanger your life, consider calling Coach Greg. Click the link in description. I am out.