Victor Martinez is covering up for The Rock, wait till you see what he says he's taking. You're not going to believe it. If you want to laugh about how it works in Hollywood. Well, stay tuned and find out. Coach Greg, in today's video, we're going over The Rock's new training program and secrets revealed the supplements he's taking. And this all comes from a fitness expert, none other than Victor Martinez. And you're thinking, who's Victor Martinez? Well, Victor Martinez won the Arnold Classic 2007 and was the runnerup at the 2007 Mr. Olympia. And so, of course, HE KNOWS ALL ABOUT THE ROCK, but he's not The Rock's trainer. I don't know if he's ever met him. He hasn't sold him his supplements, although perhaps he has in secret. And so, he's simply talking out of his cookbook. He doesn't know anything about The Rock. And so, why did they ask Victor Martinez? They could ask Coach Greg. I've done a number of videos on him, but we're still over it. And we're going to roast The Rock. IT'S TIME TO ROAST THE ROCK, GUYS. AND SO, THIS is what I think happened. Somebody writing an article about The Rock said, "I'm going to contact Victor Martinez and get him to speculate about everything. Make up stories, talk gibberish, and give us his opinion." And so, there's nothing wrong with giving an opinion, but when you make an article and act like it's a fact, there's something wrong with that. THE US SON BODY SLAMMED. Bodybuilding is a lifelong commitment for The Rock. Age 50, but his workouts are calculated, says expert. And that expert's Victor Martinez. Dwayne Johnson has likely switched up his weight training regimen after hitting 50 in an effort to stretch out his career. A bodybuilding expert has said and so he's making up a story saying, "Oh, he probably would do this. He would feel this way if he did that. And I think this. I think that has nothing to do with what The Rock's actually doing." And so, let's begin by going over what The Rock takes for supplements. I can't wait to find out what kind of HRT, growth hormone, peptides, healing agents he's currently using. And so the first two supplements The Rock's taking is glutamine and fish oils to maintain his lean shape. Does anyone think that you take glutamine and fish oils to get shredded? Why on earth would Victor Martinez say this? He's a Mr. Olympia champion. He knows better than that. And so here's the supplements that Rock takes to look at his all-time best form after the age of 50. He's probably doing the glutamine, the vitamin C, the multivitamin, and fish oils, which are the main ingredients to working out. That from a former Mr. Olympia champion, a person who throughout his career has abused performance-enhancing drugs. And so, what is this? Anyone who's taken PDS, they cover for everyone else. Imagine contacting Coach. Hey, Coach Greg, I'm doing an article on The Rock. What do you think it takes for supplements to look so amazing after the age of 50? Can you in your life imagine me saying probably vitamin C, fish oils, and maybe some glutamine? Of course not. I'd be listing out growth hormone, peptides, HRT, you know, testosterone, and a list of other ingredients. And if The Rock's smart, of course, I'd be saying he's probably taking the main ingredient in GO2 max, which is NMN, which is shown in human double blind placebo control studies. That's right. In the real world, it really works. It's not the placebo effect that allows you to burn more calories, improve cardio, decrease cholesterol, blood pressure, potentially live longer. So, if the rock's not using an which is in goax, well, I'd be shocked. Imagine the guy is above 50, he wants to live a long and healthy life despite what he's taking. And so, if he's not taking GO2 Max or NMN, well, Rock, wake up and take GO2 Max. Dwayne was a WWE wrestler as seen here during WrestleMania in Florida in 2012 when his body was bigger because he followed a different training regimen. Does anyone think that his body was bigger in 2012 because he followed a different training regimen? Nothing to do with the training regimen, but the fact that you lose muscle as you age. But wait a minute, notice the difference in physique. Notice he's significantly lean, but he has far greater definition and that comes from eating fewer calories andor burning more of them off. Calories in, calories out. And so the rock at age 40 would have been eating more calories than he's eating now. And so it's not the result of his training, but rather his diet and or cardio regimen. If you want to maintain a leaner physique, you have to eat fewer calories or burn more of them off. In an exclusive interview, professional bodybuilder Victor Martinez told the US Sun, "What goes into The Rock's extensive routine." Remember, this is a retired bodybuilder. He last won the Olympia 16 years ago. And is he, in fact, The Rock's coach? Is he his trainer? Why would they think that Victor Martinez, who's been retired for several years, would know anything about what The Rock's diet, training, or supplement routine is? The Rock won't ever stop bodybuilding, and he's definitely giving himself the longevity of working out. And so, what he's saying is he doesn't think The Rock would ever stop working out because he loves it so much. It keeps him in shape, allows him to look amazing, and he wants to look the part for his movie roles. And so imagine him stopping. And in comparison, we have somebody like Arnold Schwarzenegger, also a famous Hollywood actor, former bodybuilder. He is working out multiple times a week and riding bikes like Coach Greg. And so he'll never stop. It's like eating breakfast. He does it every single day. It's something he enjoys. And so why would he stop? Why do you still come to the gym? For the same reason as why am I having breakfast today? [music] And so I do believe The Rock will continue to train as long as he's going to live, which might not be that long if he continues to abuse his PDS. Like all of us though, he'll slow down and won't be heavy lifting heavy or for long hours. Well, of course, as you get older, your body is going to get weaker. You're not going to lift as heavy a weights, and you're trying to avoid injuries. But you don't need to lift really heavy weights to get really big muscles. It doesn't come from how heavy you lift. It comes from how hard are your muscles actually working. And so rather than lifting really heavy weights for a couple reps, that is not smart. What you should be doing is lifting moderately heavy weights for higher reps, perhaps 10 to 15, and training close to failure. If he does decide to stop for whatever reason, he'll not feel as good as he does now. Well, of course, if he stops working out, doing cardio, he's going to lose muscle, be less fit, not feel as good. Of course, that's inevitable. Not only that, doing cardio, it's a stress relief, going to help with his mental health. And so I certainly hope The Rock wouldn't suddenly stop working out. He's 50 and is looking better and healthier and he needs to take care because of his schedule. Well, that to me is debatable. It's not the leaner the better. Just because The Rock is leaner doesn't necessarily mean he's healthier. And judging someone's health from the outside, it's often a mistake. He might look amazing, have all the muscles, definition, veins, and so on, but what about his heart? What about his internal organs? You don't know if someone's healthy simply by looking at them. Oftentimes, bodybuilders, they are portrayed as the picture of health. Well, in fact, it's quite the opposite. Bodybuilders on show day, as lean as they are, they are close to death. They are not healthy in the slightest. I would argue that a competitive bodybuilder at the Mr. Olympia is more unhealthy than someone who is morbidly obese, someone who is 200 lb overweight. Ask any bodybuilder on show day to get their blood work, and you'll know exactly what I'm talking about. the abuse of PDS, the suffering, the dieting, the dehydration, it's not healthy. Dwayne looks to be training more functionally. This means that he doesn't have to lift such heavy weights in order to sustain the leaner look that he has. No one ever needs to lift heavy weights to sustain a lean look. That makes absolutely no sense to suggest that somebody is lifting heavy weights to look lean. That is not something that anyone would ever do. Who out there is going for one rep max or even five rep max thinking, "Oh, I have to lift this really heavy weight in order to have a six-pack." It doesn't work like that. People are thinking to get a leaner physique, I need to lower my calories, eat a healthy diet, and perform cardio. By burning off more calories, you allows you to be in a calorie deficit. And that is how you get a leaner physique. It's not for lifting heavy weights. Lifting heavy weights allows you to get stronger, but not necessarily going to help you get leaner. The Rock works out 6 days a week and for several hours a day as seen here on a stairmaster. False. It's false. Several hours a day. Several. Now, the definition of several, more than two, but not many. So, when he says several, it'd be more than two. So, three, four, five hours a day. No, he often is training under two hours. And so, to say he trains several hours a day, six days a week, it's not true. For the most part, he's training one or two hours a day, 6 days a week. That is realistic for the Rock to say several hours a day. You think he's up at 4:30 training till 8:30 in the morning? Of course not. He gets in, does his cardio, rarely would he ever do even an hour and his training session perhaps 60 to 90 minutes. And so for the average person, they're thinking, "Well, no wonder the rock looks so good. He's training several hours a day, probably three or four." But that is not realistic. In the real world, you do not need to train that much. If you do, most likely will lead to overtraining. Dwayne's body fat lowered after wrestling when he was doing a ton of running around jumping off the top of things. He was body slamming other wrestlers in the ring. And so, in reality, his body fat should have been very low while he was wrestling. If he's doing a ton of running around, last I checked, running burns a lot of calories. If he was actually this busy wrestling, running around, traveling, you would expect him to be a lot leaner. He's now leaner for movies. He can still move well. Well, the reason for that is because he does cardio. He follows a lower calorie diet. If you listen to Rock in previous videos, he said he ate 6 to 8,000 calories, of which I don't believe. But regardless of how much he eats, what you know is he's eaten at maintenance or slightly below in order to get that lean physique. You can't bulk up and eat a ton of calories and expect to maintain a lean physique. He likely sleeps only 6 to 7 hours each night. Notice how it's all pure speculation. And there's literally an article on this of which he's entirely guessing. He likely sleeps 6 or 7 hours. How does he know? How do you know he doesn't sleep 8 hours? How do you know he doesn't sleep four? He doesn't. And so what is the point of this article? To me, it's hilarious. It would be like somebody doing a video. Do a video on how Coach Greg's father works out and eats. Oh, maybe he eats this, maybe does that. Maybe he goes to bed at this time. Maybe he sleeps on the right side of the bed. They have no clue. With his diet, he gives himself a cheat day. a bodybuilding term for a day that you get to be bad with food. Bad in quotation marks. And so, first things first, we don't want to call the foods that the Rocks eat on his cheat day bad foods. He's normally eating French toast, pancakes, and so on. Is that really a bad food? What makes something bad is eating way too much of it. If you have 10 burgers, then yeah, IT'S BAD. IF YOU HAVE ONE GOOD, so long as you're not over consuming the calories, do you really think it's going to matter? Do you really think The Rock's going to gain 20 lbs of fat if he eats a burger every single day? Well, not if he's not eating in a surplus. To gain body fat, you need to be in a surplus. Rather, the calories come from a pancake, a donut, a cookie, a chocolate bar, IT DOESN'T MATTER. IT DOESN'T MATTER. THE ROCK knows it doesn't matter. What matters is calories in, calories out. And so long as the majority of your diet is good, you know, 80% of the meals coming from whole foods with proper micro and macronutrients, then of course 20% could be whatever you want. Ice cream, candy, just enjoy life. He likes peanut butter pancakes for his cheat days. Well, sometimes he also likes French toast, burgers, sushi. Has he not followed the rock? And so why are they acting Victor Martinez? He probably doesn't even fall the rock. He doesn't know everything about him. And so I don't understand the article, but hey, we're responding to it anyway. But if you have that three days in a row, you're going to have to compete with a Michelin tire around the waist. Does anyone actually believe that? If he has three days in a row of peanut butter pancakes, he's going to be obese, going to have a Michelin tire around the waist. Of course not. He could quite literally eat peanut butter pancakes every single day for the rest of his life and not gain a single pound. Calories in, calories out. Now, he couldn't have 10 of them every breakfast, but of course he eat two or three peanut butter pancakes. No problem. Now, one thing I want to point out. If you're struggling to lose weight, you're a big eater, you love French toast, pancakes, lasagna, burgers, and so on. Well, there's something you can do. My cookbook takes all your favorite recipes, makes them lower in calories. That way, you don't have to stop eating the foods that you love. You simply make them, but make them lower in calories. They are high protein, high volume foods for the big eater. So imagine how easy it is to lose weight when you're full. You eat the foods that you love and you don't have all those cravings. Just make the recipes lower in calories, perhaps lower in fat, high in protein, and it's easy. Not only that, it's a diet that's high in fiber, going to keep you regular, allow you to stay full. And so if you're interested, use code Greg. 10% off. Remember, sold close to a 100,000 copies of this book. And so this one of the most popular cookbooks in the entire world. Head over to my website now. 10% off code Greg. Since Dwayne is 50, he'd have to stick to his strict regimen. Would be keeping an eye on his body fat and lowering the inflammation. Well, in reality, Victor Martinez, science shows that your metabolism doesn't really slow down so much as you age. Just because you're 50, you don't have to suddenly lower your calories. And so, your metabolism, your BMR, it's most closely related to your lean body mass. And have you looked at the rock? 6'5, close to 250 pounds of muscle, and so clearly has a ton of muscle, a very fast metabolism, he doesn't suddenly, because he's 50, have to be so strict with his diet. Longevity is the name of the game for Dwayne. Well, if it is in fact longevity, he has to stop trying to be the superhero in movies. He can't continue to maintain such an amazing physique and not expect to play a toll on his health. If you take super supplements, especially in high doses, it's most certainly going to have a negative toll on your health. And so hopefully you enjoyed my critique of Victor Martinez speculating what The Rock's doing, of which he has absolutely no clue. And so you got to understand, why is this publication interviewing Victor Martinez to find out about The Rock? Does that even make sense? But it made for great content for me to talk about. Hopefully you learned something. Hopefully you're educated now. You learn a few things about dieting, especially as you get older. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment for the algorithm. Like the video if you liked it. Leave a comment. Watch one of the boobs. Follow me on Instagram. Greg Ducet, IB Pro, cookbooks, training books, coaching plans by me and my team, the circle diet book, the clothing line, harder than the last time, supplements. So much going on. Click the link in description. Free diet and training program over 50 pages. So much going on. Head over to my website, code Greg, 10% off. And until next time, I am