Everything on him is small except his belly. >> I mean, did you have to out your brother like that? I mean, everything on him is small. His perhaps packing a Wes Watson roughly about 3 in. And so, do we really need to reveal to the world that he has a micro? I mean, don't do your brother like that. The nerve of this guy, Jeremy Eth, he makes fun of his mom later in the Guys, stick for the video. Coach Greg. And yet again, Jeremy Fa is talking nonsense. And this time it's how to destroy visceral belly fat in 30 days. >> Oh my god, bro. >> Again with the 30 days, why is it always in 30 days? Now, before I get into the video, which you're not going to believe the that he's spewing, but let me explain this. Visceral fat is the fat that you cannot see. You don't see it. Subcutaneous fat is the fat under the skin. subcutaneous under the skin. You feel it. You pinch it. You see it. It's a belly. Whatever. Okay. Visceral fat. You don't see it. It's hidden underneath. Now, some people are going to think, "Well, Mike Isertell, he has tons of visceral fat because he has a bloated belly." That's not visceral fat. He literally had it tested. It's actually just organs that are bigger, food, whatever. And so, just because you have a belly, it doesn't mean that you're fat. Okay? Do I understand this? Before we start the video, let me read the first comment that I see. And of course, it's a comment about coach Greg. Greg Ducet is going to analyze this video with his laser eyes and post his own reaction within 72 hours. We're currently 72 hours, and so the overunder was pretty much bang on. >> Visceral fat is actually easier to get rid of. With the right plan, you can see and feel it decreasing in just 30 days. >> To get rid of visceral fat, it's the same thing as any other kind of fat. Fat is fat. You can't spot reduce. You go on a diet, you eat fewer calories or you burn more calories off by doing cardio. This is how you lose the fat. Is it going to happen in 30 days? Well, you're going to lose some. And it's not going to be gone in 30 days unless you hardly had any to begin with. >> Just like my brother-in-law Dayton. The funny thing about Dayton is everything on him is small except his belly. He's actually not overly fat anywhere else. >> I pause it right there. 45 seconds in. We're looking at this man. Let's use your all your laser eyes right now. What body fat percentage do you think that Jeremy's brother has? Medstagram. Come look. She hasn't watched the video. I'm going to guess. Let's see. What body fat do you think that guy has? >> 24. >> 24%. It's It's not bad, right? Have you ever dated anyone with that much fat in your in in your past? >> Yeah. >> Would you ever do it again? >> No. >> No. But she's been with me. So, is setting the bar. And so, on a scale of 1 to 10, what would this guy be? He's like a six, seven, maybe. Not bad. He's above average looking. >> Yeah, six or seven. >> Like I rate his physique as above average. >> The average man isn't as good as this man. Cuz people are going to say, "Greg makes fun of fat people. He's a piece of shit." Blah blah blah. This guy is better than most people. He's above average. And his body fat percentage, I'm going to guess, you said 24%. I'm going 23. 23% body fat. You're thinking, "Oh my god, you're saying he's so high. You're an asshole." Jeremy's the one saying that everything on his body is small. I'm saying it's actually above average. It's not bad. You can judge me. You can write in the comment section. Am I making fun of his brother or am I complimenting his brother? You decide cuz we're going somewhere with this. >> So, it was surprising when his DEXA scan clocked him at 33% body fat. >> The DEXA scam. The DEXA scam says he's 32.5% body fat. It's cuz it's a scam. People don't want to believe Coach Greg when he says these things. I tested myself the InBody scam. I was 19.8%. And so maybe it's all visceral fat. I mean, you can't see it. It It's not there. But the fat I have, it's all hiding. It's in hiding around my organs viscerally underneath the muscle. It's hidden. And so, Coach Greg, you think you're very good at estimating body fat percentages? I mean, other than the MRI, the golden standard, not the Texas scam, the MRI, that's the golden standard. You think you're good, but you can't see the visceral fat. And so maybe, Greg, maybe you think you're lean, but you just carry a ton of visceral fat. It doesn't work like that. Visceral fat only is about 10 to at most 20% of the human body. And so the fat that you see, fat on the skin, all that is 80 to 90% of the human body. And so if I'm looking at you and you look lean, you are lean. Do you get it? Even if your visceral fat is through the roof, it's horrendously bad. 20%, it's a lot. If you have abs, you look lean, you're in shape, you can see it, there's not going to be some hidden amount of, "Oh my goodness, so much fat." If you're watching this video right now, which of course you are because you're watching this video right now, or if you watch Jeremy's video trying to lose your visceral fat in 30 days, and that that's the secret to fat loss and so on. You got to change up your diet. It ain't it. All you need to do is to lose weight. And if you do, visceral fat is going to >> But with 1,200 gram of visceral fat hiding deep in his gut, it makes sense. >> No, Jeremy, it doesn't make sense. Jeremy, did you know he has a masters in kinesiology? Did you know that that's what I have? He must have not had the highest GPA in his class. I had a 3.93 GPA using a four-point scale. It's not bad. Not like your kind of marks, but it's very impressive. Jeremy Eth clearly had much lower grades. Perhaps he copied off of his classmates. How can you be a He has 1.2 kg, in case you don't know what the conversion is, 2.2046 lb of fat in a kilogram. And so 1.2 kg, what is it? 2 and 1/2, 3 lb of fat. He has about 3 lbs of fat hidden where you can't see it. And so he says this is the reason why his body fat is 33% because he has three lbs of fat hidden under his muscles. Raise your hand if you believe that. Would 3 lb of added fat make him go from 23% or 24 based on messaged to 33%. He probably weighs between 150 and 200 lb. And so if you gain 3 lb of fat, your body fat percentage isn't going up by 10%. 10% of 150 to 200 lb of 50 to 20 pounds of fat. Do you get it? And so it's a very small percentage. And so even if he magically loses 1.2 kg of visceral fat, his body fat is only going to go from perhaps 32.5% to 30%, not 23. And so by definition, it's a dexa scam. Did that logic make sense? >> You you followed it. >> She's a genius, though. Do you understand it? Does it make sense to you? Probably not. Let's just keep going with the video. They probably don't get it. They probably think, "No, Greg just talking out of his ass." We'll see. >> That's far higher than what Kevin has, even though he's at 38% body fat. >> And so Kevin, his friend, who has 38% body fat, who looks twice as fat as his brother, he has only 900 g of visceral fat, but his brother has 1.2. And so he has 300 g more fat. 300 g fat is like a palm full of it. It's not the 300 grams that's making him have far greater body fat on the DEXA scam. The fact that Jeremy FA can't determine this tells me that he's probably either just hiding the fact that he doesn't know this or he has no reasoning or logical skills whatsoever. There's no way he's a 1.8enter commander. It's not possible. I think that he has a very good memory. He probably went to school and he's one of those people that could look at things and memorize the answers. Hey, is there a test today? Yeah, just memorize this. And he he got it all. Coach Greg have no memory. But excessively elevated logical reasoning skills. And so when I see these things immediately in a 0.1 of a second, my brain already has the answer. And the answer is he's a freaking >> But after he followed the plan I'll share with you today, his gut quickly tightened up. And after just 10 weeks, >> yeah, it's his gut. It tightened up because he dropped his visceral fat. You know, the fat under the abs that you can't see. He dropped that way back here. You can't see it. And it caused him to have a six-pack. How does losing fat you can't see cause the fat that you can see to go down? Cuz how are you going to see these abdominals? Oh, I burn off the fat underneath the muscle. And so now the muscles can see it. Your muscle's here. The fat is hiding here. If I lose this fat, how do you see more of that? You don't. >> If two people ate the exact same amount of calories, one of them could store way more visceral belly fat than the other. And by way more, he means 300 gram. It's just stupid. 300 g less fat is not going to make a world of difference in your body fat percentage, your appearance, how your abs look, nothing. It's not going to matter. And if you're really concerned with visceral fat, because yes, you're right. Visceral fat is bad. It's the bad kind of fat. Increases in visceral fat more likely lead to heart attacks and so on. And so a lot of visceral fat is bad. Subcutaneous fat, the fat further away from your heart is is healthier. If you have fat in your hips and thighs, it's better than fat on your abdomen. This is actually true. But do you know what you need to do to lose visceral fat or any fat whatsoever? You need to do cardio or to lose some weight by eating fewer calories. It's as simple as that. And so if you switch over your diet, you do everything stated. Oh, no more saturated fats. Let's just have polyunsaturated fats. Let's switch from having butter to having fish. It's not going to make you shredded. Losing fat, aka deficit, that will make you shredded. But in group one, the muffins were made using polyunsaturated fat. Whereas the muffins fed to group two were made using saturated fat. But group two, the one that ate saturated fats, they gained double the amount of visceral belly fat compared to group one. >> And so it makes it look all fancy. Oh my god, they gave them this kind of fat and this kind of fat and they gained double the amount of visceral fat. What if I told you that one group gained 50 gram of visceral fat while the other gained 100? Are you saying, "Oh my goodness, it's double." Or you thinking, "But it's only 50 g." Like really, it's a tenth of a pound. Like, is it really that big of a difference? And so he's playing a bunch of hocus pocus, some magic, some study over here, study over there, and oh my god, if you consume saturated fat, it's so much worse. You gained double the fat. But it's only a small portion of fat located behind the abdominals around your organs. Small changes. It's not going to make any noticeable difference in your appearance. You're going to look the same. >> Some days he was consuming over 50 g of saturated fat. But this doesn't mean that you should completely cut out these foods. Just balance them out with more unsaturated fat. >> And so shocker, instead of eating all this saturated fat, let's eat more fruits and vegetables. I mean, is it any different than I've been preaching for how many decades now? If you guys got my cookbook or my circle diet book, you would know all of this stuff. It's so freaking easy. You eat lower calorie dense foods. You take the foods that you're eating, you make them lower in calories. And if you have a calorie deficit, you're going to lose weight. It's going to come from visceral fat and subcutaneous. And so most people I know, they just don't want to be fat. Fat is fat. Whether it's visceral, whether it's subcutaneous, you want to lose both. And so if you're fat, visibly fat, you're probably going to have too much visceral fat. If you're lean, visibly lean, you're not going to have too much visceral fat. It's an automatic, no questions asked, has to be that way. You will never find a single-digit body fat person or someone with 12 to 15%, somebody with a healthy body fat percentage that somehow has visceral fat through the roof. It doesn't happen. Swapping ribeye steak for top sirloin steak already drops the saturated fat intake by 15 g. Did anyone not know to choose leaner cuts of steak? I mean, I literally wrote down a video last night the 12 reasons or things that you do that you make you deserve to be a fat piece of And if you do those things, well, it's on there. And having lowfat beat, it wasn't even on the list. It's such a basic simplicity thing. I didn't need to add it. Everyone knows, everyone that you shouldn't be eating a bunch of fatty steaks. I mean, how is this not logical? Oh, I choose the fattiest cuts of steak. Oh, you're overweight. Well, did you ever think that if you chose leaner cuts of steak, a filt menu, that you would lose more weight than if you have a ribeye? Does anyone not already know this? >> Here's a list of the biggest culprits for saturated fats, as well as a list of the best foods you want most of your daily fats to come from. breaking information. You should eat less butter, fried foods, bacon, sausage, salami, cheese, and full fat yogurt and milk. And instead have fatty fish, walnuts, flax seeds, sunflower seeds, chia seeds, olive oil, and peanut butter. Who doesn't already know that these fats are probably better than the others? And guess what? Even from the unsaturated fat lits, if you consume less olive oil, less peanut butter, you're going to consume less calories and therefore you're going to burn more visceral fat. And so better than making the swap from saturated to unsaturated, make the swap from higher calorie to lower calorie because if you're lean, your visceral fat, it's going to go down. Some people seem to be genetically more likely to store visceral fat, especially those of Asian, Indian, or Hispanic descent. But is that really just genetics? >> It's genetic. Same thing as men have more visceral fat than women. Men on average, they tend to store their fat more viscerally. It's a genetic thing. And did you know that women on average live longer than men? Oh my goodness. I wonder why. Well, aside from all the stress the girls be putting us under. Well, of course it has to do with fat storage. Men are leaner than women. You know what else is stressful? When your woman buys you a present, Christmas, birthday, and so on, and it's not Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum. I mean, what is she thinking? Does she not know what you want? Every man wants aside from the B to the J is the T to the B to the M. The Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum code Greg 15% off money back guarantee $20 gift card if you don't get the gains that you're looking for. >> Not to mention, everyone's favorite bubble tea contains up to 50 g of it. And over 30% of Taiwanese people consume something like this at least once a day. But what's so bad about added sugar? I mean, added sugar. The problem isn't the sugar, it's the added calories. And if you're in a surplus, you're going to gain weight. And so, for example, I'm going to race perhaps 66 km on the bike later today. Burn off perhaps 1,500 calories. Now, do you really think that if I consume a bubble tea sugar drink with 200 calories and maybe, I don't know, some licorice, some candies, that I'm going to somehow gain a ton of visceral fat? That I'm going to be a diabetic. No, I have muscle and I'm doing cardio. And so the problem with sugar is that sugar can add to unwanted calories and make you fat. And foods you might not even expect are loaded with them. Not just bubble tea, cereal, granola, sweetened yogurt, juice, jam, and even condiments like ketchup. >> I mean, how can people not be familiar that jam isn't going to have sugar, sweetened yogurt isn't going to have sugar, cereal, granola, apple juice? You're literally taking a fruit and putting the sugar from it into liquid form to make it easier to drink. And so if you're an idiot and you do these stupid things like consuming too much sugar on top of eating enough calories in your diet, then well, you deserve to be fat. You deserve it. If you choose to do the thing, then you deserve it. For example, if you chose to drink 10 shots of whiskey last night at the bar and you're hung over, you deserve to be hung over. If you choose to eat a thousand calorie surplus for months on end, you deserve to be fat. Is that not fair? Now, there's some things that people don't deserve in this life. For example, if you studied 5 hours a day and you still failed your exam, you didn't really deserve it. I feel bad for you. It's genetic. And so, there is some truth to the fact that, well, some people are fat and it's very much genetic. And so, for those people, why don't you do more cardio? Why don't you eat healthier? You have an uphill battle. It's harder for you. You could perhaps take GLP max to help control your cravings so that you're less hungry. Remember, code rag 15% off. Or you could go to the gym. You could do certain activities. And so stop making excuses why you're fat and make excuses to lose some