I'm annoyed that 500,000 people watch this video and don't understand the basics. Y'all got bamboozled. Y'all got tricked. Not a single person out there is doing this. It's useless, mindless, wasted mumbo jumbo. The exercise required to torch visceral fat based on this study required getting above 75% of your max heart rate. 75% of my maximum heart rate is 142 beats a minute. How many of you think I've ever done a race with a heart rate lower than that? I don't 75% is basically high zone 2 or zone 3 cardio. It's not that hard. It's why I keep telling people walking it's not cardio. Walking is walking, it's movement. Me getting up and going to take a [\h__\h] isn't cardio. Me doing gardening, it's not cardio. It's too easy. making this video flapping and screaming. It still isn't cardio. It's zone one. Is it bad to do that? No. Walking isn't bad, but it's not cardio. It's not hard enough. Now, if you're a freaking whale, if you're 400 lb, or if you're 90, it's cardio. If you're walking up a mountain, it's cardio. But if you're just walking with your friend, oh, we do 30 minutes of walking every day. It's our cardio time. It's not cardio. It's daily life. It's what you should be doing. Like, do when I have sexy time, I don't say, "It's time to do my cardio. I'm going to go have sexy time." I don't count brushing my teeth, washing my body, walking to the bathroom, recording videos, or walking as cardio. >> If you do them right, even just short 15 to 25 minute interval cardio sessions done two to three times per week is enough to make a measurable dent. >> No, it's not. It's not enough. Do more. One paper did find that running could be slightly more effective than cycling at reducing visual fat, but there were too many limitations for it to be meaningful. >> Yeah, don't run. Running is so hard to build muscle. If you're watching this channel, you probably want to build muscle. Rather than running, bike. Biking is better. And you know why? Cuz you can recover from it faster and so you're not overtrained and you can do it more. The more cardio you do, the more calories you're going to burn. And so if you run two to three days a week for 15 minutes, it's not bad. It's just not good enough. you need to do better. It's like saying, "Oh, 2, three days a week I eat something healthy." Well, that's great, but what about the other five days? Well, no, not those days. It's not enough. >> It doesn't have to be all out, but you should be breathing hard enough that you'd have a hard time holding the conversation. >> Or go at 75% the whole time. >> I mean, where the [\h__\h] If I do that 66 km race, it's I go about 40 km. It's like an hour and 40 minutes. Say, my heart rate the whole time except for the first 20 seconds when I start my heart rate's going to be over 142. And so why not just go the whole time that hard? Oh, do intervals 30 seconds, get your heart rate to 150, and then you walk or 150 the whole time. Has anyone thought of that? Oh, but but you can't maintain it. Why not get fit? Now, I'm not saying to start right off the bat going for a 60-minute jog. It's too hard. Bike ride, 150 minutes of cardio a week. Try, for example, 30 minutes and do it five times. It's 150 minutes a week. I don't want to explain the science of finding your maximum. I just know mine, but mine's about 190. Maybe yours is 200. Maybe it's 150. Whatever. Go at 75% and hold it there. But hey, you're thinking, "Yeah, but if I do interval training, I burn more calories in the aftermath, epoch, post exercise, oxygen consumption." Did you know that epoch is greater during longer duration steadystate cardio than during intervals? No, of course you didn't. Because the world, social media, fitness influencers make it look like intervals is better. Long cardio, consistent, burns more calories in the aftermath than intervals. And so if I ride 66 km for an hour and 40 minutes, I'm going to burn more calories than you are going and doing your stupid intervals and I'm going to keep my heart rate there the whole time. It's zone three, probably four. It's tempo training. It's hard. It's not easy. It's hard. You don't need to go as hard as me, but you need to go harder than that stupid ass walk that you're going on that you're counting as cardio. I get my snips. I'm so sick of the world and their steps. Oh, I got my 8,000 steps today. So what? I brushed my teeth, washed my hair, and had sexy time. It doesn't count as anything. Yeah, I burn calories. Yeah, okay. You burn 300 calories through movement. I don't care. Like, I don't do 8,000 steps a day. Typically, it's 5,000 or less. Do you think I'm somehow unfit cuz I don't walk a lot? This is moronic. Oh, you didn't get 8,000 steps, but you were gardening all day. You probably burn more calories gardening. And so rather than worrying about the steps that you're doing, I mean, what if you do small steps versus long steps? You ever thought of that? Oh, I got long legs, so I walk in further. You're burning more calories. Short steps. What about the steps? Do they count steps walking around the house in the kitchen? You're just standing like this. Is this a step? I mean, what's counted as a step? Let's stop with the steps already. And think of it. I did 10,000 steps up a freaking mountain and you did 10,000 steps down the mountain. But we're equal. We both got 10,000 steps. I counted my steps once. I was driving. It was a bumpy road. I got 3,000 steps. Stop counting the steps. Another thing that bothers me is people saying, "How many minutes of cardio did?" Oh, I did 60 minutes of cardio dieting for my show. I'm doing too many minutes of cardio. My coach sucks. Is too many minutes. 60 minutes at that freaking sitting on your ass [\h__\h] pace at 80 watts and say you burn off oh 300 calories in an hour. I burn off 1,000. We both went for 1 hour. You burnt 300 calories and I burn a,000. But we're somehow equals. We both did 1,000 calories. Of course not. It's not just the time spent doing cardio. It's the quality of the cardio consumed. Which is why, especially on your off days, set a walking goal of at least 8,000 steps. >> It's not enough. Jeremy, you're a freaking fitness influencer. You appear to be in shape. I mean, you probably did 20 bicep curls to freaking get the bicep vein out. Oh, let's fake a photo. I wear the same stupid blue tank top in every video. We got the bicep. And so, listen to me. I'm Jeremy. 8,000 steps. Yeah, it's a start. It's the basics. It's the minimum. >> It's low impact, easy to stick to, and still helps you chip away at your visceral fat over time. >> You really think that walking 8,000 steps a day for 30 days is going to cause you to lose all your visceral fat. And it's not. You need to lose all the fat. I don't care if it's visceral, if it's subcutaneous, lose the whole freaking pot of it. >> To get abs that actually pop, I would highly recommend adding two exercises. and to get abs that actually pop. You think it's coming from 8,000 steps a day from swapping out the kind of fat that you're eating. >> And you can check out this video next to see what they are. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you there. >> And I'm going to show you in the next episode what art exercises to get your abs to look like mine. It's from being in a deficit. And if his brother was actually 33% body fat and he wants to look aesthetic, he's going to have to get down to probably around 12%. That's 21% body fat. And so if his brother weighs say 150 lbs, he's have to lose over 30 lbs of fat. Does he look like he has 30 lbs of fat to lose? He does not. And so the dexa scam is a dexa scam. He doesn't need to lose that weight. But if he loses any fat, I don't care how he does it, running, cycling, putting the fork down, buying my cookbook, getting his app, whatever he wants to do to make him eat less food or to burn more calories off, it's going to cause him to burn the visceral fat as well as the subcutaneous. And so just lose fat. Just do what you need to do. You don't need a special video saying do this, do that, 30 days and lose your visceral fat. Now, if you want a supplement that works, go to max to improve your cardio. What does that mean? It makes your cardio easier to do. Does that make sense? You're doing 30 minutes and you're not tired. And so instead of that, you do an hour. That is how you get shredded. You do more than you think you need to do. You keep going. And rather than going at a slow pace for 30 minutes, you go at a faster pace for 30 minutes. That is GO2 Max. The GLP Max, it literally makes you less hungry. You consume fewer calories. The Turk Builder Max, the Turk Platinum, it makes you put on more muscle and recover faster. Of course, we have Gest, we have Gest Platinum, we have ways of improving your testosterone levels. We have the blue lobster pre-workout. Gets you motivated, gets you in the zone. You can then go harder. You're amped up. You're going to chat your face off a lot better than doing wreck drugs and so on. And so get blue lobstered faster than last time and go and hit some cardio. And of course, if you have no training or diet plans, you can get my free diet and training program. It's not just about making money. I've given away over 110,000 of these. This is quite a bit. 110,000 free programs. It's free. So, click the link in description now if you want to hire me for coaching specifically. Obviously, it's going to be more expensive than free. It's not free, but you can apply by clicking the link in description. And of course, you should get the circle diet book, the cookbook, low calorie delicious recipes for the big ether. That is a secret. Eat fewer calories, but be full and love your diet. And with added cardio, that in synergy, that is how you lose weight and keep it off for the rest of your life. Interested in any of the supplements? Don't forget code Greg 15% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And until next time, I am out. Gay. >> I'm gay. I still have no idea how to do it. Gay.