And so to hear that Hulk Hogan has passed at 71 years of age, I mean, he did have an excellent and amazing life, but I certainly wish it could have been longer. I can't help but wonder, would he still be with us if he had not used or taken performance-enhancing drugs? Coach Greg. In today's video, Hulk Hogan has passed away. 71 years of age. Hulk Hogan, perhaps the most famous wrestler of all time. Hulk Hogan, who used to say to train, to say your prayers, and eat your vitamins. Now, we never knew that those vitamins were performance-enhancing drugs, but he had a good message nonetheless. We all know him for having the largest arms in the world. Pink at the time he said they were 24 in. He was a monster around close to 6'8 and 300 lb. When I was young, I was a fan. He was my hero. And I certainly thought Hulk Hogan was 100% natural. I never knew he would have used performance-enhancing drugs. It later came out that wrestlers actually took steroids, that Arnold Schwarzenegger took steroids, that almost all of the biggest and most jacked guys in the world that they were on steroids. And so as we go over his career, a one ina billion type of career, one of the most famous men in the world, Hulk Hogan was a hero and especially for the children, the youngsters, the Hulkamaniacs. And so when he said, "Train hard, take your vitamins. Say your prayers and believe in yourself," those words meant something. Now later on in future years once everything came out he added you know and take your steroids jokingly of course but Hulk Hogan he was all about discipline training hard putting in the work doing what you need to do as well as positivity I'm certain that he will be remembered for more good things than not. But as I reflect on his career and the fact that he made it to 71, which isn't horrendous, I can't help but wonder, would he still be with us if he had not used or taken performance-enhancing drugs? You have to assume he was on abusive doses. I mean, look at the size of this guy. You have to ask yourself, you know, was it all worth it? And I do believe that most people probably would say that it was until that it's not. If you could talk to Hulk Hogan right now and you said, "Look, had you've not taken steroids, you would have 10 more years on this earth." Do you think he would say, "No, I I've had enough. I'm bored. It's not fun anymore. Life it just it sucks." Or do you think he would have said, "You know what? I could have had the same positive message and said, stay natural. Don't abuse steroids." And I could live even longer. Which do you think he would take? Now, when you're young, many of you, you don't have your brains developed. You don't understand these things. You're too young to make these decisions. But you're thinking, "Is he not a multi-millionaire? Is he not wealthy, rich, famous, attractive, has tons of muscle?" Yeah, but Bro is already tall. Did he need to have any extra muscle? Bro already had that American look with the very impressive tan with the muscles. Would he not still have had more muscle than he needed? I mean, let's be honest. Is having 300 lbs of muscle more attractive than having 230? There comes a point where more isn't better. He didn't need to weigh 300 lb. He could have wrestled weighing 230. Now, would he have been able to body slam Andre the Giant weighing 500 lb? Probably not. But did he really need to? The problem is the bar is set so high that everyone needs to use steroids to keep up. We have Batista. He's already stopped using performance-enhancing drugs. And what have people been saying? Oh, you look so skinny. He's still well over 200 lb. And what about Triple H? Does anyone think that this guy was natural? He had already suffered from the Widowmaker, but thank God he survived. But do you know how many wrestlers or for example professional bodybuilders are no longer with us because they use steroids? And so yes is a time to remember a legend for all the amazing things he's done. But it's also a time to not forget that you don't need to make the same mistakes as he did. He could have lived his life without the use of performance-enhancing drugs. And I'm sure some people are saying this isn't the time or the place, Greg. You shouldn't be doing this. Why? When is the right place? When is the right time? I mean, we now know that The Rock has coronary artery disease. Does anyone think that that was a congenital that he was born with it? Or do you not think that he maybe maybe use performance enhancing drugs just a little bit and then made it get worse? Imagine what happens if tomorrow The Rock has a heart attack. What then? What if it's your own father, your mother, your brother, or your sister? Do you not want people to live as long as possible? And so, how is it ever bad to speak about the things that you need to do in order to be healthy? People need a constant reminder. They often forget. They get lost in life. Oh, they fast food this, fast food that. I'm going to skip this meal. I'm going to just eat that. I don't got time for going for that walk. You have to make time. If you have time to use your phone, if you have time to watch this video, you have time for you. Use it and make the most of it. And so what happened with Hulk Hogan is his neck pain would have been so bad that Tylenol wasn't enough. And so to increase his quality of life, they would have elected to perform neck fusion surgery. That was back in May, June, July. It's been about 2 months. I have to wonder, was it the fact that he had neck surgery? Perhaps he couldn't go for as many walks. He had to rehabilitate from this cuz remember any surgery, it puts undue strain on the heart. you have to go undergo anesthesia to get put under to perform these surgeries and it is of a greater risk. Now, he did survive that operation, but did it in fact take a toll on his health? We'll never know. And so, was it the wrestling? Was it the steroids? Or a combination of both? I do believe it's got to be both. Later in his career, Hulk Hogan, he still seemed to be a rather big party animal. Starting his own beer company, saying, "Let's drink some beer, reminded me of Stone Cold Steve Austin." And so, it is in fact possible that he began to start drinking a little bit more heavily. And as you know, alcohol, it's literally poison, not just for your mind, but for your body as well. And so, I strongly discourage any of you to actually drink alcohol. I am shocked. Well, no I'm not. The government makes so much money from this that they legalize alcohol, but they don't legalize other things that are far safer. Of all the things that you can do in the world, I think it's legal. Alcohol is the most dangerous legalized thing that I can think of. Millions of people die each and every year because of alcohol. And so, if Hulk Hogan was drinking more regularly, even if it's only a few drinks here and there, it's still going to increase his risk of getting a heart attack, a cancer, and so on. If you are a fan of living, which I hope that most of you are. I know many people suffer in silence, but if you are a fan of living, don't drink alcohol. And if you do, keep it to a minimum. >> Let's drink some damn beer. >> And so, let me tell you something, brother. Don't drink alcohol. And if you do, keep it to a minimum. I know it sounds fun and it's cool and it's glorified, glamorized, just like drinking wine, but it's literally poison. certain other activities, you know, sniffing creatine, doing Add's Lace with Math, visiting your friend Molly, or taking a vitamin K. Many of these things, people will put you down, and you know, there's so many other things that I can list, but alcohol is worse. Now, you can debate me that maybe some of those things are worse than alcohol. I could debate you back, but in general, alcohol as a drug, as alcohol is a drug, is the leading cause of death in the world. For people that use drugs and so on, I think it's the worst. Now, I haven't done a 100% of the research that perhaps I should, but off the top of my head, if I'm having a choice between smoking a a J, let's call it, or perhaps visiting your friend Molly, you know, she's really nice, or perhaps eating some vegetables like mushrooms and so on. I think that drinking alcohol is far worse. And so, if you believe me, you believe me. If you don't, if you don't, I don't encourage you to do any of these things. I'm just saying I think alcohol is a very bad drug and I would like if I heard that you're limiting its consumption. >> Yo maniacs, Hulk Hogan here, I want everybody to know Monday night at 8:00 p.m. at my restaurant. >> And I mean right up to his death here, Hulk Hogan, he still had it. The gift of Gab, the excitement, the energy, the way he presents himself. He's a very good public speaker. My memories of Hulk Hogan were more so him against the ultimate warrior. That shredded mountain of a man. I was a fan of both of them. The Macho Man, Randy Savage, or Andre the Giant was such a scary imposing villain back in the day. I met him in person. It was a very exciting time. I watch these guys wrestle in person when I was just a kid. These are great memories. And so to hear that Hulk Hogan has passed at 71 years of age, I mean, he did have an excellent and amazing life, but I certainly wish it could have been longer. He has in fact been known to use performance-enhancing drugs, and I don't want this video to only be about that. But of course, it's undeniable. And so, would he be alive to this day if he hadn't have used these things? I am almost certain that he would have. And so, say what you will, but please let this be a reminder. Celebrate your life and try to live longer than last time. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost out, like the video if you liked it. Watch one of those two bloops, of course, supplements, coaching plans by me and my team. As well as if you're looking to get your blood work taken to live a long and healthy life. We can get that taken from Algo RX as well as they can prescribe the medications that you need Pharmagra. And so if you're interested, click the link in description, code Greg, 10% off ALGO RX. And until next time, I am out.