And so, did you get what you want? Are you now satisfied? Yes, I knew it, Hussein. He wasn't natural after all. Coach Greg and everyone finally got what they were wishing for, hoping for, praying for. The video where Hussein said he was a fake natural, that he'd actually been on performance-enhancing drugs for the first 16 months. They had done 300 milligrams of test, 300 milligrams of deca and 300 milligrams of EQ. That on top of that he had done 50 milligrams of Anavar and 50 mg of MK-677. And so the world reacted. Remember I wrote this comment on one of these guys post and I did that comment because I wanted people to go and watch Hussein's video. I thought, you know, if I leave this comment, more people are going to go and watch Hussein post this video. Without the comment, I feel like there wouldn't have been as much engagement. People wouldn't have been talking about quite this much. Now, I did not expect that it would be the most viral topic of 2025, the coming out of Hussein Farhat. you now satisfied? Yes, I knew it. Hussein, he wasn't natural after all. And so, how do you now feel after it was all a hoax? >> It was planned to be a video where me and Greg make fun of everyone that's saying that I'm not natural because it just doesn't make sense. >> It was made up. Now, some of you are thinking, "Oh, you're just saying it was actually a hoax because um the backlash and all the different videos and people saying he's a liar and etc." Okay, if you watch the original video, how many times we had to edit out Hussein laughing? He couldn't even remember his cycle. He couldn't remember how long it was. He was He had no idea. He didn't know about any of this. Now, does us saying this prove that he's a lifetime natural? Nope. There's no proof. There's no blood work dating back to when he first joined the gym. If Hussein had have known that he was going to get millions of followers, I'm sure he would have said, "Hey doctor, drug test me, blood work test me every two weeks so that when I make this amazing transformation, I'll have all the proof that I'm a lifetime natural." But he didn't expect it. And so he didn't get blood work back then. And so all he can do is post his blood work right now. And since I've met him, he's been randomly tested not once, not twice, but three freaking times past every single time. And I've seen the comments. Oh, he's just on low doses. You don't understand blood work. If you're on low doses of test, you're going to see LH and FSH bottom out. You're going to be able to tell exactly what he's doing. It's blood work. You can't fake it. Have you not seen other people try to fake it? And I've exposed him. But hey, you don't understand blood work. I get it. And so, you still think he's a fake natty. If you think he's a fake natty, still believe it. Whatever makes you feel better about yourself, believe it. And so if you believe he was on all those drugs and that's how he got all those gains and he simply went off of those drugs and because of this polymorphism that that is allowing him to keep the gains and it makes you sleep well at night. Well, believe it. I mean, I want you to be happy. I want you to still go to the gym and work hard. I don't want you to quit the gym just because Hussein Farah had better genetics than you. Now, as far as the polymorphism goes, the scientific niche reached out to me and she said, you know, I want to help to prove that Hussein Farhead is natural. And so, there's actually a genetic test and you can test for this specific polymorphism A C1 B L N O P something like that. She's like, if he makes a video and talks about perhaps he has this polymorphism, then people will believe him. >> I'm just here to give a little more context. as an unbiased third party. I cannot say whether someone is natural or not, and honestly, I don't care. Both of your parents give you a copy of the DNA instruction manual, but it's possible to hold two copies of one or both of these gene variants and be significantly more genetically blessed to build muscle and strength. >> I began to laugh, not at her, but laughing at the notion that people would buy that. Imagine if Fusen Far had posted, I have polymorphism genetics, and that is explaining why I put on all that muscle. Imagine the people that would hate on that. You going to think that we buy that? It doesn't matter if it's scientific. It doesn't matter if it explains everything cuz you won't believe it. And so I was talking to Jeff Nippard eventually talking to TNF and TNF said this. People are going to say that Hussein took those steroids and that he stopped and that he just maintained those gains because unless it's super physiological, you're not going to lose the gains that you made on a cycle. I don't want a bunch of kids, teenagers, to think that they can hop on some crazy cycle on day one, blow up 50 lbs of muscle, get to their natural genetic limit, and then just maintain with no damage whatsoever. Because if that was actually possible, I'd recommend it. What's wrong with that? Blast hella gear, make significant changes, get to your genetic limit, shortcut 15 years, and just hop off and maintain those gains for life. If it was that simple, people would do it. What actually going to happen is you're going to lose half of those gains or even more. Some people, they don't bounce back. It can often take 6 months, 9 months, a year to get the LH and FSH back into that normal range so that you're again producing testosterone normally. And so for 16 months, yeah, you'd feel like Superman, but as soon as you hop off, you'd feel like garbage. Think it being drunk the night before, the more alcohol you drink, the more great you feel, perhaps, but the next day you're hung over. When you stop taking steroids, it's like you're on a long-term several month or several year hangover. And so, as soon as I made a comment, notice how fast, how quick almost everyone was to jump on it. Yeah, I had a few people that know me. They're like, I can tell you're trolling. I know this is a joke, but most people so quick to post the videos, we got them. Hussein's a liar. You wanted to believe that Hussein Far Hat was a fake natty. As soon as someone gets ahead of you in life, perhaps with gains, money, relationships, status, anything, you're then cheering for them to fail. And so you've been waiting for who's saying far hat to fail. You've been waiting for Coach Greg to fail. Perhaps this is it. Oh, you failed. Yeah. Yeah, Coach Greg, you're a bad person. So what? I've already lost all credibility. I already know that. You don't believe me because I said Hussein Farad is natural because the blood work said that he was. Do we know for sure that Hussein Farad did not do that cycle? And scientific snitch he says that polymorphism doesn't apply to taking steroids and keeping those gains. It doesn't exist. It's not even a thing. It applies to people who are very skinny and make very quick gains when they start training. That's the polymorphism. I'm asking you like really think about it right now. Why does it affect you? you who are watching this right now, whether or not Hussein is natural. Because listen, just because we posted that video, just because I'm posting this video, does that prove that he's a lifetime natural? Nope. It's impossible to prove, but hear this. He is up the ante to $500,000. Any of you can test him at any time. And so if he ever hops on anything and the blood work comes back that he's taken something, that's a half a million dollars in your account. That's a lot of money. I haven't never seen anyone offer this much money ever before. I believe he's a lifetime natural. And the reason I believe that is because based on my highly educated opinion, the fact that I've coached thousands of athletes who've used performance-enhancing drugs. If one uses performance-enhancing drugs for a certain period of time and then stops, they don't keep all those gains. I know you can say yes, they do. My experience is no one has ever never has anyone got on a cycle and went off the cycle and kept all of those gains. Maybe if they lowered their doses, they could keep the gains. And so, for example, if you were blasting 500 milligrams of test and 500 milligrams of Tren and you put on 20 lbs of muscle and then you stop and you keep doing 300 milligs of testosterone, maybe you can keep those gains on very high dose HRT. Hussein is not on HRT. None. None. Zero milligrams. Not a single one. He's not on MK-677. He's not on any of that. And so to say, "Oh, but he blasted steroids and then came off or I'm covering for him in the blood work. This is ridiculous." And so if you believe that, just keep believing it. I'd rather you be happy. And so if it makes you feel better, then what do you want Hussein to say he's actually taken? Perhaps you don't believe the 300 tests, 300 DECA, and all that stuff. What do you want him to say that he's taken? Whatever you're thinking, you know, type it in the comments section. I think Hussein took this. Put what you think. For how long? Whatever. And then if Hussein says, "Yep, you're right." Will you then be happy? Will that satisfy your displeasure of the world? Will you then feel better about yourself? Can you then go back to working on yourself, to being the best version of yourself? Now remember, Hussein Farhead is in fact on Turk Max. He's also on GO2 Max. But guess what? He wasn't on it during that transformation. And and so am I lying to you? Is that not 100% transparent? And so get on the supplements that he never used to make that amazing transformation, but I'm on it. I'm using it. And I'm telling you, it's better than last time. And if you don't believe me, you don't need to. And so if you think that this is a scam, wait till you read about the truth behind Derek and Turklex. And so I can't wait to expose all the other things, you know, the laws that they broke and so on. And does it look like I'm lying? What do you guys think? What do you think? Oh, and before we go, you want to go to a company that's not breaking laws. Algo RX, they'll get your blood work done. They can prescribe medications from a doctor, legal ones, and not break laws in the process, and they'll do so at about half price of Mer Health and other HRT clinics. And so, look for that in the future. If you want to get to Algorex, go for it right now. Click the link in the description. If you want to get coaching plans from myself and my team, apply right now. And if you want to get momentous clothing from Coach Greg Hussein and Eric Janicki, click the link in the description. We also have the cookbooks here, uh, training books. We got all kinds of stuff. And I got to get out to the pool. It's Friday night. What a day. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost the album. Like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch at least one of those two bloops. And uh I'm gay. And until next time, I'm out.