If you are a well-trained lifter and you push protein intake quite high, then you can kind of expect maybe about three to five pounds of muscle in the course of roughly 12 weeks of using this. >> And so this is the question that you all want to hear, but how much muscle? How much is it going to change me? Well, and so now the several weeks has passed, you've lost the water weight, you're back down, and you've settled with three extra pounds of muscle. And isn't that amazing? And so what you just did is for 3 lb, you've risked your health. And so with this one simple cycle, 3 months, MK-677, three extra pounds of muscle, you've now accelerated your risk factors dramatically for developing type 2 diabetes, which is a horrible disease. If you didn't get it already, you're certainly reducing the amount of years it's going to take you to end up developing it. And so in comparison to taking anabolic steroids, actual testosterone, MK may in fact be worse. The fact that testosterone shuts your body down, many people are thinking, well, that is not as bad. MK, it's no problem. But see, MK, it's kind of like your blood pressure. It's the silent killer. You don't realize it's happening. When you take testosterone, your balls shrink and your body stops producing testosterone. And following the stopping of using testosterone, it's going to take time to get back to normal. And so you notice it, you feel it, you feel the loss of libido. You see your muscles shrink back down. But to just gain 3 lbs of muscle from using steroids, even in smaller doses, that would relatively be easy. And so in comparison, you're thinking MK is so much safer. But it's because you don't know the unseen damages done to your body. You don't see the beta cells that are being destroyed. You don't notice it. But 10, 20 years later, you're thinking, hm, why do I have type 2 diabetes? I'm in my 40s. I'm healthy. And so, you got to be careful. And so, think of using MK is kind of going on an advanced long-term permabul. You're eating so much food, so much sugar, and it's speeding the rate of glucogenesis, and this is causing several problems to happen in the body. Your beta cells are dying. And so, just think of it as if you use MK77 for 3 months, it's almost like bulking horribly for 3 years. Think of that damage. >> This drug is not going to kill you. It's highly unlikely. It's not It's not a health elixir. It's not good for your health, but it's not terrible, terrible, terrible for your health. And so why are we now experimenting with this lifealtering drug? Remember, if you have type 2 diabetes, it's no fun. You're going to gain perhaps three pounds of muscle permanently from it. And in comparison, you could be taking something that's 100% legal that has no danger whatsoever to your health. Turk Platinum or Turk Builder Max. I mean, the choice is yours. You can take MK and do all these risky endeavors and you can do that. I mean, it's your choice as long as you know what you're doing. Or you could try risk-free Turk Builder Platinum or Turk Builder Max. Risk-free money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And so, if you didn't end up gaining the 3 lbs of muscle that you wanted that you were hoping to gain from MK-677, you can of course get your money back. And so, what do you have to lose? I'm saying if you take MK-677, well, you have your beta cells to lose. You literally could develop type 2 diabetes. Code Greg 15% off. >> You happen to walk into your bedroom and there are three random waifu Japanese girls that just couldn't wait for you to return and you figured, "Grandma, you let these [\h__\h] in again." All right. The typical experimental dose has been 25 milligrams taken once per day. >> And so it might suggest 25 milligrams per day. I can tell you that the majority of the people that were taking it when I was coaching them were taking much lower doses. Even 10 milligrams a day for many people that's a lot. And so I see no reason to have to take 25 milligrams. Remember, we're not trying to increase our blood pressure dramatically. We don't want to get puffy. There's no reason to use the maximum. Why not go with lower doses? And so if you are going to have to take this, you just cannot stop. You're watching the video and you're saying, "I was taking it anyway." At least take less. Does that make sense? If 25 millig is going to kill off more beta cells, then perhaps taking less will kill off fewer of them. Some users may feel tingly fingers or joint aches, which is a signal to pull the dose back or to take a break. Now, why not take less? If that dose is causing this in many people, is it not smarter enough to not take that dose in the first place? I do believe that people are trying to take too much of what's not really a good thing. I would have said taking too much of a good thing is bad, but it's not a good thing. It's a thing. It's not necessarily a good thing. It's just a thing. A thing that can actually shorten your life. And so that tingling feeling, it's literally carpal tunnel syndrome, which you may have heard people get when they're taking growth hormone. Many people taking growth hormone, they want to have that feeling so that they know the growth hormone they're actually taking is real. But these are not things that you should try to get. >> Do not ever let your blood pressure creep up beyond the normative value of 120 over 70, 120 over 80. >> And so Mike is saying, do not let your blood pressure go over 120 over 80. I'm going to tell you that basically everyone, at least 95% of people likely going to be higher than that when taking MK-677. And so you got to be careful. It's like saying, "Hey, you know, if you're taking this, let's just be safe. Let's get our blood work done. Let's get our blood pressure done. But meanwhile, no one cares. People who take steroids, you think they're all going out and getting your blood work and getting your blood pressure taken. If it's over 120 over 80, they're stopping. They're not stopping. They're continuing on. And so, at best, they're going to say, "Oh, well, I'll just mitigate the damage with telmicartin." But do we now want to practice polyarm pharmacy every time we want to make some gains? Really, guys, this is a risky substance. It's a risky business. This is not risky. A money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. You know the code code Greg 15% off. >> Blood pressure is a non-negotiable. Chronic high blood pressure messes up every single part of your body. >> And so he just said it nonnegotiable. Your blood pressure goes up, you need to stop. And so if you're taking this drug and you're not monitoring your blood pressure, you need to come off. >> This is not a hack. This is a very serious substance with big health downsides. >> This is not a hack. It's a very serious substance with huge downsides. That's what you need to know. >> If you are health concerned, which means every human being that's not totally stupid, you should be taking something like 500 milligrams AM and PM metformin to control your blood sugar. >> And so Mike is saying, look, to control your blood sugar, he's probably thinking, you know, it causes diabetes and so on. So, you want to take 500 milligs in the morning and 500 millig in the evening. And it says strongly recommended. Now, here's why I don't suggest that you do this. And so, when you take metformin, it's actually reducing your performance, your strength, your V2 max, your ability to perform cardio. It's all going down. And what about your IGF-1? You know what MK-677 is supposed to increase? Well, it can decrease it by up to 10%. And so if you take Metformin, you're essentially hurting a lot of what the MK is doing in the first place. And so you're taking one drug and taking the other to reduce its benefits. And one final thing it does, it reduces protein synthesis, which means you get fewer gains. Next, he says to offset that increase in hunger, you can take 2 and 1 half to 5 milligs of tzepide, which is very, very expensive. What that drug also does is it can increase your resting heart rate. And so essentially, you're forcing your heart to work faster and faster and faster while it's being demanded to do that much more work. And so you're accelerating the damage to your heart. Now, a better solution than tzipotide would be the freaking cookbook. I mean, a it's cheaper and b the foods that you're going to be eating are going to taste that much better. And so, do you really want to add this singular drug into your cycle, MK-677, after hearing all the negative side effects it could do? Is it actually worth it for remember three lbs extra muscle? And so Mike ends the video off with real talk. And so here's some real talk for you. Mike previously in the video said, "Make sure you get in your 8,000 steps." That is not enough. That is basically nothing. That is your start point for anyone ever. Always. It's kind of like brushing your teeth, showering, having sexy time, eating, cleaning the oven. You just do things on a daily task. And so walking, it's not cardio. It's part of life. It's time to do my cardio. I'm now going to clean the kitchen sink. I got to wash the floor. That is not cardio. Walking, it's similar to that. It's just something you do. You need zone 2 cardio, preferably for about an hour a day. Remember, the minimum is 150 minutes a week. If you're taking MK-677, double it. As Ashton Hall would say, you got to double it. You did 10, you got to do 20. If you're doing 30 minutes, you got to do 60. Walking is not zone 2. So, looking at it, bro, we got to go ahead and get in at least 10,000. >> I did one lap. That did not count as cardio. That is just doing a lap. It's just moving. If I lift this book in the air, I didn't lift weights. Although it's a weight, it's about a half a pound. It doesn't count. And so, you need to go harder than last time. And so if you really want to undo the damages of MK-677, you got to do more cardio harder than last time, of course. And so if you're watching this and you already have diabetes or you have pre-diabetes or you don't want to get diabetes, you should start doing cardio now. You don't think it's important, it's not useful. Oh, I'll do it when I get older. You need to do it now. Why not do what I do? Did you not think that I abused performance-enhancing drugs? I've already taken MK-677 and I knew all about it before I started. Now, what have I been doing? I've been racing bikes six or seven days a week. Not easy, not going for a walk, not riding the bike downhill, riding hard. And so, if you want to live longer than last time, this time, start doing your cardio today. And so one more thing, HDLT supplements, we're growing to the moon and we're trying to get more of our supplements into stores in various places around the world, particularly North America. So we're looking for a director of distributions. And so if you're interested in this position, if you have previous experience for at least 2 years, you can apply by clicking the link in the description. Hi everyone, I'm Henry Cavl and I play Jesus Christ. >> You know, I wake up every day and I tell myself I'm the straightest man that's ever been born and it's all >> We're looking for someone who with experience who's eager to help HDLT supplements get into stores. And so if you're that person, click the link in the description. And of course, we're looking for ambassadors and sponsored athletes. And so, if you're interested in working for us, apply by clicking the link in the description. And I'm now part of Algo RX. If you're looking to get your blood work taken, you're looking for doctors who are qualified to read the blood work to get certain supplements, of course, click the link in description and apply right now. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And until next time, I am out.