My muscle starts burning and I feel uncomfortable. I think that's not good for you. You >> should put the weight down at that point. [laughter] >> And physiological anatomical rationale that we've known for like a hundred years. >> What talking about? >> Science-based lifting is a scam. Coach Greg, in today's video, it keeps getting worse for Mike Isertell. I mean, MR. MIKE. And it's not only Mr. Bike, it's also Jeff Nippa program. [music] And so sciencebased lifting is essentially dead. It's gone. It was fun while it lasted. It was cool. You know, keeping three reps in reserve, doing all these [\h__\h] exercises that, you know, are not working. And so in today's video, we're going to show again what Dorian Yates is saying about this, as well as bros science lifter Don Mazetti. Dorian Yates, it's in full force. I'm happy to see he's joined essentially everybody else except for the circle jakos. >> Reps in reserve. We got a different uh term for that. In England, it's called a wanker workout. >> In Canada, United States, we say, you know, you train like a [\h__\h] and train like a kitty cat. And so what science-based lifting has actually done is tried to convince people, you know, guys like Jeff Nippa, that you don't have to actually train hard, that training easy, it works better than training hard. That Dorian Yates and Mike Mener, that they got it wrong. That it wasn't about how much you put in that you got out, but that if you just hold back, especially if you're natural, you'll make significantly more gains, you know, so long as you buy their programs and periodize it accordingly. and mostly train easy. And then once you do train hard, you got to take a D load week because you know that's how you grow based on science. The science of which uses eightweek studies with soccer moms and says that this is the best way to grow. If you're a soccer mom, by all means, your first day in the gym, you don't need to train hard. You just show up. Everybody already knows that. >> I don't like it when like the muscle starts burning and it feel uncomfortable. I think that's not good for you. should put the weight down at that point. [snorts] >> Of course, the closer you get to failure and or beyond, the more your muscles are going to burn, the harder it gets and you want to stop. Your body is telling you, hey, that's enough. You get that lactic acid, the burn, and so you stop. But those of you who don't stop and you keep going, you know, the real men of the world who are actually training hard, those are the ones who are going to get the most gains. And so I don't care if it's talking about lifting weights or doing cardio, racing bikes, sprinting up a hill, studying, those who can suffer more, who can put themselves into more uncomfortable positions, those are the ones that are going to gain the most. And so there lies the name of my brand. Harder than last time. Not three more reps in reserve than last time. Not easier than last time. Not go until it starts to become uncomfortable harder than last time. >> Who wants to be uncomfortable? It can't be good for you, can it? No. No. >> Some reserves. >> Let's compare Mike Mener's physique, who looks a lot more like coach Greg than Mike Isertel. Now, remember, I'm not anywhere near Mike Menser's level. But I do believe I look closer to Mike Mener than Mike Isertell. And I'm not just talking about the hair on my head and my mustache. At least I have an IFBB Pro card. Mike Isertell does not. Mike Isertell had surgeries to remove the 20 pounds of body water in order to try and get his pro card in the Mast's division in his next competition. Let's examine the photo that Mike Isertell just posted to see does this look like Mike is healthy? Should Mike not just throw in the towel and take the L and give up and say, "Guys, I was wrong. I'm way less impressive than Mike Mener. I shouldn't have gone for my pro card and I'm getting off the steroids. I mean, look what it's done to my head, guys. Why does my jaw do this? Is there something wrong with me, Mike? Yes, there's something wrong with you. Now, as far as the jaw thing's doing, that's perhaps your anger upon knowing that you're never going to reach your IPB Pro card. And what you're doing is you're biting like you're going like this. Let's now pay attention to your head. What exactly is going on? Does anyone see some enhanced bone growth going on? This is known as acromagali or giganticism and is a result of abusive levels of growth hormone. And so what we're seeing if you want to sound smart, you know, like how Mike Israel would talk, you use big words, people think you're smart, is temporalis muscle hypertrophy with cranial bone acroaggali, which is the growth of the bones. And so it's about the bones. Mike isel is on so much growth hormone that it's causing his bones to get bigger, to expand. This is not good. This is not healthy. And oftentimes when people abuse growth hormone, they're also abusing insulin. Also not good. And Mike, remember he made that video promoting MK-677. And what he forgets is that this can cause type 2 diabetes. This is also not good. Mike also uses performance-enhancing drugs which can make him feel only rage. Let's add to this list. He had higher blood pressure. He had to take Telmaartin, I do believe a different blood pressure medication. I forget which one which allowed his blood pressure to get back to normal. But that's known as polyfarm pharmacy when you have to take multiple different drugs to compat using a single drug. You're on so many drugs because you take this drug, you need that drug as a downplay the side effects. You take this drug, you take that drug and essentially you're on 10 drugs or more. Remember when Mike said he had more willpower than almost anyone? Why does he then need to take a GLP? Is he on reatrite or is he on turipotide? But when you're taking medications to reduce your appetite because you can't stick to your diet, that means you don't have a lot of willpower. Now, if you don't have all that willpower and you can admit it, you can go to algorex, you can purchase ompic, you can purchase tzipotide, you can get blood work to see exactly how healthy you really are. And if you're not healthy, well, maybe you can lower your doses. Maybe you need telmicartin. Maybe you need to cycle off. Or maybe you have low testosterone levels. Do you need inclapene? Do you need HRT? And so depending on what you need, you can get a doctor to prescribe you prescription medications for cheaper than last time if you compare them to Mer Health. Please compare them to Merrick Health and then thank me later when you save thousands of dollars. Click the link in description code Greg 10% off to get all your pharmaceutical needs. And so what I find interesting is there's a thousand comments about this post and people aren't concerned. Shouldn't every post be saying, you know, go to the doctor. This isn't healthy. You're not natural. Perhaps you need to lower the doses. It's as if they're coming to see the accident. The car crash. They cannot look away. Guys, I'm telling you, you should in fact look away. Let's now check out Don Misetti. And so, I'm going to react to Don Misetti reacting to Mike Isertel reacting to Don Misetti. This is just a Tuesday for me, guys. One study at a time says almost nothing. All the studies together and physiological anatomical rationale that we've known for like a hundred years. >> What talking about? >> Do you know what more of nothing is? More of nothing is nothing. You can check that out Mr. Mike with chat GPT. Nothing plus nothing equals nothing. More famously, as Dorian put it, >> a bag of [\h__\h] that gets bigger is just a bigger bag of [\h__\h] And so if you have a bunch of [\h__\h] studies added together, it's more [\h__\h] It's a bigger pile of [\h__\h] And so if you take a bunch of soccer mom studies and you pile them up, you've got a bigger pile of [\h__\h] >> Uh I'm Dom Misetti, professor of exercise and just doing it. I got an LSD and recreational drugs. Uh competitive at everything. >> I mean, he's got an LSD and recreational drugs and he just does it. And so there it is. That is just as good as Mike Isertell's PhD. I mean, Mr. Mike had over 200 mistakes in that PhD. Mr. Misetti, I didn't see a PhD. And so, by not writing it, he actually did better than Mike. Mike would have been smarter for not having written that PhD thesis. >> I still nut every time I hear those gunshots. >> Pause it right there. Science-based lifting is a scam. >> [applause] >> That is what it is. It's a scam. And what is a scam? They try to convince you that for certain if you lift this certain way that it's better than a different way. That is why Mike Hizertell tried to get his IPB pro card. He wanted to show the world that his methods were better than others. And by getting his pro card, that would prove it. And so he didn't get the pro card and so proved that it wasn't. Science-based lifting is a scam to get you to do more science and less lifting. The whole reason we started lifting is cuz we were bullied for being nerds. >> Facts. >> And so, notice Mike just responds with facts. I mean, why didn't he respond with facts when Solomon called him out for his PhD? He should have said facts. PhD horrible. Let's all move from that because that was written over 12 years ago. Since that time, I aimed to do better. I studied harder than last time and I'm not that same person. If he had said that, this would be over. But instead, he tried to cover it up and lied >> on YouTube and start a fitness gossip channel. Like in lifting, the best way to make yourself bigger is to make someone else small. >> It's actually facts. People put other people down to make themselves up. Think of it. If you're about up here and you say some things and that person goes down, then you're still here and they're down there and so you're better than them. I DON'T LIKE SIZE BASE LIFTERS. Nothing would happen. I don't care. But if you let it sink in, it's going to sink you. And so this is a graphical picture showing what happens when you give a [\h__\h] about what people say about you in the comments. >> Thank you, Greg. >> And so when bro from Bangladesh says you don't have 20 pounds of body water, you say nothing and you stay there. But if you care, you go down and they win. First very important step here, become a failure. No one dreams of becoming a fitness influencer gossip channel, but lucky for you, you are no one. >> Mike's got it made. I mean, Don Misetti is telling you all you have to do is start by being a failure. And so Mike is like, "Wow, that is what I do. I will start by failing in life and then I have it made." Because think of it like this. the worse your starting point. If you start at the ground floor, if you're way down in the toilet, anything's a win for you. If you're born in the money, you're making millions of dollars, you have millions of followers, it's hard to get above that. But if you're in the toilet, everything else in comparison, it's amazing. >> However, failing isn't as easy as it seems. Just ask any science-based lifter. You can't just give up immediately and say you're a failure. Yes, in the context of lifting weights, failing is hard. You have to push yourself. You can't stop three R I R failure involves going hard all out. And so again, I wanted to show you what actually training to failure look like. And not just failure, beyond failure. You know, harder than last time. If all you do is go to the gym and train to failure on every set, that isn't actually hard. If you're a beginner or an intermediate, yeah, it it's hardish. It's harder than Jeff Nippard was training. It's harder than Mike Israel, but it isn't hard. And so I record a set of me doing abductors. Remember, I hardly train my legs because I train my legs on the bike sprinting and so on. Are you training harder than last time? And so, should you train to three reps in reserve? Should you train to failure? How do you know it is? Well, I'm going to go all out with perfect form and we're going to see. Is it actually true failure? All right. Okay, that's failure, right? >> Yeah, that looks like failure. >> I'm forcing that weight using a little bit of resistance, pausing, and I'm slowly controlling the eentric. Essentially, I'm training harder than last time. I'm pushing myself. I could have stopped at five reps. That looked hard. I mean, according to Jeff Nippah and Mike Isertel, it's probably training too hard. But was it though? I'm pushing all out. I can't do any reps on my own. Clearly, that's beyond failure. And so, why am I not stopping? It's burning. I'm not talking about going to the washroom with gorrhea. It's burning. It's uncomfortable. Why don't I stop? I mean, doesn't science say I should stop? Ask Mike Menser and Dorian Yates. Do you really think I need to stop? Or is it not about chasing that burn? Pushing myself really really pushing myself. Not training halfass. Not training like a wanker or a kitty cat, but really going hard in the gym. What actually is failure? If you're training three reps in reserve, I would have done two reps on that set. But instead, I went to failure and did five forced reps to really get a good workout. So instead of two reps, I'm doing eight plus. Do you see how much harder that is? And so when you go to the gym, how hard are you training? If you watch too many Jeff Nippaw videos, you probably think that you're pushing yourself when you get near failure. Near failure is training easy. >> And now a word from our sponsor. Men only want one thing, and it's delicious. high quality protein packing, sugar lacking, onthe-go muscle snacking. >> I was thinking it was oral. But if it wasn't that, I believe that men also want one thing, and it's Turk Builder Max and or Turk Platinum. Either of these, this is what men really want. And it's not just the men that want this, it's the ladies. Money back guarantee, $20 gift card. And so just going to read a quick reference from someone who's coached thousands of athletes after one week. I'm going to read this. After about a week, a few notes on Turk. I feel as if it has some metabolic effect. I track my diet daily and despite raising calories a few hundred. I'm maintaining weight but leaner. Strength feels as if I've added a sarm. It's odd getting leaner and still holding strength for heavy working sets. I'm running about 40 kilometers a week right now preparing with Jod for high rocks. I wanted the Turk to protect a little muscle from the high output feeling really dry too. Can Jod use Turk? And so the answer is yes. It's just as effective or more for females. This is not a paid advertisement. This is somebody who tried it, reached out to me and said this is what it's doing. That is a common effect of using Turk. That is what I experienced. And so when I say, "Hey, I put on tons of muscle, tons of strength. It's made a significant difference in my performance." I'm not lying. Why would you think that? Like, if you're watching this video and you think I'm a liar, why are you watching this video? If you think I'm lying, please stop watching this video right now and click on sub and go cheer for Mike Isertell and Jeff Nippa. Like, look, go give them a follow. I don't want your follow. If you don't think that I'm an honest person, that I'm literally telling you exactly what the supplements are doing, then go somewhere else. I don't want your business. I don't want you as a fan. Go somewhere else. I am not lying. And I've been third-party tested, vindicated, and yes, I've tested the competition. And I do have chain of custody in case I get sued because I would love it because then in court, I can prove everything that I know. Then I will have a judge saying, "Coach Greg is truthful, honest, and you are not. This is the honest truth. You're interested. Code Greg 15% off. And if it doesn't meet or exceed your expectations, a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. What do you have to lose? Go watch Bro Science Life video. The video is long enough. He continues to say funny things about Mr. Mike. And so, please go and watch it. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost the algorithm. Like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And remember, we're looking to sponsor athletes as well as to get ambassadors. You're interested, click the link in description. And also, if you do own a store and or a gym, click the link in the description and you can then carry HDLT supplements in your store, wait till you see the announcements in store. I'm excited to tell you about what's happening. HTLT is going global. And until next time, I am out.