And so the first time I tried it, I couldn't believe it. It felt like I was on Halo Testin. Perhaps that I was on trend. I could feel it working. I had extra energy. I felt stronger. It was better than Turk Builder Max. And I know you're thinking that's hard to believe. How could it be better than Turk Builder Max? It just was. It's now time time to up our game to step it up a notch. You've all enjoyed Turk Builder Max. If you haven't, of course, can continue to buy it. It's of course code Greg 15% off. And if you don't like it, whatever for any reason. It doesn't build as much muscle as you had hoped expected. Money back guaranteed $20 gift card. But if you want the next step in the phase of evolution, it's time for you to try Turk Platinum. What exactly is Turk Platinum and how is it different from Turk Builder Max? And so it has more ingredients than last time. Now, the first time I tried, remember, I've experimented all of this, so I already know that it works. It's not just myself, it's other people as well. It's not just a sample size of one. And so the first time I tried it, I on halo testing, perhaps that I was on trend. Now, did I put on 15 extra pounds of muscle? No. But when I went to the gym, I could feel it working. I had you're thinking, "That's hard to believe. How could it be better than Turk Builder Max?" It just was. Now, does that mean every single person in the world is going to notice it? Maybe not. Those of you, you get your money back. I don't care. It's not a big deal. But I cannot wait for you to try it. In Turk Builder Max, the main ingredient is a Juga Turkiststanica. It's amazing. Remember, other people are copying this plant, Gorilla Mine, and so on. They don't actually put a Juga Turkistanica. Most are using cyanosis, a copycat plant from China. We procure the best ingredients in the world, the top quality, top shelf. We've got a Juga Turkiststanica from Isbekiststan. We still have a jug turstatica from Isbekistan in the Turk platinum. Now what we've done is we've added other ingredients. One in particular, it's called repoticum and it's from Russia. Remember we've scoured the globe. These are very difficult to get and we take the utmost care in ensuring that it's of the highest quality. Now some people, for example, in China, they have the product sitting out on the pavement. It's soaking in the sun. and it's losing its potency. We want the purest of ingredients at the highest possible potency. And so Marwani went to Beckistan and he filmed everything. He watched everything they were doing start to finish the entire operation. We can promise you that no company could do any better than this. The best in the world. And the Raponticum from Russia, it's very, very expensive. It's more expensive than a Jugga Turkiststatica. Another thing you need to know is reponticum is in the red book in Russia. I'm not talking about a cars blue book value and so on. The red book lists plants that are endangered species. Plants that you are not allowed to just go and pick on your own unless you want to go to jail. It's illegal unless you have special permission from the government to make and harvest these ingredients. And so that is where we got this. It's so rare and so valued, it's literally illegal to harvest and sell it on your own. This plant is so rare and so expensive that what do you think happens when something is extremely expensive, extremely rare, other people, they try to copy it and pretend they have it and they sell it at a discount? We paid top dollar for this product. And so Turk Platinum is more expensive than Turk Builder Max. I wonder why. It costs a fortune to get it. And so the other companies, oh we have Raponica, we have this, we have Auga. No, you don't. 99.9% chance that you don't. I mean, perhaps it's better than one in a million, but it's very rare. This first came about, this reponticum during the space race to go to the moon. They spent millions of dollars on these herbs to find out and test and see which ones gives you more energy, which ones make you perhaps a super soldier, which ones are going to be of benefit. Rodeiola as well as sarpuka are two of these products, these plants, herbs and so on that they had studied and what was the evidence? The [\h__\h] works. It's simply effective. Now in North America it's lesser known but in Russia this is highly sought after in particular raont much more expensive than even Sarpuka which is actually given as heart medication in Russia. And so this drug it's called Cardisten. You thought I was going to say Cardi B. No, it's Cardi Sten. It's given as heart medication in Russia. And so we have a Juka Turkistanica. We've got Serpuka. And we've got Raponticum. These are just three of the ingredients in Turk Platinum. And the final ingredient, let's see if I can say this. Rodeiola heterodonta. And this is one of the rarest species of rodeiola on the planet. And so imagine it's all in one box of Turk platinum. And so guys, the rarest of the rare scoured the globe all in Turk platinum. Various ectostereroids. They were studied by the frigin Russians from years ago in order to go to the moon. And so if you want your gains to go to the moon, you got to try Turk Platinum. Code Greg 15% off. What do the studies actually say? a comparative study of the anabolic action of ecisten leviton and prime plus these are just the drug names for reponticum that's actually sold in Russia reponticum preparations of plant origin translation from Russia remember this is in Russian translated into English and so the population are runners there were 20 subjects and they did this for 3 weeks 21 days what were the effects reduction of subcutaneous fat increase in muscle mass for all experimental groups and placebo lost muscle mass. Remember the p value is 0.005 and the placebo group the group that didn't take it they lost muscle mass but the group that took the ingredient the raponicum they reduced body fat and increased muscle mass. So which group would you want to be in? I think it's obvious they increased physical capacity in all groups compared to the placebo. So the people that took the reponticum they increased their physical capabilities. So they got more muscle, less fat and got more active, more fit, they could run faster. Clearly the group that took the reponticum, they got better results. Influence of preparations of plant origin on physical work capacity. And so we have highly trained speed skaters between 18 and 28. They took the reponticum. And here were the effects. statistically significant increase in V2 max, decreased recovery time, decreased body fat, and increased muscle mass compared to placebo. 117 participants. And so I'm certain some of you were looking at the last study was it's only 20 people. Isn't there a chance that it was a fluke? Yep, there is. I'm not going to lie. Not going to trick you. And so you have to look at multiple studies. any one study, no matter how good it is, does it really prove it beyond anything, it's hit or miss. I mean, some people are going to benefit more than others, but this is 117. That's a lot of people. And the effects statistically significant changes. Think of it. They increased their V2 max and they decreased their recovery time, lowered their body fat, and they had more muscle. And so just to summarize it all, the people who took their aonticum, they recovered faster, they had more muscle, less body fat, and they had better performance. If I told you that that ingredient was in Turk Platinum and not in Turk Builder Max, would you maybe think I want Turk Platinum? Hm. Maybe it's a little bit better. I mean, they've added in these other ingredients. Somebody wrote me the other day on Instagram said, "You know what? you should add in some ecsteroids into your adjugate turkistanica. like adjuga turkistatica does have ectostereroids and so we've added in even more there are more they're working effectively one of the negatives I have to say remember I'm 100% transparent when I took the max amount of pills I had it negatively affect my sleep I could only sleep like five six hours a night instead of seven or eight and so I didn't like that it was a bit scary for me it's kind of like when I was taking halo testing yeah I had that aggressiveness and that drive, but I also had impaired sleep. And so I was a little concerned. Now, not so concerned. I can't sell it. There's no blood work saying it's bad and so on. But I wanted something better. And so in Turk Platinum, the Ajuga Turkistanica, it's dosed at 100 milligrams per capsule. And you're thinking, well, what does that mean? Well, in Usbekiststan, each of the pills they sell is 50. In Turk Builder Max, we max out the Ajuga, 200 milligrams per pill. And so that's a lot. Many people, they can't even handle it. Some people try it. They're like, "Hey, I take three pills a day. It doesn't affect my sleep." Well, that's great for you. But if it does affect your sleep and you're looking for these other ingredients, for example, ratonicum with all these studies saying how effective it is, you're looking for Turk Platinum. And so when I take Turk Platinum, I can take them and it doesn't negatively affect my sleep. I get all of the benefits and more. Increase recovery, increase V2 max, lower body fat, increase muscle mass. Is that not what you want? And so imagine if you're like me, racing bikes, lifting weights, you want more muscle and less fat. Everyone wants more muscle and less fat. Well, not everyone, but most. How many of you want extra recovery? How does that a bad thing? You recover faster. Whether it's from cardio or from lifting weights, you can go to the gym faster and train harder than last time and get greater gains. And so if you continue to use this supplement, imagine the difference it can make compounded over time. And so this one is reponticum yet again. And so there were 20 participants in 10 days. They took the rapicum three times in a day. Here were the effects. Reduction of fat by 7% in males and 14% in females. Fat went down. Muscle. Male subject gained 6% of their body weight in muscle. Female subjects 7% of their body weight in muscle. and there were no significant changes in hormones in all the test subjects. And so they lost fat, built muscle, and it didn't negatively affect their hormones. Another positive study. Now remember, if it was only that one study and say, "Yeah, there's only 20 participants." But remember, these are multiple studies. And so when you do a metaanalysis and look at all of them, that's when you can draw some conclusions. And so next aspects of sports medicine again it's reponticum. This time 64 subjects 21 days athletes effect lower heart rate in the HIT training group increase muscle mass 5% compared to the control group 4.2 millimeter reduction in subcutaneous fat by skin falloper measurements compared to the control group. No negative effect or organ damage were found in this group. 64 participants. 64 participants. 21 days. 21 days. These are amazing results. Enough about reponticum. There are more studies than this. I don't have time to go over them all. And next, let's talk about Sarpuka. Sarpuka. This is for Sarpuka. Don't let the title fool you. It says correction of adaptive reactions of the cardiovascular system using the ecistoid containing adesten during intensive physical work in the north. Isaruka. They gave it to people that are doing some intense [\h__\h] in the north. In the test, they took 20 people and they put them on a bike. A bicycle erometric test was used at varying watts, aka intensity. Remember, this is a little bit of hard science, but I'm going to read this. In the conducted studies, it was shown that taking the adaptogen adestin containing fees that's sarpuka leads to a decrease in the growth heart rate, decrease in chronotropic reserve, ura change in heart rate in response to exercise and contraction pulse recovery time which allows to say that the functioning of the CCC in the studied individuals has become more optimal. All you need to know is in conclusion they had better work capacity. They got better. Thus the ectosteroid containing agent adastin which is sarbuka activates adaptive reserves optimizes and regulates the naturally determined productive mechanisms of the human body performing intensive physical labor in the adverse conditions of the north without causing a negative after effect. And so it made them better. That's all you need to know. The study concluded it made these people better. They were doing physical work test, power tests on bicycles and so on and it improved them. Now one thing you need to understand is it's in very important how these people actually harvest these products. Now in China often times they cut a lot of corners. They use more solvents. They overheat the product. They overd dry it. They cause these chemical reactions to take place and it changes the composition. It makes it less bioavailable, less able for your body to use it. What we've procured from Russia, from Usbekiststan, it's of the highest possible purity. They go above and beyond to ensure that you're getting the best ingredients possible. And so you can't just say, "Oh, this reponticum and this reponticum, this one costs more and this one costs less and so this is a better deal." What if they didn't process it effectively? the ingredients when you actually get them, they're only at 50%. And so you're thinking, "Oh, it's cheaper. It's $10 cheaper. I saved a lot of money, but it's crap. It's not nearly as good." And remember, don't just take my word for it. They've actually done studies on this, especially in China. They've analyzed these products, these ecsteroids. The oxidative origin of many process related artifacts was confirmed in the two commercial ecsteroid extracts. Considering the pharmarmacological versatility of ecstereroids and the major pharmaceutical differences between these compounds and their auto oxidized derivatives, our results are of importance regarding the efficiency and safety of commercially available ecsteroid containing food supplements. And so essentially, they're not all doing their due diligence and taking care of your ingredients. It's important that you manufacture them properly. If you just have this product sitting out in the sun, it's losing its potency. If you purchase omega-3s, they perhaps are rancid and oxidized. And rather than improving your health, it could actually make it worse. Another example, if just because somebody sells you a haircut for $10 and the other person charges a hundred, it doesn't mean the $10 haircut's a better deal. If they do the haircut completely wrong, they're chopping everywhere, you've got patches missing and so on versus the other one, they spend two hours cutting your hair properly, dying it effectively. Well, you got your money's worth. And so, imagine buying ECOIDs, Turk Builder Max, Turk Platinum from our competitors. It would be like getting a shitty ass haircut. You go in there and you want to dye your hair blonde, and you come back and it's yellow, orange, and green. It's not good. And so the same can apply to your supplements. Just because it says this many dollars for this ingredient doesn't mean you're getting what you're paying for. This is Marwan who went to his speechistan has been putting all these ingredients together and he's going to explain it cuz I'm going to be honest. It's above my head. I'm like getting tired. I can't explain this. Yeah. So we have two options. We have the option to use a very cheap rich ectosteroid containing extract from China which is like on paper it makes a lot of sense. It has a [\h__\h] ton of ectosteroids and the understanding is that ectosteroids are what make this product effective. And the second option is to go a more of a naturalistic route and use plants which have minimal processing grown in the wilderness. So they probably develop a lot of defense chemicals which can be beneficial. And we decided to test the two. We tested the Chinese stuff at extremely high dosages, probably even getting one gram of ectosterone per day. And we tried very small amounts, I'm talking like milligram amounts of the traditional wild Russian and usuzbck powders. Our bioassay, bioassay means just like testing it on yourself, uh, results showed that the wild stuff was more effective. People liked it better. They had better anecdotal reports with the small amount of the wild stuff compared to the very concentrated synthetic preparations in China. So I feel like I could say a little bit of the good stuff is better than a lot of the bad stuff. Yes, that's how I explain. That's how I feel it. That's what I notice. Number two, when we actually run the labs on the Chinese stuff and the um natural herb, we find the Chinese stuff has probably like 20 different peaks for all these unidentified ectosteroids. They're oxidized derivatives, which means that you have an ectosteroid, you put it through a chemical reaction and then it has like oxygen attached to it and other esters that like are not found in nature. And this could be problematic because number one, we don't know what these do in the body. And number two, there's evidence that shows that they actually antagonize the effect of ectosteroids. So if you have an ectosteroid that's supposed to hit a particular receptor, if you play around with the confirmation and composition of this compound, it can actually antagonize it, block the receptor, and prevent other ecsteroids and other compounds from doing their magic. That being said, the Chinese extracts that were found, they are largely ineffective when used in in the uh studies that show no response. And so it's it's unfortunate because we could have got it so much cheaper. Remember I was offered $5.85 and it's like, "Okay, that's a great deal. I can make so much money. It's awesome." But then you test it and it comes back with all these weird irregularities and you're like, "This isn't good." And so we had to opt for the more expensive product because it's better. Other people, they don't care. I care. And so I could have opted to sell you much cheaper products. It would have been literally half price, but it wouldn't have packed the same punch. And so if you want the best of the best, you got to get Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum. Y and the uh Turk Platinum has a lot of rare ingredients. And I know that isn't really a selling point because who cares if it's rare? I care if it's rare. Gold is rare. Diamonds are rare. That's why it's so expensive. People want all the stuff. It's rare. It's hard to get. And that's why it costs so much money. If you could grow it in Canada, I would grow it in the backyard. It'd be half price. But you can't. The decision was not based on the aesthetic of how rare it is. It was actually based on the science of what works what what works number one but what other uh compounds are present in the extracts for example rodeiola heterodonta why did we choose heterodonta why didn't we just use rosia well because rodeiola heterodonta has a very unique compound called heterodonticide which shows extreme amounts of antioxidant and anti-hypoglycemic activity in vivo compared to rosia so to us it shows a better effect in the animal trials and it has very good safety. It's the better option. It also has very high cylindricide content. Celericide, the stuff that gets you blue lobstered. Celericide is present in all rodeiola species. Wait a minute. Hold on. The celeride that's in the freaking blue lobster pre-workout. Yeah. Uh celericide is present in all rodeiola. This has celidicide, too. But the difference in blue lobster is that we got 15 mg of cylindricide per scoop. Per scoop. where if you wanted to achieve this level solicide using traditional rodeiola, you would need probably upwards of 2 g. Okay, well that's a ton. Guys, if you want to get blue lobster code Greg 50% off and the other thing is uh historical use. This is so important. If a Chinese company sees Andrew Hooverman, talk about Ajuga Turkistanica and then they go find a copycat plant that humans have never taken. There is a huge risk of that because number one, if humans have never taken it, there's no documented toxicity records. And there's actually a problem with this. It's called Chinese nephropathy. It's a racist term, I think, in the medical literature. But this term comes from that phenomenon of Chinese people taking random herbs and selling it where some of these random herbs that humans have never consumed contain a compound known as aritholic acid that causes nephropathy. What did he say? Arythopic what? Arisolic acid. Anyways, I can't even pronounce my last name. Anyways, the reason it's very important to buy ectosteroid sources that humans have consumed throughout time is because there is a good safety profile. There is a established efficacy profile. You just don't know what you're getting if it's cyanotus because there's cyanotus comes in hundreds of different concentrations and often times they'll claim it only has 2% ectosteroids. When you test it, it's actually like 50%. You're like, what the hell is it only 2%? is because there's no standardization of processing and it just I know you don't want to hear about all these. It's so sad that nobody understands what you're saying. It would be great if everyone could just understand this. I'm sitting here and I'm like, "Okay, I got that. No, I didn't get that one." And so the problem is Marwan can't just explain everything in detail so that you just understood it. If you could, you'd all just buy it and you'd believe it. This is where I come in. I try to like make it simple so he can understand it. Let's summarize then. Rapanticum serpuka very long history of use from Russia from Russia and central space age did research on it it was effective studies show it's effective number two cyanotus zukasiliata not that much history of use only popular because Andrew Hooverman said it on a podcast and these suppliers found a demand in the United States number three there are approximately 50 studies in uh Russian journals on humans using these compounds showing pretty much similar results in terms of athletic performance, body composition changes. It's unfortunate that they can't they they aren't published in Western journals. And it's also unfortunate that this research has stopped because it was highly dependent on funding from the Soviets where when the Soviet Empire collapsed, there was no longer an interest to develop these unique herbs. All the studies we have now are from the 1970s and 1980s. We got a bunch of studies that says it works, but it's in Russian. How many of you out there watching this speak Russian? probably not many, maybe one in a million, whatever. And so you don't know and it's been used in other countries, not as much in ours. And so we're saying, "Hey, buy this, use it. It's amazing. I've tried it." And you're like, "Well, I don't really believe you." And of course, it's hard to believe. Like, it's different. You're not used to it. It's not like everyone is selling it. And so you're like, "Well, how do I know if you're being honest?" Well, here's the thing. If we're not, there's a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. You can try it risk-free. If it doesn't exceed or meet your expectations, you get your money back. That's as simple as that. Whatever you're expecting, if it's less than that, if it didn't work for you, then move on. Get something different. I had a meeting with my accountants and they said, "Greg, we've never seen anyone with a return buy rate like this. It was ridiculous." And I'm like, "Yeah, they buy it and they like it so much they keep rebying it." Said, "This is unbelievable." They're like, "Greg, what you need to do is acquire new customers because the current customers, they keep coming back. We've never seen anything like it." I'm like, "Okay, mission accomplished." They like it. Next, more people need to try it. And so, that's what I'm waiting for. We need more people to take the risk to buy it. But it's risk-free. It's a money back guarantee. And so, if you don't believe me, oh, it's snake or whatever. You buy it, you get your money back. It's not complicated. I mean, where's the where's the risk? Other people, oh, buy it and if it doesn't work, well, too bad. You're screwed. Well, that's a scam. This is not a scam. And anyone questioning the uh return policy, it's just there were some people saying, "Oh, you can't return it if it's uh if you've used any of it." That's not true. You can't return it if if if the capsules are empty just because when you go to a restaurant and you eat all the food off the plate and then you ask for a refund, it just if you are using the product and you use the entire bottle and then say, "I want my money back." How do I know you didn't just say, "Oh, I'm just going to use the entire body bottle and ask for my money back. Oh, it worked. Great. Money back. It's so great. I got the scam. I'm going to scam Coach Gray. This is great." And so, we need to know that you at least left a couple pills left. even one mail it back to us. Leave a couple pills in there so that we know we're not going to resell it. We need to know, hey, you didn't just eat the whole thing. Cuz it's like saying if you're at a restaurant and you order the the rare steak and it was well done and you eat the entire thing and say, "Hey, I want a free one because I asked for rare." Halfway through you should have known three4 the way through you're like, "Oh yeah, it seems to be." And so if you're not noticing the results, you don't just keep you ask for your money back right away. That's what I want. That's so that there isn't a 100,000 people that say I want my money back all at the same time cuz somebody makes a video and has an order 69 says let's get coach Greg we don't like him because he said Hussein's natural let's every one of us stand together and all ask for money back at the same time I had to prevent that and so you have to send part of it back pills that's it yeah is fair and you get a $20 gift card because hey oh my god it's a scam we had to pay for shipping yeah you have to pay the $20 for shipping you get a $20 gift card fair is And out of compassion, sometimes people genuinely don't know that they had to save at least one capsule. We've we've How many people have asked in total? I think it was like 30 the last that I had asked. I don't know. Out of We haven't sold a hundred,000 bottles yet. I mean, that would be great. So, we haven't sold $8 million worth of this stuff yet. It's getting there, but the tens of thousands that have bought it, there's like 30. I mean, it's less than a.1%. It's like rare that somebody says they want their money back. And so if you want to get the stuff, code Greg, 15% off. If you're interested in coaching by me and my team, remember this guy is actually going to be looking at the blood work to ensure this is the kind of guy that you would want to look at the blood work to make sure that it's amazing. And so if you're interested, of course, apply by clicking the link code Greg for 15% off all the various ingredients. GLP max reduce your hunger by 28%. GEST Max, GEST Platinum, getting Blue Lobster. There's so many new ingredients, I can't list them all. Get to the website. Ending it here. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the album, like the video if you liked it, watch those two boops, and of course, for the cookbooks, training books, and the one ina million shirt or the hard and last time clothing line, all that stuff, get to the website. And until next time, I am out.