Unless I don't think Greg would probably be happy until I put my body in a blender and separated everything out. >> No, I would be happy when you're in an MRI machine, but you wouldn't fit. >> Coach Greg, in today's video, Brian Shaw with Devin Lorat, they're going to react to me and it's about the DEXA scam. And so, remember when I said that the DEXA scam, it's not accurate, that their body fat percentages, that their bone densities, they're not actually what they say they are. And so, they're going to try to prove that I'm wrong, and I'm going to then show you that I'm not. It's really going to go like that. And so, I want you to place your bets right now. By the end of the video, do you think that they're going to out me or do you think that I'm going to prove that's right, prove that I'm right? I mean, when I know I'm right, I know I'm right. Sometimes I make guesses, predictions. For example, is somebody natural? And I don't have their blood work and I don't have the whole thing. I know I'm right. And so, if I were to bet a million dollars against $1, I would take that bet because it's a sure thing. And so, let's get right into it. They go and try out the DEXA scam. During this scam, they get convinced that they have the strongest bone density in the world. Greg has started recording the response video already. He recorded a series weeks ago just waiting to release them. Remember, he's two steps ahead. >> Two steps ahead. >> Weird how he thought it'd be absurd that Brian would have 1 in 500 million bone density. The guy is more rare than that with his strength alone. Yeah. And so every single straw man competitor that we test, every single bodybuilder, powerlifter, they're all roughly one in a million. I mean, the millions of people that do this, they're all one in a millions. I'm going to explain to you why I'm right. You'll get it. Just hold on. Bone density increases when you lift heavy weights if I'm not mistaken. For Brian Shot of insane bone, it's expected. Yeah. I mean, if he had bone density of say, I don't know, three or four standard deviations above the mean, perhaps he was maybe, I don't know, 1 in a million, maybe. I would believe that. But for him to be 1 in 500 million and Devon Lorat to be 1 in 10 million and I was roughly 1 in a million and that other powerlter, >> fun fact, side note, your boy right here, 4.8 standard deviations higher than normal. Just call me the elephant man. >> He was one in a million. And almost every single person that goes in is one in a million or more. Not everyone can be one in a million. I mean, only about one in a million can be one in a million. Devon and Brian expose Greg douchebag before GTA 6. Okay. Very clever uh creative comment. Um they've exposed me. All right. Greg, you can criticize everyone, but you can't change your voice. >> Really? I can't change my voice. I have no separate voice from that of the one I choose to show. >> And so, a lot of people are hating on me, thinking that I'm [\h__\h] on these guys, but I'm really just trying to educate you. It's kind of like when I was a school teacher, of which I feel like I still am one today, except my students are a little bit older. And so, I'm trying to teach you about the DEXA scam. Like the InBody scam. You know, the one that said I was 19.8% 8% body fat. And remember, this is just during the middle of the day. I'm just in the studio. Let's see. How are the legs? Show the legs. >> Show the legs, bro. >> Show the legs. >> I'll leave these pants on. >> And so, 19.8% body fat. And so, there it is. I did these tests. I had 19.8% on the InBody scan. Am I mad? Am I upset? Oh my god, I feel fat. No, because it's not accurate. These things are not accurate for the extremes in population. Raise your hand if you think that both of these athletes are extremes, that they're perhaps what we call outliers. Have you heard of that in math? No, because you didn't study statistics, of which I did. Now, it's not my fault that I'm smarter than you, or perhaps not even smarter, but just more educated in said topic. I know more about this than you do. And so, let's just watch the video. Let's ask Chat GPT. What is the most accurate way of measuring bone density? >> And of course, let's ask Chat GPT. I mean, Eddie Hall did the same thing. He asked Chat GPT and said Greg got arrested for selling fake steroids. It never happened. I got arrested for selling real steroids. And so, you make up a rumor and then people they start spreading it like Chinese whisper. They hear one thing and they say another. I sold real steroids, real ones. They were not fake. The MRI machine is way more accurate in determining body fat percentage by a landslide than the DEXA scan. How am I supposed to prove this? I mean, you sit there and these guys say it and the chat GBT has said it and you don't believe me. Let's see. I'll try what you guys do. Oh, let's try. This would be fun. Is the MRI more accurate at determining body fat percentage or is it actually the DEXA scan? Let's just read what Chat GPT said as if I don't know what Chat GPT notes. Great question when comparing MRI versus DEXA for body fat percent. Here's a direct breakup. MRI most accurate but impractical. It has a gold medal. It says most accurate MRI. Magnetic resonance imaging MRI gives a 3D volutric image of your body distinguishing between body fat, visceral fat, muscle, every organ with high spatial resolution. Accuracy, it's the gold standard in research for body composition. More precise than dexa, especially for regional fat. Drawbacks, expensive, timeconuming, rarely available for body comp purposes in clinics. Oh, I'm wrong. Am I though? Like, I mean, did you really think I was going to lose? Do you think I would just make up [\h__\h] Like, come on. Like, what do you guys think? I'm Derek from More Plates, More Dates. Oh, I have a Juga Turkistanica. I call it Turlex. I don't do that. I have actual Auga Turkiststanica from Beckistan. You all know this. Third party tested every single time. Great leaks leads label claim. And in comparison, how much did Derek have? Well, in that test, it was.36 milligrams. And the next time that we actually tested it with chain of custody in case he tried to sue us, it had a letter. It was so low it was undetectable. You think I'm going to lie? Let's see what it says about DEXA standard. Dexa says silver medal. Second place. DEXA highly accurate practical standard. It estimates bone mineral content, lean mass, and fat mass giving body fat percent. Downside can underestimate visceral fat and overestimate fat-free mass in highly muscular individuals like me. It knows coach. It says it overestimates means it says there's more muscle more of it in people who have a lot of freaking muscle. I certainly think that Devon Larat and Brian Shaw have more muscle than normal average human beings. I mean, think of it. They're both 6 foot six plus. Even if they didn't have a large amount of muscle, even if they were lifetime natties, they'd still have more muscle than the average person. Think of it, 6'6 is going to have more muscle on average, lean body mass, than someone 5'6. And when they made these reference standards, standard deviation from the mean, it's basically it goes on a bell curve. You ever heard of the bell curve? Most people are somewhere in the middle. And then there's extremes in data and there's less of them. And so, for example, one standard deviation from the mean and IQ's 100 is the median, the middle, the average, the the center. And then one above and one below is 15. And so from 85 to 115, about 68% of people are in that range. and then two standard deviations. It's in the 90s and it keeps going to more and more extremes. And so they did this based on they took let's say thousands of humans and they took their bone densities, their lean mass, muscle mass, everything. And they said, you know what, if you're one standard deviation from the mean, you probably have a bone density of this, you have muscle mass of this, you have this much fat, and so on. And so how many of people do you think were 6'8, 300 plus pounds? How many people did they test that were the world's strongest man, world's strongest armur? Probably a. And so when they extrapolate and try to guess how dense someone's bones are, they guess, I don't know, probably 1 in 10 million, one in 500 million. They don't know. bone density is not normally distributed. And what does that mean? It means that there's some freaks out there that have crazy bone densities and some that have almost none. It's it's ready to fall apart through diseases. Various diseases can change this. And so what happens is there's some crazy outliers out there. And so you can't just say, "Oh, this is exactly this. This is one in 400 million. This is one in 500 million. This is one in a billion. One in four billion." It doesn't work like that. The more extreme you get, the worse it gets. And for body fat estimation, it's accurate in normalsized human beings. It fairly accurate. I mean, there are some mistakes, but it's giving you an estimate. And for a normal man, I would say, I don't know, somewhere between 5'4 and 6'4 is most people's heights. And what about size? Well, most men probably between like 120 lb and I don't know, like 290 lb, 300 lb, something like that. But not often does somebody come in and they're almost 400 lb. When their arm doesn't fit in the machine, how is it actually going to measure your body fat? It can't even scan your entire body. And not only that, DEXA scans have calibration error. The type of machine, the person doing the testing, it's subject to error. And so to accurately detect somebody's bone density to be 4.8 standard deviation from the mean or 5.1 or 6.3, it's very hard. Now, if it's within one or two or three, it's probably pretty accurate. But when you go to these extremes, how could it be? And when they use the reference population, the people that were used to actually stipulate these variances, they didn't use world's strongest man competitors. They didn't have 6'6 arm wrestling champions. They didn't have Brian Shaw. And so when you compare Brian Shaw to the reference standard, it's completely different. It would be analogist to this. They take a bunch of women and they use all females to measure bone density, muscle mass, and so on. And then Brian Shaw comes in and lays there. It's thinking, "What am I supposed to do with this?" Um, you're 10 standard deviations from the mean. You're one in 7 million, one in 100 million, one in five billion. How would it know? The reference standard that's being compared. If it's all females and you're a man, well, how would it know? What about this? You're trans. You're a female. Now you're on testosterone. Testosterone can change your bone density and so on. And so it changes the results. And so to just arbitrarily say you're one in 500 million, it cannot know. Are you starting to understand this? What does chat GPT say? Beyond three standard deviations, we're in rare territory. Three standard vations already means you're in the top.1%. Realworld data sets often have insufficient data to verify such outliers. And so chat GPT literally is now on my side. So, these values are estimates, not empirically confirmed absolutes. I mean, do I even need to watch the video? I'm 25 seconds in. I've already won. If you're seeing a five standard deviation bone density, it's almost certainly real high. But whether it's 5 plus or 4.8, it's debatable. I mean, we're watching them speak and we're looking at Brian Shaw. As you look at him, does he pass the eyeball test? Remember, my laser eyes are more accurate than the DEXA scan for body fat. And well, let's challenge that assumption. It said Brian Shaw is 15%. How many of you think it's closer to 15 or closer to 20 plus? There's your answer. And what about Eddie Hall? Says he's around 23%. How many of you believe that? Eddie Hall, 23%. Or how many you think he's closer to 30? Or was it actually 18% that they said? I mean, he's closer to 30. >> I know Greg. I don't know him personally. I've got a good friend of mine, Willie Albert, used to talk about him. Willie Albert is a powerlifting champion. I used to compete with him. He was a very good deadlifter. Also did the clean and jerk and so on. >> Greg hasn't said super nice things about me. >> I I don't think typically Greg says super nice things. >> I mean, I haven't said super mean things. I talked about him as being a specimen. Just because I tell you what his body fat percentage is doesn't mean it's negative. I mean, how is it negative to just be honest? Hey, he's a really big man. He's super tall. He's super strong. He eats a lot of food. He's one of the strongest and largest men in the world, but his body fat, it's not 15%, it's well over 20. Oh, he did the hydrostatic test and it said he was maybe 18. I said it's higher than that. It's not mean. If somebody says, "Hey, Coach Greg's body fat percentage is 19.8%." Because he did the InBody scam and it said it's 19.8%. Oh, you're hating on me. How dare you say I'm 19.8%. Well, that's what the machine said. And so if somebody says, "I think Coach Greg is 12% body fat. I think that Coach Greg is not on 140 milligrams of testosterone." I don't believe him because look at this guy. He's 49. There's no way. He's only on HRT looking like that. Would I say he's a hater? Would I say he just threw me a bunch of compliments? I choose compliments. So Devon Lorat 18% body fat and Brian Shaw 15% body fat. They're both higher. They're both higher. And Devin Lorat is lower than Brian Shaw. Hey. And so is Deon Lorat going to now say I like Coach Greg because he says he's leaner than Brian Shaw? I'm just telling you what I think based on my laser eyes. Brian Shaw is taller than Deon Lorat. Does Brian Shaw now say I like Coach Greg cuz he said something nice about you? What if being that tall is an insult? >> I mean, we did a Texas scan. I mean, I think that's Are they not like the most accurate? >> According to Greg, his eyes are much more accurate. I just spent 10 minutes explaining why I'm right. I mean, you can choose to believe that I'm wrong. You can choose to believe that the DEXA scan is more accurate than the MRI. I mean, that is what's going on. The NPCs of the world, this is what you do. You listen to logic and it goes in one ear and out the other. Oh, he said that this blood work shows that he's natural. He went over every single stipulation. At the end of it, he's natural. Nope. I don't believe it cuz bro is more jack than to me. I'm covering for him. Julian, I'm covering for Julian. He's not sponsored by me. There's no reason. I've never met him. I went over the blood work. The video is way better when I expose people. When I expose fake natties is way better than when I say they're actually natural. And why? Because people want me to expose people. They love it when I hate on people. And am I really hating? I'm telling you facts based on what I see. I'm not lying. And so when I said Hussein is natural, I had no skin in the game. I just met the guy. Went over his blood work with no notice. Later on, months later, I said, "Hey, do you want to be part of HLT supplements?" "Yes." "Oh, then he covered for him. He covered for him in the blood work." Really? The blood work from months ago. And then he gets tested anonymously, $100,000 if he fails. And wow, he passed. Oh, he covered for him again. Send the blood work to Derek. Send it to somebody else. I've proven it with receipts. It doesn't have the ability to predict how many standard deviations above the mean for bone density you have when you're this massive of a human being. And so if it says four, five, six standard deviations above the mean, it's a guess. Now, if you tried Turk Builder Max and you're not 100% satisfied, I can guarantee it is exactly what it is. But if you're not happy, that's fine. Money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. I want everyone to try risk-free. the amount of repeat buyers. I've never seen this many in my entire life. The accountants are saying this is unreal. They work with several other companies. They've never seen this many repeat buyers in their life. And why do you think that is? Happy buyers continue to reby. I know it sounds crazy. I went to a hotel. The guy was mopping the floor. They use a janitor. And so what I'm hoping is for to get you to try it because once you try it and if you like it, you're going to keep buying it. And so please give it a try risk- free. Remember, money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. Click the link in description. If you're looking for coaching plans by me and my team, please click and apply right now. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you like. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And for the preworkouts, the GLP max, the G Test Platinum, all the supplements are back in stock. You got to get there. Except for the freaking Seco bars. Remember, they're going to be half price as soon as they come back in. And so, please check out the website. You never know, maybe it's there by now. And so, until next time, I'm out. Bye, YouTube.