Perhaps you shouldn't have ghosted me. You shouldn't have ghosted Hussein. You shouldn't have deleted your comments to Solomon. You shouldn't have written them in private and said, "Please don't tell anyone about all the insults that I've been making to you." You shouldn't have sided with Mike Israel when you never even knew if it was the first draft or not. You just assumed that Solomon was a bad guy because, well, you were a former client of his and you wanted to keep that secret to the world. Why? What else does Solomon know? What else does he know? Jeff Nippod, are you scared? Release the Nipstein rap video. >> Jeff Nipper, sciencebased lifter dropped out. Always been a liar. Solomon's former client going to make you a believer. >> Coach Greg, in today's video, less is more. As in the less of Jeff Nippard that we have to deal with, the better. He recently released a video. It says, "Less work more gains, a 100 day experiment." And in this video, he's essentially going to say that everything he's ever explained is wrong. That I was right all along. That the way to experience the most amount of growth is to train harder than last time. That it isn't all about volume. What would happen if I went from doing my usual three to four sets per exercise down to just one allout set? And Solomon had explained this that his previous programs had way too much volume, that some of his workouts were essentially impossible. >> I really have no words for how incredibly poorly this workout is designed. >> And so what we're now going to see is that Jeff Nippard's sciencebased programs, they seem to shift. they change, as in they go from one way of training to another about every 3 to 5 years at the exact moment that he releases a new training program. And so many of you think, "Oh, Coach Greg, he's not science-based. He just yaps a lot, calls out other people, that he sells snake oil." Well, at least I continue to explain the same thing day after day, week after week, year after year. I've been preaching to train harder than last time my entire life. Jeff Nippard, Mike Israel. No, it's not about training hard. You got to keep one to three reps in reserve and do set after set after set. Essentially, a lot of junk volume. Jeff, he hasn't still addressed it. And the fans, well, they're waiting. And so, just check out the comments on his latest video. What happened to the 54 sets per week? Yeah, you know, previous program, 54 sets per week. This one, you just do a couple sets per body part. I'm sending this video to a consultant of mine before I watch it so any inaccuracies can be identified. Jeff has always given quality content as a former client of Solomon Nelson. 9,000 likes, by the way. Jeff, can you confirm that this is the final video, not just a first draft? Didn't know Jeff was a former client of Solomon Nelson until he tried to hide it. Jeff, he tries to hide everything. He thinks he's above it all. He doesn't have to listen to the fans. He doesn't have to take people's photos. For example, when he was asked to train with Hussein and they asked if he would help take a photo of Hussein in a fan, he said, "No, I won't do that because, well, Jeff Nippert, well, he's just too important. He's too special. He thinks he's a big deal. >> I'm not taking this." The only thing that's big about Jeff is his willingness to lie and cover everything up and perhaps his Neapolitan complex. All roads lead to Mike Menser. Isn't it funny that Mike Isertell compared himself to Mike Menser, said he was bigger and stronger than Mike Mener. Mike Menser has been promoting training harder than last time, going all out, training very, very hard. You know, similar to how Dorian Yates used to train, but people have been saying, "No, that doesn't work. It's all about the volume. You can't go close to failure. And that you guys are all wrong. You know, you professional bodybuilders of which many say you should train hard, that you should go to failure, you should do drop sets, train to failure, and so on. Well, no, no, that's wrong because we have research studies to prove that you're wrong. And we are based on science. Well, isn't it funny how the science keeps changing about every five years at the same time as a new program is released? And so Jeff, Mike Isertell, these guys, they might say, "Oh, it's not about the views. It's not about the money." But doesn't this prove that it actually is? I mean, if it wasn't about the money, why wouldn't these programs be free? I mean, if you didn't want to make any money at all and you just wanted to be a swell cool little guy, wouldn't you provide free research and give it to the people and not charge any money? Now, listen, I'm not saying he doesn't have the right to make money, but when you disguise it as just trying to be science-based, well, last scientists don't make a lot of money. They research, they present their findings. They don't just make a bunch of up and package it as a training program and change it every 5 years in order to sell the most programs. Solomon did a great job consulting and proposing this low volume idea for his former client. And so, you know, Solomon Nelson, Lyall McDonald, Coach Greg, we always said, you know, do less volume but train harder. We're told, "No, Greg, no, Solomon. It's not based on the science. Science says you got to stop yourself from training close to failure because there's too much cumulative fatigue. You're going to burn yourself out. Save a few reps." >> It's pretty difficult to put into words how disgusted I am, how depressed I am. Now Jeff suddenly, after I criticized him for years, saying he wasn't training hard enough, he suddenly trains harder, does half the volume, and he's gaining more muscle than last time. I mean, at this point, Jeff may as well become a part owner of HLT supplements. I mean, he's literally promoting my brand more than almost anyone on YouTube. All we're waiting for to Jeff to do to be a mini coach Greg is to start bicycle riding, promoting cardio, and selling Turkester. And so, Jeff, how long before you take the plunge? Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum, you know that it works. Why is it that you haven't dared to try it yet? Oh, because I haven't read a study that says that it works. Did you not just post a video on a 100 day experiment on yourself where you didn't go by the science? You went based on hm you know what I think I should just train harder, follow my instincts and it worked. And so you're now essentially going against the science that you presented for years because you knew in your heart of hearts that what the science said wasn't necessarily correct. What are you waiting for, Jeff? Are you scared? There's literally a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And so perhaps you shouldn't have ghosted me. You shouldn't have ghosted Hussein. You shouldn't have deleted your comments to Solomon. You shouldn't have written them in private and said, "Please don't tell anyone about all the insults that I've been making to you." You shouldn't have sided with Mike Israel when you never even knew if it was the first draft or not. just assumed that Solomon was a bad guy because well, you were a former client of his and you wanted to keep that secret to the world. Why? What else does Solomon know? What else does he know, Jeff Nippod? And so Jeff, he follows the money. I mean, if he was truly science-based, why is he doing an experiment himself and going against everything he previously explained? Oh, you know what? Uh, yeah, what I said before, well, it didn't work. Well, that bench press program that's impossible. Well, I've learned from that point. wait another 5 years when Jeff says, "You know what? The best training after all, it's a 100 sets." He continues to change his training. He continues to go wherever the money leads him. So, good to see Solomon Nelson's former client still training hard. As a former client of Solomon, I think you need to consult him on the results of this one. And so, remember Jeff Nippod, he wants to make it clear that he's not a current client of Solomon Nelson. I mean, why would he want to do that? Solomon has gone over his training programs. He's seen the vast array of mistakes. I mean, did we not see all the mistakes in Mike Isertell's PhD? And so, imagine if Solomon pointed out all the mistakes in Jeff Nver's programs. Thankfully, he's keeping silent. After all, he was engaged. He was paid to go over his programs. And so, he would know every single mistake that Jeff Nippod actually made. And so notice Jeff Nippod and Mike Isizertell are trying to distance themselves from Solomon. And why do you think that is? They know their deep and dirty secrets. And Jeff Nippod does not want him to expose him. If the world knew the real truth about Jeff Nib, they wouldn't seem the same way. A man with fancy edits. Flash a study over here, a study over there. say this is based on science when all it is is Jeff just saying a few people's opinions cherrypicking the research whenever he wants and the proof is he's literally made a book going against science disagreeing with what he's been saying for years. You did 50% more work in 100 days than Mike did for his whole PhD. That's insane. Will you also get bigger and stronger than Mike Menser doing this? Just a reminder that Jeff is a former client of Solomon Nelson, not a current former. Stay tuned for the next installment of the Nipstein Files where I'm going to be not just showing but proving everything that I'm stating that I've been correct all along. And yet again, I've been vindicated. And so those of you who have been doubting me, how many times must I prove myself, prove to the world that I am right? almost all of the time. And just because I perhaps don't always say what the science says doesn't mean that I'm wrong. Interested in the supplements? Of course, code Greg 15% off. We've got the GO2 max, the CCO bars, the Turk. Got to head over and get it. Code Greg 15% off. And of course, Algo RX if you're interested in getting your blood work done for very, very cheap prices. Maybe you need inclin perhaps ompic tzipotide Viagra seialis uh inclapene the list goes on and on. Get to the website code Greg 10% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two boops. The cookbooks of which I'm literally me people in the elevator. I'm here in Tijana, Mexico. People are like, I bought your cookbook. I can't believe I've seen the elevator. Sold nearly a 100,000 of them. And so they've been sold viral throughout the world. If you're interested in that, code Greg, 15% off. And until next time, I am out.