This is a top-of-the-line DEXA machine for measuring body fat and lean mass. >> I'm open to travel to prove finally that DEXA scams can be tricked, that they are not accurate, and I am willing to put my body on the line to prove it. Coach Greg. In today's video, Jeff finally reveals what he's been working on for the last two years. And turns out it's a fake natty habitat. It's a facility where fake natties can go and they have the special down lighting. There's different rooms and it can make you look more enhanced than last time. And so perhaps that's why Jeff Nippard has ghosted both myself and Hussein Farhat. But Jeff, listen up. Did you know that Hussein Far Hat's been vindicated? Lie detector test and blood work yet again, despite the fact that you ignored him, that you used him for your video, and that you turned your back on him when he needed you most. Damo got his blood work done. He interviewed the catabolic twig. Wait till you see this video. And of course, he passes the lie detector test. And so, who is right? After all, Jeff has the most scientific gym in the world. I mean, maybe it is. It quite possibly could be. We're going to go over exactly what is in his gym, his lab, what exactly are his future plans. Let's get right into it. It's not just for lifting. It's actually a full-blown muscle research facility. So that now in here, I'll be able to do my own scientific experiments. And so I can't wait till he does an experiment on Turk Builder Max and then y'all won't be able to say it doesn't work. I mean, if Jeff, who hates Coach Greg clearly, as well as Hussein Farad, if he does research on Turk Builder Max and proves it's better than creatine, then what will you all say then? Prices of Turk Max going to be going up. And so why not stock up on them right now? You all think they don't work. If it doesn't work, there's a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. What are you waiting? Code Greg, 15% off. >> Behind this door is the dark side. Behind this door is the light side. >> And so on one side, the dark side is where people use steroids. And the light side is where people go who are natural. You've all heard of the dark side. It's not just the Jedi and using the force and so on. The dark side, it represents using performance-enhancing drugs. Everybody knows this. >> Let's check out the light side first. And so I'm guessing the light side that's where they have a lot of lighting, special lighting, down lighting and so on because the lighting can make you look like a fake natty if you have down lighting and lighting coming from outside like sunlight and so it makes you look a little bit leaner. And so that is my guess the difference between the dark side and the light side. >> So it's going to get harder as you get to the lockout. If you load it in the middle it's going to feel harder in the middle. And then if you load it on the top it's going to feel hardest in the stretch. You know, I prefer it when it's harder all throughout, like from the tip to the base. Harder than last time. That is what I prefer, and I know it's what the ladies prefer. And so, guys, if you're interested, harder than last time, you can purchase this. Why not satisfy who you're with? It's not about what you want, it's what they want. Not going to say males or females. Doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. Satisfy everyone. Not only that, this is the only machine, the only leg extension machine that I've seen that has this deep of a knee angle. >> Speaking of deep, the deeper you can get, it's going to cause more of a stretch at the bottom. And so, you get real deep in there and you're going to build more muscle. And so, he did in fact pick an ideal machine for leg extensions. >> This, I think, is an underrated machine. It is a nostalgia piece. This is famous in part because of uh Arnold and his donkey calf raises. Honestly, donkey calf raise machine are underrated. My favorite exercise for calves. Been doing this for years and I hardly see these machines anymore and so great addition to his gym. If you don't have this machine, you can get your hot girlfriend to sit on your back. She doesn't actually have to be hot. But I suggest you don't ask a man unless you're Mike Isertell. Then all bets are off. You can do that exercise if you want, but I personally prefer a lady on top. Reverse cowgirl, but do it the way you want. >> You guys thought that was it. That's just half. We still got the dark side. So, come on over here, >> guys. We're going to the dark side. >> This is the more bodybuilding focus side. So, we've got a little more dramatic down lighting. >> I don't understand the dark side. You're already on steroids. You really need more dramatic lighting. >> Is a seal row. This is one of those like old school movements, but I just think it's so good for smashing the midback. >> And so it's so good for smashing. This is the machine that you want. You can line her up and push her down and you can smash away. And so we're literally talking about the smashing machine, which is Mark Curry being played by The Rock in that new movie. And so smash away, guys. careful going from a rock to a pedal, losing several stones. But it's better than becoming a tombstone from abusing performance-enhancing drugs. >> What I love about this machine in particular, you can actually change this angle. So, if I wanted to make it more of a lat focused row, I could just bring the bench up. >> If you want to get more of that pull, then bend the angle up, back it up, and go to town. So, I got to make myself my own smashing machine room. I'm sure would like this. And we got to get a better smashing room than last time. And I do see a lot of potential uses for this machine in the future. And one of them even involves training my back. >> Also, check it out. We've got custom dumbbells with Jeff Nippard Muscle Lab on them. I just love these. >> I love these. I love my custom JN. >> Another uh T- bar row. I'm still trying to find a home for this one, but um I don't know. There's something about like the angle and the size of this. And so with that load, there's something about the size and the angle of it. It hits all the right spots. So great addition to his gym. >> The way that the handles flare out, it just works super well for my body. >> I mean, the end of that bar, it's like this long and it's about that big around. I feel like that's more than you need. Like, who needs that much? I feel like who's actually doing tea bar rows with that many plates? And so why is it that long? I feel like 10 inches or less, like who's all using more than 10 in, it's too much. >> I actually think this is much better as a glute exercise. So, all you need to do to turn this into a >> Why are his glutes turning green as he does this exercise? Has he turned into the Incredible Hulk? Is that what happened? Is that what happened when Jeff ghosted Coach Greg and Hussein Farad? He became the Incredible Hulk. He couldn't get back to us. He was just so angry he couldn't respond. >> The other day, I busted out one of the many new scientific tools from the research room with my friend Will, where we hooked electrodes up to his front delts, side delts, and rear delts. Notice with his scientific machine, he can test out what exactly you're working out during that exercise. And so, for example, in that shoulder press, Jeff and Will are doing the exact same exercise, but they're both getting different results. And so, when you all say scientific lifting, you have to do it this way versus that way. This is better because science says this, science says that, this is proof that that isn't always the case. Two individuals doing the same exercise experiencing different results. And that just goes to show you can't just read one study and think it applies to everyone. this study shows you need to do 10 sets per week at this much intensity. Well, what if you're an outlier? You know, an extreme in data. What if you're on steroids? What if you're not like everyone else? And so, what I suggest is that you experiment, try out different exercises, different rep ranges, different intensities, and to find out the one that's best for you. >> All right, couple more things and then I'm going to show you guys something I'm also super excited about. And so in case you're wondering about how massive this gym is, the square footage, how big is it in son, it's actually an optical illusion. Jeff had all this equipment made to scale and so it would fit him perfectly. And so this entire gym, it's actually located in Will Tennyson's closet. And so Jeff can come over whenever he wants. The rent is very cheap. He's friends with Will Tennyson. He isn't charging him. And so because of Will's short stature, he could build a gym anywhere. And so it's very, very small. And so it's kind of like what you could call a portable gym for some people, us manlets of the world. And so Jeff Nippard, he was able to save a lot of money. You were thinking, how is it only $300,000 for this and how much money for that? It's because these are miniatures. Okay? And so I just wanted to make that clear. Full transparency. This gym is located in Will Tennyson's closet. I've just been convinced that it's the best machine for the chest. And to make it a little bit more effective, I actually added these fat grips just so I can get a little extra range of motion at the bottom. >> And so Jeff bought the fat grips in order to get a bigger grip around the bar. Does he not understand that at his height being a manllet that his little hands everything is going to look big inside of it? You know where this joke is going. If you find yourself a partner with very small hands, everything is going to look enormous while upon its grip. >> I personally don't see the need for the fat grips. The bar is already going to be fat enough. And is it really increasing the range of motion all that much? The fat pad grip, it's a quarter of an inch. But I guess when you're as short as Jeff Nippard, remember he's even shorter than Coach Greg. Every quarter inch counts >> over here. We've got a treadmill, whatever. >> How does he point at the treadmill and say, "We've got a treadmill here, whatever." And I've looked throughout the gym and I see no bikes. How is this a scientificbased gym with no bikes, no erometers? Where are those? How is he going to race Coach Greg on Zift? This is the most scientific ideal way to build muscle when you're older. Have you all seen Coach Greg's quads? I don't even train legs. I train glutes. I train calves and I bike race. And I have some legs. They're almost as big as women's wellness quads. And so scientificbased training without a bike, which is perhaps the best cardio burning machine in the world in comparison to running. You're going to tear down the muscle. You're not going to build nearly as much muscle. I really suggest that if you're a runner and you want to have big quads, you switch from running to cycling and thank me later. >> We honestly put so much work into the lighting in here because I just want it to look as cool as possible on camera. >> And so the fake natty lighting, he's going over that. He's describing it in detail. >> So I could turn them all off except for one. And this is what I'm going to call the thumbnail lighting. Check this out. >> He calls it thumbnail nighting. Others call it half natty lighting. fake natty lighting and that is where you go in order to get all the accusations and so with the proper lighting and the proper tan you can convince the world that you're actually on steroids when you're not. He better be rent is already due. People saying I got to make a video response. I don't think they understand just like Jeff Nippard because of my small stature I don't need to pay rent. The place is so small. It might look like a mansion but it's literally in other people's closets. It's portable. My cars are actually toys. It's very cheap to live like this because of my short stature. But remember, I am 6'5 when I'm sitting on my wallet. There are so many fitness questions I want to answer here. What if I took an enhanced bodybuilder and told them to stop taking steroids for 6 months, but keep their training and diet exactly the same? How much muscle would they lose? >> Why do we need a lab? We already have Hussein Farad. He took steroids for 16 to 18 months, stopped, and put on 20 more pounds of muscle. And so the steroids, they didn't even really work. Ory was 100% natural, verified by four blood works now. And a lie detector test. >> This is a top-of-the-line DEXA machine for measuring body fat and lean mass. Some DEXAs are less precise, but this one has an error margin of around 0.5%. >> Notice he says this is a topofthe-line DEXA scan. Top of the line. That signifies there are varying degrees of accuracy. There are some good ones and some bad ones. Same like YouTubers. There's good and there's bad. Same like liars. Good liars, bad liars. Same like friends, you know, people who ghost you when you write them. Good friends and bad friends. They exist everywhere. And so apparently he bought a good DEXA scan that's not as inaccurate as most other DEXA scans. And so that is great. >> 10.3%. So, if I lose anything more than 0.5% body fat from here, this DEXA will be able to accurately pick it up. So, Jeff, did you know that you can fool that very accurate DEXA scam? And if you would like, I would welcome an invitation to come test my body fat at your gym and in one day I will show that I can add 10 lbs of muscle. Or how about we do this? I will lose and gain 10 lbs of muscle in two consecutive days. Would you like this video? I'm open to travel to prove finally that dexa scams can be tricked that they are not accurate and I am willing to put my body on the line to prove it. Make the offer I will accept. People actually think that the dexa scam can prove how much muscle you've built or that you've lost. It's as Shizzy one pointed. You know what isn't Turkeestone. This one cuz it's from Usbekiststan. It's not the BS scam lies that other companies are selling, which is cyanosis. They say it's a Jugga Turkiststanica, but it's actually cyanosis. That is a lie. That is a scam. When I sell you exactly what I'm saying that I'm selling, it is not a scam. And if it was a scam, why would I give you a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card? How can I possibly scam you if you can get your money back? I want to do an arm experiment where I train one bicep normally twice a week, but I train my other bicep every single day for 30 days. >> And so, they're also going to be testing the ultrasound to see if your bicep got any bigger. I mean, I don't know enough to know if that's going to be 100% accurate. Like, what if I have a pump? Like, what if I'm flexing a bit? Like, what if my arm's like this and it's like that? Can the ultrasound measure the difference if I rest or I'm recovered or if I have more glycogen stores in that muscle? Will the ultrasound know for certain that that muscle has gotten 1 millimeter bigger or smaller or that it's not from, for example, having a high carbohydrate diet with a lot of sodium or perhaps if I went on a keto diet and my muscles got smaller from flattening out. Does it know that? Can it know the difference? This is the problem with science. Science can't know everything that's happening. It can't know every single detail of your life. You could have identical twins and one does this and one does that. But how do you know if one didn't have a better night of sleep or how do you know that person didn't have sexy time? >> Boy, >> perhaps one got more positive feedback from their friends and the other one they were more isolated and so yeah, one ate this diet and one ate that diet. But how do you make sure every other factor in their life is exactly the same? I mean, are they gonna both bang the same girlfriend? Are they gonna have sexy time with the same charm? How do you guarantee they have every single similar experience? Because a lot of things can have an impact. >> So, if you take this ultrasound probe, gel it up, and put it on the muscle, it'll show you exactly what's happening on the inside. >> And so, gel it up and put it inside. What? And here's an X-ray of what it looks like inside of her. Boy, this is going to be some very explicit research. I can't wait to see what happens. >> We're going to be able to do really highquality studies that I definitely want to get peer-reviewed and published. This isn't just for experiments on YouTube. >> And so imagine if he actually did this. 100 people come in and they take creatine. 100 people come in and they take Turk Builder Max. 100 people come in and take placebo and no one knows which one that they're taking. And at the end you ask them all, "Do you think you were on placebo? Do you think you were on creatine? or do you think you're on Turk Builder Max and see what they say? Measure their changes. Does anyone want to see that study? Which would you bet is going to make the greatest difference? Comment below. >> If we get a load of people in here, we just need to grab a quick and dirty snapshot. We can use this BIA machine. >> A BIA machine. That's the bioelectrical impetence machine. That's the machine I did on that cruise ship that said I was 19.8%. And so he says, "Look, you know, we can't always use the DEXA scan. It takes 20 or 30 minutes to do that. So this test is a lot quicker. It's a lot easier. It's done in one minute. Wouldn't it be better to just use my laser eyes? Just send me a bunch of photos, rate their body fat percentages, then, you know, go through whatever process they went through in 10 weeks, and then I can rate their body fat percentage again with my laser eyes." That would be more accurate than the bio impetence analysis. Why are we even bothering with the BIA machine when it has no accuracy? Like, it's not accurate. Like, it's literally guessing. You're going to use a machine that had me at almost 20% body fat when I'm closer to eight. I mean, 10 at the most, which is double, over double what it actually is, and use that for scientific experiments. How is that beneficial? It's been so hard trying to keep this a secret for the last 2 years because it's been so much work and also so much excitement. >> That's what Jeff's been up to. too busy to write back Hussein or Coach Greg. If you're not too busy, pick up the newest of the cookbooks, 3.1 code Greg, 15% off, of course, all the supplements. If you want the Seco bars, use code seco. That's CICO. And you get it for $20. It's half price. And so, be sure to pick that up. The softest bars you're ever going to try. Of course, if you're looking for coaching plans by me and my team, if you're looking to get anything from Algo RX, including the blood work, at very, very cheap prices, remember, very cheap, get over to the website right now. The HCLT supplements, everything that you could ask for, get to the website. And until next time, I am out.