It contained workouts that it' be physically impossible for most. >> Does that not say something about the person who created it? >> I've lied. I've lied a lot. >> You're bullying, using your power, and getting them to attack people. >> Jeff Nippod. Jeff Nippod. Jeff Nippod. >> Wait a minute. Get how you live it. Jeff Nippod. Jeff Nippod. Jeff Nippod. Jeff Nippod. Jeff Nippod. Jeff Nippod. What will we learn about Jeff Nippod, formerly known as Jeff Nippard? >> For those unfamiliar, Jeff Nippod is a prominent figure in the fitness world and a self-proclaimed exercise scientist. >> In reality, he dropped out of dentistry school and eventually became the throat goat of Mike Isizertell. >> We don't know what they do behind closed doors, but we know there is absolutely a circle jerk going on. I guess technically I submitted the wrong draft to the graduate school. Lying is easy as hell. I can do it at the drop of a hat. >> I mean, we literally have Mike caught in 4K on camera admitting how easy he can lie. And then he then says that his thesis was not the final draft, but a first draft. How plausible is that really? And so, what does Jeff do? He lubes up. What did you just say, Mike? What did you say? And why would Jeff say that? I mean, after all, he is a credible scientist, right? Wrong. Jeff is trying to make tens of millions of dollars. He has over 7 million followers. And so, whoever has the most money, that is the direction he's going. And so, he's teamed up with Mike and others to promote macroactor as well as his training programs and his ideologies to the world. And so whoever seems to back him up, whoever can help him the most, well, he's teaming up with him. >> Mike confessed on Instagram that the version that I'd read and reviewed was in fact the one that had been examined and passed in 2013. >> Mike admits to lying. And what does Jeff do? He continues to throw Solomon under the bus. He doesn't retract his statement and say, "I was wrong. I'm sorry, Solomon. I I know I said that you had examined the wrong draft, but turns out you were right after all. He doesn't apologize. He doubles down and makes further posts insulting Solomon. >> In the meantime, however, a lot of people had rallied behind Mike, denouncing me as a fool. >> What scientist would do that? To simply go to bat for their friend, regardless if they say the correct information or not, to simply take his word at face value rather than looking at the evidence. It should have been obvious to anyone with a sense of logic that Mike's story was improbable. >> Well, to most people it would have been obvious, but Jeff Nippard, he didn't have a PhD. Did he have his masters? Did he study exercise kinesiology? He studied the human mouth. And so, likely Jeff knows a thing or two about his tongue, about what he can do with it, about the teeth, making sure the teeth don't get in the way. But what would he know about the entirety of the human body? This chapter describes my rich history with Jeff Nippod, which will nicely contextualize his recent attacks on me. >> And so, full disclosure, Salman used to be a fan of Jeff Nippod as well as Mike Israel. But later, upon studying and learning more and becoming an expert in his own rights, he discovered a lot of what they're saying is that it doesn't make any sense, that they're clearly flawed. And so while interviewing Solomon, I asked him, "Why do you like exposing Mike Hertell, Jeff Nippert, and so on? Why do you like this?" He says, "I like exposing the I like to talk about the truth, exposing the liars, and explaining exactly how it works." That is exactly what he's done. He's clearing out the On the 6th of January 2024, a 24year-old Solomon Nelson released a video critiquing Jeff Nippard's bench press specialization program. And so Solomon eventually made a video on Jeff Nippard's bench press specialization program. You would think that Jeff Nippard, being an expert, would kind of know how to bench press. After all, he is a champion powerlifter, a bodybuilder, and so you would assume that a workout produced by him would logically make sense. Only it did not, and he exposed him. >> In the video, I contended that it contained workouts that would be physically impossible for most. And so Jeff has a workout where you're supposed to bench press 85% of your one rep max for four sets of six reps with 3 to 5 minutes rest between sets. Now in his same book he references and says 85% of your max you should be able to perform five or maybe six reps. Three references two set it's five and one set it's six. How is it possible that you're going to do four of those sets with six reps when most people can only do one set for five? Makes no sense and in essence makes the workout physically impossible to perform. And so imagine you get this program, you purchase it, you assume Jeff Nippod is an expert and you try to do this workout and you're lucky to get the first set. You're thinking, well, what's wrong with me? And so if you purchase the program and you can't physically do it, does that not say something about the person who created it? >> I mentioned pack Andrew Larkus Corus in my critique of Jeff Nippad's bench press specialization program >> and the Pac-Man himself. He makes an appearance. Pack is part of the circle jerk with Mike Israel himself. I've reacted to the Pac-Man with Mike and they said, "Oh, Coach Greg's Turkeest and it doesn't work." They said there are no studies that exist despite the fact there were several. And they simply omitted that. >> I've lied. I've lied a lot. >> And the studies they did talk about were not even using my own turquest. They were not using a juguristanica. They were using cyanosis. And the one study that did use my product, one pill, they were not instructed to work out. And they used an inbody scam. The same inbody scam that said I'm 19.8%. 8%. They're using that with very small sample size to say, "Oh, look, Coach Greg is a scammer." They could have replaced the Turkeestone with Anavar, Windstrol, Super Draw, Halo Testing, Austrian, you name it, and there would have been no statistical significant difference. And so if experts like this on purpose try to prove that you're wrong, and that includes Antonio, that so-called doctor that wanted me to pay $200,000 to him in secret to do the study, then how can you trust them? >> His recent reference to executing Order 66 on me is a staggering lapse in professional judgment. Order 66 is famously known when you try to convince a group of people, thousands of people to go and spam and report negative things about a content to essentially cancel them. You're bullying using your power and getting them to attack people. Imagine having this from a so-called doctor. And for what? For what reason? because Solomon made an accurate assessment of the final research thesis that Mike Isertell had submitted. And so just because Pac didn't like Solomon's conclusions, because Mike is in his circle jerk, he decided to order 66 Solomon Nelson. This is inexcusable. It's a standard of discourse we expect from anonymous trolls, not scholars with PhDs, even ones from such lowranking schools as PAX Soland University. Solent University Southampton, which ranked 124th out of 129. If you go to a school that's bad enough, that has low-level students that are not all that bright, they have very low standards. And so perhaps that's how he got by. Perhaps that's why he had an order 66. Rather than landing some kind of witty blow, it's only served to tarnish his own credibility and expose a mean-spiritedness that undermines his authority. >> I mean, are these PhD research earlers not held to a higher standard? I mean, if you have a PhD and you flex that, hey, I'm a doctor, doctor, professor, whatever, don't you expect them to do and to know better? >> At least do the qualification, the honor of behaving like a decent person. My advice to Pack, be careful. I nevertheless look forward to your next appearance on Jeff Nippard's channel. But notice how he's involved in the circle jerk with Milo Wolf, Jeff Nippard, Mike Israel, and so are you understanding the backscratching that's going on? >> But to my amazement, within a day or two of posting my critique of his program, I got a reply from Jeff Nippard himself. >> And so upon seeing Solomon's report, he literally wrote a comment. Hey Solomon, I appreciate the critical feedback. This is one of my older programs and I agree that it needs an update. The main thing is that the percentages are a bit too high. No, they're way too high. They're not a bit too high. This isn't a huge deal. He's trying to downplay this if you adhere to RP guidelines. And to be honest, most people running this program are not advanced enough that the sets would be impossible. Still, I'm going to adjust the numbers. There were no RP guidelines in that table. did not say 85% of RP and be sure to go one to three reps from failure. Did not say that. He could have said, "Hey, thanks for noting this. What a good point. It wasn't supposed to be 85%, it was supposed to be 80%, thanks for noticing. We'll change immediately." It would have been done. >> I also challenged his contradictory claim that most people running this program are not advanced enough for it to be impossible. However, it was literally advertised for intermediate to advanced lifters. But that's besides the point because it is in fact still wrong. >> I decided to send him an email offering to review his other programs privately. Because I genuinely wanted to help him put out better, more scientifically accurate information. >> Solomon, who's clearly invested in science, he's trying to make science better. Make science great again. He writes Jeff in private. says, "I would be happy to look at your programs to make sure that the percentages all make sense and ensure you have the highest quality program available, all for free." But of course, he receives no response. And so he says, "Well, I may as well review another one of his programs. After all, what if they don't make sense?" >> The second of Jeff's bad training programs that I critiqued publicly was his so-called women's specialization program. Should women necessarily be training different than men? I mean, a woman's muscle and a man's muscle grows for the exact same reasons, but I get it. Women want to train their glutes primarily. Perhaps they don't want the same size arms. And so, there's nothing wrong with having a women's centered program. However, it's riddled with mistakes that make absolutely no sense. And if you follow this program, it's not going to be very beneficial. >> Released my critique on the 27th of May, 2024. And so Solomon discovered there were five fundamentally enormous problems. Wasted sets, too much volume, the list goes on and on. >> In Jeff's own words, this may have you struggling to get beyond the intermediate stage. >> But if this type of volume dominates your routine, you might have a hard time getting past the beginner to early intermediate stage. >> And so if Jeff says literally himself, junk volume, it's not good. doing the same weight for the same reps over and over again. It leads to a plateau and you don't keep improving. That is what Jeff said. But then he designs a program doing and instructing you to do the exact same thing. How does that make sense? It would be like me saying, "I think you should eat in a calorie deficit to lose weight, then give you a diet where you're in a calorie surplus." >> The answer is 54. No. well-conducted study hitherto has demonstrated statistically significant benefits in going that high. >> 54 sets per week. Now, many of you who watch my channel, watch other people's channels. How many sets per body part do you think you should perform per week? Oftent times we hear 10 to 20. That is the most common. Some people have it a little bit more, perhaps even 30. But what about sets? What? And so imagine training 54 sets when you could perhaps do half of that, a third of that, and make equal or better gains. >> Four excessively high rep sets. Why would you do a set of 30 to failure when instead you could do a set of eight to failure? >> Why would he think that just because you're a woman that you should do sets of 30? Hey, I'm trying to grow my glutes. Perhaps your legs. You don't want to grow your arms. Okay. What you do is you do sets of 30. 30 repetitions. 54 sets perhaps in a week. Does that not seem like a little bit too much when you could do fewer reps? Solomon describes eight. Well, why not 15? Is there no happy medium? Why suggest 30 repetitions when the evidence is clear that you have to get close to failure in order to produce some gains? Stephanie claims on her website that the women's specialization is backed by science. This claim is false. >> And of course they're going to say it's backed by science, but is it really? Why? Because Nippod said that it is. Hey, it's backed by science. Trust me, brah. 54 sets. Not 10, not 20. 54. >> I found out that Jeff and Stephanie are time travelers. accessing Brett's 2014 article a full four years before it was published. >> 4 years before the paper came up. You know, it's backed by science. Jeff went and read the paper and learned all of this 4 years before it was produced, but hey, it's based on science. >> As well as leaving a comment, Jeff sent me an email expressing interest in the thought of me reviewing his training programs in my capacity as an expert consultant. He sees Solomon as an expert. So good at critiquing his programs that he hires Solomon to critique his programs in the future, wants to make sure that he offers the proper program. And so good on Jeff Nippard. He saw he had a skill and he hires him. >> Jeff then conceded that the women's specialization program is also deeply flawed and requires a complete overhaul. And so Jeff says, "Look, this program is pretty old. I admit there's several mistakes. Didn't know what I was doing, but I aim to do better in the future." >> Jeff explained that at the time, his programming decisions were largely in line with the prevailing high volume trend promoted by many science guys. >> Back then, he was simply going along with the trend, which was to do more volume. And so whatever is trending, whatever seems cool, Jeff is going to make a program that is in line with those values. >> He was interviewing figures like my friend Lyall Macdonald. He highlighted that interestingly Lyall's perspective was one of the few cutting against high volume training at this time. >> Now Lyall, who is out of the circle, who Mike and Jeff do not like. And if you're friends with Lyall, well, they're probably not going to like you. He was saying that's way too much volume because Lyall was sticking to the science. But Jeff and Mike now don't agree with him. >> As a longtime fan of Lyall's work and someone who was also working for him on an affiliate basis, any similarities are coincidental, >> he claims. Now, I didn't plagiarize him. I didn't copy any of his programs. is just you're bound to learn a few things, to remember a few things because he was such a fan of his work. >> Next time on Coach Greg. >> And so now let's get into the two private consulting programs that Solomon did with Jeff Nippert. >> He described my work as being exceptionally thorough. >> Now, he's not going to break client confidentiality. He's not going to share the secrets, the money that he was paid, none of that stuff. but he is going to talk about what he's allowed. But when Jeff Nippard's thoughtful and consiliatory comment on my critique video vanished, it naturally raised some questions.