Jeff Nippard just ruined his credibility. Jeff Nippard just destroyed his reputation and lost everything. No one believes Jeff Nippard. Greg Ducet and Jeff Nippard just messed up big time. Coach Greg, in today's video, we're going to talk about did Jeff Nippard and Coach Greg get it wrong? I'm going to keep an open mind and rather than straw man arguing these guys, I'm going to steal man them. And so what that means is I'm going to listen to their arguments and make their argument get even better. Rather than trying to nitpick all the small details, I'm going to say, you know what, maybe they have a point. And so in today's video, we're going to see, could I have gotten it wrong? I mean, everyone thinks I got it wrong. Everyone thinks Jeff Nippard got it wrong. And what you need to know about me is I often just give my opinion. I just think, well, I've been doing it this way for so long. I'm almost 50 years of age. And so I tell you what I think. Jeff Nippard, on the other hand, he often doesn't give his opinion. He actually goes by the science. He'll read an article says long range partials are better. This range of motion is what you need. This many reps in reserve. He just goes by the science. And so he's simply telling you what the signs told him. Now, many people were saying, you know, he paid off the doctors. He's colluded with Coach Greg, that we somehow banded together and that we're trying to make it look like these fake natties are actually real. Now, I've thought about that and I'm thinking, okay, let's say that that's possible. Why would Jeff do that? Like, why would Jeff try to defend Hussein Farhat? Like, are me and him bros now? Have I paid him millions of dollars? Is he going to be the next future owner of HGLT supplements? And so he's now covering for me because I say the same thing about Hussein Farad I did about Julian. And notice Julian is sponsored by another company. And so how do I gain by helping Julian? By me saying Julian's natural likely helped him perhaps got more followers. And so what exactly did Jeff get by helping me? I mean that's what I'm seeing. That's what I'm hearing. And so all I'm seeing is Jeff lost all credibility. Jeff did this. Jeff did that. And so, hey, I'm steelmanning. What did Jeff gain? And so Jeff gained coach Greg as an ally. How does that help him? Hussein Farhat promotes Cali. Jeff Nippard has his own app, Macroofactor. And so how would it help Jeff to help the guy that goes against his own company? Your guess is as good as mine. And so I'm trying to see the argument. I'm trying to get it. But as of now, I just don't buy it. And so it's my belief that this that people want to hear that whoever is making more gains than them that they probably cheated. I in fact may be the blame for that. A lot of my old videos, my natty or not, I basically just did them on people who I thought were fake natties. Those ones, they got more views. If you make videos saying somebody's a fake natty, you get more views, more drama, more likes, and people see you as a hero. But if you go and defend someone, especially when most people believe that they're lying, well, people are going to hate you. And so, what has been the result? Well, Coach Greg, you lost all credibility. And Jeff Nibard, all your credibility is gone. And so why is that? Because we didn't say what you think. And so when you think about it, to have credibility, all you have to do is say what a bunch of people think. That's it. Literally. And it's not just about natty knots. It's about anything in this world. If I say what most people think, people are going to like me. But if I go against the grain like an alpha commander, whatever, people are then going to criticize you. You're wrong. You disagree with us. We don't like you. And so it takes a lot more courage to say something when you know people aren't going to like what you tell them. And so when I did the first video on Hussein Farad, I thought, look at this guy. Put on all this muscle in a couple years. Fake natty. I knew it would get a lot of views. I knew he would like the video. Then Hussein said, "But I'm actually natural." I said, "Yeah." As if. Show me the blood work. >> Show the leg. >> Then he said, "Yeah, no problem. Whenever you want." Okay. Right away. Yep. And I'm thinking, does he actually know that I'll be able to tell if he was a fake natty even if he stopped taking steroids, you know, more than a month ago? Like, does he know that? Cuz many people don't. Prosper Fitness, I don't think he knew that. And so when I said, "Hey, I'll defend you if you're actually natural." And so he probably thought, "Who's seen Far Hat pass the blood work? Look at this guy." Like literally, I'm thinking Prosper Fitness probably thought, "Do you know how easy it's going to be to pass the blood work? I stopped taking it weeks ago. There's no way that I'll fail the blood work. My testosterone levels, I'm sure, are going to be in the normal range." And so he then passes me to blood work. And I'm like, "Bro, you fail by a mile." And so he's now thinking, "Well, this doesn't make sense. How did Hussein pass?" He likely also saw that Julian had passed. So he's thinking if these two kids passed the blood work, I'm surely going to pass. That's what I'm thinking. He's thinking. That's what I'm thinking. All you guys are thinking. And so if Julian and Hussein passed the blood work, then passing blood work must be freaking easy. And because I'm trying to put myself in your shoes the way that you would think. And that's what I would say if I were you. And so those are great points. It must be easy to pass the blood work and you can just cycle off. But notice how Prosper Fitness failed. And so I know you're thinking the best argument that I've seen, the best one, and many of you are saying it is. They could have just used steroids for the first one or two years of their lifting career and gotten a huge head start cuz of course it would. It would be phenomenal. You blasts the first day you go to the gym and you do like Hussein Farad and you put on 45 pounds of muscle. Now I saw on this video from what's his name? mud pit or something. Said he put on 60. Now, Hussein, he [\h__\h] up. He said he started 120 something pounds and it ended up at 184. And so that was 60 lbs. Problem is, he did the conversion wrong from pounds to kilograms. He usually thinks in kilograms. And so instead of 2.2, it's two. And so it was actually started at 130, but it's still 45 lbs. It's still a lot. It's still incredible. Most people are not going to do it. Maybe one in a million can do it. Whatever. It doesn't matter. as a >> if you ever see a guy make a transformation like Hussein and or Julian, the chances are more than 99% that they're a fake natty. I agree with you. You're all 100% correct. But it's possible, and it's not very possible, it's a tiny bit possible that they did it natural. Now, if somebody, one of your friends ever says this, you know, they say, "Look, I'm natural. I swear to God." matter if it's your boyfriend or your girlfriend. And trust me, I've had some girls send me their boyfriend's blood works. He swears he's natural. Nope. And so send the blood work to me. This is fun for me. Okay. I like making these videos. This video right now is it's joy. It's 7 something in the morning. I got me having coffee. This is a pleasure. And so I really like doing these videos. blood work videos are so fun to me. The whole concept of are people natural? Not, it's fun. There's no winning. I can't prove that he's natural and you can't prove that he's not. And so rather than that, I'm just talking about it. And so I've come up with a plan of what you should do. What can you take out of this? Cuz we can go back and forth for freaking for years and I'll get millions of views, millions of dollars from it. And so it's great for both of us, but what can you take out of it? Because the way I'm seeing it is it's very negative. like you're going to think that Julian and Hussein are fake natties and you're going to look at your physique and you're not going to want to train. On the Catabolic Twigs video, there was a post by John Bravo who I think it's now been deleted or it was pinned. It's no longer there, but he basically was saying, "You know what? Everyone's a fake natty. Why do you think that anyone could make these gains?" And so I saw that comment and I was very disappointed because I didn't think John Bravo was like that. And so I sent him some voice messages. I said, "This is what I think about this." I said, "You know how I am. I tell you exactly how I feel." And he he wrote back and says, "Oh, I didn't mean it like that. I didn't mean it like that. You and by both know there's lots of guys with crazy looking physiques, stronger than Hussein or Julian had more muscle growing up before there was the internet. there's guys out there that can put on all of that muscle. And I'm like, but that comment makes it look like you think that Jeff Nippard is a fake natty. That anyone with that much muscle has to be a fake daddy. And so many of you out there are just thinking, well, it's hopeless. And so based on what you're saying, based on the fact that the best comment that I saw, the best ones, it's many people are saying this is that Julian and Hussein, they took steroids, SARMMS, MK, whatever drug that that may be for a brief period of time, whether it's 3 months or a year or a year and a half, the first couple years of their training, right? And then following that, they just stopped. And that's how, for example, Hussein was able to pass the blood work three times in a row. Now, I just recently had my own blood work done. I'm 49. I'm almost 50. And based on what the doctor said, based on the blood work, chat, GBPT, everything, the experts in analyzing it. And so, based on all the results and all the headmarks, everything in unison, my blood work is better than 95% of men. And that's while on HRT. And what I mean by better is my liver function, kidneys, my heart, my ability to use glucose, insulin sensitivity, everything. It's very, very high. So much so that I'll likely outlive 95% of the population. And I'm thinking, but I abuse steroids for 10 years. How is this even possible? Like, I'm mind blown. I mean, I'm on HRT, 140 milligrams a week. You all think it's 500, whatever, but it is what it is. I'm not lying. And so my blood work is immaculate. Like if any of you out there had my blood work, you would be very, very happy. I use steroids for over 10 years. And so this is what I'm thinking and this is my suggestion now. And so take it with a grain of salt. This is just what I'm thinking. If it's true that Hussein Farad and Julian use steroids for the first couple years of their training, then I'm now thinking you should all do the same. You know, I'm not here to promote the use of illegal steroids and so on. So, it's illegal in your country, don't do it. But if it is legal, this is what I'm thinking you should do based on what I'm hearing. You should all use steroids the day you join the gym. The first day, if you look like Hussein, 135 lbs or whatever, when he first started, you look like the catabolic twig. You're just basically a skinny rake. You should join the gym. Or don't even join the gym, just train at home. You don't even really need to train because there's studies saying that you don't need to train and you can just put on muscle, use a lot of steroids. And so because you're young, I suggest that you start off by using Test and Tren and probably dbol on your first cycle. Massive doses, 500 milligrams of each, probably dbol, maybe 50. You don't want to like totally shoot out your liver. And you go on those steroids for probably the first two years until the point where you have an immaculate physique. like make it so obvious that you're a fake natty but so impressive and you know you don't even need to train with proper form cuz Julian he trains all wrong. I mean I've seen his training his training is horrendous but you don't need that. All you need is steroids and so the first let's call it 16 months do one massive cycle and if you start slowing down your gains just keep going up. Now, mind you, get your blood work done to make sure you don't die, have a heart attack, and all that kind of stuff, but really abuse the drugs. Now, if you can't handle massive drug cycles and so on, then just take MK-677. I mean, Dr. Mike Isertel made a video on that. He says it was the the gains pill. And so, take the gains pill because, well, testosterone, you know, it causes the acne and the gynecomastia and the hair loss and the puffiness and all that stuff. And Hussein didn't seem to have any of those problems. and Julian didn't have any of those problems. And so, no, I changed all that. Remember, I'm thinking on the fly. I'm trying to be in your shoes. I'm trying to help you provide quality information. MK-677 for the first like year and a half or so because if you take test and trend, it's going to shut down your HTTPA access. You're not going to produce testosterone. Your FSH LH goes down. And remember, these guys pass blood work later. And so, remember, you can't shut your body down because then you wouldn't pass the blood work. And if those things are suppressed, you're not going to keep as much muscle. And so you can't do that. But MK-677, it doesn't shut down your body's production of testosterone. And so take that one. Now Mike Isertell in his video said it maybe gains 3 to six pounds of which you keep about 3 lbs of muscle in a 12week cycle. But like think of it, just extend the cycle for like a year and a half. And if that's combined with new gains right away and if you watch Jeff Nippard and Mike Isertell's videos, maybe Coach Greg, and even use proper lifting technique on on top of all of that, think of the gains you're going to make. I mean, Julian trained all wrong. And so obviously he had to be on all these steroids, but yet his production of testosterone wasn't suppressed. And so he must have been on MK-677. So that's that's the key. And so you join the gym, you blast hella drugs. That's how you do it. I mean, that is clearly the way. It worked for Julian. It worked for Hussein. It probably worked for Jeff Nippard. And it probably worked for me. I mean, you don't believe that. I was natural in my 30s. And so, what the hell? I was on something. I'm not going to tell you what it was at 13. That's why I was able to lift some. And so, there's my advice. And so, if you're unhappy with your gains or your progress, you join the gym on day one and you blast hella gear. Then, and remember this is important, you cycle off for good, for life. Now that's the hack. You have to take the steroids and then you stop and you can never do it again because if you cycle on and off and on and off, you've seen the damages to people their people are dying and so on and so you can't do that. You can only get away with it when you're a teenager. You then have to stop. And what happens is because you're a teenager, you keep all of those gains for life. So you just go a little bit above your natural genetic potential like the amount of muscle you probably could put on in let's say 15 years of training and you're going to get it in approximately one and a half. So it's about 10 times the rate of gains which makes sense. You're on peeds and then you stop. You're going to keep all those gains. Now the problem is you're probably not going to get any better for the rest of your life. But hey you got the gains in a year and a half. That's the hack. And so are you now all happy? I've regained my credibility. Hussein Farhhat and Julian likely just went on performance-enhancing drugs for the first two years of their career. They blasted hella gear. I can't say for sure what they took, but certainly it's MK-677. Now hopefully they don't get type 2 diabetes when they're older because you know the beta cells of the pancreas, those cells, they can die off beyond MK-677 is very dangerous. And so that's the only downfall. But aside from that, aside from type 2 diabetes, which would take 20 plus years off your life, nothing else is bad. And so maybe when we look at Hussein and Julian 20 years from now, they'll be no longer with us, having suffered from type 2 diabetes. But other than that, it's got to be what they took.