And keep in mind, these numbers are very accurate. >> Jeff is saying they're accurate. Why? Because he bought some. >> These numbers are very accurate. >> Science doesn't know. And so, yes, of course, Jeff Nippert is wrong. And it's just so satisfying for me to prove it. Another video starring none other than Jeff Nippa, the Dexa scam. Griftera. Jeff [music] Nipper, the science-based Grifter. Jeff, he claims to be a sciencebased lifter. And so he buys a $160,000 toy. It's called a DEXA scam. And so Jeff, I've already seen the video. He's going to claim that his DEXA scam is about as accurate as an MRI machine of which costs $1 million. I asked if I could buy one and they said, "You need to have all kinds of doctorate things and there's all kinds of regulations. You just can't have it. Perhaps it's because of the radiation." That's a scam. It's only $160,000. I mean, it's play money when you have a macro factor. Jeff is trying to bamboozle you that this is the new golden standard because he brought in some people to get a DEXA scam. That this is 100% accurate because it's based on science. AS IF MY LASER EYES AREN'T more accurate than a DEXA scam. Now remember, Jeff Nippah's a dropout dentista and so he couldn't get a bunch of girls to lay down on a bed and open up their mouths for him and so he decided to bring them in for a DEXA scam. Damn, [screaming] >> let's read the comments of which every second comment is about Coach Craig, but Jeff has blocked Coach Greg from making comments. And so my comments, although I can see them personally, no one else can see them. And so thank you, JEFF. JEFF NIPPER, COMMENT DELETITA, comment blocker. Who else feels Greg is in the process of filming his next video? Ducet is really gregging his calipers right now. Douche Gregetti is already making a video saying Jeff is wrong. Skullface. Skullface. And so, yes, of course Jeff Nippard is wrong. And it's just so satisfying for me to prove it. You made a video for Greg Ducet on purpose, did you, Jeff? I actually previously thought Jeff was somewhat intelligent, like that he had an IQ above a hundred, but now it's all making sense. I don't think Jeff even knows how to read a study. I think he has people who he pays to tell him a bunch of and he doesn't even realize that they're scamming him. Another S tier video. Does S stand for sucks? Jeff's video is spewing a bunch of based on And what has Dorian Yates taught us about >> A bag of that gets bigger is just a bigger bag of >> In this video, I'm going to take you through the full range from 50% body fat all the way down to 5%. Using real life people that I measured myself. >> He might know a thing or two about cavities. Like I had a sore in the back of the mouth right here. He might know a thing or two about that, but we're talking about Jeff Nippa. How would he possibly know what body fat percentages look like? >> This is Joe. He's a 36-year-old dad. This is what his life is like dayto-day. >> I had low testosterone. Like my free testosterone was like 90 like 90. >> And so this man, you can see he has about 50% body fat. We don't need a dexis scam to tell us this. We don't need a BIA. And because his testosterone levels are extremely low, 90 NOGS per deciliter, he most likely needs inclin or testosterone. And so if you were to go to for example Algo RX, doctors could prescribe him inclin or testosterone and make them feel that much better. When you have very low levels of testosterone, your metabolism is going to be lower. You're going to have less motivation, less energy, less muscle mass, and it's just harder [snorts] to lose weight. And so why make it an uphill battle? Now on top of that when you're at 50% body fat maybe just maybe you might want to consider something like I don't know like ompic a GLP perhaps a tzipotide and in the future maybe even reatit and so if you're interested in that of course you get to algo RX I'm a part owner I know what I'm doing and you get yourself 10% off now if you don't want to go through all that and you can just get my freaking cookbook it's that easy code Greg 15% off >> so your body fat percentage was 45.3 Three. >> No way. >> That's lower than we thought. >> That's actually Yeah. >> Yeah. As in No way. As in it's clearly higher than that. Why are we fist pumping now? Oh, it's 45%. The BIA had you at 49. Coach Craig's later highs. They have you at 50. And so you're off the hook. You're leaner than you were. How does the number matter? It's lower than you thought. How is that good? HOW IS THAT BAD? HOW DOES THAT MATTER? Look in the freaking mirror. Well, I thought my body fat was 50% and it's actually 45. Yay. And so what? He doesn't have to diet harder than last time. He doesn't have to do 150 minutes of cardiovascular exercise a week. Just because the number isn't or is what you want it to be, doesn't mean anything whatsoever. Science doesn't know. If you look in the mirror and you look like this, I don't care if the number came back at 35% or 85%. It's all bad. >> He said he wants to get that down to 25% by the end of the year. and I'm going to help keep him accountable with that. So, you need to be one around 100 kilos. So, that's about 220 pounds. >> My suggestion is he gets in 150 minutes of zone 2 cardiovascular exercise per week. And I would in fact suggest more. Perhaps he can start with that. And he gets my freaking cookbook and let's continue to get your blood work down. Let's work with an endocrinologist or at least a doctor who can prescribe you inclapene or testosterone because 90 nanogs per deciliter ain't doing you any favors and so please go seek out medical help. Not everyone at this level had the same goal though. This is Daniel and he had one of the coolest motivations for losing weight that I've ever heard. >> Bro, again 50% body fat. I mean you can throw out whatever number you want. When you're 370 lbs at 50% body fat, that would mean half of your body is fat. Half of 370, it's 185 pounds. My body fat with zero pounds of fat is under 185. And so, bro, most likely over 50% body fat. >> I want to skydive. You want to skydive? >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Okay, that's a new one. >> Of all the motivational factors in the world, there's perhaps not any worse than this. This is useless motivation. What happens when you get down to 220 and you skydive? Can you now gain all the weight back? I skydived and now I don't need to diet. I mean, what about living 20 years longer? You know what my motivation is? I want to be able to see my downstairs when I go to the bathroom. I want to be able to put it into somebody. What did he say? You know how hard it is to play around with all that beef when you You know what I'm saying, guys? Get it out of the way. I'm sorry. The truth hurts. >> The weight limit for skydiving is 220 to 240 lb. You're going to come back here. Get on the DEXA scan. >> And then you're going to book your skydiving. All right. I'm not doing it with you, though. >> HE AIN'T GOING TO SKYDIVE WITH YOU. Jeff working with someone to sky. JEFF WON'T TAKE YOUR PICTURE. WON'T TAKE YOUR PICTURE. For long-term weight loss, I think having a purpose that speaks to you is crucial, especially if you want to lose a lot of weight, which can feel overwhelming. You know what I say? Halfway there. He wants to get down to 220 lbs. He weighs 370. That's 150 lbs. I'm going to say, "Here's your goal. Let's get you down 75 lbs. Let's get you under 300." That is an excellent goal. Losing 150, that is a daunting task. A year and a half, like that is so far away that he might not even think it's possible. And trust me, he might get halfway there and he might quit. And so, why not have a goal? I'm going to get down to under 300 lb. Once you tackle that goal, you can then say, "Do I have another goal, maybe it's to get down to 250, halfway there, continue to get halfway to your goal, and eventually you might actually reach it." >> So, it's just like brushing your teeth, right? Like, it becomes something you do. You build that trust in yourself over time that you're going to actually execute on those habits. >> All this is I'm sorry. This is all nonsensical It's nothing like exercise is nothing like brushing your teeth. drop alentista. You exercise because you enjoy it. It's the enjoyment. You don't do anything for the rest of your life. If it's hard and you don't like it, if you're just working out and you hate it, for example, if you're going for runs and you don't like running, how many years, decades do you think you're going to do it? Probably Azero. >> A what if you enjoy racing bikes like Coach Greg? I just raced two races back to back. first in the first race and second in the next. Why did I do that? As I just got off the plane from testing Dexa scams out in Ontario. I do it cuz I love it. COULDN'T WAIT TO GET BACK to racing bikes. Now, if you're thinking, "Oh, I got to get up this morning and I got to go do cardio. Oh my god, I don't like this. Oh, I got to get home from work and I got to go to the gym." How many years do you think you can do that? Probably none. You need to keep experimenting with activities until you find one that you not just like, but that you love so that you'll do it for the rest of your life. >> I'm always tired. Like I'm not like I want to sleep all day, but like I'm always fatigued. >> To put on your shoes is like [snorts] it's just uncomfortable. >> Anything over 50, heck even 40. That to me is being morbidly obese. And morbid it sounds exactly what it's like. It risks of death. Morbid. If you're this fat, you need to go on a diet. You need to put the fork down. You need to start doing cardio. And you need to start losing weight today, not tomorrow, right now. It's not easy. If it was, these people would all be doing it. Their genetics, they suck. Hey, I'm being honest. If they didn't have shitty ass genetics, they wouldn't be 55% body fat. If you paid me $1 billion and said, "Greg, you got to get to 55% body fat. It's a billion dollars. Make it a trillion. I can't do it. My genetics don't suck bad enough to get to 50 plus% body fat." But his do he's probably not even trying to be fat. You think this bro is like Homer Simpson eating donut after donut force feeding blocks of butter down his throat to get fat? No. >> I got 15 minutes to gain a pound or I got to face another day at work. >> It just slowly creeps up at him. He has too many fat cells and too much ghrein making him hungry. Now if you go to Algo RX, you buy for example ompic or turzipide it's literally easy. I know that fat people, you know, people who are obese don't like to hear the word easy when it comes to losing weight because they then don't have an excuse. When you have an excuse to be fat, you feel good about yourself. Oh, it's I'm not fat. I'm big boned. It's my mama. She overfed me cookies. I'm sad. My girlfriend broke up with me. These are all stupid excuses and you need to do better. Perhaps you could then just get GLP Max. This reduce your appetite from an 8 out of 10 to a 6 out of 10. That literally could be enough. Or what about GO2 max? Improve your cardio. Or maybe you don't need bills. What about a better diet? The circle diet. Or the cookbook. Oh, you don't have any money at all. What about my free diet and training program? Giving away over 110,000 copies. Free? Did you click the link in description? Did you get my free diet and training program? Oh, Coach Greg doesn't do anything. He just makes millions and millions of dollars. never helps us out. Did you watch any of my videos? Now you have zero dollars and you've already gotten my diet and training program for free. What else can you do? Just show up. Stop eating so much Eat more fruits and vegetables and get in some protein. This is literally easy. Now, did I say you can get your dream physique? Nope. Halfway there. >> This is Hmonish, and he measured in at 40.7% body fat on BIA. >> I got to stop you right here. Why is Jeff even showing BIA? I mean, does it stand for babies inaccurate assumptions? Did you know that I did this test and I'm at 19.8%. You guys see the guns? Does this look like a guy with 19.8% body fat? And I'm not making this up. I literally did this. I paid $80 for the test. 19.8%. And so, why does the number matter? Do you think I felt bad? Oh, it's 19.8. Oh, I better go on a diet. I better go on a mini cut. No, I didn't care if it's 1% 100%.33% body fat like Ronnie Coleman. NONE OF IT MATTERS. >> And keep in mind, these numbers are very accurate. >> The baby inaccurate assumption and the Dexa scam. Jeff is saying they're accurate. Why? Because he bought some those toys. The toys were accurate. Says who? Jeff Nipple. The sides face lifter. once he really that was tragic. >> Did he in fact ask Solomon to proofread this video? I'm pretty sure that he did not. And so how do we know it's actually true? How much weight does Jeff's opinion matter at this point? DOES IT MATTER AT ALL? What's he going to do? Quote some study Brad Showfeld at all. This guy at all says that it's the golden standard. It is not. The MRI is the golden standard. If it's a DEXA scam, it's a guess. If it's an I, what's the other acronym? IBA. If it's A BIA, IT'S A baby's guess. If it's Coach Greg's laser eyes, well, that's pretty freaking accurate. I'm not going to lie. My laser eyes, very accurate. Way more accurate than the DEXA scam in the IBA, but it's still not an MRI. Remember, I don't have laser vision. I can't actually see through. >> I'm so lucky you see me naked all the time. >> Exactly. Mepogram. See her naked. I knew she was 18.8%. DEXA scam had her at 13.7. Dexa scam also doesn't understand that when a woman has breast implants, you got to add about one and a half% body fat because the breast implants, it shows up as muscle and so it skews out the analysis. Now, you would think if the machine was $160,000 that they could formulate an algorithm that includes the knowledge that there's a breast implants in the person that's being scanned. Why can't it say how many cc's are your breast IMPLANTS AND FIGURE THAT OUT into the calculation? Did you know that any woman with breast implants who gets a DEXA scan is going to have an inaccurate reading? Because if you had breast implants, the number significantly higher. You factor in male to female and you subtract 10, well, >> she's down to 3.7%. >> Next time on Coach Greg. >> Nope. Nope. NOPE. AND NO. DO YOU KNOW HOW easy it is to be a five? All you have to do is not be fat and you're at least a six. If you show up and you're somewhat I you're at least a six. No makeup, no freaking hair do done, no eyebrows did, no lipstick, none of that stuff. You're [music] a six if you're not fat.