blah studies for 8 to 12 weeks with soccer moms. As Dorian Yates said about Mr. Mike, "A bag of that bigger is a bigger bag of Coach Greg." In today's video, Jeff >> outs himself. And I'm not talking about that he's Mike Isertell's boyfriend, nor his videographer. I'm talking about the fact that one year ago he released a video. A video where he says, you know what, science got it wrong. That you should only be doing one set per body part. And that that set should be done hard. You know, just like Mike Menser. >> I'm bigger and stronger than Mike Menser. >> That's it. So all of a sudden that changes the game. I I'm more educated than Mike Menser. I know more things than Mike Menser. >> I'm bigger and stronger than Mike Mener. >> Mr. Mike Isertel said that nothing that Mike Mener was valid. That he was in the 80s. That what could they possibly know? That the way he thought about training or diet and so on was useless. That he'd already thought of that. >> The reason people getting Mike Vensor, as far as I can tell, is a few things. One, he had a cool mustache. Legitimately, I think people are just into that '8s a little bit. Well, Mike Jeff Nippa seemed to find a study to back up Mike Menser. >> One of the most common fitness myths is that your workouts need to last at least an hour or they're a waste of time. >> That is not a common fitness myth. That is not even a fitness myth at all. That it has to last at least an hour. What people actually know is that your workout shouldn't last more than an hour. That if you're training in there for hours on end, that it's essentially a waste of time. There's only so much you can do before your body starts to get tired. Jeff starts off his preposition, the video, by making up a lie. That lie that you need to train at least an hour for it to be effective. What do I say? 150 minutes of zone 2 cardio a week. My own personal workouts, full body twice a week. Do you really think that it doesn't work until you get to an hour? 59 minutes in now gains are about to start. Doesn't work like that. >> The reality is getting in shape requires way less time in the gym than most people realize. A brand new study from this [music] month found that just one hard set for each exercise was enough to build new muscle. And they only trained twice per [music] week with full body workouts. Oh, and they were experienced trainees. Here's the problem. They did one set per body part and they were experienced trainees. That means that these soccer moms had trained at least 6 months. Now, I'm not going to go out on a limb and say that this study versus the other studies is right and they are all wrong. Remember studies, if you cherrypick them enough, you can make them say whatever you want. And how do we know that to be true? Well, Jeff Nippaw in other videos will say, >> "Hey, this study, it was just released. You need 43 sets per body part." I know it's astounding. And so, here's a brand new program. Hey, there's 50 plus sets in it. >> Remember that workout program which Solomon revealed had over 50 sets per body part. or what about all the other evidence that says you need 10 to 20 sets per body part? What about that? And so remember, it's how hard that you train. The harder you train, the fewer sets that you need. The more of a beginner you are, also the fewer sets that you need. If you train like this, one set hard, you really have to push yourself. And so I demonstrated this in the gym. I was doing my lat pull downs as well as the abductors. And you could see I had trained to failure. But did that mean I needed to stop? Whatever happened to going to the gym and finding ways to make the sets harder? Four reps, drop sets, having your partner help you out, pausing the weight, squeezing, feeling the muscle. There are ways to make workouts harder. The problem is Jeff Nippa had been bamboozled, seduced by Mike Isertel. Mr. Mike told him no. two or three reps in reserve that you have to train easy. >> So if you're limited on time, just do one hard all out set for each exercise and get in and out. >> All this does is prove that whatever you want to do, you can cherrypick it. And so what did Jeff Nippah want to do? He wanted to sell you more programs. I mean, how many times is he going to reinvent the wheel? He has a training program for this, a new training program for that, a new training program for this. every couple years he released this new training program and says based on science this is how you need to train. He says he did an experiment and he put on all kinds of muscle and he did that while being in a calorie deficit. And so this is the kind of training that works if you're in a deficit. What will be the next one when you're main gaining like coach Greg? Oh, new science reveals that main gaining is optimal. I've said this for years and so eventually a study will come out and it'll say you don't need to bulk 500 calories to put on muscle that main gaining is the best way. Then there'll be a new program released saying if you're in a bulk you need to train this way. Only thing missing is Jeff needing to come out with a new program saying it's all about the cardio. You should be doing cardio seven days a week like coach Greg racing bikes and lifting two days a week and that's optimal. Mike Menser knew it. The response to that, he's doped under testosterone, not comparable. I mean, people can spin it any way they want. Mike Mener, we know, is not 100% natural. And so, because he's on steroids, he only needs to do one set to grow. Wouldn't it possibly be the opposite? Because he's on steroids, he can handle more volume and do more hard sets. My personal opinion is this, and I've stated it in previous videos because I don't flip-flop based on science studies that are meaningless because they have a sample size that's too small. They don't do the studies long enough or they don't do the studies for a long enough period of time nor with enough participants to make quantifiable statements after all. And so what I previously stated is that if you're on steroids, you need to train the same as if you're not. And so why is that? Well, consider this. Let's say you're doing 405 lbs for eight reps on the deadlift. And now you're on steroids and you've been training for a month. Instead of 405 lbs for eight reps, perhaps you're at 475 lbs for eight reps. And so you're lifting a heavier weight. You're progressing more quickly. Every week, perhaps you're getting stronger. And if you're not lifting a heavier weight, you're doing the same weight for more reps. And so you are in essence training harder than last time. But Coach Greg, you should train harder. you should do more sets because you're on steroids. Well, you are training harder. And yeah, you are on steroids. That's allowing you to recover quicker because you are in fact training heavier. Think of it. Every day you go to the gym, you're lifting 10 more pounds than you were the previous week. That is placing more strain on the body and so you're able to recover better because of the steroids. It's allowing you to do what you're doing. Whether you're natty or not, your goal, you go to the gym and train harder than last time. Say it with me. Harder than last time. Dorian Yates did that. That's what I base my training his style of training. Understand this. When Jeff says to go one set all out, for most people, that is not going to be enough. It's enough to build muscle, but it's not optimal. If you do more than one hard set, you're probably going to build more muscle. When you looked at Dorian Yates style of training, his one hard set perhaps took a couple of minutes. He didn't just go to failure, he went to failure and beyond. Consider this. If you're doing that lat pull down set and you're using strict form pulling all the way down and you hit failure, you can't do a single other rep. If you use a bit of body English, we like to call it. We move a couple of inches. We perhaps stretch, we sway some, we can force out a few more reps on our own. And if we really concentrate or if we go to level four like Mr. Mike Israel and we start speaking in Russian, we summon the demons, we can push oursel even more. How hard do you want to go? If you want to go to level four, if you want to push harder than you've ever had in your life, then one set most likely is enough. But if you're holding back just a little bit where you know you could have gone a little bit more. Did you have another half of rep in the tank? Then why did you stop? Why didn't you add five half reps after you hit failure? If you have anything left, then you have to rest and repeat in order to get enough volume to stimulate maximum hypertrophy. Mike Menser style. Mike Menser heavyduty program. Mike Menser. Mike M was right. How many comments are about Mike Meister? A lot. >> I'm bigger and stronger than Mike Menser. >> That's it. >> Dr. Mike, first of all, I hope that you're being like tongue and cheek kind of humorous. Otherwise, I fear either for your eyesight or your mental health because obviously your physique's nowhere near Mike Menser. >> Dorian Yates would listen to Mike Menser and says, "You know what? Maybe I should train even less. I'm already doing less volume than most people." Like essentially people just do what other people do. And so if you see everyone out there doing 20 sets per body part, all the IPB pros, all the bros of the gym, all the Jeff Nippaw and Mr. Mike videos saying do 20 sets. You're probably going to do 20 sets. But if you're smart, you're going to think just cuz Jeff Nippaw and Mr. Mike said that doesn't mean it's correct. Just because everyone else is training that way, that doesn't mean that's correct. And so you start thinking, what if it's not 20 sets? What if it's 12? And so you start doing 12 sets and you're thinking, well, you know what? I feel better. I'm getting less injuries. I'm growing. Maybe it's 12. But then you listen to Mike Mener or Dorian Yates and you're like, how many sets do you do? And they're like, two. You're thinking, okay, maybe 12 sets of two. I'm going to take it down to six. And then if you try six sets and you get even better results than at 12, well, you're on to something. And that is science-based lifting for real. It's not reading a bunch of cherry freaking pic studies that Jeff Nippa and Mr. Mike read that said at all. Oh, Samuel Coleing at all. Brat throwinfelt at all. This guy at all. They said this is what it's all about. studies for 8 to 12 weeks with soccer moms. We need to stop thinking that sets with low sample sizes and short training periods can tell us anything. [snorts] And as Dorian Yates said about Mr. Mike, a bag of that gets bigger is a bigger bag of >> Maybe you need to ask yourself whether it's worth it, mate. Cuz a bag of that gets bigger is just a bigger bag of Still a bag of You know what I mean, mate? And so if you have a few poorly run studies that say this and say that and they're done ineffectively and then you have more of those studies that say the exact same thing, a bag of that becomes bigger is still a bag of And so just because there's several studies saying the exact same thing, if they're all done poorly, it doesn't tell us anything. And so if you want to be a true science-based lifter, experiment on yourself because we guess what? We're all unique. We're all different. We all have different muscles. Do you all know there's slow twitch muscle fibers? There's fast twitch muscle fibers. We type them type one, type two, type 2 A, type 2B. Each muscle is different. And even if you look at an EKG study, oh, this targets this specifically. this is the best for that person, for those people in that study. But what about you? Our shoulders are built different. Some have wider clavicles than others. Our form is different. Our technique is different. And with every tweak to your technique, you need to make the changes that are best for you. And so the next time you look at a Jeff Nipard video or a Mr. Mike video, ask yourself this. Do they use strawberry flavored sweetened blow? because it's just as valid a question as what they're doing. They have a theory, a thought, and rather than saying, "I think this, I think that you should do less volume." They just plug it in on chat GPT and say, "Find me a study that kind of [clears throat] verifies what I'm thinking." And then rather than saying what they think, they just say, "At all said this." And so they hide behind the science. Trust me, there's studies for everything. How would you feel if every year or two I came up with a new diet and cookbook? This year it's lowfat, low carb, high protein and in two years from now I say, you know, new studies reveal that, hey, lower protein diets increase testosterone more. And so that's the new diet. And oh, now no fruit and vegetables, it's keto. Oh, and this new study said this, the Mediterranean diet is best. Oh no, I just saw a new study and it said that the carnivore diet is best. And every two years I sold you a different diet. I absolutely could do that. If all I cared about was making money, you have to change things up. Change the program. This is the new way to train. This is a new way to diet. The new way to do cardio. And how hard do you think it would be to find a study to back up every single diet that you want to follow? Whatever diet you want to follow, if you ch it, find me some references to prove that this diet is best. They're going to find it. And so, what you need to do is to cut through the Realize that all these studies are just studies. Make them what you will, but you have to experiment on yourself. And so, whatever diet works best for you, I don't care which one it is. Perhaps it is keto, perhaps it's carnivore, perhaps it's my circle diet, perhaps you are more full from eating from my cookbook. And if you are, code Greg 15% off. And while you're at it, don't forget to use Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum. One thing that won't change is this is authentic Auga from Usuzbekistan. That it's not the carbon copy plant cyanosis. We have chain of custody receipts. I'm challenging anyone to sue me to say that I'm lying. I challenge you. We have chain of custody proving we're not lying and proving that others are. And so if you want to see that in court, you want to see these other companies have to prove that they're selling actual juga when I have proof that they're not. My first challenge, of course, is to Derek from More Plates, More Dates, Gorilla Mine. Notice how he hasn't even responded. How many times have I called him out? And so, does anyone Is there even one person thinking that I'm lying? I've been vindicated already. They've already been tested from other people. I didn't pay them to test me. And they proved it. They showed the results. And so, if you want actual Auga, you got to get it from HLT supplements. Code Greg, 15% off. Now, don't forget we are going to the Moon HLC supplements. Unbelievable the news that's in store. If you want to be an affiliate or a sponsored athlete, apply by clicking the link in description. And if you're trying to carry our products in your gyms or your stores, click the link and apply right now. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And until next time, I am out.