 This is one of the most stupid diets I've ever seen in my entire life. Come on, Jeremy, proud to be Canadian, get me into the 51st state of the United States, Canada. Coach Greg, in today's video, is the chicken, broccoli and rice diet the best diet after all? We've all seen bodybuilders eating these diets, but does it actually work? In today's video, Jeremy FA, he's putting it to the test. Does this diet essentially work no matter what? No weighing your food, no tracking calories, eat as much as you want, and if you do, well, you're guaranteed to lose weight. Let's find out. This is the simplest diet where you can eat like a buffet, every meal, no calorie tracking, just crazy fat loss results. Damn. What? That's just my theory. And so my personal opinion is, the answer is yes. I think that if you eat low calorie dense foods like chicken, broccoli and rice, or if you don't like chicken, broccoli and rice, you can eat from my cookbook. You eat as much as you want, and you're going to lose some weight. And why is that? Well, you're going to be full, and if you're full, you're not going to want to eat more calories, and it's as easy as that. Problem is, how many people are going to be able to stick to just eating chicken, broccoli and rice? A zero. A zero. A zero. And our female subject, and her body fat is 31%, which is actually far better than the US average. So both of them are already pretty fit. Jeremy, just because she's not morbidly obese doesn't make her pretty fit. She's 31%, and so she's overweight. Clearly, we can see that. How are you saying she's pretty fit? That's how bad it is in 2026. You can be obese, and people are going to say, yeah, you're pretty fit. She's not a complete sack of shit. She doesn't look disgustingly obese. And so, hey, she's fit. I call it the CPB diet, and it's pretty simple. Just three rules. One, you only eat chicken breast, potatoes, broccoli and carrots, but you can eat as much of these as you want. This is one of the most stupid diets I've ever seen in my entire life. Thankfully, it's only 30 days. I mean, just looking at the rules, how many people want to follow rules? Oh, let's see if the chicken, broccoli and rice diet that it actually works. What special caveats like no liquid calories. Okay, well, that makes sense. I mean, why would we want to drink a bunch of juices and high calorie drinks? No diet sodas. Isn't that the point of having no liquid calories to drink diet sodas? And no artificial sweeteners. How exactly are we supposed to have an enjoyable diet if we can't have the things in it that makes it enjoyable? Does that not make any sense? You can't have a diet Pepsi. You can't get blue lobster. You can't have artificial sweeteners. You can't have anything from my cookbook. Why would you force yourself to stick to a diet that's going to torture you and going to hate it? Does anyone think that this diet is going to last? Let's say it works. I mean, why wouldn't it work? You can only eat four foods chicken breast broccoli carrots and potatoes. Oh, but let me add to that some olive oil because I'm scared of having people on a low fat diet for a month because oh my God hormones. This is a pathetic loser diet that was created by a pathetic loser and decided to make a video about it. And well, it was for video. And so I give him the pass for being a pathetic loser. But hey, it is what it is. The theory behind this boring diet is simple. It's a short reset that's supposed to change how food feels to you. So you stop chasing food for pleasure. Why do people think that these kind of things actually work? A short reset. So your body eats only four foods for a month. It resets itself and it never wants any junk ever after that. That will never work. I mean, already 95% of diets fail and this is going to increase that to 96. If you eat this restrictive, what's going to happen is your body is then after the diets over going to crave everything and everything. If you can stick to it, we are going to get you 10 fully compensated buffets. Do you know how strong your motivation is when you're on TV, when you're on a show and you have 7.5 million people about to watch this? You're going to say, well, I'm going to die and I'm going to die very strong because you're in front of the cameras. People are seeing what you're doing. But once the 30 days is over, the floodgates, they're going to open and you're going to gain all the way back and more. I meal prepped some food for breakfast. I'm going to have some shredded chicken with some carrots and some mashed potatoes. What's in the mashed potatoes? Are we putting in some butter? You can't have some artificial sweeteners. God forbid you have the artificial sweeteners, which have zero calories. But go ahead and have some mashed potatoes, adding in some cream and butter. What a great diet. As expected, Max and Isabel are already struggling early on. But that should slowly subside if they're able to make it through the most difficult first week. You know what would make it really easy to subside? I'm not talking about that massive thing between your pants that you got from taking harder than last time. I'm talking about your hunger subsiding from taking GLP Max. You guys have heard of the GLPs, the peptides and so on. You've seen Oprah trying to convince everyone that obesity is a disease, that you can't control it. It's not your fault. I mean, you don't control what goes into your mouth. You just allow it to get in there. That's what she said. Oh, it's not my fault. I was born to do that. You still have a choice. I'm sorry. The choice is yours. If GLP Max, which reduces your cravings by 20%, it's not strong enough. You can, of course, go to AlgoRx, get various peptides to help reduce your cravings. You can get in Clomiphene, the Cialis, the Viagra, the testosterone, various other things that make you healthier. And of course, you get your blood work. And you know already this is from qualified doctors and its pharmaceutical products. And the prices are lower than ever before. And that's about half the price of Merrick Health. And so unless you're as rich as Oprah Winfrey, I'd suggest you go to AlgoRx, get it for cheap prescription from doctors. And obviously compare it to the other sites to make sure that I'm not some liar, that I'm not just making this shit up, that it's so cheap. And so use code Greg for 10% off. When you keep food simple and you stop constantly switching things up, that reward system, it doesn't get triggered as much. As a result, people naturally eat about 20 to 30% fewer calories. Yeah, we get it. If you're only allowed one food choice, two, three, four, whatever, hardly anything. The grapefruit diet, the only eat this diet, the carnivore diet, the whatever diet you can add. It's easier to lose weight, but you have to stick to that diet. And the part that's hard is sticking to that diet. If you're put into a room, you can't leave and they only bring out one food at a time, you're not going to eat as much as if you have an all you can eat buffet with 200 choices from my frigging cookbook. The difference with my cookbook is there's choices for everything, whatever you want, whether it's fries, burgers, whatever, you get to eat it. And the difference is it's much lower in calories, approximately 50%. And so you can eat bigger food servings, large meal portion sizes, and you're full. You're satisfied and the taste is amazing. And so if you actually want to lose weight and not suffer and only eat four different foods like chicken, broccoli and rice or potatoes, carrots, broccoli and chicken, you got to get the book. Code Greg, 15% off. You gots to get the book. I strongly recommend it. A team of researchers wanted to figure out what foods keep you the fullest for longest. So they gave participants 240 calorie portions of 38 different foods. You know, all I have to do is give them one of my 200 recipes and give them 240 calories worth. And then when they're full, they'd be like, oh, this is better than potatoes. How is it that there's 100 plus recipes better than potatoes in your book? Well, I don't know. Could it be that I spent 30 years on this frigging cookbook that I have dieted for 59 bodybuilding competitions that perhaps I've maybe over the course of decades discovered the best foods that you can eat to help you to lose weight? Oh, no, it couldn't be that. How could coach Greg possibly know more about dieting than a scientist in a lab? Here is how all the food scored. Potatoes absolutely crushed the rankings. Yeah, just as a thought, I don't see anabolic French toast on this list. They tested a bunch of low calorie recipes, but they didn't try mine. I do not see peanut butter. I do not see sloppy Greg in your mouth. I don't see protein pancakes. I don't see any of the pumpkin loaves. I don't see my anabolic risotto. The egg white bites. The lasagna. Yes. If you actually try this book and you make some of the recipes, you don't need to make them all. And remember, this book is so simple. Even an idiot like coach Greg can make these recipes. After all, I did create them. If I can make it, a 16 year old kid can make it, a 20 year old easily can make it. You only need about five. If you get five of these recipes and you continue to eat them, you can eat from the cookbook. You can have your regular meals. You can go to restaurants. You can enjoy having a normal life. You don't have to eat just four Jeremy Afe meals. You don't have to cut out your diet Pepsi and in casks. And in case, and in, and it actually, I encourage you to have more of these, more of the diet Pepsi's, the low sugar sweetened beverages. Eat from the cookbook as often as you want or don't want. And you're going to lose weight. It's that easy. Don't forget to do your cardio 150 minutes of cardio week because the more you do cardio, the better you bet at burning calories. And so the first day you go to the gym for an hour doing cardio, you probably burn 350 calories in an hour. That's going to be probably most of yours limits. Cause you're not fit. You're like this woman who has 31% body fat. You're not fit. You're like average say 350 calories an hour. It's not bad. And actually that's more than she could do. There's no way she's burning 350 calories. But anyway, the average person, perhaps you're a man. 350 calories woman, probably less. And a year from now, you're probably going to burn double that from doing cardio. And so you get to eat more. And so you can have an extra recipe. You can have extra cookie, candy, chocolate bars. I don't care, but you're going to lose weight. And so the secret is you get the cookbook and you do the cardio, try lifting weights once or twice a week. You're going to do so much better than you think. Code Greg 15% off. I made some chicken waffles because she was tired of eating regular chicken. Anyone see the ketchup, but no, you can't have a diet Pepsi. Fucking God. Why would you have a diet Pepsi? You know, because that's going to hurt your hormones. Your freaking. What are those things called? Your gut flora. Something will mess up because you had a stupid caffeine free diet. Kirk and Pepsi. Damn. It's probably not even sugar free ketchup. And so you can have all the condiments. You can fry your potatoes. You can add the olive oil. But boy, oh boy, you don't want to have a diet Pepsi with no freaking calories. Come on, Jeremy. Proud to be Canadian. Get me into the 51st state of the United States. Kirk, Canada. As for the physical results, after just one week, both of their bodies had visually tightened up and their measurements revealed some pretty insane changes. And so one week into the diet, Bro's already down five pounds and she's down 1.8 pounds. And so he's already dieting too quickly. You all know that. If you lose weight too quickly, you can start to lose muscle. This is not what you need. And she's lost 1.8 pounds a week. And so clearly it's working. But imagine if you told them you can eat those four foods and also everything in the cookbook. Add the diet Pepsi that you want and have some blue lobster. Why are you cutting out lobster from their diets? Like how would have eaten the lobster been bad? Oh, you don't want to eat that high protein lobster. Guys, I'm wearing a blue shirt. I have a blue lobster. I'm telling you, you can eat a Smurf and have it too. I've been tracking my weight. I feel like it's not consistently going down, but it's, um, it's like up a pound, down a pound, down two pounds. Like it's just like fluctuates. Yeah, obviously your weight doesn't just continuously go down like this. Has anyone out there, you know, I know she's a female, but has any woman out there invested in the stock market? Do you all know about numbers? Well, when you lose weight, it's like the stock market. It doesn't go down or up every single day. Some days it goes up and some days it goes down. It's kind of like a trend. It generally goes a certain direction. And so if your weight is trending down, you're losing weight. If it's trending up, you're gaining weight. You don't need the stocks to go up every single day in order to make money. If it goes up more days than it goes down, this is good. And so my suggestion, you take your median weight. You don't track the calories. You eat from the cookbook. You eat what you want. You're going to lose weight. You track your weight. Median. The middle number. End of the week. If your weight is down from the previous week, you keep doing what you're doing. If it's up, well, you need to do more cardio. You need to actually eat fewer calories. That's the only tracking that you need to do. You don't need to weigh every single food. You don't have to put it on the gram scale. You don't have to do all the measuring with the tablespoons and the teaspoons and the calories and the adding and all that stuff. It's a lot of work. But how hard is it to step on the scale in the morning? I got up on the scale. I weighed 192.2. That is my weight. Tomorrow, if I'm 191.8, then I write that down. The next day, perhaps I'm 189. And then the day after that, I'm 193. You take the median and every week you compare it. If it's going down, you keep doing what you're doing. And if it's going up, you eat less or you do more cardio. It's guaranteed you're going to lose weight. The goal of this experiment isn't to have them eat this extreme diet forever. It's to reset how their brain responds to food and then gradually move towards a more flexible approach. Why didn't we start them with the cookbook? I mean, this is just moronic. Let's start them on an impossible diet to follow. You know, this diet almost literally is impossible to follow long term. I don't know anyone that's disciplined enough to follow this diet for years. But basically anyone can eat from my cookbook. And so why are we giving them a stupid diet only to say, hey, now that the diet's over, let's give you an actual diet works. The cookbook diet from Coach Greg. And since Isabel absolutely cannot handle another day of chicken for breakfast, I'm letting them add in three different protein options. But there's a catch. They can only choose one. And it's one week into the diet and already they had to add in some extra foods. It wasn't sustainable. One freaking week. Already the diets gotten better for her because she's added in eggs. You see where this is going? If you add in more options, it doesn't make your diet worse or less sustainable or harder to lose weight on. It makes it better because you have foods that you like. And so why don't we add in a few things? You know, hey, week two, let's add this. Eggs. Do you know what else? Would you like some cottage cheese? Zero percent fat. What about some Greek yogurt? Oh, do you know what? Would you like strawberries in your diet? Would that make it better? What about some blueberries? Perhaps some raspberries. Maybe like Jeff Nippa. You know, the science-based lifter who won't take your picture. What about a kiwi? Would you like that? Oh my God, you love asparagus? Let's add that to your diet. And you don't like Diet Pepsi. What about Diet Root Beer? Would you like one of those? And you're not into the blue lobster. Well, why not have Janaki's juice? It's got an amazing green flavor. And it's going to help you to do cardio faster than last time. Do you see where this is going? You've already added in the blue lobster because you're cheating on your diet. And so why don't we just continue on? Just eat from the book. Just eat from the book. Oh, you wanted a snack? Oh, how's your diet now? Oh, you're losing weight. 1.8 pounds per week. And you're eating all those delicious meals. And you love the diet. And you don't want to stop eating like that? Well, could you repeat that for the people in the back not paying attention? Oh, you get to love the diet that you're on with the frigging cookbook meals, the Seco bars, everything, and it works for life. Why wouldn't we follow that diet? Oh my goodness. I don't know. Most people don't realize how many decisions they make around food every single day. But when you repeat the same three or four meals, the decision is already made for you. And that leaves more mental energy and willpower for everything else. I mean, I don't know how Jeremy's gotten to where he's gotten. I mean, he's clearly got some skills, manipulative skills. I don't know, like loser people skills. Like who's all watching Jeremy? I mean, I don't understand this. He's basically saying your diet's better because you don't have choices. You only can eat those four foods. And so rather than going out with your friends to restaurants, family meals, gatherings, Christmas, you just skip all those events because you can't eat. And so if you eliminate choices in your life, your life gets better. What's next? You're going to have your frigging family set up your marriage? Oh, here's an arranged marriage. You're only allowed to go out to this restaurant. Oh, you have to tell the government whenever you want to leave the country. Oh, let's track everything. Let's put a chip. Oh, I know. Why don't you take this vaccine? Where are we going with this? No choices. Hey, your life is better. Welcome to a dictatorship. There's no craving. It's really weird how it's just like become a habit. That's all I eat. It's really weird. It's going to be really weird when this diet ends, you gain all that weight back within a month because your body goes crazy on those 10 frigging all you can eat buffet plans that you've been given. For this week, we're going to add some special ingredients to Isabelle's diet. Oh, I'm very excited. And so two weeks in, they've added a bunch of more foods. You see where this is going? Like, I didn't even pre-watch this video. I just said, I'm just going to press play and I'm going to react to it. And this is what we're seeing. And so the stupid diet the first week, it's getting better because they're adding in more choices. And notice choices that she likes. We're also adding one treat meal per week. In the research world, this is called a planned hedonic deviation. And why don't we just add in a planned cheat each and every week? Did you know that with my clients, you know, I coach people, that they get a planned cheat each and every day? How is it possible though, Greg? Well, because if you need to eat off the cookbook, if you need to go to a restaurant, if you need to have a buffet plan, every single day you can do that because life should be sustainable. You shouldn't have to make changes to how you want to live your life in order to lose weight. There should be a diet out there that accounts for all of these things. My diet, this guy's diet. Do you not think I've coached thousands of athletes? Then I know that in secret they cheat and they don't tell their coach. Why? Because that's what people do. And so you have to allow these people to eat these things. And it isn't called a cheat. It's called in my book, an off meal plan. Do you want sushi? Do you want Chinese food? I don't care because it's on your diet plan and it's not cheating. It's part of your plan. We account for everything. And remember, if you're interested in getting coaching, of course, you click the link in the description. You're going to lose weight. Keep it off for the rest of your life. That's what it's all about. A sustainable diet that you don't like. Why would I want you to like your diet? Like Gordon Ramsay would say, you would love it. If you don't love your diet, you're going to go on to something that you do love. Think of it. If you don't love your charmuta, do you really think you're going to stick with her for the rest of your life? You kind of like her. It's all right. She's not bad. She's a seven out of ten. How long are you sticking with that? I think it would make it harder because it would distract you. Honestly, I feel totally fine. I feel like it's been easy just to kind of get back into routine again today. And so for him, you know, this is a slippery slope for her. She's like, no, no, no, no. I need this variety. This is why every diet has to be customized to you. You're an individual. You're different than everyone. No one diet fits all. Luckily, research suggests that as long as your diet is short, protein stays high, and you're training hard using a solid program, then you should be able to maintain your muscle even with rapid weight loss. No, that's not going to happen unless you're adding in steroids. If you're losing weight twice as fast as you should, you're not eating enough calories and your muscles are going to shrink. If you're laying down on a mat thinking about your diet instead of training, you're not going to keep the muscles that you once had. Now, if you're going to try to convince me that the DEXA scam is going to be some kind of proof that he hasn't or has lost any muscle, it's a DEXA scam. We can't believe that. And if you're going to convince me this guy's natural, I'm also not going to believe that. Unless I'm seeing some blood work taken during this 30 day fast or whatever you want to call it. I don't believe that this bro is actually natural. And so if he didn't lose any muscle, I think he perhaps sprinkled in a lot more than Turk Builder Max. Although that most certainly would help. Of course, the GO2 Max would help. I would say if he's losing weight this quickly and not losing any muscle at all, he's on more than Turk Builder Max, which you already have. I know you already have bought it. And so please keep rebuying it. Don't remember. And don't forget code Greg for 15% off all you guys. You've already bought it. Just keep rebuying it. And thank you yet again. What's the first thing that you're going to eat after this? I think I'll have a steak and a fruit because I haven't had fruit in a very long time. And so imagine the first thing you're craving off of your diet. The diet is now over. It's going to be something you could have been eating on your diet all along. Are you starting to get it now? In the last 30 days, you lost five pounds of fat. Oh, okay. And your body fat went from 31% down to 28%. I think it's reasonable. 3% drop in body fat increased to half a pound of muscle in a month. Although it's a DEXA scam. So it's basically guessing. I do think that she could have done this 1% per week. That's about the maximum that you could lose. And so she's losing about three quarters of a percent per week. And so to me, this does in fact make sense. And so it works out to being in a daily deficit of around 600 calories. For a man, it's not really all that much, but for a female, it is kind of a lot. And so I would just say, try not to continue to lose weight this quickly. Slow it down a bit. The slower you lose the weight, the more likely you're going to keep it off. In the last 30 days, you lost 14 pounds of fat. Wow. 14 pounds of fat. That works out to a daily deficit of 1600 calories. How many people think he was eating 1600 calories of deficit each and every day? I don't believe that to be true. Was he just not eating the chicken, potatoes and the vegetables? I don't believe that this happened. I believe he didn't lose 14 pounds. And of course it was from a DEXA scam. And so we don't really know how much he actually lost. You were at 12.9%. Whoa. 12.9%. You discovered something. That's insane. This is a breakthrough in science. The breakthrough in science is that the DEXA scams are wrong. I mean, we've even had Mike Isertel prove that this is in fact incorrect. And so, hey, if you don't expect it to go down that much, what did Mike Isertel say? You know, Mr. Mike said, go and try a different DEXA scam and then pick the one that most likely represents what you think that you actually are. And so that's how accurate a DEXA scam is. You have to do multiple DEXA scams because they don't actually scan you per se. They use an algorithm to guess what your body fat percentage is. Did you know that? I don't think you did. And so when Jeff Nippa, the science-based grifter, when he shows you a bunch of pictures of people's body fat percentages, these are actual body fat percentages. You all know that it's a scam. It's a lie. And so you can't believe what it's showing. And so, for example, when Mepsagram, you know, my girlfriend, when she had 13.8%, she didn't actually have 13.8%. And when Alex Eubank had 15%, it wasn't actually that high. My girlfriend is not leaner than Alex Eubank. She's not fat, but she's not shredded like Alex. And so you can believe these things if you want. You can continue to go down the science-based bullshit, or you can listen to Coach Greg. I honestly did not think that was possible. I don't think that was possible either. Isn't it awesome? I didn't think it was possible. I didn't think you could do that. Me neither. I didn't think so. Rather than saying, you know, maybe the DEXA scam got it wrong. They just say, yeah, well, I guess you did it. Because, you know, a DEXA scam guessed that you did. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the out of them. Like the video if you liked it. Get from Al Gorex as well as visit the HTLT website. And if you're an athlete, especially if you have a larger following, we want to sponsor you. And so please apply by clicking the link in the description. And if you've got a store or a gym and you want to carry all these amazing supplements, you can see them in your gym or store. Click the link and we gots to get you hooked up. And until next time, I am out.