Not many 21-year-olds look like that. If you had told me this is a 21-year-old on steroids, I would say, "Well, obviously look at how good he looks." Wicks, bro. Let's compare him to the man same age on steroids. Are you seeing this? Coach Greg. In today's video, I want to highlight a guy that many of you are going to say is a fake natty. And no, it isn't Hussein Far Hat. It's none other than Toyiton. This guy is a black natural athlete just like Seabbum. The only difference is he's actually black and he's actually natural. He's 5'10", 183 lbs, sub 5% body fat while being natural, weighing 183 and 12 pounds. He's been training for about six years and he looks incredible and that is why he's now a WNBF pro and I do believe he could beat many people who are in fact not natural. The small waist, the flared thighs, the wide shoulders, and incredible muscle bellies. And you might be thinking, come on, how is it possible that this guy's natural? I mean, if people can't believe that Hussein Farad is natural, remember, Hussein's 5' 11 1/2. That's about an inch and a half taller than this guy and weighed 166 lb. This guy's 183. And so, for his height and his size, it's absolutely incredible. And so, of course, many people are going to say he's a fake natty, but when you're actually natural, like Hussein Farhat, that is the ultimate compliment. I mean, can you imagine a compliment better than that? There's no way I believe that you're natural. And you you know that you are. Now, was he in fact drug tested at the WNBF competition? Yes, he was. And so you're thinking, "Yeah, but you could just come off." Yep, you could. But on show day, he looked his best ever. When you come off cycle, what happens is you lose muscle going into the competition. And so, for example, if you have to hop off couple months before the competition, what you're going to notice is your muscle's going to slowly decline as you get closer and closer to the competition. Broly improved. Now, on top of that, he actually did a lie detector test. And remember, this is the same federation who Will Tyson was drug tested in and earned his IPB pro card. Now, as great as Will is, and he's about 31 years of age, this kid is 10 years younger. And so, he has 10 years of less training under his belt. And I do believe he would absolutely destroy Will Tedon. Will Tennyson has a great physique, but this kid's physique, it's even better. I believe that I had amazing genetics, and when I was in my 20s, there's no way I believe that I would have beat this guy's physique. He looks incredible. And in case you're wondering, at 21 years of age, I competed in the 140s. This guy is 183. Over a week before the competition, he was hovering around 82 to 83 kg. And on stage day, he actually weighed a little bit more. I know many of you are going to say he just beat the drug test or he used inclapene or used peptides or something. They don't work that well. You're not going to increase muscle mass while getting ready for competition. And the drug tests are going to catch you if you're actually using products on competition day. You can't just use them in low doses and expect to pass the test. And so I personally, despite the fact that I have zero credibility, I think that he's 100% natural. out catabolic twigs and so on. These guys are going to say there's no way that he's natural. I mean, after all, he has more muscle than they do. And so, if you have more muscle than they do, they're going to say that you're a fake natty. And why? Because, well, that's the narrative that you like. You like to hear that if somebody looks better than you, that they must be a cheater. There's guys with amazing genetics. For example, one in a million genetics. This is what you're going to get. Or perhaps you're not. Perhaps this is one in 10 million. Maybe it's one in a 100red million. But there are guys out there that can do this. And so I want you to use this as motivation, as inspiration that if you keep working and you try, you can do something amazing. Now, Hussein, no offense to him, his physique is not even close to the quality of this man. Hussein in the upper body, perhaps he could compete with this guy. He has a very small waist, a wide shoulders. He has an incredible look. But check out Bro's quads. Check out the detail. He had strided glutes and he's only 21. And so his genetics, they're amazing. And so he writes me and says he's not sure, but when he first started training, I was in the high60s, as in about 150 lbs. He then went on an aggressive bulk to start. He's saying he can send pictures. And he says before 2020, he only was training by doing push-ups. When I see him posing, the first thing I notice is he doesn't have gynecomastia. That is be before he started training. There are teenagers, for example, Hussein, who showed me photos of himself when he was younger. He had g a little bit before he even started training. It's just something that perhaps up to 5% of people have even without using performance enhancing drugs. And so, you can't just look at his nipples at 15 or 16 years of age and say, "Oh, bro is on summ steroids." even at an early age. I don't believe that to be true. You don't have to believe me. I'm just telling you what I think. Remember, I don't lie. I tell you what I think. And if I thought he was on steroids, I would tell you. And so, what you notice is he doesn't really have a lot of muscle. He does have decently wide shoulders and he does have a small waist, but there's nothing extra special. He doesn't look like our friend Julian before he started training. I do see a hernia in the belly button. You can see it popping out. That's also genetic. I had a hernia when I was four years of age was in the hospital and so doesn't mean that he's taking anything. These were both September 2020 and so that's 5 years ago. He's 16 in these photos. I do believe at 16 years of age I likely had a better physique than he did. I'm not sure. I'm not trying to brag, but I'm just saying that his genics are very, very good. And since the age of 16, he has made amazing level of improvements. He's both leaner and bigger all at the same time. And so perhaps he was at 150 lb, 9% body fat. And five, six years later, he's 183 lb at perhaps five or even less percent body fat. And so he's 16 years of age in all these photos and videos. He's looking amazing and standing there 5' 10 around 150 lb. And considering he's the same height and now 183 lbs, he's added 33 lb and gotten leaner all at the same time. Let's now look at his Instagram. As we swipe through the photos, he's got the sword in the air. Look at the smallness of the waist, the massive quads, the definition, the greatl looking biceps, and every pose is better than the last. Got Pac-Man arm, crazy massive quads, big calves, and a ton of detail. I mean, not many 21-year-olds look like that. If you had told me this is a 21-year-old on steroids, I would say, well, obviously, look at how good he looks. Licks, bro, out of context. Hold Coach Grass. >> First off, how does it feel to hear that? >> It feels surreal and it's u it's just a surreal feeling like I've never really achieved this level of success and it makes me know that there's a career here in the future for me with bodybuilding, especially in the natural space. >> Amazing. So, at the WNBF, we always like to emphasize keeping the sport clean. How have you felt about that throughout your journey with us here? >> Uh, it's been a good process dealing with rigorous drug uh drug testing and polygraphing prior to even competing and I feel like that's made sure that the standard of natural bodybuilding is high and elite while making sure everything is clean and true. >> Amazing. Now, you are now a pro. What does the future hold for you? You are so young. The future is massively bright. I'm sure everyone will agree with me there. We have got our pro class out in Worlds. Is it something that you're going to think about? >> Worlds. Worlds is very interesting to me. Originally, my prep was meant to end in October, but I feel like we can make it work in November for the Worlds. I feel like, yeah, I'm going to talk to my coach more season. >> I would 100% recommend that he takes this time to just end on a high note. He says worlds are in November pro worlds. Remember, he just won classic physique overall as an amateur 21-year-old. So, why rush the process? Wait, give yourself a year, and come back bigger and leaner than ever before. You're on a high. The dopamine is strong, but you are also 100% natural. It's hard to maintain that conditioning for two, perhaps even more months. That is a long process. You've already been dieting for several weeks. Why not go back, perhaps bulk up to 10 or 12% body fat, and start the diet next year? Imagine if this guy were on performance-enhancing drugs. I mean, doesn't he look like he's not natural? I mean, I'm just saying what you all are thinking. You're thinking this is how you would look with performance-enhancing drugs. 99 out of 100 guys with steroids will not look this good. And so, you're thinking, well, how is it possible did it natural? Cuz he has one in 10 million genetics. That is how it's done. Now, if you want to see what he perhaps might look like, let me show you another 21-year-old so that you can wrap your head around how impossibly good people can get with steroids if they already have amazing genetics. Feast your eyes on this guy, 21 years of age, same age as this guy, and you're thinking this guy has to be on steroids. No way he's natural. Let's compare him to the man same age on steroids. And so, Camilo, are you seeing this? 21 years of age, the small waist, the flared thighs, crossstations, vasis mediialis, lateralis, massive upper body, wide shoulders, thickness, striated glutes, top to bottom. Looks like Ronnie Coleman, a young Ronnie. What is going on? How does he have this much muscle? Even the calves are huge. Spreads out to the back. Double bicep. It looks phenomenal. What in the world is happening? And so if you want to say that this other man has to be not natty, there's no way. Well, explain this guy. How? What? I just saw him doing a zippered up quad. Looks like Jay Cutler. He's 21 Juan. Juan whipped cream. What is And so clearly this guy is not a black natural athlete. He is in fact black, but the natural part is in question. And if we look at this, 5 years ago, I had highlighted Quinton Beast mode as having the world's greatest genetics. And I thought he would be amazing in men's classic physique. He decided to go open because, well, who doesn't want to go open? Just went open. And wait a minute, Ers just beat him twice in a row in men's open. That was his main competition. And so defeated World's Greatest Genetics by a little bit, perhaps by a lot, but he got second twice. And so perhaps what world's greatest genetics Quinton IRA needs to do is drop down into classic physique moved up in the open. He could drop back down to classic physique. But imagine this guy in classic physique. He's 21. And so Camilo huge potential certain he'll be an IFBB Pro or Titon. And so my opinion is Titon has equally good genetics to this man. He's just natural. And so that's the difference. And so if Camilo were natural, perhaps he would be about as good as this guy. perhaps not as good. I don't know. I don't know exactly his doses, what he's taking, and for how long, but I don't believe the other guy, Camila, is actually natural. This man, he went a lie detector and urine analysis test. And so, unless the test comes back and says that he fails, I got to take him for his word. I mean, he's been preaching about being natural. He's entering drug tested natural organizations. And so, what more do you want from him? He can only do so much. If you don't believe that he's natural, that's your own prerogative. If that somehow makes you feel better about your life, then I say believe that. You know, whatever makes you happier. Twiton, he doesn't care. If you say he's a fake natty, it's a compliment. I'm sure that despite the fact that you might think I've lost all credibility, I bet Toyiton believes in me. If I thought he was a fake natty, I would say so. The fact that he's passing drug tests that he's entering drug tested competitions. The fact that he looks natural, that he had a little bit of gyno, but it was before his training. To me, that's natural. I don't see horrendous acne in the same way as when I look at Hussein Farad. I don't see horrestics acne. Hussein had some gyno of which he had when he was a child. And so, you can't dock him for that. And oh, look at Hussein's before, after, and after transformation. The catabolic twig said he put all of his muscle on in 18 months. We now have footage, photos specifically 18 months after he was training. Guess what he weighed? 164 164 lbs. Look at him spotting that man. Does that look like he's as big as he is right now? Now remember when he first started some people they showed a photo of when he was 15. That was eight years ago. He hadn't been training. He's about 6 in shorter. He's a child. That is not the amount of muscle that he put on in the first 18 months. The photo with the long hair standing there, you know that one, the video gamer, that's his starting photo where he weighed about 134 lbs. That's just the truth. And so he put on 30 lbs of muscle in 18 months. Phenomenal. That's incredible. And so, yeah, I understand why you would doubt that he's natural, but if he was on PDS then and went off, how do you explain him continuing to put on 20 pounds of muscle while being blood work tested and lie detectorred at the same time? Oh, he hasn't put on any size. Look at the photo. 184 and he's looking very much shredded. Close to 10% body fat. And so, explain that. Explain putting 30 lbs of muscle in 18 months and then 20 lbs in the next 2 years after that. That seems like normal progression. The first year he gained the most. The next year gain a bit less. Next year a bit less. And it continues to go down. He hasn't peaked. He hasn't regressed. And so you all are coping. And if you continue to cope, you can leave. You can write comments. I don't believe you. I don't believe Hussein. You cannot buy my supplements including Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum. And you can choose to use Derek's supplements. Perhaps he's still selling that uh cyanosis. You know that thing he says is turquestone a juga turkistanica where he has the molecule on the bottle where he lied where I have receipts where I don't see any lawsuits. Why have I said this 10 times and no one's suing me? I mean if I didn't have chain of custody proof proving everything I said. Why would I say it if I knew I could get sued? Really? You think I would take that risk? And so if you want to make the gains code Greg 15% off. And so certainly guys like Titon who are 100% natural, if he ever hits a peak, this would be the supplement that he should then take next. And of course, while dieting could benefit from Gest Platinum as well as Go2 max. And of course, if you're dieting, struggling with hunger cravings, and so on, GLP max reduce cravings by 28%. Enter code Greg for 15% off. And if you want to get your blood work taken, or you're interested in taking stronger prescription medications, Algo RX can do this right to you. They have doctors to prescribe them legally. So if you're interested in Seialis, Viagra, Telmosertin, includ 10% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And of course, if you're interested in the cookbooks, the Circle Diet book, this is the book for you. The lose weight 200 recipes. You're probably going to find five or 10 that are your favorites. You're going to use those for the rest of your life. Help you to lose weight and keep it off. Code Greg, 15% off. And if you're interested in being coached by myself, apply by clicking the link in the description. Subscribe. Click the bell button. comments was really like the video like it. Watch the blues and till next time.