 naringin,wegsi. R It's where I go from this baseline natural physique to one of the best physiques on the internet. Following the posting of my video Connor he quickly posted a comment of which he later deleted. In the comment he basically was saying you know why didn't you reach out to me in private? Why would you make a video? Does he not know how Coach Greg works? I do this about everyone. Now, I did see the screenshot and he said I hadn't talked to him since December. Well, Connor, January 18th, you asked me to go over your blood work. We had that conversation. And so I don't know why you would have posted we hadn't talked since December. But I stand by every single comment that I made in that video. The main one being that fitness influencing, it's essentially dead that we have a bunch of degenerates doing degenerate type things. And they go viral. And that's who we're all listening to. Case in point, what you just did. It's so funny, the academy like stance when people like always go like this. A little bit shaky. You also mentioned that you were upset that I had said that you'd lost all of that muscle in 30 days, that it was actually in four months. And so I stand corrected. Connor lost all his muscle in four months. It wasn't one. Connor admittedly is on performance enhancing drugs. He doesn't lie about this. He's open, honest, transparent. And so can I really fault him? Of course not. He's doing exactly what many other fitness influencers are doing, which is abusing recreational drugs, promoting degeneracy. Many are promoting gambling. I don't believe that he is. I hope he's not. Perhaps he is. Whatever. And they're getting viral clips. For example, him high on vitamin K, falling over, acting like an imbecile. And it allows him to go viral. So my career as a fitness influencer might be over. Of course it's not over. It's going to go even stronger. You really think that acting moronic, doing stupid type shit makes your fitness career over? This is what launches your fitness career. I mean, if anything, it's almost as if he planned and or staged this. Perhaps it's not staged. I don't care. It all comes out the same. Because of this, he's now launched his ascension. Bro's probably just going to take a bunch of steroids. Well, this is me falling down high as balls on stream. I just got out of jail, found God. But after a few weeks of prayer, I go back to my old way. Even worse, maybe. I'm hanging out with a dude who hits his face with a hammer. An academy dealer who dressed as Hitler for Halloween. When I started this shit, my goal was never to be some role model or authority. I simply wanted to make people laugh. But honestly, when I was in that K-hole, I was doing a little bit of reflecting. And you know what? I think I realized that I could use my platform for a lot more than just being a f*** clown, to be honest. A lot of you guys were inspired by my fitness journey, and I plan to bring that back. But the thing is, that stuff is a little bit boring. And I've always had this compensatory drive to do more, be seen more. And I'll do anything for the best clip. You see where I'm getting? That stuff is boring. Who wants to see a guy lock in and just train harder than last time? Tell you to put the fork down, do your cardio. People are not going to watch Bro Who's Natural and say, Hey, I'm going to main game for four months. And then at the end, show their transformation and say, Hey, I put on 1.3 pounds of muscle. People are like, so what? They want to see a dramatic before and after. They want to see so much muscle that they can't believe it. You're not going to do that by using Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum. What, you think I was going to lie? If you use this, you're going to have 15 pounds of muscle in a couple of months? It's not trend. Guys, it's natural. Now, of course, obviously, it's better than creatine. And so if you like creatine, it's better than that. But it's not trend. It's not testosterone combined with EQ. It's not a full-blown cycle. It's also natural. It's safe. And if it doesn't work, you get a money-back guarantee and a $50 gift card. And so what do you have to do? It's Code Greg, 15% off. When your job is to go viral, it feels very rational to do f***ed up shit in the moment. How do you think Togi got all of his fame? By saying stupid, moronic shit. Same as clavicular and also a lot like Connor. But what good is the money and the fame? If this is how you're achieving it. I think it's just as good. It's the same money. You're achieving money and fame by doing vitamin K. What if you were doing alcohol? Is it really any different to drink alcohol than to do vitamin K? Has Connor not kinda, maybe a little bit promoted alcohol in the past? Connor and Shands Bra, did they not get blackout drunk going to parties, frat boy parties where girls are popping their pussies and so on? I'm pretty sure I've seen them drunk in various videos, drinking, slurring their speech. And so if you drink alcohol and you watch Connor walking around looking like a zombie, how are you any different? I mean, aside from the fact that alcohol is legal and vitamin K is not, one isn't worse than the other. I could make an argument that alcohol is far worse. Pretend I'm you in the future going back in time to tell you what to do and what not to do. That is literally, well, no, it's metaphorically what I'm doing. I'm your future and wiser self looking out for you when you were younger. And so if you're 25, listen to me and I'm 50, I'm telling you what to do as a 25 year old. Please listen, pay attention. When I actually look at the clip, I don't regret it and I'm not embarrassed by it. And so why would he regret it? It went viral. More eyeballs. He can then say, I'm on a redemption arc. I'm not going to do that anymore. I have more people paying attention. Come follow me. Why would he regret that? You think clavicular regrets doing math? You think clavicular regrets driving over that guy? You think he regrets injecting people with Botox, gluing the fat cells into their faces and saying all the dumb ass shit he's been saying? Is he dead? I don't know. Hopefully. Why would he regret any of it? If Colgate loses his life savings on black, why would he care? Because now he's a multi-millionaire. The money will keep on coming. And so regardless if he's promoted hundreds of thousands of people to gamble, to make gambling cool, to make losing money cool, to make depression cool, you can't promote gambling without bad things happening. Yeah, he can donate some of his money to charity. He can do nice things. He can be a funny and laughable guy. But in the end, he's promoting gambling. And so is it better than promoting alcohol? Perhaps. Is it better than promoting vitamin K, degeneracy? It all rolls up into one. I was loopy for about an hour and then I was fine. If you've ever been too drunk, you've done the same. And so you can't judge him for acting like a sloppy drunk, but just being on something different. It's the same shit. Only it's not the same shit. But it's the same. Doing drugs on stream, it's just not my call. What is the difference between doing drugs on stream and doing trend test a whole bunch of drugs to get a physique like that? Where is it different? Now, remember, I'm in Canada. And so I'm allowed to be a hypocrite. Steroids are legal in Canada. I can go to my friend's house and pick up some D-ball, some testosterone and some trend and say to my own family doctor, I decided 140 milligrams of testosterone a week. It's not enough. I'm A-50-year-old coach, Greg. My views are not as high as they were last year. And I want to go viral. I'm going to compete against Sam Sulik. I'm going to get on all the tests, all the drugs. And I'm going to make every video talking about how much I'm blasting. Listen, let's start with 700 tests, 700 trend, and let's go from there. And so every day I flex the biceps and I'm getting bigger. I'm doing this. The testicles are moving up and down. Vascularity running through. Perhaps my voice goes down a few octaves. Who knows? We don't know. And so I take the drugs and I transform. I ascend. And I can promote all the supplements in the world and say, look at me, I'm in my 50s and look how jacked I am. Perhaps I go and hang out with Clavicular and Connor. I do some vitamin K, perhaps do a lot of math. And those clips go viral and even more people follow Coach Greg. This is the secret to going viral as a social media influencer. And so to be a fitness influencer, you have to do everything but fitness. You really think it would be healthy for me to abuse performance enhancing drugs, take test trend, put on 15 pounds of muscle for your own amusement? Of course not, but you would love to see it. Think about it. So to make sure I have the most epic lock in of all time, I'm starting a series. Jail to Jack. Jail to Jack has a better ring than jail to no longer a degenerate, no longer using drugs, no longer using steroids, and just being healthy. How many people think would watch Connor join HTLT's bike racing team and just ride bikes and become an average bike rider? Probably not so epic. Now, even if he became one of the best bike riders in the world, less views than if he continues to do vitamin K or perhaps instead of that, he does vitamin trend and some tests and puts on 30 pounds of muscle. Any amount of drugs, and remember, steroids are drugs. Are we just overlooking that? But I'm locking in on drugs that alter the mind. How is that good? How are we celebrating this? But more people are going to love it. More people are going to follow his channel. And the fitness influencing will continue. What will be the ramifications? More people will see this. They'll think, wow, you know, Connor, he went to jail, did some drugs. If I bring in a whole kilo of Coca-Cola and end up in prison for 10 years, and I come out, I can make the best video of all time. I mean, wasn't there a rapper that has one eye blind? And then he just sang a rap song. Didn't he just get out of jail? Hasn't this already happened? The more degeneracy people do, the more they stand out from doing stupid, viral, crazy shit, the more chance they're going to have to go viral. The people who say harder than last time, slow and steady gains, lock in and be consistent. And year after year, you're going to get more muscle and less fat. And let's become better butter burners. No one's watching that. And so, frankly, I'm surprised any of you are even watching me. I don't do a bunch of crazy shit. Perhaps I say a little bit of crazy stuff. But is it really crazy? I'm just speaking the truth. And so thank you for watching me for this long. Hopefully, you will continue. Hopefully, you see I'm giving valuable information. And that we're not completely dead. The world continues to want to watch actual fitness influencing, convincing you to not do the horrible things to your body and to live a long and healthy life. It's where I go from this baseline natural physique to one of the best physiques on the internet. Did he just say baseline natural physique? Now, I'm going to cover this quickly. You're not natural if you've done steroids in the past. It would be like me saying, hey, my baseline natural physique, because my HRT is only 140 milligrams a week, and my testosterone levels on my last blood work was 850 nanograms per deciliter. And so I'm in the normal reference range, and so I'm natural. Guys, he's not going from baseline natural. He's going from baseline slightly enhanced. Let's call him a half natty at best. And so do we really want to see him put on 20 or 30 pounds of muscle from taking steroids? I want to see him stay natty. I want to see what he can do without performance enhancing drugs, or perhaps just stay on HRT. Now, remember, if you are looking for HRT, perhaps just in clobifine, some Cialis, some Viagra, telmosartan, glutathione, various peptides to help you to lose weight. Get your blood work done. Get all the stuff from Algorx, and be sure to use code Greg for 10% off to save even more money than last time. Cheaper than Merrick Health. About half price. And so if you believe in Merrick Health, Algorx is better. Better service, better quality. Pharmaceutical, doctors, the owners of Algorx used to work for Merrick Health. I don't even know if they're allowing me to say this. Perhaps it's a secret. They were the ones that did it all. And so if you want to know the brains behind the operation, and you want to go to Algorx, because they felt bad on how many people could not afford to pay these ridiculous prices, you go to Algorx, and you thank me later. Remember, half price. Now, if you're a rich millionaire and the whole thing, you don't need deals, don't go to Algorx. You can go to Merrick Health. I'll plug them right now. Merrick Health, great company. They're going to give you what you need. The problem is it's double the price of Algorx. There you have it. And so if you're interested in Algorx, you go to Algorx. If you're interested in HLT supplements, of course you can get supplements there. GLP Max, for example, 28% less hungry. You take pills, you just swallow it, and you're less hungry, and you lose some weight. Is it going to get you shredded? No. Is it going to get you leaner? Yes. What are you looking for? I'm saying halfway there. You got 50 pounds to lose, you lose 25. Hey, that's enough. Do your best, maintain, maintain, and we'll go from there. If you've got a major following, you're a fitness influencer, we want to sponsor you so that we can promote HLT to the rest of the world. Also, if you own a store or you have a gym, you want to get these supplements into your store gym, click the link and apply. As well as I have coaching, I'm still coaching. Myself, just me, one-on-one, as well as me and my team, depending on those different pricing packages, apply by clicking the link. Subscribe, click bell button, comment, algorithm, boost, videos, two, watch, one. Next time, get the freaking cookbook before it's too late. It's never too late. Just get it now so that I can make more money before it's too late, before I make more. The more money I make now, I invested it and it goes up and then I become richer than last time. Get Coach Greg to billionaire status and until next time, I am out. Pop.