Larry Meals right now. And so apparently it's now Larry Meals. What is actually going on right now? Larry, you're heavy enough. Stop eating 270. Larry Wheels meets up with Jeff Nippard in Toronto to film a workout and Larry learns nothing other than how to get a proper tag. Greg Ducet going to drop a 1hour video on this to pay his rent. more like six 20inute videos, 12 10 minute videos cuz of ad revenue. Turk is not doing the best. Haha. Turk is not doing the best yet I sold out in 18 minutes before even going live. Do you know how many millions of dollars I'm leaving at the table because I can't procure enough? I'm literally scouring the globe. Do you not see Tlug going out to every country out there? Going to Italy. I'm out in Rome, Naples. Where the hell else did I go? Malta with the prime minister making deals. He makes the gyms free for 6 months to people of 17 1819 and I give him some tea. It's how we roll. If you do want to get Turk builder, you got to get on that VIP list. You get a text message. It's going to come right to you and you're going to be like, I got to buy it in under 18 minutes. Jeff Nippard says, "Hey, you just competed. How is the rebound going?" I had like six burgers in like 3 days. He's not joking. Damn. So, Larry Po show, are you just like sending it with the calories and just eating whatever getting huge? And so, how are you telling the eating of burgers and so on? Are you sending it? Oh, I'm sending it already. The last competition he gained 53 lbs in 2 days. He went up to 285. It's been 12 hours and he's 270. I'm sending it until I get back home to my wife and she tells me to stop. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Fair enough. I'm sending it until I get home to my wife who then tells me to stop. Is that gregging his ducet or larrying his wheels? Perhaps I'll call Larry wheels and then wish him good night next time. And so Larry, yes. How you doing? I don't know about that one. I just wishing you a good night. Stop it. Yeah. Are you alone? Yes. No, that's good. Is it fun for you? Are you having fun? Hell yeah having fun. I had like 30 cookies in the last few hours. That's sick. He had 30 cookies in the last few hours. And I don't think he's talking about call girls. I'm thinking it's actual cookies. 30 is a lot, Larry. Sometimes a cookie, depending on where you get it from, I have like 100, 300 calories. Sometimes 500. I mean 800 if it's from uh crumble cookie. Hopefully it's not 30 crumble cookies. Hopefully they're just like Oreos, like the 65 calorie ones. But that's a lot. That's more than you need. And so right after a show, you're not supposed to do this. This is not what you're supposed to do. We thought you'd learned from your very first competition. You're now a pro, Larry. You shouldn't be doing this. I legit in the last show went from 232 to 285 in 2 days. And he told me, "I'm never doing that again." And then here I am at 270 12 hours later. He doesn't learn. The coach is literally with him. He said, "I'm never doing that again." He went up to 285 lbs in 2 days. He's 270. It's been 12 hours. And how is he already in Toronto with Jeff Nippard 12 hours after the competition? Did he literally just fly out to meet with Jeff Nippard? I mean, he clearly hasn't washed off his proper tan. What is actually going on right now? Larry, you're heavy enough. Stop eating 270. And I thought I was taking it easy. Like, oh, I only had You did a water cut though, too, right? Or I did a pretty substantial water cut. Yeah. So, a lot of that is not real weight gain. It's just getting back to baseline, I'm sure. Right. It's definitely a lot of water. I mean, I'm sure I got like a mother. And so, he's saying, "Look, it's not just water. It's food, water. It's everything. I'm swollen. He's rolling up his pant leg. He's got edema yet again." But like, I don't really in your upper body anyway. I don't I don't really see it like the midsection a little bit, but like you still look quite dry to me. Like, I wish that was You honestly look like you could be between like prejudging a night show type thing to me. I don't know. I don't know about that one. Larry's being glazed harder than a Will Tennyson donut. Oh, you look good. You look like prejudging to the finals. Larry's like, I don't know about that. I'm literally 270 now, bro. I've eaten 30 cookies in the last 2 hours. Six cheeseburgers. I'm up a bazillion pounds. Honestly, like just your arms and everything. Like they just they I think the arms get the retention last. Keeps on glazing. I mean, is Larry Wheels sponsored by his nutrition app? Macroofactor. Perhaps he's glazing him so that he'll use his macroofactor app while calculating his calories. Code Jeff for two weeks free. I think arms get the retention last. Okay, fair enough. The first to go and spill over is the midsection. Fair enough. Lower back, quads. That makes sense. Arms are the last to go. And so he says basically that I've spilled over everywhere except for my arms. I mean, this is true. You don't carry a lot of water from the heart. It doesn't pull down into the legs. It doesn't really go to the arms. So, hear me out. The water starts to pull down here. It rarely goes up there. It's down there into the ankles. And so, the belly, the lower back, the quads, the calves, the cankles. That's where he's carrying the water. Here, I'm going to do a set of 20. Damn. 20. Yeah. And are we doing these bodybuilding style or Larry Wheels style? Oh, no. It's bodybuilder style all the way for Larry. Larry Meals right now. And so apparently it's now Larry Meals. It used to be Larry Wheels of which he doesn't have the wheels. He's going to have to start training them. I'm still telling you, Larry, you need to train like Eric Janicki. You need to meet up with him. He needs to put you into one of his crazy leg training sessions because that's all that you're missing. The battle between Larry Wheels and Sam Sulic is going to come down to does Larry build up his quads? If he doesn't, Sam's going to win. If he does, Larry's going to win. And so, Larry, what do you have to lose? I'll tell you what, your dignity, pride, and self-respect. Hire Eric Janicki and build up the legs. Show the legs. They're doing this science-based workout thing while this is all going on, the yapping that's going on about the having the proper tan and stuff. And what it comes to realize is that it doesn't really matter how you train. As long as you want it bad enough and you want it bad enough and train hard, you're going to make almost the exact same gains. Whether you train higher reps or lower reps or fast tempo or slower tempo or pause reps or not pause reps, train like Eric Janicky, train like Coach Greg, train like Larry Wheels, all of the ways they work, maybe there's a 10% difference between them. Now, aside from the genetics and of course using a [\h__\h] ton of steroids, it's just a matter of really wanting it. And if you really want it, you'll research and you'll figure out what to do. You watch Jeff Nippard, you'll do what he does, maybe Mike Isertell, maybe Coach Greg, maybe all of us, but it'll work because you have the genetics and you tried hard enough. There's no answer to that question. And so whether or not they slow the rep tempo down and the angle's 30° for the incline, remember they're trying to work the upper pecs. Larry goes work his upper pecs. Whatever they do, it's going to make a difference of maybe 10%. He needs to want it. want it bad enough to do something about it. Now, perhaps he's not training his legs hard enough, but if he wants it bad enough, he'll figure out a way. It'll just naturally happen. And so, that is my advice. In my opinion, these reps are not great. This doesn't look like science-based lifting. He's lifting the reps 3/4 of the way up. He's not going at a 2cond speed. Jeff in the start of the video said each rep should take between 2 and 8 seconds. If you time these reps, none of them are 2 seconds or longer. And so this is not science-based lifting, but they're acting like it is. But you know what? None of it matters. I believe that if he does 1 second reps, as long as he goes hard, he's going to make the gains. You want a pair of guys of solid wrist wraps, elbow wraps, belts, and more? PR lifestyle.com. And don't forget, if you're looking for the wrist wraps, the belts, all the powerlifting equipment that you could ever want, go to prlifefestyles.com. Just don't eat the 30 cookies while you're at it. Let's get it. Come on. Grind time. One thing that these guys are missing, it's in fact Turk Builder Max. I'm sure Mepsogram knew this. Jeff, you're trying to make some gains. You're trying to diet down to single-digit body fat, but yet you're not using the best possible supplements in 2025. Remember, this is it. If there's 10 tiers, 20 tiers, 100 tiers, this is at the top. The best of the best, there is no supplement better. Now, you can buy the copycat plant from China and make some perhaps smaller gains. But if you want the best of the best, the cream of the crop, the Hermes bags of the world, you got to get Turk Builder Max from HDLT supplements with proven third-party tested on every single batch. Somebody criticized me the other day. Oh, you only tested one batch. Every single batch has been tested. There are no corners. There is no holes in this. This is the supplement that works. And if you're interested, code Greg, 15% off, but remember, it's almost always sold out. And so, get on that VIP list by clicking the link in the description. You're going to have to enter your phone number. Soon as he gets it, head to the website right away. We sold out last time in 18 minutes. It's very, very fast. I'm hoping to get even more. I don't like running out all the time. I'm very saddened by losing out on perhaps tens of millions of dollars. Not just millions, possibly tens of millions because there is in fact such a ridiculously strong demand for this. I don't want to run out. If I didn't run out, I would be making millions of dollars more. And I like making millions of dollars. It's kind of cool. Being sold out after 18 minutes, although it's fun to see it sell that fast, I wish I had five times more of this stuff so that I wouldn't sell out and I could make five times more money. It's simple mathematics. I hope you understand that. And so I want more people of the world to be able to try this so that 20 years from now you look back and say remember that guy coach Greg that people doubted. He sells Turk Builder Max and it's way better than creatine. I don't know why we ever doubted him. I can't wait for the future to look back on right now at this moment and realize yep he was right. Up next is the pec deck and Jeff Nippard gets five reps. She's saying, "I don't like getting any less reps in that because, you know, time under tension and so on." I got five. I'll count it. I try to get I try to get at least five reps cuz you go lower than that, it's not a whole lot of time under tension. You know, my personal opinion is this. That is way too risky. There is far too of getting injured when you're doing sets of five reps or less. Please try to keep your reps eight reps or a little bit higher. When you lift heavier weights, your chances of getting injured are higher. And so why risk it? There's no need to eagle lift. He said, "Hey, wow, you're incredibly strong." Bro outweighs Jeff by perhaps 100 pounds. Says, "Hey, I think you can do it, but why take him up on that challenge, Jeff? You should have lightened the weight. You don't need to eagle lift. You're a science-based lifter. Last I checked, science-based lifters don't put on the entire stack and go for a five rep max. You're better off going into the gym, warming up, getting to a top set, giving it your everything, leaving nothing in the tank to failure, and doing a drop set than doing, say, four to five sets, low to medium intensity, with multiple reps left in the tank. And so, Larry trains exactly as I did my entire life. I would go and warm up and do my allout set when I was fresh. If it was bench press, for example, four plates on each side, I would try to get 15 reps. Then after that, hey, I can lighten the load. I can do accessory lift. It's all icing on the cake. Whatever I was doing that first set, that was my bread and butter, the one I'm going to give it my all. And so, I still recommend that if you're a highle trainer and you're looking to maximize your intensity, give it your all on that first set. Once you've properly warmed up, give it 100%. And after that, you can then back off. Yeah, sure. You don't have to go to failure. You've already done so. You've done that one time. The rest of the sets, perhaps one or two reps from failure, you're going to make some gains. Now, if you're an old retired man like Coach Greg, remember I'm almost 50 and I'm prioritizing cardio. If you're training like that, why not train your entire body on one given day? This is what I'm doing. I train my entire body twice a week. And I've maintained or in fact put on some actual muscle. And yeah, I know you're not going to believe it. I haven't increased my HRT. I'm not on trend, whatever. But you won't believe me because I only showed my blood work what, 10 times. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops and of course cookbooks, training books, coaching plans by me and my team. If you're looking to make some gains to become your healthiest body ever, apply by clicking the link in description. I have reduced the coaching prices and you're still going to get facetimes with Coach Greg. For example, tomorrow with my team, I'm going to be answering their questions. You also have unlimited access answering questions via text. You're going to get workout programs, diets, everything. Even your blood work will be read and have recommendations. And so, if you're interested, click the link in description right now. And until next time, I am out.