 Bro, bro really thought that he's about to cuck me. Nice try. I'm not a cuck. I'm not a cuck. When I'm not a cuck. When I'm not there wondering, there is no cuckoldery going on here. Why would he throw that out there? I am not a cuck. There is no cuckoldery going on here. When we have visual evidence that he is. I'm not a cuckoldery going on. Also Larry, you think your OF members know I'm a cuck. I can tell them most likely. I want you, I want you, I want you, I want you, I want you, I want you to text me about this kind of stuff and talk to me like a cuckold. And so, Larry Wheels is actually a cuck. And I'm not suggesting maybe. I'm not saying I think. I'm saying that I know. This is a Brain Rot Special. Coach Greg, in today's video, you're not going to believe it. Well, some of you are going to believe it, but most of you probably not. But I have proof. And so, a number of you sent me a video of Larry Wheels and his wife going after my girlfriend, MepsoGregg. I wouldn't mind if she went and attacked Coach Greg. Hey, you're a manlet, a loser, washed up, old, short, a hobbit, snake oil salesman, a loser. No one would like you. Say whatever you want to Coach Greg. I don't care. But when you go and attack my girlfriend for no reason who did nothing wrong at all, well, you're then making it personal. And so, since you want to get personal, I'm now going to talk about the things that I know and that I actually have proof. And so, Larry Wheels is actually a cuck. I'm not suggesting maybe. I'm not saying I think. I'm saying that I know. And so, Larry gets off on knowing, watching, enjoying the fact that his girlfriend, wife, partner, whatever you want to call it, is having sexy time with other men. And not only that, let's film it. Yeah, I love that angle. Yeah, get it in all eight inches. A little bit deeper. Yeah. Make sure that you finish. Damn, shots fired. Oh, and in case you're thinking I'm making this shit up, I got this from John Bravo. Now, I only got part of it. There's a whole bunch more. I heard it. It's incredible. And so, John, release the Larry Files. And so, if you want to know in full details exactly what's going on, remember, I'm not even going to say what he's done. It's far too gross for this channel. Type in the comment section, John, release the Larry Files. Look at Larry's face right here. I mean, are you even kidding me right now? Ha ha ha ha. W-B-A-T. You think your OF members know I'm a cuck. Most likely, I can tell them. And so, in case you're thinking this is AI or you don't believe it, I got this straight from John Bravo. Does John Bravo ever release anything that he does not have proof? And so, he's talked with a number of these individuals. And he sent them these files, these conversations, these pictures. And so, it's all true. And I wish it wasn't. And so, Larry Wheels, one day I want you to text me about this kind of stuff and talk to me like a cuckold with a bowing down sign. And so, hey, Larry likes being a cuck. He enjoys it. He gets off on it. It's his thing. It's his fetish. And say, hey, whatever a grown man wants to do, a grown man wants to do. But I'm here to warn you that if you don't want to become a grown man who wants to do this, there's a few things you need to avoid. And so, remember, I'm trying to make educational videos. And of course, there's a lot of drama in this video. But there's educational content as well. Why do you think Larry wants to do this? Why do you think he enjoys this? Well, Larry has abused performance-enhancing drugs, namely steroids, trend, and so on, for years, started as a teenager. And he admits this. Have you not heard of what trend can do to your brain? There are literally men who are straight who turn gay. There's men of the world out there, like Mike Isretel, you know, Mr. Mike. And he mentions how it alters your brain. All you feel is rage. We've even had Derek, you know, from More Plates, More Dates, explain how trend can change your attraction. And so, combine the use of performance-enhancing drugs, steroids, trend, you name it, along with self-gratification at an early age. Going through magazines, you know what's in those magazines. Or perhaps watching videos. Or cam girls. And imagine that rewiring your brain, the dopamine that you're getting from these events. And so, you literally require this, you know, a greater stimulus in order to, quite literally, to get up. And so, if you don't want to end up like this, hey, be careful. Don't use steroids. And so, you think it's just the gyno, the balding, the pimples, the acne on your back. Or perhaps the fact that it's going to take years off your life, as if that wasn't bad enough. But it can also change your sexual desires. And so, does anyone want that? And so, normally, perhaps Larry Wheels enjoys tag-teaming with his wife, girlfriend, and so on. Perhaps that's what he's enjoyed. But this time, he's going to get tag-teamed by Coach Greg and John Bravo, two of the most infamous characters on the internet that you don't want to fuck around with. And I'm not talking about actually having sexy time with us. I'm talking about messing with us, poking the bear, or saying things out of character. It's Meyer, and he says, I see trouble in a row. So, that was like the second or third time he DM'd me, and then I sent his message, because I never replied. Bro really thought that he was about to cuck me. Nice try. I am not a cuck. For anyone out there wondering, there is no cuckoldry going on here in this matter. And so, now that we know this, now that we've heard that Larry Wheels is a cuck, does it not change everything that he's done in his past? For example, remember that time when Larry Wheels released his OF account? Frankly, I'm disappointed. Like, I thought more people wanted to see my jump. But it turns out there's only 63 people. And so, it turns out Larry Wheels shocked as well as I am. Only 65 people were willing to pay the $20 to see Larry Wheels' jump. Did you know that? Larry had an OF account and took it down after one, perhaps two days. It was only under 100 members, but is it possible that this was what he was after? Or do you remember how Larry spoke about spending five figures a day, over $10,000 a day, on camgirls? And I was thinking, how can it possibly cost $10,000 a day to talk to a girl on the phone? Well, if these are the fantasies that you possess, if this is what you want your women to do, it can, in fact, get very expensive, especially in Dubai. And so, imagine spending $100,000 or more each and every month, several hundred thousand dollars, so much so that Larry Wheels had basically no money. Fast forward to the last, I want to say, eight months. Every single month, I have been spending any and every last bit of extra money that I have come in monthly on camsides. And so, we've seen the video where he took $50,000 from his friend in order to put a down payment on his house. And to this day, I don't believe he's gotten his money back. How is it possible that Larry, with millions of followers, should have millions of dollars, would need to take $50,000 from a friend to put as a down payment on a house? Like, does that make sense? And so, as I was watching his videos, piecing things together, I'm thinking, how can Larry Wheels possibly state that he trusts his woman? That he didn't require to sign a prenup? After all, he trusts her. Well, A, he likes being treated like a cuck. He wants to be controlled. He wants women to dominate him, to control him. There are men out there, I do believe that girls, they call them cows. They have tons of money, and they want women to spend it all, to belittle them, to put them down. Hey, the women who are on OF, and they get guys who are spending, I'm talking about a million dollars or more. It's ridiculous, it doesn't make any sense, but these guys, they have something wrong with them, to want to give them this much money. But yet, they exist, and you're thinking, there's no way this is true? It is true. There are women out there getting this kind of money from men, and they're not even hot, there's nothing special about them, but these men allow them to use them. And so, now that we know all this, is it not changing the story just a little bit? I started thinking this when I saw a female's post on Instagram, and she mentioned that previously, she had been with a man who wanted her to bang other dudes. She was hesitant, she was reluctant to this, she didn't want it to happen. And I'm thinking, that's Larry Wheels' ex. And so, I was going to add this to the video, but I went to find it, and so I saw that it was deleted. And so, perhaps she had some regrets, some remorse, but there is proof after all. And so, those of you who had already saw that, you know this to be true. If one of Larry's exes says this, why would she say that? Do you think she's making this shit up? And even if she didn't, there's lots of other girls who have said the exact same thing. It's not a one-off. It's not somebody trying to bribe him to try to extort money from him. And so, when you watch Larry speak now, we're going to watch right now. Larry literally saying, I'm not a cuck. And so, watch this video together, and we'll see. Does Larry not look like he's a cuck in this video? Does he not look like he actually wants his wife to bang Rampage Jackson? And so, remember, you can see, she's playing with her hair. She's adjusting the girls. She's looking at Rampage seductively. We're thinking, what is going on? If my woman were to look at a man in that way, I'm thinking, yeah, it's clearly over. But, what if he wanted her to do this? Have you ever thought of that? What if he wants her to seduce him? She wants his manliness inside of her everywhere, all over. And perhaps he'll play with it a little bit later. Gargle it one last time before going down the hatch. You know what I'm saying. And what about this scene? Try her out, man. No. Brother. You got blue belt? No. Let me see. Let me see. Tap before the shit. Hell no. I don't want to roll with your wife. Bro, your wife hard as fuck. Larry's saying, I want you to wrestle with my wife. She's all dressed in spandex and tights. Remember Larry Wheel's supermodel wife? Seen it all the time. Supermodel wife. And so Rampage is thinking, bro, I'm not doing this with your wife. Like, really? And so he's trying. He's trying to pressure him and her, I would say, into having sexy time. Hey, I'm going to get them all sweaty, rubbing all over each other's bodies. And perhaps later they'll get together. She'll get out her phone, film it. And then I can get off and do what I do best. Pleasure myself all on my own while watching my woman be with another man. I know that's like clip farming, whatever. That like, I'm feeling him touching my hair, whatever. Larry? Huh? Are you? I don't, I mean, he's fine, but no, he's not my type. Larry is disappointed. He wants her to say, yeah, he's better looking than you, Larry. Larry? I want his blackness inside of me more than you. I want to be taken to the dark side darker than last time. And so he wants to be humiliated. He wants her to want him. But it's awkward. Not many women meet men such as this. And so it's not very comfortable. It takes time for her to think, you know what? He wants me to bang other dudes, but Larry doesn't want to bang other girls. He doesn't want other girls. He wants his girl to want other men. And in case you're wondering, it's not a one-off. I've had this happen twice in my life. I was coaching a guy. It was about 20 years ago. I'm not making this shit up. And he wanted to pay me $500 to bang his wife. I said, there's no way I'm doing this. There's no way I'm going to bang your wife and have you watch. I was thinking, this was my first introduction to this. Remember, I'm old. This is not something normal that I would just have seen. And so I'm thinking, is this a joke? I didn't get it. I told my friends later. I'm like, this guy wanted me. And they're like, oh yeah, that's a thing. Some men like that. I'm like, really? There's no way. And so that was my first experience with this. Another time I met a woman. Remember, this is years ago. 20 plus years ago. And she got off on me telling her about other women I was sleeping with. She wanted me to bang other women. And to tell her, explain it. Do you have any videos? Do you have photos? I want to know. And I'm thinking, is this a test? Is she testing me to see what I will say or how I'll react? And how is it possible that a girl would want to know and hear about you banging other women? Would she not just jealous? Why is it that it turns her on? Not just want to hear about it. It turns her on. You have to. Essentially, could you please have sex with another woman and explain it to me in details or at least film it so that I can get off. It's a thing. It's real. I'm not making this shit up. Yeah. Yeah, I noticed that. She didn't say no. No, I just said, yeah, he's okay. But no, like, he's not my type. And so Larry, absolutely distraught. He wants her to want him more than Larry himself. Larry is essentially like a girl. He wants her to desire other men who are high status, high value men. And so he really would want her to be with Rampage. He's got millions of dollars. Perhaps he's a UFC champion. He's got all of the accolades. And so he's the type of man that women want. And so that is who Larry would want her to want. Because he's essentially living vicariously through her. And so I don't know if this makes a person gay. Like, if you want your partner to be with another man. And you want to watch that man be with your partner. And so are you essentially imagining being the wife? And you're receiving things from this man. Are you putting yourself in her shoes? Or in his shoes? Because if you were going to put yourself in his shoes. Well, you already could. And so how does it benefit you to imagine yourself as him? Like, I don't get that. But if he's to imagine her. Because after all, he's not a female. He doesn't have those parts. And so he can't be with a man in that fashion. And so does Larry secretly want to be a girl? Is it possible? Hey, it's 2026. You can do whatever you want. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with that. And remember, the early access to performance enhancing drugs, testosterone trend and so on. As well as the magazines, the videos, the cam girls. All at an early age. Could that not rewire the brain? And so I'm not even saying that it's his fault. He's been exposed to all these things at such an early age. And it's rewired his brain quite literally. I am not a cuck. When you're out there wondering, there's no cuckoldery going on here. Why would he throw that out there? I am not a cuck. There is no cuckoldery going on here. When we have visual evidence that he is. I'm not a cuck. There's no cuckoldery going on. Also, Larry, you think your OF members know I'm a cuck. I can tell them. Most likely. One day, I want you to text me about this kind of stuff and talk to me like a cuckold. Larry's lying. He's lying. I know correlation doesn't equal causation. But it seems like guys who have abused steroids, trend, etc. They lie. For example, Mr. Mike with his PhD thesis and backdating the thing saying, no, it's the first draft. But we know he was lying. Now, Larry wheels. And so, do we see some correlation? Remember, correlation is not equal to causation. But isn't it possible? And so, if Larry actually had any money, why would he be begging people for donations on Kik? I'm not kidding. Would a millionaire, multi-millionaire at that, be asking for $10 or $20 donations on Kik? And so, you can see. It states, chat plus react. Discord, donate. In my opinion, it's frankly embarrassing to ask people to donate money when you have perhaps 10 or 100 times more money than them. Like, imagine if I made this video and I said, hey, could you all please donate me some money? Like, could you please send over $10? I have a Patreon account. I need you all to send me some money. I mean, it's one thing to sell products. For example, Larry Wheels is selling his belt, the lever belt that you can adjust all the time. And so, you buy the thing and you make money from that. He has that caffeine thing you put in your mouth, the caffeine jizz, if you will. It's three cc's, I believe. And you squirt it in your mouth and you get some caffeine. And so, if you want to support Larry, well, buy something from him. To the same extent, if you want to support me, you buy this. We both win. You win by getting more gains, improving the amount of muscle that you build. And I win by, well, helping you as well as helping me. I make money. There's actual profit in this. And so, that is how you do it. But begging people for donations on Kik, does that not prove that Larry has no money?