And no, it doesn't apply to people who are four or 500 lb trying to make it look like they look good. No, you look horrendous. You look horrible. Lose some weight. It superseds being not hot and 6' 3. Hi there, ugly man who's 100 lb overweight. I don't think that guy's getting more girls than Mr. Super Hot 5'5. Especially if that 5'5 has money, fame, athleticism. >> This is a brave rock special. >> Tiamatic cooking in the basement. >> Coach Greg, in today's video, looks is controlling Mr. Mike's life. His favorite influencer, of course, Clviculum. They see eye to eye. They're not happy with their appearance, and they're willing to do anything and everything in order to improve it. And so he's on the Jack Neil podcast which also hosted Clavvicular. Everyone say hi to Greg Ducet who is definitely going through these comments right now and they're going to dig a little deep. I'm gregging my ducet to this. Let Greg give your opinion. Hey, if you want me to give your opinions for you, I see nothing wrong with that. It's probably a lot better than your own. Bro thinks he's Clav. Well, technically bro's been Clav before Clav was born. How do you think Clav became Clav? By watching guys like Mike Isertel go through all these surgeries, yap about losing because he didn't have a proper tan and being neurode divergent. Does anyone think that Mr. Mike is normal? Of course he's not. And so we have these people who are a little bit estrano. They're strange, perhaps a little weird. And they do things to their body. bones smashed, rip skin off of their body, suck out all the fat cells from, you know, a dirty bulk in their 20s. And they promote it to other people saying, "Hey, it's amazing. If you look better, your life is better. And looking good, it's more important than feeling good, being healthy." And so Mr. Mike's, he's ascended. He's looks maxed. That is his new ideal. Why is there a DR in front of Mike Isertel on his Instagram? Has any of you noticed this? It says Dr. Mike Isertel. It's Mr. Mike Isertel. Why is there a DR? And so Mike, he cares so much about showing off his body. He's flexing. He's shirtless. Every other day it seems to be another update. People don't do that unless they're obsessed with their appearance, of which Mike obviously is. on a primaaci analysis where we just don't know you at all and we didn't even ask. If you're interested in food or in training and fitness, the probability that you care about how you look is exceedingly high. >> What I find interesting is that Mike started off not caring about his appearance. He went on Dreamer Bulks. He was literally obese. 270 lbs. Is a 5'5 1/2 manlet. He's even shorter than Coach Greg. He states himself that he was 30% body fat. We know that it was 40. But since that time after coaching other people, after studying, going into the psychology of everything, he now decided for himself that he wants to looks max. Gone are the days when he could be happy with a healthy, I don't know, 15% body fat. You know what people teach us that's actually important to be healthy? And so Mike, he threw away his ambitions of being healthy. He no longer cares. Once upon a time, Mike was 100% natural. Eventually, he decided to take steroids, which his words can alter your brain. Since that time, he's evolved. He's ascended. He's cut out the skin on his stomach, sucked out the fat, and is chasing after an IFBB Pro cards as he does plan on getting a proper >> [music] >> And so the skin aesthetics getting the tan, [clears throat] he's shaved off his body, shaved off his hair, and he wants to achieve the pinnacle Greek god physique. He stated he plans on sucking out the fat on his triceps on his back and that he may in fact remove some of his ribs to get himself a smaller waist. Eventually, he perhaps will become a robot and make love with Chad GBT6 after giving it a hug. And so, here lies the problem. The more people get educated on the importance of looks, the more they go into the rabbit hole and the more they develop body dysmorphia. This is a clear-cut case in my opinion of body dysmorphia. The same applies to clviculum. At first, it makes sense. Mike, you're 40% body fat. Could we lose some weight? Let's lose 50 lbs of fat and go from there. You then start eating healthy. You get my cookbook. You go to the gym. You do cardio. But it's not enough. You then discover steroids. Mike Isertell, I believe he was in his 30s. clviculum 14. >> And once you take steroids, your body is going to improve, but it's never enough. You keep going. Eventually, you realize that no matter what you do in the gym, it's never going to be enough. And so, you start hard maxing. Soft maxing, you go to the gym, you train, you look good, you decrease your body fat percentage, you put on a little bit of muscle, but that's not enough. And so, you hard max. You start getting limb lengthening surgery. You start punching the bones in your face. You get surgeries. You do exactly what Mike and Clviculum have been doing. And so, please be careful on which influencers you follow. The wrong influencer, it's only going to mess you up. I have one existence proof of this. Even the sociological notion of love at first sight. How in the hell can that be not involving appearance if it's literally at only sight? The fact that there's actually a thing where people say love at first sight, this proves how much looks actually matters. Now, is there actually love at first sight? No. It's lust at first sight. And men more often than women, they really care a lot about a person's appearance, looks more than anything. But remember, that only gets you in the door. If you have a nice shiny car, a beautiful home, but once you open the door to the car or the home, [music] it's disgusting inside. It smells bad, it's rotted out, you don't want to be with that person. And [music] so, just because someone on the outside looks amazing, it doesn't mean they're going to be the right person for you. But it does get you in the door. And because of this, guys like Mr. Mike and Mr. Clviculum, they overemphasize the importance of your appearance. Sure, if you look better, you're going to have more people want to get to know you. But if you take it too far, you know, beyond soft maxing, going to the gym, losing weight, being healthy, dressing nice, doing the simple things, if you go beyond that, it's actually going to hurt you. Clviculum, who's already 6'2, already above average good-looking, if he gets limb lengthening surgery to be 66, he's going to look silly. If he puts on makeup, shoulder pads, people are going to wonder what's going on. And once he gets those titanium implants, people are going to say, "What did you do? >> Why are you gay?" >> And so, you're actually reducing your options. Mr. Mike, who's on all the steroids, the reddas, the GLPS, getting surgeries, people are thinking, "What's wrong with you?" I mean, there's nothing wrong with him going to the gym and eating healthy and so on, but when you take it so far that you develop body dysmorphia, people don't want that. They don't want bro who's putting on makeup. They don't want bro who's going through all those surgeries. Yes, be confidence. Yes, improve your appearance, but don't take it this far. >> It's kind of called the black pill movement. We've had on two guests [music] recently, and they kind of say that face matters more than everything else. the black pill movement and lo and behold they throw up clvicular and so does Dr. Mike not sound like clvicular are these not one and the same is it possible that Mr. Mike is clvicular's long lost father that he stepped out years ago to get a bag of milk is it possible that Dr. bike has had sexy time. >> Maybe >> there are other things at least as important as facial aesthetics. Um I would say uh on average like height is probably more important than facial aesthetics. Is height more important than facial aesthetics? I think it's still the face. I mean I don't know. I'm not a blackpilled boron, but I still think that if you're hot this area, it supersedes being not hot and 6'3. Hi there, ugly man who's 100 lb overweight. I don't think that guy's getting more girls than Mr. Super Hot 5'5. Especially if that 5'5 has money, fame, athleticism. I mean, just the other day I saw a guy 5 foot4 winning a freaking slam dunk competition jumping over guys 6'6 reverse dunk. He's 5'4. Do you think he's struggling to get a girl? I don't think so. If you're in the bottom third or fourth, you may be having a rough time because then you're just like the the U word, right? And so Mike says, "If your looks is in the bottom third, so you're a three out of 10, you're probably going to struggle with the ladies." But I'm sorry, but I have to agree. If you're inherently ugly, you're not going to have an easy time getting people who are attractive. It's just not how life works. And the problem with men is that if you're a 3 out of 10, or two out of 10, do you really think the girls who are a 3 out of 10, a 2 out of 10 are going to want to date you, or are they not going to want to date up? We know that hypergamy exists. Everyone trying to get the best that they can get. And because of online dating, the way it's set up, there are way more men on online dating platforms than females. And so what happens is women who are threes are dating fives and sixes. The men who are threes are dating ones. And so unfortunately ones don't match up with ones. Twos with twos, threes with threes and so on. If it did, world be hunky dory. All the beautiful people would be with all the beautiful people. But what's happening is people women are dating up. They won't date down. Men men are willing to date down. And it's essentially because they have to. But here lies the main problem. 80% of women want to date 20% of men. Everyone wants a date at the top. The eights, 9ines, and 10. Everyone wants them. Wouldn't you? Doesn't everyone want a nice sports car, a nice house, the best clothes? And so, we all want the best, but we can't all get it. And so, if almost every woman wants the best of the best men, and there's not enough of them out there, what do you think's happening? The bottom third are getting nothing. I believe I read a study where over 30% of men had not had sexy time in the last year. Do you think that that is by choice? Oh, they're just super religious. They're waiting for marriage. No. It's because they can't get it no matter what. And so my advice, which is similar to Mr. Mike and clavvicular, it's to look smack, but to do it within reason. to go to the gym, to decrease your body fat, perhaps down to 15% or even less, whatever is reasonable, to put on some muscle, to get some biceps, to build up your shoulders, but don't wear shoulder pads. And to groom yourselves, perhaps you shave, you get a haircut, but not to the point where you're bone smashing and covering everything up with makeup. Women don't want to wake up in the morning with you with your mascara running off on the pillow seat. It's not cool. A feminine woman most likely is going to want a masculine man. 90% of women are feminine. And so if you're not acting like this, a masculine man, you're choices are very limited. >> Like if you're destitute, poor, and you're 5'5, and you're not so good with speaking to people. >> And so the question is, is Mike a top or a bottom? I think he's a bottom. Talking about looks. What do you guys think I'm talking about? Bottom third. If you're a cute guy, you got to have a few other things going for you. And some of them matter, like pretty much substantially more in facial attractiveness, unless it's awful. And then plastic surgery will fix that for you. Plastic surgery isn't automatically going to make a man attractive. I mean, it's possible that it can help, but it's not an automatic thing. And so, if you are going for facial reconstruction surgery, remember, it doesn't always end well. And it's also a thing where it's once your testosterone is high normal, more testosterone doesn't really help you. >> Did Mike just say once your testosterone levels at a high normal, more doesn't help you? I don't think that he actually believes this. Does anyone think that Mike just has high normal levels of testosterone? Or does anyone think he's not on testosterone? There's no way you're going to convince me that Mike is just on HRT. He's on super physiological levels of testosterone, steroids, and so on. He's admitted this in the past. And so if it doesn't help you, why is he doing it? He's doing it because he wants more muscle. He wants to look better. And so Mike is looks maxing, but unfortunately not in a healthy way. >> However you are, if you want outcomes in life to be better, you're the common denominator. If you make yourself better, however you define that, you're probably going to get some better outcomes. And so Mike clearly is a fan of looks maxing, of doing whatever it takes, including facial reconstruction surgery. The problem is I don't want the people to take it too far. And once you get on the facial reconstruction bandwagon, it's very easy to stop. It's addictive. And so what happens in many cases is you get on the hideonic treadmill. You continue to get closer to your goal. You want to be a 9 out of 10. You get the nose job. Hey, it looks great. But then what? Your lips need to be done. Your eyes are incorrect. Your ears bug out too much. And the more surgeries you get, the more you think you're looking good. But there comes a time when you start to look worse. We see it all the time. We see the people with the horrible lips. We see the extraordinary amounts of Botox, faceelifts, and people starting to look a little weird or different. And behind their backs, and often times to their face, they start to make fun of them. We see it on social media and people say, "Oh, that's bullying. It's bad." No, it's not bad. I say, "Let's do it even more." And the reason for that is because if we continue to bully these people, we make fun of them. Your lips, they look stupid. What's wrong with you? Why would you do that, clviculum? Why do you have titanium bones in your cheeks? You look like a If we do that, it will discourage other people from copying these morons and doing the exact same thing. And so bring bullying back. Body positivity wasn't made for this It's made for people who are in a wheelchair. They're in an accident. They're suffering. They got cancer. They got disfigured. They're burn victims. Hey, you're still worthy. It's not for people who do stupid to their bodies thinking that it's going to make them look better. And no, it doesn't apply to people who are four or 500 pounds trying to make it look like they look good. No, you look horrendous. You look horrible. Lose some weight. Now, 10 years ago, perhaps so, there was not much they could do aside from getting my cookbook, going to the gym, working out. That's all they could do. But some people, they didn't have enough willpower. They were too hungry. But in 2025, there are peptides, there are drugs, there are things that you can take. Perhaps you have lower levels of testosterone. You need a boost. Well, here's what you can do. You can click the link in description. You can go to Algorex. You can get your blood work by doctors who can then legally prescribe you legal pharmaceutical medications. No gatekeeping and very, very affordable prices much cheaper than, for example, Merrick Health. And so, if you're considering or you're already a client of other health and wellness clinics, please compare the prices. I mean, why spend extra thousands of dollars when you can get it significantly cheaper from Alorex? And if you use code Greg, you'll save an additional 10%. Click the link in the description. >> Do you think going to the gym is overrated? >> Underrated. 100% underrated. Going to the gym is underrated. Clvicular, he hasn't gone to the gym in a month. He's literally the poster boy, the face child, and he can't even do the most basic things, the lowhanging fruit to improve his physique. Go to the gym and lift some weights and go harder than last time. It's as simple as that.