And then we're with Sarah who made an Instagram post after she lost. I'm definitely not going out by a lightweight oil champion. >> And so you can already see that this is corrupt. Shocker that it's from Brazil. >> Coach Greg, in today's video, a major, and I'm talking a huge scandal in the IFBB, including the Mr. Olympia. A whistleblower has exposed several athletes in the IFBBB of cheating. And you're thinking, well, how is that even possible? Do they actually test these athletes using performance-enhancing drugs? And the answer is no. They don't test them. And so, how can you actually cheat? Well, they're using PMMA. And excuse the pronunciation, I can't pronounce my own name. Polymethyl methacrylate. polymethyl mccratholate, whatever. PMMA. It lasts essentially forever. It's a clear plastic known as an acrylic or plexiglass. And they're injecting that all over their bodies. I kid you not. The question is, is this actually cheating? And so we're getting the information from Muscle Discord and Matt Tinserang, who I used to, in fact, work with. We were sponsored by Mutant way back in the day. >> Today's video is based on a series of explosive allegations brought directly to me by a whistleblower with firstirhand knowledge of what's happening inside a Brazilian medical network tied to multiple IFBB Pro in Mr. Olympia athletes. >> Shocker that it's from Brazil. How many female competitors in women's wellness seem to come from Brazil? Do you really think that's a coincidence? All the models with the BBLs, people saying, "Oh, I don't have an implant." No, you don't have an implant. You have PMMA, a permanent plastic filler that can cause serious and permanent side effects. chronic inflammation, hard lumps, irregularities, disfigurement, infections years later, and also tissue death. I mean, let's look at Big Ramy's quads. What is with those holes in his quads? Why is there missing muscle? Is it possible that he was injecting PMMA and that eventually the inflammation and tissue death took place? And in his later years, you could see the deformities. And is that perhaps why he's already retired? I mean, heavens forbid, do you think it's possible that an IFBB pro would use permanent filler in order to win Olympia? I mean, it's only what, a half a million dollars or more? I mean, would athletes really go so far as to risk their health in order to win a trophy to win first prize? Of course they would. They're injecting Tren. They're using steroids, insulin, growth hormone. They're using them at very abusive losses. And so, anyone competing at the Olympia level doesn't care really about their health. If they did, they wouldn't be doing it. And trust me, you can't compete at the Olympia level and be competitive while being natural or only on HRT. >> This individual has chosen to remain completely anonymous out of fear for their safety in Brazil. But their direct connection to the people performing these procedures and to the athletes allegedly involved gives these claims a level of credibility that cannot be ignored. >> And so, of course, the whistleblower doesn't want their name known. Imagine the danger. You think they're just going to put up with that? You announce the world, HEY, I WANT TO rat you guys out. This clinic, these doctors are injecting these exact athletes. Do you really think they would dare? And if they did, what would happen to them? Would they still be alive? >> This whistleblower claims they witnessed permanent Pmama muscle enhancement procedures being done on highlevel athletes. >> How many of you did not think that people were using Pmama and synthol, for example? Is there anyone that actually thinks that these athletes are 100% natural or that they're only on abusive levels of testosterone? Of course, many are injecting filler into their bodies in order to win first place. >> These are very bold allegations in claims being made against Natalyia, 2025 Miss Olympia women's physique champion who beat out four-time women's physique champion Sarah Belagas. Sarah was not happy about that as you saw by her post. >> And so Sarah upon losing the Olympia title to Natalyia, she started to complain. She was saying, "Hey, the winner is full of oil. She's not real. She's cheating." And everyone attacked her for it. You're just a sore loser. Just because Natalia clearly has a better physique than you do, which I 100% agree with, doesn't mean that you should complain. I was one of the haters. Why is she complaining? You're a sore loser. come to find out that what she's saying was 100% true, that Natalyia was using PMMA or other substances, most likely PMA, let's be honest, and that that helped solidify her win. And so, she cheated. But did she really? Like, let's look at the before and the after. And on the left, 2024, on the right, one year later, she looks significantly bigger. Natalyia was peeled, shredded. I'm talking singledigit BODY FAT, PEELED. I BE PRO CHAMPION OF the world. Where's the definition in her legs? Do you see the massive difference? She's much bigger, but where is the detail? That is the look you get when you use synthol, PMMA, and so on. It's not real muscle. It's not contractile tissue. You can't see the striations shins move around. my opinion, I may as well tell you, I don't care. I don't think it's cheating. I think you can do whatever you want. It's a glorified beauty pageant and people are already using testosterone, injections, peptides, growth hormone, insulin, you name it. And so, what's the difference between injecting a steroid and injecting synthol, injecting PMA? What's the difference? If I inject testosterone into my shoulders right now on either side, if I put in three or five cc's, I'm going to look swollen. My shoulders are going to look significantly bigger. And so, is it illegal to inject testosterone? Well, in Canada, it's not. And so, what's the difference if I inject testosterone, if I inject PMA, if I inject hyaluronic acid, or if I inject synthol? They're all improving my physique, and it's a cosmetic sport. What's next? Are we going to penalize females for using breast augmentation surgery? What's the difference? They're literally putting in an implant. And so if the IFBB doesn't like it, if they say it's cheating, then all they have to do is instruct the judges and say this. If a physique looks like it's being enhanced through PMA or synthol or other weird alternatives, you mark them down. If a person is flexing their biceps and you don't see the detail. If they're flexing their delts and you don't see the striations, mark them down. If it looks like there's weird lumps all over their body that shouldn't be there in a normal athlete, mark them down. And if you don't mark them down, they're going to continue to do so. And so I don't care if the athletes are doing it because in bodybuilding whatever it takes. Did Rich Piana not coin this phrase >> to do whatever it takes. >> Whatever it takes. If it takes more trend, if it takes more diuretics, if it takes more fat burners, if it takes more PMA, whatever it takes. Now, the whistleblower alleges the following. A highranking Olympia producer, Tamar El Gandhi, who we all know very well, is allegedly financially connected to a Brazilian doctor who performed PMMA, muscle enhancement injections. >> And so it says Tamar El Gandhi is connected to the Brazilian medical service who's doing this, >> not as a casual acquaintance, allegedly as a part of a business relationship. Multiple Olympia and IFBB Pro athletes have allegedly visited this doctor for their procedures. And so the Olympia athletes are getting these procedures there and this person has financial ties to the business. And so you can already see that this is corrupt. >> Here's the most explosive element. The whistleblower alleges that Tamer's brother, Trick El Gundi, is one of the judges at the Mr. Olympia, which he is. Okay, that creates potential ethics, ethical disaster. >> And Tamer's brother, Trick El Gundi, is an IFPB projudge and is connected to all this. And so imagine you have a judge connected to this judging the show perhaps knows exactly what's going on. And if you visit that clinic, you could say, you know what, I'm going to mark them up one place a little bit higher. I really prefer that physique. That physique with the PMA, you know, the injections, I think it's a little bit better. How corrupt is this when the people that are judging you are financially incentivized to place people higher who visit the clinic? >> Now again, these are allegations, not verified facts. >> Of course, there's no 100% concrete proof of this. But if it is, should they not do something about it? If you're a judge, how can you be connected to the athletes? It's bad enough as it is. There's so much influence. There's so much that rides on the judges opinions or rankings and so on. And so if they're tied to the athletes in any way, especially medically like this, then how is this ethical? >> They personally saw media showing her inside the facility. Sorry, let me get that right. I want to make sure I'm not missing any words here. Fabricio, they claim Fabricio was filmed receiving PMMA injections in his chest. Now, Fabricio is Derek Lunford's training coach. It also states that Fabricio, which just happens to be Derek Lunsford's coach, was shown getting these injections, that he visited the clinic. And so, assuming that the coach is getting this done, is it not likely to assume that the athletes are doing the same? >> The whistleblower claims Derek Lunsford visited the clinic, but could not confirm what, if anything, he had done. >> And so, they stated that Derek visited the clinic, but there's no statements whether he did it or not. And so my personal opinion is who cares? Like does anyone actually care? Now if you like Derrick Lunsford, you're probably going to say I don't care. If you don't like him, you're probably going to say, "Oh, I don't like that he did that." There's no proof that he did. There's no proof that he didn't. Let his physique do the talking. Would any of you care if it had been Seabbum? If you found out today, would you say revoke his title? Would you take his crown away? Or would you say, "So what? Everyone's doing it." And so when you judge someone for doing something allegedly, ask yourself this. Are you judging that person is doing something wrong because you don't like them? Because if it's okay for Seabbum, should it not be okay for everybody else? Now remember, I have no proof that Seabbum did this. But let's say that we did, would you care? And so I'm asking you the question. Let's see it in the comment section. If Seabbum had been known to use PMMA, would you think he doesn't deserve his titles? Would you want them to revoke him, strip him of his six Olympia titles? I personally think that if everybody's doing it, then you can't accuse the person who's doing it. >> This can make mainstream national news. It is a scandal. >> Natalia's procedure is 100% confirmed and there's a very, very high possibility that Derek Lunsford did the procedure, too. I think half of the people in the Olympia have done this procedure. We're trying to single out a couple competitors. Fabricio, the guy who trained Derek and Ramon Dino a little bit in Florida and brought Derek to Brazil, is also on video receiving PMMA. Let's say you only inject a quarter of what they recommend. Hey, I don't want anyone to know. Just give me a little bit. Okay, we're going to give you a quarter. You use the product, the PMA, you compete, and you look significantly better, but not so much better that it's obvious. And so, how are the judges going to mark that down? My opinion is they cannot. How can they prove for certain that you've gone too far? And so, my opinion is this is all the judges can do. If it's obvious, if you can see the injection, the holes, the bumps, the lumps, you mark them down. You don't mark them in last place. Let's say they were going to be the champion. You give him third place. A little bit marked down and this is all you can do. >> Tamer is his acquisition guy and 50% partner. He brings him all the bodybuilders including Olympians and they split the money. He charges 20,000 for a full body operation. >> And so it's only $20,000 for full body operation. How many girls out there are thinking, "Yeah, give me some of that." Now, remember, just because your glutes are going to be more full, you're going to have that roundness, doesn't mean it's worth it. Tissue death, long-term inflammation, you're injecting plastics is permanent. Is it really worth risking your health? But I could ask the same thing. Is injecting trend worth risking your health? And for most people, yes, it is. And so, here lies the problem. He's offering a service that people want. Is it dangerous? Absolutely. Are people going to do it? Of course they are. >> Going to play this here. This is Derek Lunford's coach, training coach. >> And so we have Derek's coach. Holes everywhere. They're injecting all throughout the chest. This PMA is going to fill out the chest and look significantly bigger. Imagine they do this on your derriè. >> Okay, this is proof. This is facts here of the work being done on his chest. >> You can see the markings. It's obvious. If they can do it on a male bodybuilder's chest, don't you think they can do it on a female's derriè, quads, delts, biceps, the list goes on and on. >> Now, you can see in the towel here, sorry, with Dr. Fernando promoting the clinic. I mean, guys, I don't know what else to say. >> There we have Natalyia sitting at the desk, Miss Olympia champion. And so my opinion, she did what she needed to do to win. Whatever it takes. >> Whatever it takes. >> And if it is true, this is terrible for the sport of bodybuilding. >> Not going to deny that. I think it's terrible. I think it's dangerous. But what's more dangerous? Natalyia perhaps could have got bigger muscles by using Tren. What is more dangerous for her? She starts taking 500 milligrams of Tren per week. She gets huge. She grows a beard. Her voice changes. her heart it's not looking good. Instead of this, she opts to use cosmetic surgery to inject fillers, PMA, of which no, it's not healthy. But we know Trent isn't healthy. And so, which is worse, six or seven? Seven's worse because seven ate nine for breakfast. And then we're with Sarah, who made an Instagram post after she lost, was very upset. Obviously, if you know me, you already know the answer. I'm definitely not going out by a lightweight oil champion. And so Sarah, she got blasted for it. But do you think that this is vindicating her? It should, but people will still see her as a complainer. And next year when she's standing on stage trying to regain her crown, the judges will remember that. The woman who outed the champion. And so my opinion, it's a lose-lose situation for Sarah. Saying that she got beat by a lightweight oil champion, even if it's true, it doesn't beat her. And so all she can do is to move on and hope that the next year she can be the champion. I suggest you stay natural. You try not to compete as a pro. Leave that for the one in a millions that have those kind of genetics. And if you're trying to do it natural, why not get Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum and of course GO2 Max. If you're trying to diet GLP max or you can also boost your testosterone by taking G Test Platinum. Whatever the supplement, we have what you need. Head over to HLT supplements code rag 15% off. Now, if you need Seialis, Viagra, these types of things, perhaps you need includes and so on. Go and visit Algo RX, get your blood work done. And remember, it's significantly cheaper than their competition, for example, Merrick Health. And so, please compare the prices. Do what's best for you. But my opinion, if a price is half of something else, and it's doctor prescribed pharmaceutical, it's not from some SARM's website where they're selling you whatever from China, please visit algorx code rag 10% off. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost the algorithm. Like the video if you did like it. Watch the tube loops. Don't forget about the cookbooks. Use code seco for the seco bars to get it for 50% off. And until next time, I am out.