

=== FILE: 5 Reasons Your Physique Isn’t Improving (It’s Not What You Think) [odC92UHMmtE].txt ===

 you. I'm not some pathetic loser that falls off the wagon and doesn't brush myself off and get back again. Now, have these things happen to me? All of them. But I never let it slow me down. Never let it stop me because I want it bad enough. But for you, if you know about it in advance, you're being proactive and you recognize that these things can happen, maybe, just maybe this time, you won't let it slow you down. In the exact particular order, from least to the worst, as in this is not as bad as the first one. The last one, if you get this, it's going to be tough. I've combined this among time and financial pressure. They kind of go hand in hand. How many times do people say, I just don't have time? I mean, it's the most annoying excuse in the world because all of us have 24 hours in the same day. But you combine time and financial pressure and people say, well, I don't have time to go to the gym because I have to go and work. I'm working. Perhaps you're even working two jobs. I got to go and do the things and I just don't have time to be fit. Maybe you've got kids. You can't leave the house. You got excuses, time, financial pressure. And so when this happens, what you decide to cross off your list of all the things is your fitness. You say, this has to take a hit. It happens a lot. Clavicular did this. He was saying, well, I'm streaming. I've only been to the gym once in the last month and he's supposed to be a fitness influencer, but he took a month off of the gym. Why? Well, to stream, to work, to make more money. And so time and financial pressure. He lost 15 pounds of muscle. He admits all of this. And so I'm not making this shit up. Rather than that, how long per day do you think it takes to maintain some level of fitness? If you're lifting weight seven days a week and you narrow it down to two days a week, you're going to keep all of your gains. You're going to tell me that you're so busy, that you have so little time that you can't sacrifice two hours in order to maintain the muscle that you have. Bullshit. How many hours did you scroll that you did this? There's no way you can convince me that you couldn't have found something else to sacrifice instead of your fitness. How much cardio do you need to do? 150 minutes a week. You're going to tell me that you can't find 150 minutes to cut somewhere else from your life rather than this? Did you go to the movies? Did you go shopping? Did you shop on Amazon? Did you swipe up? Did you swipe down? Did you look at stupid bullshit videos on Instagram? Did you complain about ice doing this, ice doing that? Did you talk to your friends about nonsense? Is there nothing else that you did in a week that you could have found a couple hours in order to go to the gym? You don't need money to go for a walk and you don't need two hours each and every day in order to maintain a basic level of fitness. Now, I'm not talking about training for an hour, man. Oh, I don't have 20 hours a week to do cardio. Yeah, I get it. You don't need to do that. But to maintain some fitness where you don't completely fall off the wagon and do nothing, that is easy. Number four, a nutrition environment breakdown. You start going out with your friends, the fast food, eating out after the bar. Perhaps you're drunk. However, you go to the buffet and you can't control yourself. You went on vacation. You no longer have my cookbook with you. You couldn't bring your personal chef. You're now fell off the wagon. You're eating desserts, candies, and so on. And you can't get back on track. You perhaps are an emotional eater. And so poor you, you got sad. I'm sad. My girlfriend broke up with me. And so you start eating the Haagen-Dazs ice cream each and every day. Your friends are pressuring you. Oh, order some wings. Come out for pizza with us. And for some reason, you make that an excuse. You actually give into that. Look, you're on vacation for a week and you eat like a piece of shit. You eat like an asshole, whatever. You come back and you eat normal again. It's one week out of a year. Let's call it two. Two weeks out of 50, you don't eat properly. That's 2% of the time. You really think that eating poorly 2% of the time is going to make any difference at all. Problem is, one bad day goes to two. Two bad days goes to three, to a week, to a month, and all of a sudden you're a fat piece of shit yet again. Remember, it's not any one decision that's going to ruin you. It's multiple decisions of the same thing that are going to take you down. And so stop thinking you can't have the ice cream, that you can't have the pizza. You just can't have it every single day. You have to have some balance and being all in dieting, chicken, broccoli, rice, perfection. Like Jeremy Ethe's video, 30 days. It's all I could eat. Potatoes, broccoli, carrots, and chicken. It's all I could eat for 30 days. It's the perfect diet. No, it's not because you can't follow it. It's not realistic. The perfect diet involves my cookbook and it involves eating whatever you want. If you eat whatever you want, it's going to be easy and this will not unravel you. Number three, you stop sleeping effectively. You're going out too late. Perhaps it's Friday and Saturday night. You're staying up all night, partying harder than last time. Or you're working two jobs. You're working 12-hour shifts. You don't get to bed on time and all of a sudden, your decisions go out the window. When you're on a regular sleep schedule, for example, you're going to bed before midnight every night and you're getting up in the morning and you're seeing the sunlight and all the things, it's much easier to regulate your appetite. But when you're up three in the morning, middle of the night, everyone's asleep, how quickly you're going to grab that bag of nims and a bag of chips. And so you eat. You eat in the middle of the night. You're not even hungry. You're just bored. Your cortisol levels go up. And so if you don't want to let this unravel, if you are messing up your sleep right now, stop. Stop it. Get some help. I understand. It's not always going to be perfect. You have to get up at three o'clock in the morning to catch your flight and now your day is thrown off. Yeah, that's one day. It's not every single day of your life. And if it is every single day of your life, perhaps you're a nurse, you're on a set schedule where you're sleeping back and forth. It doesn't make any sense. If you know your sleep is going to be disrupted, plan your snacks out, eat healthier, make sure that you have the things available to keep yourself on track. Saying, well, I didn't get to sleep on time. I had to wake up early. This is not an excuse. Oh, I didn't have time because I had to catch a flight. So I just had a frappuccino. That's not an excuse. You need to plan for these things. And if you use lack of sleep as an excuse to be fat, well, that just makes you a loser. Number two, life and work stress. And so stress, the silent killer, we know stress is going to increase cortisol. Now there's two kinds of stress. There's eustress. This is a good kind of stress. Like you're stressed out because you have a bike race coming up. Did you train hard enough? Did you in fact study enough for your exam? It's a brief temporary stress, but it makes you really call to action. You work harder. You get the things done. Then there's distress. This is bad. It's not acute, but rather it lingers chronically for weeks, months, and or years. This kind of stress is bad. Imagine that you're sick or you're always stressed out at work or you're in a relationship and all you feel is stress. All you feel is rage. Like Mr. Mike, every time you look out of that pond, all you feel is rage. Imagine you're breaking up with your girlfriend. Perhaps your wife, girlfriend has left you and you're sad and you're stressed and you're dieting and you're working and you don't have enough money. You're not sure what's going on. And you are constantly bombarded from messages from bro from Bangladesh. You're so upset. He's saying you lost because you have a proper tan. Imagine the stress, the distress that Mike, Mr. Mike is experiencing each and every day. That kind of stress compounded month after month, year after year. It's going to do damages. Stress isn't bad in any small form. It's good for us. Hey, what doesn't kill you, it makes you stronger. But if it's keeping on trying to take you down, eventually it does in fact weaken you. And so with this stress, you're tossing and turning at night. You can't sleep. You have anxiety. Perhaps you're getting depressed. You can't train as hard as you once did. You're not recovering. And your physique, it goes down to the worst. And so remember with stress, you don't fall apart overnight. You fade over the course of months and or years. And so please manage your stress. My number one recommendation for managing stress, it's doing what you're doing. Cardio, lifting weights. This form of exercise, it's a de-stressor. Take out the stress on the weights, on the bike, on the treadmill, go run, move. All that anxiety, that stress, the cortisol, if you go out and move and lift weights, you're using that stress to fuel your workouts, to increase your performance. Let that be the medicine. And if you continue to do that, you will manage your stress and prosper. And number one of all the things, do you know it? As soon as I went to make this video, I said, this is number one. This is the worst thing that happens to me. I've had it happen a number of times. And it really does impact your physique. You're going to look worse. And there's really nothing you can do about it. It's going to be inevitable. Number one, injury. I've broken my elbow once, broken my elbow a second time, repaired both triceps, broken my shoulder, had a four degree ligament tear in my shoulder, had hip surgery, busted up my legs, tore my bicep, tore my quad, had a minor pec tear. All these injuries happen and you can't do what you once did. And so this is what happens. People are training perfectly when things are going right. How hard is it to train when you're making gains every time you go to the gym? Oh, and by the way, with injury, I'm talking about sickness, injury. For example, you get bronchitis and you can't train. You get sick. You get pneumonia like me. You have a collapsed lung. All this shit happens. And you really want it. You want to go to the gym. What can you do? You can do the best that you can do. And so if you break your right arm, you lose your right arm. You can train your left. If you break your leg, you've still got your left leg. What's wrong with you? Why are not you riding a bicycle with one leg? If you tear your pec, does that mean your legs can't train? What is wrong with you? You're using an excuse. Oh, I can't go to the gym because I broke my arm and leg in a car accident. What's that? That's not an excuse. Get your ass to the gym. That is the worst thing that can happen. And that's the number one reason why people, they lose all of their gains. Are you going to lose some of your gains when you get injured like this? Absolutely. When you get sick, when you get injured, you can only do what you can do. But what you shouldn't do is use an excuse to do nothing. Work around the injury. Do your best. And eventually you will come back, perhaps not as strong as last time, but you will come back. And so if you think, you know, I'm not going to the gym anymore because, well, I broke my arm. Well, you stop lifting weights. You stop doing cardio. And all of a sudden you get fat. You get fatter. You lose your cardiovascular ability. And so not only are you eating worse, you're also slowing down your metabolism. You're burning fewer calories. And then once you do in fact heal, you might've lost all your motivation. Now you've gained 25 pounds. You're not happy with how you look. And it's that much harder to go to the gym. You used to be able to go to the gym and you could run for an hour. Now you go to the gym and you find it hard to run because you haven't practiced. And so it becomes an uphill battle. But what you need to remember is that there is such a thing as muscle memory. And this also occurs for your heart. If you took time off to the gym and you didn't do anything, let's say you took a month off, you just sat and did nothing. The heart remembers. The muscles remember. Remember the heart is in fact a muscle and it's going to repair faster than last time. And so please use that as motivation to get back. You should never take that time off the gym. But if you do take that time off, you realize the error of your ways. Remember, it's going to come back faster than last time. And so the worst thing you could do is to keep doing nothing. And so whenever you get injured, whenever you get sick, try to come back as soon as possible and lift within your means. I'd rather be out of proportion, have a great looking left arm and legs, chest and so on, but not have a big bicep because the bicep can come back. Please, now that you're aware of these things, remember, don't let these things become excuses. You are aware of them. You know they could be coming. And so recognize them and make a change before it is too late. Interested in supplements? Of course, we have Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum. We've got Bloodwork. We've got G-Test Platinum. All the supplements. Don't forget to get Blue Lobster to go to the gym and work out. Take your creatine. And we are in fact looking for HLT sponsored athletes. You can apply by clicking the link. Also, if you want HLT supplements in your store and or gym, apply by clicking the link. And for AlgorX, if you need the Inclomiphene, the HRT, the Cialis, the peptides to help you lose weight, all the things. Code Greg for 10% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you'd like to watch one of those two boops. And next time, I'm out.

=== FILE: Breaking! Clavicular Finally Arrested [RUaYUEY0F2k].txt ===

 d converter converter converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter converter, d converter converter converter, d converter converter converter, d converter converter converter, d converter converter converter, d converter converter converter converter, d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter I was waiting to see how long it would take. Remember, he drove over that man with the cyber truck, the whole thing. And people were wondering how many years he was going to go to jail. And so I'm looking and it's actually for something else. And so clavicular, he can't seem to stay out of trouble. He's always doing something wrong. And at this point, I actually think he's doing it on purpose. I don't know if he wants to go to jail, if it makes him more viral, if he wants to be famous for doing something wrong, essentially infamous. But whatever he's doing, it's working. And so why was he arrested? Bro, I don't have, like, maybe in Florida. Maybe in Florida, but bro, I don't have the power to just freak out like that. I don't know what he did. I don't know what he did. I didn't watch the clip, but like. Well, everyone knows clavicular. He's underage. In the United States, for some stupid reason, you have to be 21 years of age to drink alcohol. In Canada, it ranges from 18 to 19. And so only in the United States can you be an adult. Can you go to war? Can you vote? But you can't even take a drink. And so he goes to the bar. He asked to get in. And the bouncers basically says, have you been drinking tonight? And I'm thinking, why would he ask if he's been drinking tonight? I mean, isn't that kind of the point? You're going to a bar. What you have to be sober when you get there to make sure that they get drunk while in there. And he says, no, I haven't been drinking anything. And so they let him in through the back door. Upon entering the bar, he's drinking Red Bulls. He's not even drinking alcohol. And so you got to think, what are people doing when they go to the bar and they're not drinking? Do you all think that they're just sitting there sober? Do you think people just go to the bar, sober as could be, 20 years old, trying to get girls? They're using recreational substances. That is what's going on. And so this guy, perhaps he doesn't like clavicular. Perhaps he's watched Coach Greg videos. He understands he's the worst social media fitness influencer in the world. He beat out Togi. And so he calls the police on him. Says, hey, we got a guy in here who's underage. Now, generally speaking, I wouldn't blame the kid. He's 20 years old. He's trying to sneak into the bar. They let him in. Hey, to me, that's on the bar. But upon searching him, they discover he has a fake ID. And that is, in fact, illegal. A lot of people are confused why Clav got arrested for using a fake ID. This is pretty common in people under 21. And usually when this happens and you're underage and you use a fake ID at a bar, they just tell you to go home. And if they call the cops, the cops usually don't really do anything about it. But it turns out he was in the worst state possible for this. He was in Arizona. And using a fake ID in Arizona is a felony. That means he can go up to jail for 3.5 years just for using a fake ID. And not only that, does anyone think that Clavicular is walking around with no bag? And then while he was being arrested for that, they also found illegal substances on him, which is also a felony, which is another 3.5 years. That means he could spend up to seven years in jail. And so, of course, he's got a bag. In that, allegedly, he's got some creatine in there. And I'm not talking about the creatine that you go to the gym. And so, last I checked, even though some people say you're not from the United States, you don't know the laws, it's not legal to have creatine on you when you're going to the bar, at your house, anywhere. And so, if you have illegal substances on you combined with having a fake ID, add to that you're in the bar and everyone knows you and you've been kicked out of bars before, you've not let in, you've done all these crazy things. Eventually, somebody's going to be on to you and they're going to report you. And so, he actually got arrested. Now, I'm watching the videos and I'm thinking, is this actually staged? But actually, from what I'm seeing, it looks to all be true. Now, what is this going to do? Well, I believe it's going to make him even more popular. Because if you actually like clavicular, which means there's something wrong with you, then you're going to like the more bad things he does, the better. And you're going to be rooting for him. Yes, go clavicular, go. And even if you don't like him, you're going to be rooting for him to fail. And so, clavicular, whether you like him or not, you're rooting for him, either in a positive way or a negative. And so, he's currently jail maxing. And I do believe someone in a prison, if he's to be there for an extended period of time, they're going to like this. Because, I mean, after all, when you're a looks maxer, when you're trying to make yourself look as pretty as possible, when you're famous for that, eventually, he's going to be soap maxing. And so, whether he uses a soap to wash his body or to perhaps lubricate certain orifices, clavicular is going to have a good time, or, well, depending if he likes it or not, a very bad time. Does anyone remember when clavicular said he was getting that facial surgery, the double jaw massager, oral navel folds? What the hell is he getting? He's getting, like, bone max. He's going to get his cheekbones bigger, his folds here, extended his jaw, pushed out. I don't know what he wants to look like. He wants to look like he's on some M the whole time, your jaw coming out. What exactly is he doing? He's trying to look, Max. He's trying to ascend. Ascend into what? Also, he added into this, he wanted to get his legs smashed and become taller. Now, how many months has it been since he said he was getting that facial jaw surgery, that he was going to spend, like, $35,000 or $50,000 so that he could go from being a Chad to a, what's the next word after Chad? A gig of Chad. Yeah. And so, why hasn't this happened? And so, you notice he talks a lot of talk, but when push comes to shove, he doesn't actually do anything. And so, this is my personal opinion. He sends a bunch of lies. He makes a bunch of shit up. He tries to go viral. By just saying things that he knows is going to get a lot of views. For example, did he actually do math? I'm not talking about school here, guys. Did he actually do the math? Was it Adin Ross that was saying that he had seen him do this? He was saying he was doing math to be thin so that he could be thinner to lose weight. He's also claimed to have done 15 grams of RETA, RETA 2 try. And I know he spoke with Alex Eubank. Hey, guys, I watch a lot of videos. Trust me, I have to watch a lot to be able to do these videos. He said he was, at one point, doing 20 milligrams of RETA. 2 milligrams is a lot. 15 is ridiculous, and 20 makes no sense. And so, how many of you actually believe this? Like, if you just believe anything that comes out of Clave's mouth, then my opinion is you're an idiot. Or, well, you don't have to be an idiot. You just have an IQ of 79. I am not that stupid. I was too hungover. Most people in this world are average intelligence. And average is not saying much. Just like most people in this world. Well, if you look at them, there's a lot of people nearby. I don't want to say too much. How does my arm look? I don't know. And so, there's too many people nearby, but the average person looks like shit. I'm not kidding. They really do look very, very bad. Average person is like, I think men was 29% body fat. Women was like 39. And so, average sucks. And so, if you're average intelligence, you're actually an idiot. I'm sorry. That's just the truth. And so, you're believing clavicular in whatever he says, which makes you an idiot. And so, when he says, yeah, I'm going to get a facial surgery and I'm doing math and I'm doing this and I'm doing that, y'all believe it? He also said he had sexy time with over 100 girls. You believe he had more than 100? Triple digits? There's no way. Maybe 10. You really think there's 100 girls out there that are that stupid? Well, I mean, maybe. But I mean, not unless he's paying them a lot of money, of which I believe that he has a lot of money. And so, if the point is, is clavicular actually arrested or did he pay somebody to arrest him? Is he actually going to go to jail for this? And like, I mean, honestly, he should be in jail for driving over somebody with a Cybertruck. Doesn't that make more sense? I think driving over someone with a Cybertruck and having no remorse, if it wasn't staged, of which perhaps it is because that would make sense. Why is he in jail? Why haven't they arrested him? How is this just something you do and you just get on with your life? That is way worse than going into a bar at 20 when the drinking age is 21, of which it should be younger than 20. It's ridiculous. If you can vote for the President of the United States, you should be allowed to drink. Now, granted, it's a class one's carcinogen. It's poison and no one should be drinking it. Only idiots drink alcohol, which is, of course, 50% of the population. But, at least, if you can make a stupid decision, you should be able to make another stupid decision. And so, going to the bar, although it's a stupid decision, I think you should be allowed to do that at 18 or 19 years of age. Hey, it's just a thing. Either that or raise the voting age to something that makes more sense. If he leaves the state of Arizona, he is going to catch more charges and he is going to be revoked on release. Okay? One more thing that proves just how stupid Clavicular really is is Bro isn't on TurkBuilder Max. He's not using HDLT supplements and everyone knows that if you're using TurkBuilder Max, you can't be arrested. It's kind of like an invisibility cloak. Like, when I was sneaking Turk across the border into Uzbekistan, various countries, you saw me hiding out in Mexico. The authorities couldn't catch me. Remember, I'm in, I'm in, where am I right now? I'm in Miami, guys. Remember? I'm in Miami, bitch. I wasn't even allowed in the States for 11 years and yet, they let me across. Why do you think that is? It's the TurkBuilder Max. You can pay off everyone with it. It actually builds muscle. It's better than creatine. It's the best natural supplement in the world. And don't forget, you can get this by entering code Greg and you will get 15% off. And so, that proves how stupid he is. The next thing that proves how stupid he is, he's on testosterone. He's in abusing it since he was 14 and he's not getting it from AlgorX. How many think he has a doctor that's prescribing him this stuff that's telling him exactly how much to take and or not take? Or whether he should perhaps, instead of using testosterone, he should be on Enclomiphene? And when he's using Reda, Reda of the three, that's not even a legal peptide. And so, if you go to AlgorX, they don't have Reda, but they do have GLPs, Enclomiphene, testosterone, telmosartan, various peptides. And so, remember, it's all pharmaceutical. You get code Greg for 10% off. And if you compare the prices to Merrick Health, you'll see how significantly lower the prices are. And to me, that is what you want. Unless you're a multi-millionaire, you've got so much money, you just want to throw it away. Why would you want to waste money on peptides? And so, the moral of the story is use Turk Builder Max if you want to put on more muscle than last time, greater recovery. And if you don't want to get arrested, that's the whole point of the video. And so, let me know in the comments section, do you think that Clave is actually going to be in jail for a long time? Are they going to actually arrest this guy for anything legit? Is it all staged? Is it fake? What is going on with this world? Why is he even bothering to go in the bar? Why are bars letting him in if they know that he's underage in the first place? I mean, why? What is even going on? Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to Boosy Aguram, like the video if you liked it, go to Al Gorex and buy stuff, go to HLT Supplements and buy stuff. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: Confronting Tristyn Lee In Vegas [kLJdhGQprog].txt ===

 X They're a rare species. It is. It's okay. They're very wild. You see them very rarely. I'm an endangered species as well, so be careful, guys. That's crazy. Alright guys, we are at New Tech Gym. We've arrived. You know me, I gotta bring all my videographer calls on my bag of trickeries. Here we go again. Start is 800 and we're gonna leave with... Okay, so what happened? We lost. $50 worth of equipment and a $5 million gym. Exactly. I got my yoga blocks, I got my squat wedge. I'm ready to fucking cook right now. I don't know what's coming. I'm about to get Janakie-fied. You don't need to warm up. You just go outside. Yeah, we're doing good. Apparently we're going to a Cybertruck. Oh, it's an IFBB Pro, obviously. Oh yeah, I have to do mine. IFBB. Alright, we're at... Just the intro. New Trek Gym. We've got Mepstagram. We've got Eric Janakie. We're going through an intense full body workout. We're gonna see what happens. With the Cybertruck. Yeah. I'm not a fan of the Cybertruck. We're not getting one of those? I don't really know. I don't think we're gonna get one of those. It's not my thing. Yes. Got it. You want to go ahead? I really want to experience that kind of frame. It would be awesome. I am. What are you doing today? I think I did a good job. You want to get a picture of me? Sure. I'm a huge fan, man. I think... I would say that. Sorry. But I think the shape is undeniable. So I think it's just a matter of kind of filling the gaps and... You want to get a picture of me as well? I think people will think... Oh yeah, sure. How long it really took. Like, you know, let's say... I'm just gonna do some like chest stuff here. Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! I would say you're not natural. Okay, maybe. It's possible, but I doubt it. Your waist is really small. Your legs are not small, but not like huge either. You feel like a front double bicep. Yeah, you look great. You just have to get like grip, do you know what I mean? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, you look great. I think you could win a show of classes. Probably, eventually, I don't know which one you would do better in. You look great. Thank you, thank you. Hard ass, hard ass. How much do you charge for body ratings usually? Have I ever charged for body ratings? I don't know. Some guys would actually send me photos and I do phone consults. And I used to have to rate physiques all the time. Body fat percentage, can I compete? But yeah, it's fun. Coach Greg, and I'm here with... Tristan Lee. One of the leanest bodybuilders in the world who's not yet to compete yet. No, not yet. Why aren't you competing? I mean, look at this guy. He's so shredded. He's way leaner than me. It's on my bucket list, but it's not in my desires right now. I honestly, I genuinely just love training. And I feel like the sacrifices that I would have to make with regards to my social relationships, my connections, and just the mental state that I would put myself in, in order to get into a competitive bodybuilding state, would be too much of a sacrifice for what I really want at this moment. It's crazy that you say that because to me, this is a stage ready bodybuilder on the fly. You could literally be competing on Saturday. I don't know about stage ready, but I find this like, this is something that I can maintain with relative ease. Like I don't feel terrible. My energy is good. My sleep is good. And all the other factors contributing to like, whether or not I feel like absolute garbage are good. So, yeah, I just, I guess the competitive aspect, I think the mental state that I would put myself in, in order to get up on stage, I think it would be negative for just my genuine love and passion for training. Okay. Well, my personal opinion for a first show, 7% body fat or less is perfectly acceptable. Like I don't like people to over diet for the first show and then like really suffer too much. And you know, if you really like it and the next show you can get even leaner. So why don't we test your body fat, see where you stand, see how lean exactly are you based on the calipers. They're not a hundred percent accurate, but we're going to see. Yeah. And if your number is low enough, maybe you can jump on stage real soon. We'll see. We'll see. Let's start with the biceps. Have you done this before calipers? Yeah, we did like years ago. All right. Let's see. We'll see how it matches up here. All right. This is essentially paper. There's no body fat under the skin here. Literally 1.9 is just lean. I've never pinched a bicep under two in my life. This is like thick skin shredded. So are you memorizing the numbers? This is my thesis memorizer. 1.9 for the biceps. 11 years of university. This is, it comes down to this. There's some pressure. Tricep. Relax the arms. Jeez. There's nothing here. My God. It's nuts. 3. This is insane. This is insane. That's about the same as mine both put together for just my tricep alone. Oh, really? This is my weakness, the back. This is where I carry most of my body fat. So, so far, these numbers are lower than anyone I would see who's actually a competitive bodybuilder. Like if he was competing tomorrow, he would be on point. All right. Under the subscap. 5.2. I mean, honestly, I was saying he was going to be shredded. I've never tested anyone as low as this so far. All right. So, we have 1.9. The last spot we're doing is. Blue. We're not right. We're doing down, down on the side of your abdominals. Let's get one arm above your head here. All right. Just relax as much as you can. Try to loosen the skin up. Oh, I thought that was gonna be the spot. There's no... I mean, honestly, there's just skin on this guy. So, run the total up. I don't even know if this chart's gonna go that low. What are your guesses? Like... I don't know. I mean, this is like... 4% body fat probably like... I don't know. There's no, I mean, honestly, there's just skin in this guy. So run the total up. I don't even know if this chart's going to go that low. What are your guesses? This is like OG. 4% body fat probably? I don't know. I mean, is that the only test? You just do the only four points? These four, that's all we're using. This is the sum of four skinfold tests. What's the grand total? 13.6. Are you kidding? Okay, so the chart bottoms out at 4.8% body fat at 15. I don't think that's accurate, though. It's pretty close. Now, I've, in my lifetime, been leaner than that, so I added some lower numbers. You did that. So at 14, it would be 3.8%. What was that? 13.6. So 13.6. So roughly 3.5, 3.6%. I don't think that's accurate, man. Come on, let's be serious. It got 3.8%. We watched it. It's documented on camera. The sum of four skinfolds. What's the most accurate, DEXA? The DEXA scam is not very accurate. I would trust more the hydrostatic weighing test, which I've seen you do at 4.4. 4.4, yeah, yeah. But I still don't trust. I don't know. I'm always skeptical of it. Because when I see a stage level bodybuilder, so when I see you, for example, when you were absolutely peeled on stage before when you were competing, I would think that you were way leaner than what I am right now. It's an illusion. If I put as much muscle as I have, or like Eric Janicki, on your body, with your level of body fat, the muscles would pop through and you would see all those striations. So the only difference between you and these guys is they're much bigger than you. How does like diuresis affect body fat tests? On the skinfold caliper, if you're really dehydrated, you will have slightly thinner skin folds, but not by much. It might affect it by like 1%. Would that affect a hydrostatic or a DEXA? Absolutely. DEXA, you can trick how much body fat you have by a lot, especially how much muscle mass you have. So if someone wanted to do the most accurate method, would they do hydrostatic? I would do hydrostatic, but you have to be on a special diet to not have a lot of fiber so you don't get bloated and have a lot of gas. So they would like prepare you for the test? Yep. And you have to be very comfortable at blowing all your air out. So that's pretty accurate. But honestly, we did this and a hydrostatic and a DEXA and maybe divide it into the three. That's pretty accurate. But I find my laser eyes to be fairly accurate. I mean, you look like 4% to me. I don't know about that, but I'll take it. I'll take it. And the MRI, if you ever get a chance, that one is right on. So if you do an MRI, it'll be the gold standard. That's the one. Okay. But this is 100% he's stage ready. So you're saying, I wouldn't want to change my life for it. You literally just get on to proper 10 and you're good. Like you said, I don't have the musculature right now to compete against top level bodybuilders. And everything I do, I go all in on. I want to be the best at whatever I'm doing. And so if I was to put myself up on stage, I know there's a lot of areas. Like my chest, for example, my side delts, my back, like my overall density this way. My thickness. Did you have the striations in the legs and stuff too? I mean, we didn't test it. Oh my God. Are you? What are you? All right. I just, for my own personal knowledge, because I have really lean legs and I test them like this. We can see, look. Do you flex it when you test your legs? No. Relax. So I'm four and a half. I have, I'm having pretty lean legs. But. Are you able to maintain this like no issue? This is easy for me, but I race on a bike eight to 10 hours a week. So I do like a thousand calories of cardio in an hour. So I have an, okay, I have an interesting question then. Do you think that it's the body fat that causes issues for most people? Or do you think what it takes to get to that body fat is what causes more issues? I think it's a combination of both. I'd say half what you're doing and half what you're born with. So if you try to get too lean, but you don't do a lot of cardio and have the proper diet, you're going to feel like garbage. Right. But if you do a lot of cardio, it's ways you're staying lean. I'm leaner now at 50 than I was when I was dieting for bodybuilding. I feel great now. For example, I don't do any standard cardio right now. I just do steps. And I'm an active person. I could go, I could run around and all that stuff. But I don't do any standard cardio. And I eat a decent amount. I eat 26, 2700 calories. So it's not like, obviously it's relative to how much muscle and that much whatever. But I don't find this difficult to maintain. So when I last met you, which was like- What was it like three years ago maybe? That was like in Toronto, right? When you tested my body fat or you said my body fat back then, which was around, I don't know, it was low. It was like 6% or whatever it was. I was doing like 20,000 steps. Hit cardio three times a week. Training seven. So my lifestyle shifted a ton since then. But I'm still able to, after I went through the bulk that I did where I went all the way up to 178, I was able to diet back down and not have to maintain the same cardio regimen that I was doing before. I'm still able to maintain this body composition with like much less stress and just craziness of doing so. I don't know because back then I felt like I was running myself into the ground. But now I'm like, okay, I'm able to maintain this with relative ease. So I don't know what. That's why I was asking. I was curious about the question. I feel like you have the genetics, obviously like one in a, I don't know, a thousand that could be this lean and not feel like garbage because I couldn't do that. I would never be able to- But I mean you're really lean right now. One more percent and I have no energy. If I lost 1% body fat, I can't handle it. I think it is a fine line. Yeah. I got to test this quad though. I got to see the millimeters on this. Oh yeah, this is just paper thin. It's insane. 3.3. There's no, let's see. I got to see a hamstring flex. Oh my, I mean. Honestly, I'm going to be 100% honest. I saw photos online. I'm like, yeah, but when I see him in person, it's like probably like the lighting and stuff. He's not going to be this lean in person. He's lean in person than I expected. Thank you. Thank you. It's insane. Like my hamstrings are really quite lean. Yeah. And if we compare them, like mine are not even close. Like it's insane. Are you bulking right now? Right now I'm gaining half a pound a week. That's good. Pretty slow. But for the past, like since I finished that dieting phase, I pretty much maintained or hovered like slight surplus. I just kind of hovered around similar weight. But now the plan is like going to another offseason. Probably try to get up to like 170, 170. And what do you weigh now? Like 150s probably? 153, 154. 153. Yeah. But I'm going to try to get back up to like 170 again. Probably better body composition than last time. Because last time I was like probably like 14% body fat or so. It's hard to imagine him at 14%. I mean, the photos of me like puppy is just like, I don't know. I just, I can't. When I was in it though, like when I was bulking, I was like, yeah, this is a good body composition. But I think like past 170, when I got up to like 175, 176, all the way up to like 178, I didn't really notice many like performance benefits. So I'm probably going to try to like stay around that 12% body fat mark and then just kind of like keep progressing in the gym, you know? My natty or not predictions are based on 51% chance. Yeah. I'm like if there's a 51% chance, I'm like not natty. I'm not offended in any way, shape, or form. I don't feel any type of way about it. Awesome. Yeah. Well, I'm impressed. There's the video. He's 3 point, what was it? 3.6%? 3.8. This is insane. Thank you. I want to see on stage. Everyone wants to see on stage. You just got to do it one time. Maybe in the future. We'll see. All right. Great catching up. Looking incredible. Keep it up. Appreciate it. Thank you.

=== FILE: Connor Sinann Makes A Fool Of Himself On K [cAFR-2L31Fs].txt ===

 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter it was about influencing people to be fit, to exercise, to care about their appearance, to love their bodies. Today, being a fitness influencer, it's more about doing the exact opposite, which is promoting degeneracy. Case in point. It's so funny, the academy, like, dance when people, like, always go like this. Yeah. A little bit shaky. Oh, Connor. Fuck. You know, Connor, you gotta get up. You gotta get up. Come on. We should lay over there on the balcony bench. Get up. Get up. Get up. Yeah, we should go over on the bench until we take the bathroom. Let's go over here. Come over here. Come over here. Come over here. Come over here. He's not gonna throw up. And so, this is now what it looks like to be a fitness influencer. We have Sush, who, he does an Ironman. He's fit. He does talk about steroids and things quite a bit, but he's the best of the three by far. At least, he promotes fitness while maintaining degeneracy at the same time. Connor, who recently was put into prison for like a month in Japan for smuggling in 0.29 grams of sniffing creatine. He brought that in by accident, whatever, into Japan. And he ended up in prison. He discovered the Bible. I thought he had learned his lesson. Like, genuinely, I thought this is either AI, it's a lie, or it actually happened. It had to be one of those things. And that he's no longer abusing steroids and he's turning over new leaf. He's had an epiphany. He's now gonna be healthier than last time and he's gonna do the good work. You can clearly see he's lost essentially all of his muscle from stopping the steroids. And I mean, unlike Hussein Farhat, who everyone thinks is a fake daddy. I mean, Hussein, he just magically kept all his muscles. Whereas Connor, he lost them all in what, a month? Understand this, because remember, this is still a fitness influencer video by Coach Greg. This is me. If you use steroids and you stop, you're gonna lose the majority of the gains. You can think you're not. You can think, no, I'll just do a 16-week cycle, 16-month cycle. I'll be like Hussein. I'll put out all this muscle and I'll lose it. Hussein's 100% natural. He still is. You can drug test him, blood work him, whenever you want. But that's besides the point. Connor, he's into the special K. I don't even think that's his drug of choice. I don't think he's into these things. But he's hanging around with Soush and clavicular. And I do believe that these two individuals perhaps dabble in this a little bit. I'm not 100% sure. Don't quote me. With that special item, the special K, a little bit is a lot. If you're comparing it to sniffing creatine, if you do the same amount, you're in a mess. And when he said, no, he's not going to throw up. He absolutely is going to throw up if he does too much. This is not something that you mess around with. And so upon watching this, why are we seeing three fitness influencers on a stream doing recreational things? Like why is this even on? Why are they streaming it? Even clavicular of all people is saying this is going too far. He said your liability maxing. You're a liability maxing a little bit. As in, if we show you doing all this stuff, influencing people, they're going to see you doing this. They might actually copy you and think it's cool after all. Connor's got a large following, right? Like he's got over half a million followers. And so if people think, well, if I am acting like Connor, maybe I'll be famous. If I act like Soush, maybe I'll be famous. If I do like clavicular, well, I too can make it one day. And so rather than training harder than last time, putting the fork down, doing 150 minutes of cardio week and going to the gym and lifting weights, getting an amazing physique and making content, telling people how to lift weights and do the things and be healthy, rather than all of that, what do you think's easier? Sniffing creatine, vitamin K and doing the things and being a generator. Add to that, let's promote and encourage young people to gamble, which is ruining lives, causing so many people to end their lives. They don't want to be here anymore. The debts, the problems. Do you know how much money these influencers are being paid to promote gambling? It's so much more than to promote fitness. Fitness promotion? Oh, you got a gym shark contract? Oh, you're sponsored by Gorilla Mind or whatever. You really think that they're making as much money or even close to the same as if you can promote gambling to other people. You can encourage, you can promote other people who perhaps aren't gambling to now get addicted. And so how much money do you think Togi's actually making? Is it possible that he's making even more than Coach Craig? Well, anything is possible. It's possible. And so imagine you're making more money by encouraging people to do bad things. And so imagine this would be equivalent. If you can encourage enough people to do vitamin K or sniff creatine, that you'll be paid $100,000 a week. Would that be something that you would want to see? I'm asking you, do you think that it is good if you found out that your favorite influencer was getting paid millions of dollars a year to promote the use of recreational drugs, or let's change it to promote drinking? You had a beer, beer sponsorship. You're promoted by whatever beer company that you want. Would you like that? You're encouraging people to drink. A class one carcinogenic causes people to get cancer, early death, alcoholism, depression, all the things that go with it. Think about how bad drinking actually is. I didn't know how bad drinking was. I used to get drunk all the time in university and so on. I didn't know it was that bad. It's kind of like smoking cigarettes. When they first came out with that, oh, it doesn't cause cancer. It's not that big of a deal. But then when they had opioids, oh, that's not addictive. It's fine. Don't worry about it. And so if you're drinking alcohol, you've convinced yourself it's not that a big a deal. I mean, your mom does it perhaps, your grandparents, the social caterings, the wines, and it's normalized. It's one of the worst drugs in the world. I'm talking about alcohol. It's worse than half the drugs that you can live. Do you really think that mushrooms or, for example, that green leaf is even remotely close to the same thing? It's way worse to drink alcohol than many of these other things. And so I didn't know how bad drinking actually was. I mean, not to mention the accidents, driving, the things that people do to each other when they're drunk. Perhaps they're married, they're together, the rage, the fights, the violence, the things that happen when you're out at the bars. And so alcohol is so bad. Imagine being paid to promote it. This is what we're seeing when we see promotion of gambling. You might think it's harmless because, oh, it's not affecting me. What about those other people? You might be thinking, hey, drinking isn't that bad. I can handle it. You can, but they can't. The problems that happen, the deaths, the tens of thousands of people dying each and every year from drinking alcohol, you have no idea how bad it actually is. And so this is what's become of the fitness industry. This is fun. Let's do this again tomorrow. Yeah, definitely not. I don't know. You want to do ketamine again tomorrow? No. I don't know if I'll ever do ketamine ever again, actually. Yeah. It's like a one and done experience, you know? You kind of just like, that went up a little bit. What did I do? You just got cooked, man. That's all. Yeah. There's like liabilities, you know? So you're a liability maxing a little bit. Connor, he's literally looking like a ghost here. I don't know. I don't know. As I looked at this, I'm like, is this actually AI? What is going on? And so there's two things that this could be. This could be completely real. They did too much. It's not good. He's messed up. Or it's all fake. Hey, we tricked you. I didn't actually sniff anything. Nothing went in my nose. Nothing was done. I just pretended. Does that make any difference whatsoever at all? Like even 1% difference? No. Why? Because regardless of if it's acting or not, it's promoting what they're doing. If Togi is pretending to bet millions of dollars, but he's not, but pretending he is, how is that any different? Hey, look. Oh my God. Oh my God. And then slam the table off. I don't want to have to spend 20 minutes fixing this. Does that make any difference if he actually bet it or not? Like he's probably not actually betting millions of dollars. It's probably fake money, monopoly money, if you will. But does it make any difference? It's encouraging you to want to do the same. And to the same extent, if I start doing 1000 milligrams of trend a week and I make videos promoting it and saying, look at how huge I am. And I didn't actually do the trend. I made it up. Does it make any difference whatsoever? I don't think so. And so I don't care if this is fake, stage, real, it's all bad. And this is what fitness influencing has become. Rather than actually influencing people to fit, we're influencing degeneracy, doing drugs, partying, doing loser activities, and not having any muscle. Like, are these guys actually training anymore? How often does Clavicular and Connor actually go to the gym? Fitness influencing, it's dead. What's replaced it is whatever's the easiest, quick fix solution disguised as fitness. Train a little bit. Say, you know, I like having abs fitness and then show everything else. Minimally show fitness at a minimum. Talk about it. Mention it briefly like Togi does. But the rest of it, just talk about all the other shit that's going on. Because let's be honest, training seven days a week, being disciplined, doing the proper things, that's kind of boring. Like, how is that fun to watch? It's more fun to watch somebody completely mess up their life, do stupid things, overdose on math, go to the hospital, almost die. It's more entertaining. And so what these fitness influencers have discovered is fitness influencing is a little bit boring. And so let's give them all the highlights, which are actually the lowlights of our life. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. Of course, you can get the cookbook. You can get G02 Max. You can get GLP Max. If you want to lose weight and keep it off, reduce your appetite, reduce your cravings. Don't forget about D-Test Platinum to improve your natural testosterone levels, as well as to get Turk Builder Platinum. More muscle, greater strength, endurance, recovery, all this. If these are not strong enough, you can go to AlgorX, enter code Greg for 10% off to get things like Inclomiphene, HRT, Cialis, Tadalafil, weight loss, peptides, the list goes on and on. Remember, it's pharmaceutical, prescribed by doctors, about half price of Baric Health. Please do your shopping around, compare the prices, and then go with what you think is best. Oh, one more thing, looking for social media influencers, actual fitness influencers to promote supplements and so on. And if you're interested, click the link. And if you want to carry my supplements in your stores and our gym, click the other link. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: Dad Bods Ain't It [9adMYfqVb-g].txt ===

 The happiest men over 40 are 25 pounds overweight. How are you gonna sit there and try to convince me that being happy and fat is a thing? It's not a thing, it's COPE. Being fat and happy is COPE. The new study came out said that people on average, if they're 25 pounds overweight, that they're happier than people who are leaner. The happiest men over 40 are 25 pounds overweight. And I don't want that to be true. It's not true. That's it! That's it! So all of a sudden, that changes the game. It's because they're relaxed about their lives. If you're 61, like me, and you've got washboard abs, you're making a big sacrifice. Here's the problem. This is all COPE. Let's think for a second, you and I. Do you think I would be happier if I gained 25 pounds of fat? I'm 190 pounds, all of a sudden I'm 215. And what about Mr. Mike? If Mr. Mike was happier with 25 pounds more fat, why did he get it all sucked out by a freaking vacuum cleaner? Could it be that people are just lazy and the average person just happens to be 25 pounds overweight because they are? And so those people, they don't give a shit about their health or their appearance. And so they don't go to the gym. They don't go for a walk. They sit down. They drink beer. They perhaps have fun with their friends. They go out, eat pizza, whatever. But do you really think that that makes them happier people than people who like working out? They're fit. They train for triathlons. They perhaps are bike racing with Coach Greg. They lift weights. Do you really think that people lacking discipline, who are lazy, who don't care about their future, they don't care about living longer than last time, that they're actually happier than those that do? Let's even say that they are. They are until they're not. So you're 45 years old, you're 25 pounds overweight, whatever. And you're, you're happy until you go to the doctor and he says, you have type two diabetes. Are you happy now? People on average who are 25 pounds overweight, they don't live as long as people who are leaner. And so are you going to be happy when you're dead? Maybe temporarily in that moment in time for that segment of the population who's not thinking clearly, they're happier. Now being 25 pounds overweight as a 30 year old, 40, 50, it's not really that big a deal, but the effects of being overweight, they get compounded the way that interest compounds. And it's going to dramatically affect you when you get older, the wear and tear in the joints, the damage to your heart, the organs. As you get older, all of these small problems, they amplify. And so if you haven't been taking care of yourself once you get older, and I know you don't want to think about when you get old, you want to live for now. You know, YOLO, you only live once. Yeah. You only live once. And that's why it's even more important to care about it and to do the things that make you live best. And that sacrifice might not be a healthy sacrifice for you. And so imagine this. You have a group of people, a hundred people and 50 of them, they're overweight, 25 pounds overweight. And you survey them and you say, Hey, are you happy? Yeah. Pretty happy. You know, I got a decent wife, family. I have a job. And so they're happy. A different group of people. They've lost the 25 pounds. They have the six pack, the shreds and so on. And you survey them and you say, Hey, are you happy? And many of them are going to say no, but why is that? Well, they weren't happy when they were 25 pounds overweight. And so they thought, you know, by chasing that goal, by losing that weight, it's going to then make me happy. But weight loss doesn't make you happy as a person. The people who are overweight and are not happy are thinking, well, I'm not happy. Maybe it's by losing weight that I'll become happy. It ain't it. And so they sample these people who have lost weight and they find out, Hey, you're not happy in comparison to the people that are 25 pounds overweight. They're actually happier. Yeah. But if that person then gains the 25 pounds back, they're still not going to be happy. And so it's not the fact that they lost 25 pounds. That's making them unhappy. It's the fact that they're unhappy to begin with. You're never going to be fully satisfied. But what you have to do is enjoy the journey, the process. Those of you who enjoy fitness, you like working out, you take pride in it. You're doing the cardio. You're putting the fork down. Doing those things are making you feel good about yourself. And so you should keep going. You shouldn't be going to the extent that getting that six pack, those abs are making you miserable. Why would it make you miserable to pursue your passion to do what you love? Somehow that makes you miserable. If going to the gym, doing cardio, lifting weights, putting the fork down, if all of that makes you miserable, why are you doing it? Like really, you think that those people keep doing it. How many people do you think are dedicated to the gym? They're the kind of people you look around, you have a few friends out there and you admire them. You're like, how are you so motivated? How are you so disciplined? What gets you out of bed each and every day? How can you do what you're doing? What's your secret? Do you really think that they have some kind of a secret? I'll tell you exactly what it is. They love what they do. I had this exact question asked of me yesterday at the gym. You're 50 years old and you have so much motivation. You're in the gym. You're upbeat. You're in a good mood. You're loving what you're doing. What's the secret? I'm like, you just said it. I love what I'm doing. I said, for me, going to the gym is like when you go to a great movie or you go to a fancy restaurant. Whatever you like most, that for me is fitness. Whatever you like best. That's what fitness is for me. And so do you really think I have motivation, discipline, determined? I don't have any of that stuff. I just love what I'm doing. And because I love it, I want to keep going. And just think of it. This analogy you will get. How much motivation do you need in order to have sexy time with a very hot female? She's a nine out of 10. How hard is it to get hard for that female when that is the most exciting thing you're going to do that day? Is it really taking a lot of work? Like you have to really, I have to motivate myself again. I have to receive a fellatio from this woman, this Monica Lewinsky. Is it really that hard? It's not that hard. And so for the gym, that's what it is for me. For me to gain 25 pounds and to say that would make you happier would be like saying to a man who's got a hot wife, girlfriend, whatever, charmuta, that he no longer has to have sexy time with his woman. Hey, you don't need to do that anymore. You'll be happier. What? What are you talking about? We're not having sexy time anymore? That's half of the point. If you take away what you love best, how are you going to be happier? And so to say that if you gain 25 pounds or that if you're 25 pounds overweight, that you're going to be happier than if you're not, that is pure culp, bullshit, nonsense. And remember, correlation doesn't equal causality. Just because there's correlation that people are 25 pounds overweight or happier doesn't mean that the weight is actually causing to be happier. It's in fact the opposite. Any of these guys who are 25 pounds overweight, if they lost some of the weight, maybe they wouldn't be happier. Maybe they would. But if you're unhappy because you're fat, staying fat isn't going to help you. The happiest men over 40 are 25 pounds overweight. Also, they said the happiest men over 40 are 25 pounds overweight. I would like to see a lineup of people and have them claim that they're happier than me. I have a hard time believing that there's somewhere better, that it could get any better than this. What would I do? How would it somehow get better? Explain it to me because if it's possible, I want to learn. Trust me. If I can go from a 9.9 Richter scale happiness to 10, I want to do it. What would be the secret? Do I spend more of my millions of dollars? Would Mepsagram have to what? Grow taller? What would she have to do? Guys, you have no idea what she already does. Yeah, boy. How am I getting happier? Maybe another mansion. Would it be two mansions that makes me happier? Oh, another? Oh, another sports car? Race faster than a bike? If I wear shoe inserts and I become taller? Guys, I already have the proper tan. I've got everything I could ask for. I need nothing more. I'm healthy and I'm 50 and I'm happy. And so how are you going to sit there and try to convince me that being happy and fat is a thing? It's not a thing. It's cope. And just like those stupid studies, they keep spewing us, trying to tell us things that we already know to be false. You've seen these commercials, these ads, these comments. Oh, if you're happy, fat, you're better off. If I had abs, I would be miserable. No, you wouldn't. Only if you do it incorrectly. If you starve yourself. If you don't have my freaking cookbook. Perhaps if you're not on the Turk Builder Max or the Geo2 Max, you're just not getting blue lobstered. If you do it all incorrectly, maybe you've over dieted. And so no, if you go from being 25 pounds overweight and you suddenly enjoy going to the gym and you lose the weight properly, you're not going to be less happy. If you are less happy, you probably have lower levels of testosterone. You fuck. You didn't have my book. You over dieted. You did something stupid. You watch Mr. Mike as your favorite YouTuber instead of Coach Greg. People, they screw things up. But if you did screw it up, go to Al Gorex, get your blood work done. And get doctors to prescribe you legally pharmaceutical medications at half the price of Merrick Health. How is that not going to make you happy? You save so much money. You get your enclomaphane and your Cialis, the Talafil. The list goes on and on. And don't forget, code Greg, 10% off. You're going to get even happier. You're making a big sacrifice for that. And that sacrifice might not be a healthy sacrifice for you. And that's actually worth keeping in mind because it's more important for you to actually, you know, eat a slice of pizza with your wife. Do you know how stupid this sounds? Like, you know that you're talking with an idiot when he says something like this. Eating a pizza with your wife doesn't mean you can't be at a healthy weight. I mean, if you actually think, yeah, yeah, you know, I agree with them. The stupid coach, Greg, he's a freaking manlet, moron, a freaking snake oil salesman. What a loser that guy is. Do you really think that I can't have a slice of pizza with mepsogram and not be 25 pounds overweight? You could replace slice with entire pizza and I could still be at the same weight I am right now. And I'm not even talking about having the low calorie pizza from my cookbook. Obviously, there's pizza recipes in there. You can eat the pizza, low calories. I'm talking about regular fat ass pizza from whatever, Greco pizza, Dunkin' Donut pizza, whatever you guys buy. You eat the pizza and you eat less of something else. You eat the pizza and, hey, guess what? You did your cardio. You burnt it off. This is not confusing. This is not hard. And this is the problem with society. Society thinks to have abs, to be lean, to be fit, can't ever eat pizza. Nope. It's just chicken, broccoli, and rice. I mean, we've got guys like Jeremy Efe who know nothing about weight loss. We have all these apps tracking calories when all you need to do is not eat in a surplus. How hard is that really? In this house, we obey the laws of thermodynamics. You can eat pizza. You can eat candies. You can eat cake. You can eat chocolate bars. Ice cream. All of this shit. If you burn off, you're not getting fat. Stop making it look like, oh, I just like having pizza with my wife. You're boring. You're fit. You don't do anything fun. You guys know my life. If you knew what I freaking did in a run of an average week, you wouldn't be thinking anything about, oh, you don't get to live a fun life. Yeah. How do we reconcile the fact that being the happiest can sometimes mean not being the most optimally healthy version of yourself? I don't think you need to be optimally healthy. We're talking about not being 25 pounds overweight. Since when is the absence of obesity optimally healthy? Optimally healthy would be not drinking, not partying, not doing recreational drugs, not doing steroids, getting to bed on time every single day would be essentially living like the frigging Brian Johnson, the vampire, not the liver king. That would be optimally healthy. Who the fuck wants to do that? I'm talking about living a healthy lifestyle at an ideal body weight. 15% body fat for men, perhaps 25% body fat for women. You really think you have to give up your entire lifestyle in order to achieve averageness? A healthy body fat does not take a lot of work. It does not take a lot of sacrifice. It means you have to stop eating like an asshole and not doing cardio and thinking you can do whatever you want. Grab any kind of fast food, any kind of ice cream and know doing that or being able to do that does not make you happier than someone that has actual conscious choices. Someone who's conscientious with their diet. When I go into the fridge and I open it and I grab some grapes and strawberries instead of a frigging ice cream sandwich, that doesn't mean I'm not happy. So you remember when you studied math in college, right? You have to optimize across more than one variable. You've got your abs, joy in your relationships. Of course, you optimize all variables. I'm not saying you should be 5% body fat. Is this about being 5%? This is not about being a competitive bodybuilder. This is about not being 25 pounds overweight. I never said that people who are professional bodybuilders one week out from a show are happier than people who are of average weight. I didn't say that at all. I'm saying healthy weight, those people happiest. And even if they're not, they will be. Eventually, they will be. Trust me. You're overweight right now and you're thinking, yeah, I'm overweight. Look at me. I can do a backflip. I'm a fat piece of shit and I can still do a backflip. Okay, that's great. You can do a backflip while being overweight. That's very impressive. But understand that it's slowly killing you. It might not be today. It might not be tomorrow. But when you're 65, 75, 80, eventually, that is going to take its toll. All these things are different variables in which you're trying to optimize simultaneously. And that means none of them is just for that. The people who are the happiest are those who are the healthiest. And when you're 25 pounds overweight, you're not your healthiest. Healthy equals happy. If you are healthy, you've got 100 problems. Bills to pay, kids to feed, stress at work. You've got something to fix outside. You've got to take out the garbage. If you don't have your health, you've got one problem. One. Nothing else matters. And so if you think that not being healthy is not that important. It doesn't matter. You can be happy and unhealthy. This is cope. It's bullshit. And one day, you'll look back on this video and you'll think, growing up and maturing is realizing that Coach Reg was right all along. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost the algorithm. Like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch those two bloops, of course. You can purchase the HDLT supplements as well as AlgorX. Enter code GREG. And if you want to get sponsored, you have a large following, we need you. Apply by clicking the link right now. As well, if you want to carry HDLT supplements in your store or in your gym, click the friggin' link, and until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: Don’t be this Guy [gEV8f1D-Yis].txt ===

 I got game, like, he called my phone, like, 5 times at 8 o'clock in the morning. James, she understands math. And she answered the phone because she wants what you got, which is the money. I'm going to put words together to make sense, so you like, you like, stunned. James does not have any game at all. Coach Greg, today's video, do you understand how delusional so many people, they actually are? I'm talking about guys who think they have game. When I start talking, women, they start listening. I must be really, really hot because wherever I go, the women, they're all melting. Bro. And case in point, we've got James Harden. You guys know this guy, the guy with the big beard, he plays basketball, he's a Hall of Famer, he's worth over $100 million. Well, he thinks he's really good with women. I've seen her a couple of times, and look at her Instagram, and I asked one of my homegirls, give me the number. He called my phone like five times at eight o'clock in the morning. A lot of you are watching this. Many of you don't even have millions of dollars. And so you're thinking, okay, this is the move. This is what you do. You see somebody who's really hot, okay, and then you ask her friend, and you say, give me her number. And the friend's like, well, why do you want my friend's number? Well, I think she's hot. I'm going to call her. And so she actually gives you the number. Most people are going to be like, I'm not giving you my friend's number unless she has permission. But this guy's worth over $100 million. And so she's thinking, oh my goodness, my friend is going to be so excited. I got this superstar athlete. He's worth over $100 million. And he wants to hit. And so I'm going to give him the number. And so she's thinking, well, he's probably going to call her, you know, in the afternoon sometime, or maybe he'll send her a message, say, hey, this is James Harden. You might've heard of me. Perhaps if you didn't, I'm worth $100 million. I play basketball. Maybe you're interested in going out at a date with me. Whatever. It's probably going to work. If an average person does this, you're, let's say, a five out of 10, which is perfectly average. And you go up to some girl and you say, you know what? Your friend, she's really hot. I've seen her on Instagram. She's got like 40,000 followers. She posts all those thirst traps. And I want to hit her up. Friend's going to look at you and be like. And then you know what she's going to do? She's going to tell her friend, this loser, five out of 10 loser. He wanted your number. And I, of course, told him, there's the door. Get out of here. I covered for you. I saved you. That's what's going to happen. If you try to do this, if you're a five out of 10 or less, he gets her number and calls her not once, not twice, not thrice, five freaking times at eight in the morning. What bitch wants you calling her at eight in the morning before she's got her hair did and her face painted on? She don't want you calling, but she actually does. And why do you think that is? She's texting her friend. You know, she didn't answer the first time, didn't answer the second time. Who is this? Why is bro calling? That's James Harden. You answered a phone. He's got millions of dollars. He's probably going to spend $30,000 on your first date. And so you go along with it. And even if you don't like James, you go on a few dates with him. And then when the next guy asks you who you've dated, you say, oh, I used to date James Harden. You throw that name down. And then they're going to think, wow, she must be a winner. And so your stock, it rises. It goes up. And so she's using him for everything that she's got. And so that is why she's picking the phone up at eight in the morning. I didn't even know he had my number. I didn't know who gave him my number. I didn't know what was going on. She don't know who I am, what's going on, none of that. Yeah. She doesn't know who you are or none of that until she asks her friend, who's bro that you gave the phone number to? She's calling her friend and saying, what the hell are you doing? And she's like, it's James Harden. Look him up on Snapchat. Say, is James Harden's net worth greater than Coach Greg? And it's going to say, yes. Who's more famous, James Harden or Coach Greg? It's going to say, James Harden is even more famous than Coach Greg. And then you're going to think, I need to talk to this guy because imagine how my life will be different if I get with James Harden. She's so weird. She answered the face on it. James, she understands math. It's not weird to be smart. By weird, you mean she's smart to answer the phone and talk to the guy that's chasing her? You know, I want to take her out. She's been told that you're attracted to her, that you're interested in her. And she answered the phone because she wants what you got, which is the money. Remember, I'm five foot six, six five sitting on my wallet. You're almost six five yourself. You don't need your wallet. And so you've got the height and you've got the money and the fame. What else is there to want? You look so nice at eight o'clock in the morning. And so, of course, he's throwing the compliments at her, which she doesn't deserve. She doesn't need to hear. It's not helping his game anymore. James Harden thinks he's got game. Oh, he calls a girl at eight in the morning and starts telling her how hot she is at eight in the morning for doing nothing. Did she deserve those compliments? What did you give her a compliment on her appearance for? Remember, women, they hear that all the time. Good looking women, they always hear how hot they are. But what they perhaps don't hear is things about their personality. Find something to compliment on that she hasn't heard every single day of her life. I'm just like, how did you get my number? All she's caring about is how did you get my number? Which, of course, she knows. You don't think that she checked with her friend beforehand? You don't think that her friend, five seconds after leaving the room, her friend texts her, probably calls her. You're not going to believe this. James Harden just hit me up for your number. I know. I can't believe it. And so, remember, just answer the phone and be nice and agree to do whatever he wants. He's probably going to pay you lots of money real soon. Just please don't turn this up. Okay? You owe me one though, babe. Yep, thanks. Bye. That's what happened. And so, when she's making up stories that she doesn't know how he got her number, she's playing the hard to get. She's giving him a challenge, something that he has to work on. And so, it's all a game here. Talked for an hour and a half. The first time I got game, like... The fact that she talked to you for an hour and a half doesn't mean that you got game. It means that she does. When you are on the phone with a girl or when you're texting a girl, your job is to get the date as soon as possible and leave. The longer you talk, the greater you reduce her desire. Let me explain. James Harden, you're thinking, there's no way I'll ever meet a guy this famous and this rich and this tall and all the things. And then, once you get the message, you're thinking, how? But after an hour and a half of talking to them or texting back and forth, you're thinking, yeah, he's just a regular simp like everyone else. You know, I thought he would be different. I thought he would be above me. But I can get a James Harden. He ain't all that. He's spending 90 minutes at 8 in the morning just talking to me about nothing. I mean, it's not like we're out on a fancy day doing a fancy thing. You're just talking to him on the phone. And so, he's becoming more normal. You had him on a pedestal at first. And every minute that goes by in this conversation, he's coming back to earth. And I mean, think of it. 10 years from now, do you think James Harden to you is going to be anything different than just bro? You've seen him shit. You've seen him smell. You've seen him fart. You've seen him burp. You've seen all the things. And so, after a while, Mr. Famous Untouchable James Harden, he becomes a normal bro just like you or me. He doesn't have game. She does. She got him talking for an hour and a half and convinced him that he's got game. She did that. She is winning the battle. She left the conversation thinking, oh, I'm so good with girls, you know. I spoke and she listened. She was hanging off every word. I'm so good. But she needs to make him think that she actually likes him. I mean, it's imperative. If he thinks that she's only after him for his money, it's only going to last so long. If he finds out, you know, it's all about the money. She's not really attracted to me. She's not interested in any of the things that I'm saying. He's not going to be vested. And he's less likely to want to continue to be with her. Remember, why would James Harden settle for a girl that's not really interested in him, that is only interested in him for his money, when there's so many other fish in the sea? Eventually, there's going to be a girl that's actually going to like him. And so the girl, she needs to at least make it appear that she's interested. And interested a lot. I'm going to put words together to where it makes sense. So you're like, you're like stunned. Is it or not ironic how stunned James Harden is upon finishing that sentence? I can put words together in such a way that she's stunned. I mean, how do we know that she's not stunned at how stupid the words that he put together actually are? James does not have any game at all. I mean, there it is. James doesn't have any game at all. None. She's admitting it. If James didn't have money, that phone would have been hung up so quickly. I mean, I'm sorry, it wouldn't have been picked up in the first place. But if it was picked up, it would have been like, yeah, thanks. Bye. There's another word. If you're not an NBA player for this, it's called a, what is it? Harassment. He would have been termed a stalker. He would have been termed a creep, a loser. If he isn't rich, if he isn't famous, none of this ends well. And so it's delusional to think that an average man can just simply follow these tactics in order to get a girl. He was born on third base and thought he had a triple. James Harden is a walk-in first NBA Hall of Fame and he's worth $125 million. That's a great analogy. Michael Sardin is saying you're born on third base and you think you just hit a triple. You were born there. You started there. It doesn't count. You didn't have to work for it. And so all the lines that you gave, all the things that you said, it's not you. It's your money. Now, technically, it is kind of partially him because he did have to work. He did have to be born that tall to be able to slam dunk and do all those moves and to earn all that money. And so he did, in fact, earn this respect. It's something that he gathered upon years from being as good as he is. But remember, it's not his looks and it's not his words. It's his skills that he's developed and amassed throughout the years. And so if you want to be able to do like James Harden, to pull girls like that, like nothing, with no actual game, well, work on yourself. Get the dream physique. Get the body. Work out at the gym. Take the Turk Builder Max, the Geo 2 Max. Get a decent body. Study. Get a job. Make a decent wage salary. And more and more women are going to be interested. And so the more you stack your deck, the greater the odds that you're going to actually win. Doesn't guarantee it. But the more things you can build in your favor, looks, charisma, money, job, fame, whatever, the more other people are going to be interested in what you offer. He called a girl five, six times. Her friends were like, you better pick up the phone. That's James Harden. Are you out of your mind? Pick up the phone. Do you guys see how damaging this is when someone not that attractive then sees this and starts calling you at eight o'clock in the morning five times? Do you see how crazy this is? It worked for James Harden. I mean, imagine you copy this. You call a girl five or six times. She's going to tell all her friends about how much of a creep you are. Do not call someone five or six times. It makes you look bad. It makes you look desperate. And nobody wins. Even if she does answer on the fifth or sixth time, do you really want that girl? The girl that eventually felt sorry for you and she picked up the phone? Is that what you want? First off, I'm mad at homegirl for giving out my number without asking. Yeah, exactly. No, you're not. Stop lying. You're not mad. This girl, who's not even an eight out of ten, she's mad that homegirl gave out her phone number to James Harden worth $125 million? Oh, what's next? You're upset that you gave your phone number to Shaquille O'Neal to Michael Jordan? Yeah, I'm really upset. She went and gave Christian Ronaldo my phone number. Brad Pitt? How dare you give Brad Pitt my number? He's calling me at eight in the morning. Brad Pitt saying, hey, how are you doing, sweetheart? How's your morning going? Oh, fuck! You bitch, you gave Brad Pitt my number. Stop lying. Like, why do you need to lie? I don't understand why so many people need to lie. Do you think it makes you look better? Oh, I don't want any hot, rich, amazing man to have my number. That's a stupid, horrible friend of mine. No, you would thank them. Yeah, if you don't know me at all and you're calling me over and over at eight o'clock in the morning. You better be worth $125 million. And girl with the friggin' lip filler, overdone breast implants, and she's going to sit there and act like she doesn't want some rich guy to have her phone number. She's probably got an OF or Instagram account with thirst trap photos, and she doesn't want anyone to just call her randomly. Oh, you got a guy calling me? Do you understand that a phone call isn't any different than a DM? Is it really any different? The phone is ringing. You do not have to answer. The DM is there. You do not have to respond. But if you're throwing up thirst trap photos day in and day out, posting your half-naked body all over the world to see, don't expect people to not write you and write you with intent. Intent to try to get with you. That is the purpose of advertising your body on social media. To get other people to notice, to write comments, and to DM you to try to take you out. That is the point. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the album. Please like the video if you liked it. If you want to get the girls, the first thing you do is you improve yourself. You look better. You can call it look-smaxing if you want. But remember, it's not about smashing bones. It's about building a better body, getting in shape, having an ideal body fat percentage. Perhaps it's 15%, maybe even a little bit less. You can use HTLT supplements in the process. You get blue lobster, you go to the gym, you start working out. Of course, you're already taking Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum. You're taking the G02 Max, and if you're not getting a good night of sleep, of course, you're using Delta Sleep. If you can't get harder than last time, well, you know what that's for. And everyone, obviously, is already taking creatine. If you've taken a break from that, well, what are you waiting for? Get back on it. And if that's not enough, of course, AlgoRx for your enclomaphene and your HRT, your peptides to help you lose weight, all the things that you may need or want. Code Greg 10% off. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: Double Your Gains As A Natty [4Y35RU5H3WE].txt ===

 When you're comparing your progress, do it to the expected version of your alternate universe self. Yeah, I 100% agree with Mike. Yeah, I 100% agree with Mike. Stop comparing yourself to other people. Oh, this guy made more gains than me. Oh, that guy, he put on 40 pounds in two years. I didn't. He must be on steroids. Well, why are you comparing you to other people when you don't have the same genetics? Would you compare yourself to your friends who do better than you in school? Oh, you study more than them, but they get higher grades. Well, perhaps they're smarter. And so rather than thinking, well, in the first year I put on 10 pounds, how come I only put on 5 pounds this year? Well, you're going to grow fewer and fewer each and every year. You understand I have a master's in kinesiology just like Jeremy. And I know the lack of intelligence of most of the people that were in the classes with me. I had the highest GPA every single year. And I would ask my friends certain questions. And based on their response, I'd be like, this guy is going to be a physical education teacher. This is going to be a trainer. They know nothing. They have no clue what they're doing. Jeremy, I believe, one of those guys. But yet, look at him. He's made it. He's got, what, 7 million followers? And so it just goes to show you don't have to actually know anything to do well on social media. Let's just listen to this again. You probably don't even understand why it's so moronic. Listen to this. Basically what they found is like if you go from 4 to 5 sets per muscle per week to 10 sets per muscle per week, that alone like doubles growth. That's right. Do we need to play this again so that the slow people in the room with IQs below 79, 14, grass, will get it? Okay. If you do 5 sets for chess, say, and then you switch it over to 10, he said you're going to double your gains. No. 10 is double 5, but it doesn't mean you're going to double your gains. What's next? If you do 500 milligrams a test and you double it to 1,000, you're going to grow twice as much muscle? No. It doesn't work like that. I mean, let me give you another example. If you know nothing and you study for 10 hours and you get a 90 on a test, you study for 20 hours, are you going to get 180? The most you could get is 100. Does that make sense to you? So stupid. But in order to get another huge jump in growth, you're going to have to go up to, you know, maybe 20, even 30 sets per muscle per week. Oh, yeah. And then, so if you double that up again, 10 to 20 sets, well, you're going to double your gains yet again. Does he think growth is linear? Double your sets, double your gains. If you go from 5 sets a week to 10, it's possible you won't gain a single extra pound of muscle. If that causes you to overtrain, you will actually make less growth, less progress. And to go from 10 to 20, for many people, it's going to result in a decline in growth. You're going to be sore. You're not going to recover. And so if you add in more volume, for example, going from 5 to 10 or 10 to 20 sets, you're going to have to decrease your intensity. People say when you're natural, you can't have all three. Size, shreds and symmetry. You got to pick two. I personally don't believe that, but when it comes to building muscle, there's two ways to do it. Intensity and volume. The more of one you do, the less you can do of the other. If you increase volume and intensity at the same time, most likely you're going to overtrain. And so this is a mistake. And so to go from, for example, five sets to 10, let's say five sets was going to have you put on five pounds of muscle. Going to 10 for most people would probably be six. It's the law of diminishing returns. Why didn't they speak of this? Do you all know this law? The more of something doesn't make it better. And so when we talk about this in economics, for example, when you go and you want to buy a slice of pizza, the first slice is the best. You're starving. Pizza. $5. I will pay for it. I'll pay $10. I'm starving. Okay. What about two slices of pizza? Well, I'm not so hungry right now, but I'll still pay $7. It was very good pizza. What about third slice? Well, for five bucks? Yes, sure. Okay. What about for 10 slices of pizza? I'll pay not to have to eat the last five because I'm full. There's no value to that anymore. And so consider the training volume as filling your body up. You're filling it up with gains. Once you get to a certain amount, adding more, it's not good. It's bad. It's like eating pizza when you have a stomachache because you've overeaten. And so if you do too much volume, you are going to diminish your gains, not improve them. So there's diminishing returns there. And so he says, you know, there's diminishing returns there. Jeremy thinks that the law of diminishing returns only occurs after 20 sets. You know, 30 is probably better than 20, but hey, it's a law of diminishing returns. If that was true, every single IFBB pro bodybuilder would be doing 20 to 30 sets for each muscle, each and every week. But there are not. Now, do some do this? Yes. Some people perform better with high volume. Some people perform better with high intensity, but nobody performs best with high volume and high intensity because they would overtrain. Do you really think people are going to failure and beyond the way coach Greg trains and does 30 sets in a single week? 30 sets of chest of failure, drop sets screaming, training like Tom Platz. There's no way. Nobody, even with steroids, trains like this. And so this is for the natties, natties of the world. Oh, another story for it. I used to train every single day, seven days a week. Now, you all know I stopped using performance enhancing drugs, and I'm only on HRT, which is still a performance enhancing drugs. But I know that people get mad when I say this. And it's 140 milligrams a week. I mean, I read the comments. It's not 125. You lied. It's 200 plus. You're on growth. I'm on 140 milligrams of tests a week. You can believe it or you do not need to. It doesn't matter. But what you need to know is this. I now train way less than before. Way less. What have I been reading in the comments? Coach Greg is hot back on cycle. Look at how much bigger he's gotten. And so if I'm getting bigger, which is visually seen on the scale, I'm weighing in the 190s. About a year and a half ago is 180.6. About 10 pounds bigger. And so what did I do? I train with less volume. Why? Because I race bikes. Now, when I'm doing seven to nine hours of cardio a week on the bike and trying to lift weights all the time, my body couldn't recover. And so for me, less is more. And so if I listen to Jeremy Ethe right now, he's going to say, well, Coach Greg, you're on HRT, so you probably can handle 30 sets per week. Really? I should go and train 30 sets of chest in a week. If I did 30 sets for each body part, I'm going to be so sore. I'm not going to be able to ride my bike. I'm not going to be able to train. I'm not going to be able to recover. I'm going to be a living nightmare. Now, if I train really easy, you know, like Mike Isertel, you saw him benching 240 for two reps. That was his max. If I trained that hard, when clearly he could have done more, maybe I could handle 30 sets. 30 half-ass sets. But rather than that, how many sets do you think I do for chest in a week? You want to take a guess? It's about six. How many sets of legs do you think I do in a week? It's close to zero. I don't train quads. I don't train hamstrings. But how is it possible that you have any size? Bike racing. And so if you race on a bike, do you really need 30 sets of quads to grow your muscle? Probably none. And how many sets of biceps do I do? Well, I try to get in about six sets a week. Hard. Now, my hard is harder than yours. And yes, I'm talking about the downstairs. And if you want it as hard as mine, get harder than last time. You know what it's for. Code Greg, 15% off. And so just because there's a graph with points on it, doesn't mean that this is the science and that's what you have to do. Do you know how easy it is to manipulate this information? How hard were they actually truly training? Were the science showed that 30 sets was better? Was it using athletes who trained for 40 years on HRT? I'm pretty sure that it was not. And so how do they know that this applies to A-50-year-old who was a former professional bodybuilder who used steroids for 10 years but trained formally natural for over 20 years? It doesn't have those stats. And so you can't just look at a graph and think that that applies to you. On average, maybe, but not for everyone. There are people who are known as outliers and this does not apply to them. But for the most part, if you're an intermediate lifter and you're not doing a lot of cardio, 10 to 20 sets. But here's the caveat. 10 sets if it's hard and 20 sets if it's not. And so if you like to train like Coach Greg, you push yourself in the gym. You perhaps train more like Sam Sulik. You're pushing yourself. You're not doing science-based. You're going to the gym and you're pushing yourself. You probably only need 10 sets. Per week. Per body part. Now, if you're holding back, you're going to do five sets here, five sets there. You're doing all of these things. You're probably pyramiding in weight and you're not really pushing yourself until the last set. Yeah, sure. Go for 20. But remember, progressive overload. Start with 10. Then the next time, try 11. Work your way up. Don't just double your volume and think you're going to double your gains. How many sets per muscle can you do in a workout before the gains like really taper off? Yeah. And what they found is that that seems to happen around 11 sets. I'm amused and I find it funny. These guys, they just read. And it's not Mike, I don't think. It's Jeremy. He reads a study and thinks it's like the Holy Grail. Like, oh, I read a study and gains taper out at 11 sets. And so, you know, if you're trying to find out how many sets you should do in any given workout, probably 11, 12, 11. Enrique! Was I in the study? I don't remember being in that study. Was Mike Isertel? Was Jeremy? None of us were in the study. Were they all natural? Were they on steroids? How many years of training? Did they account for how many reps in reserve did it have? And how did they know they had that many reps in reserve? Did they ask the client? Did they watch them with their clipboard and say, oh yeah, you had three reps left? Two reps left. How did they make sure that they all trained equally hard? Did they all train to failure? How do you know they trained to failure? Did they just stop because they didn't feel like pushing any harder? A lot of times they'll say, how hard was it? I trained to failure. For $1,000 a rep, how many more reps could you have done? Three. Then you were three reps shy of failure. Does that not make sense? So just because it went to failure doesn't mean it went to failure. You get it. So I would say that, you know, you're pretty safe going up to about 11 sets for a single muscle. Yeah, you know, so I've decided from reading one study that it's 11 sets per workout that you need to do. 11 sets of shoulders is perfect. 12? Yeah. 9? Oh, way off. 11. Enrique! I do three. How am I doing? How do you think I'm doing? I'm 50. Three sets. Should I be doing 11? Oh my God, Coach Greg, you would probably beat Mike Sommerfeld if you did 11 sets. Holy God. If you doubled your HRT dose, would you make double your gains? I'm doing 140 milligrams a week. 280 am I doubling my gains? Am I triple my volume, tripling my gains? Wow. Why don't I do two grams of test? I'll be 290 pounds by next week. So if you have a muscle that recovers really quickly and you're really struggling to pour enough volume on it, three times a week's a big unlock. 100%. 100%. Exactly. If certain muscles recover faster, you can train them more frequently. Let's say it's legs and you're sore. Should you train legs three times a week? Oh, I'm going in. What are you doing? Squats. Didn't you squat already twice this week? Yeah, I'm going for work three. You're limping in because you're sore. You really think you need the third squat workout? But what about your delts? Did seven sets of delts already twice this week? Are they sore? Nope. I don't even feel like I train them. Go and do them a third time. That makes sense. And so depending on how sore you are, that is what you should let be your guide. Many people are going to disagree with me. Perhaps, hey, I've only got 40 years training experience. I've only been coaching people for three decades. But if you're not sore at all, you can probably go train. If you still feel the tightness, the tenderness, you probably still need to recover. Your body's not ready yet. It's very simple. When you go to train a body part, it should kind of feel recovered. And if it's not, you probably trained harder than you needed. Okay. It is the infamous Dr. Mike, I don't know what you call it. The line, line, line, line, bicycle. I kid you not. If you guys haven't tried this, the pump was insane. And so, no, I don't think the 10 pound dumbbell curls are going to cause huge muscle growth, hypertrophy, and so on. Now, if you want to try it, you at least need to use a heavier weight. The 10 pound incline dumbbell curls are not the go-to exercise to use for your biceps. Now, if you want to grab cables behind you like this, walk forward and curl this way and use an actual weight, something that challenges you, that is what you need to do. You've all seen the 10 to 15 pound dumbbell curls that Mike's doing with Jeff Nippert and so on. You need to challenge yourself. You can't just say, oh, I felt a burn. And so that is building muscle. Do you know what? I feel a burn on when I do 190 pushups, but I don't want to have to do 190 pushups. Yeah, I got a burn, but do you really think you need to do 100 plus reps in order to build muscle? You don't. You know what else burns? Walking up a major hill, but that burn isn't as good as doing a set of squats for 10 reps, doing 400 reps up a hill where you get the lactic acid burn. That is not what builds muscle. And so rather than thinking I got a good burn, think, did you actually get a good workout? Okay. And so hopefully you understand why I get frustrated watching these videos. Because they're saying so much nonsense. I wish they would explain things correctly. I don't know why people just can't get their heads wrapped around the fact that studies don't always mean exactly what they're showing. You're looking to put on more muscle. You got your Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum. If you're looking to get better shape, more cardio, you can get GO2 Max. And to decrease your appetite, we got GLP Max. And so you have whatever you need. Remember, lower testosterone levels, you can get G-Test Platinum. There's a ton of different supplements to choose from. Head to the website. Code Greg. 15% off. And remember, if you're interested in applying for coaching, of course, click the link in description. And Algorx, you can click the link for that. Code Greg. 10% off for all your blood work needs, as well as Inclomiphene, Talmosartan, Semaglutide, Srizipatide. The list goes on and on. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And of course, the cookbooks and other books on the website. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: Fat And Nasty - Mike Tyson [uaGHWXWvEEI].txt ===

 I was so fat, nasty, I would eat anything. And so if you want a better life, I may as well say it, try and lose some weight. Everything gets better if you were to lose some weight. Fat shaming existed when I was a young man. Less people were fat back then than they are now. Fat shaming doesn't need to end, needs to make a comeback. Coach Greg in today's video, bring fat shaming back. And so the United States government, they hire Mike Tyson, Mike Tyson, Mike Tyson, Mike Tyson, Mike Tyson, Mike Tyson, Mike Tyson, Mike Tyson, Mike Tyson, Mike Tyson, of all people, to motivate people to lose weight. And how do they do that? By fat shaming them into submission. Now me, I'm all for it. I don't give a fuck. I don't care. How has it been working so far? Like, whatever methods that they've been trying to motivate the world, you know, to make them compliant, to help them to lose weight, how's it been working so far? Mike, what a joy to have you with us today. You're gonna help us make an even bigger difference. Absolutely, absolutely. Eat real food. Eat real food. Trust me. I want to know from you. Do you agree with Mike Tyson? Are people fudgy? Are they out of shape? Are they eating too much processed food? Do they need to learn to put the fork down and perhaps eat some fruits and vegetables? My sister's name was Denise. She died of obesity at 25. That's a great hook. I mean, not great for Mike, but is he not open, honest, and transparent? His sister died of obesity. And so he understands just how bad it really is. I was so fat, nasty. I would eat anything. I was like 344. 355 pounds. Mike Tyson himself as well suffers from the obesity gene. You know what Oprah Winfrey was saying? That you can just eat your face off. And so because of that, Mike blew up to 345 pounds. Hated himself. Didn't want to exist. Wanted to end himself. A quarter of ice cream every hour. I had so much self-hate when I was like that. I just wanted to kill myself. I don't know about you, but that's pretty vulnerable to admit that. A superstar athlete. The best boxer of all the world. All time. I was a fat piece of shit and wanted to end things. My sister died of the same thing. And so I'm hanging on every word. Mike is spilling his guts trying to help people. Now, of course, he's being paid millions of dollars to do this, but it's still the truth nonetheless. And so I don't care why he's saying this message. He's saying it and it is in fact going to help a lot of people. Now, it may not help a bunch of liberals who perhaps have blue and green hair and think that everyone should just love their bodies. But it's going to help, you know, real men. You think that this commercial from Mike Tyson is directed at women? It's the fucking Super Bowl. Well, that was the dumbest and most insensitive ad I've seen in like forever. And so I can respect Dr. Ids for saying what he thinks in the same way. I'm telling you what I think. We don't have to think the same thing. I'm sure some of his points are valid, but some probably not. And same for myself. Firstly, Mike openly said that he wanted to end himself when he was fatter. So he admitted to suffering from shame, self-hatred and distress. No, he admitted that he hated the way that he looked so much that he thought, why would I want to be here? He didn't admit that other people were making fun of him. He didn't admit any of that. Now, frankly, for the average person, probably a lot of people are going to make fun of you. But with Mike, a guy with millions of followers, millions of dollars. And remember, he's a world heavyweight champion. How many people are walking up to him making fun of him? That would not end well. And so just because he didn't want to be here doesn't mean that everyone's making fun of him. Now, another thing. When people go to the gym that are 300 or 400 pounds, nobody's making fun of them. Like, rare. Like, I've personally never seen it. I've gone to the gym thousands of times. Rare. What do you think people are doing when we see somebody who's 400 pounds in the gym? We're thinking, good on you. You're the one of the ones who are actually working, who are trying, who are attempting to lose the weight. Everyone can respect that. But people don't respect those who don't try. You're 400 pounds and you sit there and you do nothing. You eat shit. Why would anyone respect that? In comparison, they're joining the gym. Perhaps it's New Year's Day. I don't care. And they try and they're eating an apple. You really think that people are going to make fun of them for trying to lose weight, for trying to better themselves? It's not happening. Then in the same breath, he laughs when calling Americans obese and fudgy. They are. And it's kind of funny because it's totally done to themselves. They are doing it to themselves. Especially in today's world where you have supplements. For example, the GLP-1s. You can get these things. There's testosterone. If you have low levels of testosterone and clonophene. Remember, you can go and get these things at AlgoRx. You can get medications prescribed by doctors. Pharmaceutical. You can get your blood work done. Code Greg 10% off. Have you even tried my own GLP Max? You know, oral pills. Oh, I don't like injecting. Have you tried that? Have you gotten my cookbook or the Circle Diet book? And so if you're not trying, not even attempting, then why should we be cheering for you? Geo2Max to help you with cardio to get more energy after? The Turk Builder Max? You really think the world would be obese if they were using Turk Builder Max, Geo2 Max, and so on? Going to the gym, doing cardio, eating for my cookbook? It wouldn't happen. It would not. So the message to millions of fat people is basically, I hated myself when I looked like you, but I'm also going to mock you. Yeah, pretty much. You know, bring bullying back. You know, when I was growing up, people made fun of people who were fat. We did. You did that. And so what did that instill in you? I probably should try not to be fat. Yeah, that's what I'm going to do. And so here's the truth. If you're fat as a man, remember, this is for the Super Bowl. You're going to be less attractive to women. Less women are going to want to talk to you, want to want to be with you. And even with your job, you're going to make less money. Obese men and women, of course, it's harder for you to get a good job. You go to the job interview and you're 400 pounds and you're competing against bro who's six foot five blue eyes in finance. How do you think that's going to go? Now, it's possible you get the job because you're just so much overqualified in comparison. But on average, trust me, you're not getting the halo effect when you're 400 pounds. It's the harsh truth and reality of the world. And so if you want a better life, hey, I may as well say it. Try and lose some weight. If you really want to complain that this world isn't treating you fairly, that you can't get a good girl, you can't get a good job, and you're out of shape. Everything is winning you. The stairs are slowing you down. You can't play in sports. You don't enjoy this. You don't enjoy that. Everything gets better if you were to lose some weight. Fat shame existed when I was a young man. And less people were fat back then than they are now. And so the problem is that Mike Tyson's commercial actually works for a lot of real men. Perhaps not liberals with blue hair who are soft and doughy and fatty and what's the word he used? Fudgy. Fudgy men won't want to hear it, perhaps. But real men will. And some real men, you know, people that actually care, they'll watch the video, they'll watch the commercial, and it'll be a wake-up call. Wow, even Mike was fat? And he looks like that now? Mike was fat. Mike Tyson, that athlete, had the obesity gene as bad as mine. And what is he doing? He's probably doing cardio. He's probably eating healthier. And so maybe I can do that too. Maybe I too can lose weight. Do they genuinely think that heavier people are unaware that fruits and vegetables are healthier than cakes and sweets? Do they think this is a knowledge gap issue? No, it's not a knowledge gap issue. It's a not giving a shit gap. They don't give a shit. That's why I call them fat, lazy pieces of shit, because they don't give a shit about their bodies. I can't stand it, really, when somebody is given health. They're given a body. Cancer-free. No problems. They're not even a wheelchair. And they sit there and waste it when other people are laying in their deathbeds, wishing they had one day, like you, to go out and explore the world. And you sit there and feed yourself shit and drink your poison, alcohol that is, and you don't give a shit until it's too late. And then you make fun of people for trying to warn you now before it's too late. I was so fat and nasty. I would eat anything. I was like 345 pounds. Notice how he calls himself fat and nasty. Last I checked, when you are in the example, when you're talking about yourself, you technically can say whatever you want. It's not like he's been a shredded Mike Tyson, single-digit body fat his entire life. He once was you. He once was 345 pounds. And in fact, he was far more obese than most of you. And remember, when you've been shredded your entire life, a supreme specimen of an athlete, and you then suddenly gain 100 plus pounds of fat. Do you know how much harder that is to accept mentally, to look at the reflection in the mirror, and see the opposite of what you can remember? Think of it. I've been fairly lean my entire life. I mean, there was a point where I was in my low 20s percent body fat. But generally speaking, I've been very lean. I've had a lot of muscle. Imagine if I woke up tomorrow, 345 pounds of fat. Like Mike Tyson. How do you think I would feel? I would feel worse than those who've been 345 pounds for years. They're used to it. They know no difference. Trust me, Mike Tyson knows what it's like, or in fact, worse than most people. Once you've been shown the way, once you know what it's like to feel good, to literally be fit, to have good cardio, you know, to not smoke cigarettes, to not be an alcoholic, to not drink alcohol at the time, which is poison. It's a class one carcinogen. To not do those stupid things. When you lose that fitness, you want it back. But if you've never had it in the first place, you don't know what you're missing. A quarter of ice cream every hour. I had so much self-hate when I was like that. I just wanted to kill myself. He hated himself. And he was eating ice cream on the hour. I mean, how bad does that sound? We're the most powerful country in the world. And we have the most obese, fudgy people. And so the world is up in arms. He said we have obese, fudgy people. How dare you say fudgy? Are we that turking soft? To me, fudgy is kind of a polite way of saying that you're fat. If I said to somebody in a video, hey, you know, America has a lot of fudgy people versus America has a lot of people who are obese, a lot of people who are fat, a lot of people who are chubby, which word sounds the best? And so I think he's being nice at this point. You don't think that this was scripted. Something has to be done by processed food in this country. If you all avoided eating processed food and had fruits and vegetables, don't you think most of you would lose weight? Now, I'm not talking about most of you would look like Mike Tyson or even a coach, Greg, but you would lose some weight. It's not about being perfect. It's about being better than you are. And so far, how is it working for you? Yeah, I know, whatever you've been doing. Now, they could have used my cookbook. Mike Tyson could have said, you know, Coach Greg, get his cookbook. If you get the cookbook, you're gonna lose weight. Could have said that, but they chose not to. They could have. There was nothing wrong with that. Could have done all the politest things in the world and all the doctors would say, you know, amazing. But they're not gonna do that. They're not gonna just promote Coach Greg, you know, the voice of reason, the man who tells you like it is, the man who has created a diet. Many of you haven't even read my book, The Circle Diet. Lose weight, eat, be full, satiated, all at the same time. What's the secret? Higher protein, lower calorie dense foods. Fruits, vegetables, lean proteins, Greek yogurts, and so on. But you don't wanna do it. You'd rather be lazy. You'd rather sit on your ass and not do the cardio. Why would you wanna do the things that work? You know, the things that have been proven to work. Doing a lot of cardio, it's gonna keep you in a deficit. Eating fewer calories, eating fruits and vegetables, it's gonna make you lose weight. It's clearly gonna work. But you don't wanna do it because you're lazy. Oh, but I only have 24 hours in a day. Everyone has the same 24 hours. There's time to do cardio for everyone. And even if there wasn't, perhaps 1% of you, there's no time. Whatever reason, you got no time. Eat less. You know, eating takes time. And so the less food you put in your mouth, let's say you take 50 bites. If you took 25, that would save you 25 bites worth of time. And so if you don't have time, you could just eat less. Oh, but I can't do that. Why? Because you watch the stupid Super Bowl commercials that tell you to eat junk food, donuts, candies, cake, beer, ice cream, and you eat those. How is it okay for those commercials to exist, but Mike's commercial cannot? Really think about it. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to booze the album, like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch at least one of those two bloops. Get the freaking cookbooks, buy the supplements, get the freaking blue lobster pre-workout, go to the gym and do something, and stop blaming other people. Stop acting like you have no control over your own body. Code Greg, 15% off. And of course, we're looking for HDLT-sponsored athletes. If you have a large following, whatever you want to promote this, please click the link. And if you want to carry HDLT supplements in your store and or gym, click the link. And until next time, I am out. Oh, and if you're looking for a coach, a real coach, legit, help you get in the shape of your life, apply right now. Click the link. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: Fat Girls Eating [oouFGyjjUog].txt ===

 X 하나付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付 300,000 big reasons not to lose weight. They're called followers. Over 300,000 morons, including you, right? You follow this girl. Yeah. Like, why do you want to see what fatties eat so that you can see what you shouldn't eat yourself? Is that why you're watching her? Are you watching the train wreck? Why exactly are you watching a morbidly obese woman eat herself to death? Are you sadistic? Is that what's going on? People- It's like it turns me off from food. Like kind of- I mean, as soon as I watch that, I go soft. And so- No, that's not what I mean. Harder than last time. You're going to need a double dose of this. Eight pills I'm going to take today. Because imagine trying to get freaky after watching this. Gorging people, gorging themselves overweight and not giving two shits about doing cardio or eating healthy and just thinking it's cool. But remember, they have hundreds of thousands of reasons to do this. They're making money. Is it worth the money when you're going to die? Let's just watch what she eats. We're starting out the day with some breakfast. Yeah, of course we start off our day with breakfast. But the problem is, what is that big brown thing you're putting into your mouth? And so she shouldn't eat the donut. You might be thinking, yeah, but no foods are off limit. Yeah, donuts for her, they're off limit. Especially for breakfast. You don't eat this. And we also had to get some protein in for breakfast. I mean, I think it's acceptable to have the fried chicken. I mean, it could be better. Go easier on the sauce. Those calories, they quickly add up. But it's all about portion control. You can't eat a massive donut and a massive fried chicken with a massive amount of sauce and not think you're going to eat too many calories. I mean, honestly, all I saw there was the crust, the fat part. I didn't see a whole lot of chicken. Why don't we just eat some chicken? Perhaps at the end, you could have some protein anabolic donuts from my cookbook. Did you know that there's a bunch, like I think six different protein donut recipes? And they do in fact taste exquisite. So why not go with that? And what about for something to drink? We got that sprouts. It's a red drink. It's not diet. You got to have none of that. For sure, a shit ton of sugar in that. Like, I just see it from here. This fatty, all she needs to do to become a baddie, rather than being a fatty, is reduce the calories in her diet. I mean, she probably actually would be hot. If she lost 190 pounds, she'd probably be attractive. I feel like she has potential. Most people are attractive if they're not fat. That's a good point. All you have to do if you're a female is not be fat, and you're kind of good looking. Like, you could get a man. It's not that hard. It's not that deep. Honestly, most people are good looking if they're not at their healthy weight. Yeah. Like, if you get lean enough, and you can see some bones, you look smacks a little bit, you're going to be kind of all right. Yeah, decent, right, yeah. Decent, decent. So just don't be fat. And so when you watch this girl, understand that this is proof. She's caught in 4K of exactly why she's gaining weight. It's not because of the obesity gene. Remember Oprah Winfrey? She tried to convince us that, hey, obesity, it makes you fat. It's not the fact that you're eating all this shit. It's obesity. And so you have no excuses. If she had Diet Pop and some normal chicken that wasn't deep fried and had a smaller donut, she would lose weight. We got cauliflower pizza for lunch. Let's not eat the whole pizza. Cauliflower pizza, it's still pizza. You didn't need lunch. You ate enough for the entire day at breakfast. Ice cream tea with peach and raspberry. Why are we drinking sugar calories? Like, just drink the diet version. Like, if she did no change whatsoever, and instead of having the sugar laden drinks, she had non-nutritive sweeteners like aspartame and Splendas, you know what I'm talking about. If she had the Diet Pepsis, she'd probably lose 50 pounds. She would make no change. She would still eat like a piece of shit. She would still eat like an asshole. But rather than having the sugar calories from the drinks, she would drink, you know, water and Diet Pepsi and Gatorade Diet Zero, whatever, she would lose probably 50 freaking pounds. Probably a pound a week, 50 pounds in a year. That's how easy it is. For dinner, we're eating a burger bowl. The first thing that made sense, a burger bowl. This is lowering calories. She's removed the BUN. I would have that. I mean, I would eat three of those. But we could eat that and the BUN. You lost four pounds last night because you rode in a bike race. I did a bike race and I was... And so if you race bikes, you do a lot of cardio, you basically eat whatever you want. We ate out, went out, had pizza, I had no key, and we're getting up and we're losing weight. Why? Cardio. Like, I bet I eat more calories in a day than this woman. I mean, it's close, but I probably eat more than her. But I burn it off. That's the difference. Why does she wear that nose ring thing? What is that doing? Is that to bring the attention away from the 400 pound gunt? I think so. So like, you see that and your eyes up here. Don't look at the gunt, eyes up here. I mean, what is that thing? This is what really mesmerizes me a little bit. She's wearing an aura ring. So she's so hardcore into tracking her sleep and her resting heart rate or REM sleep score and all this bullshit that you don't need to know. But she won't track her calories. There's the low hanging fruit and the high hanging fruit. Like, it's way up there. The aura ring is so high, I can't reach it. I know I'm a five foot six manlet, but even with my stepladder, I can't reach how useless it is to track your sleep REM cycle with the aura ring. You throw the ring in the trash and you track your calories. Like, if she traded in her ring for my cookbook, she would lose 100 pounds and she would be happy. Happy is a fat kid eating cake until that fat kid grows up and realizes that it was a big mistake and they lost 20 years from their life and they're having a heart attack and life sucks. Sorry, zero sugar cranberry to end the night. Finally, the zero sugar cranberry. Why isn't she having more of that? You are so beautiful. Why do you do this to yourself? I mean, that, I like that as a comment. Why do you do this to yourself? Well, she has 300,000 reasons and she's getting a bunch of DMs saying, hey, you're beautiful. She's getting attention and she's kind of infamous. She's famous for doing something wrong and so whether she's getting positive or negative attention, attention is still attention. Do you guys grow up knowing this? Like, as school teachers, we'd have some students in the room and they would do bad things and some would do good things and honestly, they didn't care. They just wanted attention. Perhaps they weren't getting attention at home and so sometimes a kid will act up. They're acting up. They're talking when they shouldn't and all they want is the teacher to say, shut up, Jimmy. All the student wants me to say is say, ferme ta gel, little Johnny. Sté verti. Ça va rentrer. Allez, ça, t'es toi. Ferme ta gel. Je te plie, blue. They get the attention. I'm not sure what you meant by that. Oh, ferme ta gel. Alexa, if I have to talk to you one more time, principal's office. Lexa. I hear you're having a tough day. Shut up. What I would do sometimes is I would have to ignore said person. Ignore them because they were craving me saying ferme ta gel. And so sometimes people do something for negative attention. So, she's doing this on purpose knowing fatties probably shouldn't be eating all this fatty food. But yet, she posts it because she's getting so much attention, hundreds of thousands of followers. And so, she's motivated to keep going. What you would think would motivate her more would be to lose the weight and be healthy and to live longer. But people, they don't see the future. They don't listen to Coach Greg until it's too late. And so, there lies the problem. Let's watch what fatty number two eats in a day. But before we watch what fatty number two eats in a day, she wants to offer a warning, a trigger warning. In case this is happening, let us see. It has come to my attention that there is multiple brands that are using my face to promote their products. And I just want to say right now, I do not give you authorization. No one is using this to sell products. It's not happening. Unless they want to go bankrupt and last I checked, most companies they want to make money. Now, if you see Coach Greg advertised on Facebook and so on, I'm sure you've seen it. Promoting BPC-157, some oral version, it's AI and they spice me doing an interview with Transcend where I was talking about injectable peptides and they use me to sell these products. Why do I know this? Because I go to the gym and every second day somebody says, oh, you're the BPC guy. You're selling these oral PPC on Facebook. I'm like, no, no, that's not me. It's AI. And so remember, unless it's with Algorx, it's not actually me. I'm a part owner of Algorx. You can go there, you can get your Enclomaphene, your Tadalafil, your Cialis, the Viagras, NAD, Glutathione, peptides, whatever you're looking for. Perhaps you're trying to lose weight, the peptides, GLPs, all that kind of stuff. You go there, code Greg, 10% off. Let's get back to the video. The company needs to steal content from another creator to fake a promotion. She's talking like this, bird hens. This is a woman, as soon as you see bird hens, you walk away. What I eat in a day as a fat girl. I'm always starting with my Diet Coke. All right, this is great. She starts with a Diet Coke. I mean, there's no calories. It's got some caffeine, probably going to reduce her cravings, and so we're off to a great start. We have a, looks like a fried platter. It's got like chicken tenders, chicken tenders, Asian plum wings, mozzarella states, and fries. A family-sized fried platter for breakfast is not ideal. It's for a family. I mean, you're the size of a complete family, but this is too much food. Why is it that some of my videos get demonetized for talking about how to lose weight and to be healthy, but yet you're allowed to show this shit? What is this to do? It promotes people to binge eat. How is this allowed? How are you allowed to do mukbang videos, but I can't promote living a healthy lifestyle, 150 minutes cardio, fork down, going to the gym, training, all that stuff? It's so good, and our waitress is so sweet, and I have to ask her for a soup. Of course, the waitress is sweet. She's being paid a ridiculous amount of tips to walk over and bring your fried platter and say something nice like, enjoy fatty, I mean baddy. I feel like the waitress called her a baddy, so then she's like, oh my gosh, she's so sweet. She's so sweet, and you're going to tip her, what, 20% for bringing over a plate of fries when nurses make less money than you? Think of how much money you're paying a server to just bring over a plate of fries. How many tips do you get, Mepsogram, when you like, cure people's eyesight and stuff? How often do you get 20% tips? Not even once? No. And how many eyes have you done? 14,000? More, yeah. So 14,000, no tips. No tips. We have a Italian sausage flatbread, coconut, FD, and a blackened chicken bacon ranch. No, there's no way. She's eating more than the family platter. The family platter was just the appetite. That was just the start? That brought it into the day. I'm surprised that she can eat that many calories despite being that weight. Like, any one of these meals is more than she needs to eat probably for the day. And so one thing I'm going to say with near certainty is that she did not eat all the food that we watched at that breakfast. I think she's playing on the fact that she's a fatty and she wants people to make fun of her. She wants a Coach Greg video kind of like this. She's hoping to go viral from being an absolute moron. There's no way I believe that she ate all I saw there. I couldn't eat that much. I certainly think I can eat more than her. Many of you are just going to watch this video and think, yeah, guaranteed that's what she eats because look at her. You don't need to eat that many extra calories in order to quickly become overweight. If you eat 500 extra calories of surplus from what you're supposed to eat, so let's say your BMR is 2,000 and you're eating 2,500 a day, that's not that much food, 2,500. That's 500 extra calories. You could gain about one pound of fat a week. It's about 50 pounds of fat in a year. By just eating in a small surplus over years, like 10 years, 100, 200 calories extra per day, not way more, not eating the entire platter of chicken, burgers, fries, and so on, you're slowly going to gain a lot of weight and you might not eat that much. I believe that for breakfast it added up to more than 6,000 calories and I don't believe that she ate all that food. I don't know how she got 163,000 followers and it says, a blogger, it says, sweet treats and hot girl eats. See, the problem is, I don't understand this kind of clickbait, like, hot girl eats. I'm scrolling and I don't see one. Unless, I guess it could be clickbait, that she's basically always sweating from eating so many calories and so she's a very hot girl. As in, temperature wise. Mucho caliente. So I came to Costco for this and I ended up with this. I mean, she went to Costco to get high protein snacks, ended up with a foot long sausage in her mouth. Lazy to get a bowl to shake them up so I just poured the sauce on top. I've had enough. Why are we watching this? Why am I even doing a video on this? Why are you watching this? This is what you need to know. These women should be on GLP Max. Reduce your appetite by 28% and you eat less. I don't even think they actually would need it if they just made healthier choices. If they got my cookbook, ate from it a couple of times, even per week, they'd probably lose some weight. Stop drinking the sugary drinks. Just drink diet. And if that is not enough, obviously you would have to do cardio and all these things to help even more. But if it's not enough, you can go to Al Gorex, try to get some GLPs it's going to reduce your cravings, the food noise, make it even easier as if it's not already easy to lose weight. It's excessively easy to lose weight. It's hard to get shredded. Like I don't think these two ladies are going to walk around at like 130 pounds, but they definitely could lose 30 pounds without very much difficulty. And so why not try? With every 20 pounds of body weight, you're going to certainly see a reduced blood pressure, improved health markers. And so I encourage them to lose weight, but I know they're not going to because the algorithm is going to force them almost subconsciously thinking I want the validation. I have all these thousands, hundreds of thousands of people following me, watching my videos, writing comments, writing me my DMs that they want to eat a donut off my ass and all these stupid, dirty, crazy things that people are thinking. And so they're motivated to keep going. They're not going to stop anytime soon. If people never watched them do this, they would stop. If people watched them lose weight and encourage them, they would probably continue to lose weight. And so that is how the mind works. If you're interested in Al Gorex, getting all the things, code Greg 10% off. If you're interested in the Turk Builder Max, the GLP Max, anything to the max. You're trying to health max, go to HDLT Supplements, code Greg 15% off. Subscribe, click the bell, comment, algorithm, bloops, videos. Looking for sponsored athletes? Click link. You want to sell my stuff in stores, gyms? Click link. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: I Caught You! [ImRSrWM47Kg].txt ===

 I'm gonna dive into all this, but accusing me of taking steroids is wild bro. I didn't say you're on testosterone, does bro look like he's on testosterone? There are girls who are more alpha than this with testosterone levels 20 times lower than yours. Coach Greg, in today's video, a fake natty exposes himself. The newest fake natty goes by the name of Brandon Ruh, also Santa Cruz Medicina, Medicinals. I have nothing against this guy, I've talked to him in private in the past, and I like his channel. Only he decides to post his blood work, but only shows his testosterone. Guys, I got some lab work back, I'm at 1000 nanograms per deciliter in testosterone. I am alpha, I am alpha because I hang out with alpha. I'm on a stripper pool. Yeah, that's a bad call. Yeah guys, you know, I, one thing, okay, I just talked to Bradley Martin on his podcast about like, what maybe, maybe, you know, go from 847 to 1000. I think it's all the blue light shit. Yeah, those circadian biologists on. You can hear the light? Yeah. Bro, at night I'm crazy at my house, like, we're gonna cook ourselves with these lights, but you know, most nights I'm really good. And like, I do the blue light blockers and like, the dude on our podcast even said he puts on like long sleeve and sweatshirts at night. Cause like the, you know, the photoreceptor. Yeah, he's trying to be funny, alpha, I get it. But notice how his original blood work showed his testosterone levels were in the 800s. FYI, it's higher than mine and I'm on HRT. And so like any good Samaritan, I write a comment and say, you're a very smart man. You must know that just showing your testosterone levels doesn't prove that you're natural. I have lower testosterone levels than you. And if I show only my testosterone levels, you might think that I'm natural. They're at 830. Remember, you can go to AlgorX, you can use code Greg for 10% off, you get your blood work done. You can get prescribed in Clofafine, Testosterone, Cialis, Viagra, Telmosartan, Peptides, the list goes on and on. But that's besides the point. I was teaching him, teaching you how to know when somebody's a fake natty or not. And so I had no proof. I simply was asking for the extra blood work in order to show this because oftentimes the people leave things out, LH, FSH, Estradial, the list goes on and on. They might be trying to leave something out. When I saw he went from in the 800s, which is already very high and he's a young, athletic, fit man, and it suddenly jumped up to over a thousand. What was screaming at me was that Bro is on in Clofafine, but rather than that, he says it's the blue light. You know, it's the blue lights. I mean, not to mention the fact that his SHBG was already over 70, that it's extremely high. My opinion, I was 99% sure that he was on in Clofafine, but I needed the rest of the blood work to back that shit up. And so what does he do? Well, instead of taking the video down or instead of just posting the blood work, he makes a video and gaslights me. He says, Greg said, I'm on steroids, that I'm on testosterone. I said no such things specifically in Clofafine. In Clofafine is not testosterone and it's not a steroid. And so essentially he's lying about what I said in order to make him look innocent. I stick with what I'm saying. When somebody shows one part of a test and not the other, they're usually covering for something. And so when testosterone goes from being very high to very, very high without showing anything, it's most likely they're taking in Clofafine. And of course they could be taking testosterone, things like that, but most likely it's in Clofafine. And so if you're actually trying to show that you're natural and brag about how your testosterone levels are high, and by the way, it's not a flex to have higher levels of testosterone because you're not even showing your free testosterone, you got to show everything. If you're trying to prove natty status, you got to show the rest of the blood work martyrs so that other people like me can look at it and say, yeah, it actually shows that you're natural. And so why waste? And by the way, it's not too late to take the video down or to re-upload it and show the rest of the blood work. And so notice how I said martyr. I believe he's being a martyr for other fake natties because he's going to be going down for this. Let us show the actual blood work. Remember I said, why not show the LH and FSH to give us an idea? Because remember, if it's very, very low, Bro's probably on testosterone, which is not what I suspected. I suspected in Clofafine. How many of you agree with me? Does Bro look like he's on test? Does he look like he's on steroids? He looks natural. And so what would be the likely cause of his blood work having testosterone levels of over a thousand when they were already very high over 800 suddenly? Was it more likely blocking blue light, getting up and looking at the sunshine in the morning? What is he, the liver king or in Clofafine? I mean, when Andrew Eubanks, you know, Alex, when he showed his testosterone levels in the 900 suddenly, and I said, it's in Clofafine, y'all looked at me and said, oh, how do you know? The blood work, the blood work shows it. And so what are we going to see in his blood work? Are we going to see perfect blood work, LH and FSH of that of somebody normal, or will something be out of range? Man, I woke up this morning to Greg Doucette, someone I always have admired, you know, calling me a fake natty. If I pause it right there, should you not take that as a compliment? I mean, if he was actually natural, he should take it as a compliment. I mean, what would Hussein Farhat do? Oh, there's no way he's natural. Proceeds to show the blood work, proves that he's natural. What does Santa Cruz do? Oh, he can't handle it. Proceeds to show the blood work, proves he's not natural. You see the difference? Well, in your eyes, you're thinking, no, Hussein, you're lying, you're covering for him. Why would I do that? I look at the blood work, Hussein's natural. His blood work, not natural. Forget about the physiques. Just because Hussein has more muscle than Santa Cruz doesn't mean that Santa's natural. And he's like, show your LH and FSH. Immediately, do you see that there's the LH in the red? Out of range. Supra physiological. Too high. Why do you think that is? Do you not think that the enclomathene maybe, just maybe, caused it to go too high in a healthy young male with a lot of muscle? Why would it appear to be this way? Oh, it's over training. It's doing this. It's doing that. And FYI, the FSH 11.9, the top end of the range is 12.8. That is still very high. Although it's not ridiculously high, it's still very high. If you look at these two numbers together as a whole, it paints the picture that Bro is using in clomiphene. It's as simple as that. Now, there is a second possibility, although rare, he may in fact be ovulating. But last I checked, Bro is actually a man, not a woman. And so, unless he's somehow a bi-gender, ordinary, whatever the terms you can say, I don't think he's a woman. I make a joke video because I know there's way more to blood work than just that number. But I'm like, this is cool. And then I get more results in throughout the day. And I'm like, oh man, my SHBG is a little high. With his next post, SHBG, you see that red square where it says 54. That's high. And you know what can cause SHBG to be high? Well, in clomiphene increases estradiol. Estradiol raises SHBG. And these are the results. Now, one thing I noticed is he's typically on a paleo diet. He's a diet lower in carbs. That can increase SHBG. But when you're on this low carb diet, you typically would see a decline in testosterone levels. And so that wouldn't explain it. And so if you guys are out there sitting there thinking, oh, coach Greg doesn't know what he's saying. Oh, he's probably just athletic. He's probably overtrained. He's on a low carb diet. None of that explains this in unison, in the totality of his blood work. That's what paints the story. The story being he is a natural that he's taking in clomiphene. Or you can just believe him and think it's the blue light. Whatever you want. Remember when Joel from TNF, he did that experiment where he had the very low protein diet. He was eating more carbs. Notice his testosterone levels went through the roof well over a thousand. If you're going to put this on his diet or his training, what you're going to notice is a decline in his free testosterone. And that did not occur. You know, my free test is pretty good, solid, but I think I could improve on it. Another thing he could be showing is his IGF-1 levels. If that were below the 50th percentile, say he's at the 40th percentile, that would further support the use of inclomiphene. Now, what if it came back through the roof? Would that say he's not on inclomiphene? Well, actually no, because he could be on inclomiphene, which lowers his IGF-1 levels, but at the same time be taking IGF-1. And so when you look at blood work, it's not some simple little tasks. You look at one marker and you make a conclusion. It's based on the bones. It's all based on the bones. And so what I'd further like to see is his level of estradiol. If it's through the roof, really, really high, most likely he's taking inclomiphene. And so you can see every picture matters. This is the thing, Greg. I've never taken a steroid a day in my life. I've never taken TRT. Did I say he took a steroid? Did I say he took HRT? Or did I very specifically say inclomiphene? And so let's not gaslight me. I'm somebody who's like, oh, like I need to work on some things. I obviously have some stuff in my blood work that I need to improve on a little bit. Consider this. This is not the blood work of somebody that needs to start optimizing things. There's nothing bad here. There's nothing per se that's ruining your life. You analyze your physique. Are you healthy? Do you feel good? Do you look good? Do you perform well? Clearly you're doing jujitsu. You have energy. You're looking amazing. And so why would you need to try to optimize in the first place? You're already optimal. Your testosterone levels were in the 800s. Never needed to use inclomiphene. Try to remember this. Don't fix when ain't broke. There's no reason to start using radical interventions because most likely they can make things end up worse. Sometimes, man, like I deal with my own stress and issues and anxiety by training. Appeal the sympathy. Wah. I train too much because of my anxiety. And so then, oh, Coach Greg's a hater. He has anxiety. He needs to do all kinds of cardio or he's not healthy. I raced 70 freaking nine kilometers yesterday. I'm in an eight-day stage race training every single day. And anxiety, no anxiety. Everyone has anxiety. And so stop making up excuses in order to say that I'm wrong about this analysis. You're the one that posted your testosterone. You're the one who bragged. You're the one that said, I'm alpha. And the commenters are, oh, Greg got it wrong. How did it age now, guys? And how alpha is it, really, to say, oh, I have anxiety and I need to do cardio to reduce my anxiety. And oh, poor big bag wolf coach, Greg. He made a video about me. That doesn't sound very alpha. And so again, proof that the level of testosterone that you have does not make you alpha or beta. There are girls who are more alpha than this with testosterone levels 20 times lower than yours. I'm just imagining our ancestors 4,000 years ago. Oh, you know, I'm having some anxiety today. I can't go out and hunt a bear. Sorry, wife and kids. You're going to starve. What do you mean you have anxiety? You're going to go out and hunt that bear? I don't care if it kills you. And so guys, stop it already. It's 2025. We need to actually be men. Whether it be, you know, on the assault bike, whether it be at jujitsu and I get a bit overtrained and I need to improve on bouncing that and probably optimizing more sleep. I'm so alpha. I'm going to go and train and get my blue belt in jujitsu so that I can choke out people because I have anxiety and I need to get more sleep and I need to make sure that I don't have any blue light on my face and body at night and suntan my ball sack in order to get more testosterone levels. Can we not just live our lives? I'm going to dive into all this, but accusing me of taking steroids is wild, bro. I didn't say you're on testosterone. Does bro look like he's on testosterone? If bro was on testosterone, even if he had no muscle, his LH and FSH would be in the toilet just like mine because I'm on HRT. I know what HRT blood work looks like. I don't know, man. I'm really open with all this stuff and I probably will get on TRT or ROIDs when I'm older. That sounds like the mindset of somebody who would be willing to use enclomathene right now. I mean, do you not remember Alex Eubank? How did he first start? I made a video likely on enclomathene, testosterone level suddenly in the 900s. What happened a few months later? Bros on HRT. Exhibit B. But I have never done that stuff at all. And my body is so normal. I'm not on any ROIDs. I'm just, I'm not. And I'm not going to go like the liver king method and lie to people ever. So the thing with lying is it's not black or white. There's withholding the truth, withholding the evidence. You never lied. You said, look at my testosterone levels, a thousand and seven. And I'm alpha. You never said you were natural. You just posted your blood work, but you failed to post the entirety of the blood work. And by proxy, people are looking at that and thinking, oh, bro just has naturally elevated testosterone levels, you know, from the blue light. And so what does then people do? They start purchasing these blue light blockers and so on. When the real reality of it is to get testosterone levels like this, when you're in the 800s, probably going to need in clomiphene of which you can get at AlgoRx. I never said there's anything wrong with what you're doing. I just don't like the withholding of the truth. And so you never lied. You just never told the entire story. It would be like if I made a video and said, okay, guys, I'm on 140 milligrams of testosterone a week. Look what it's done. Check out the biceps. And I don't tell you that I'm on insulin growth hormone, IGF-1, and the list goes on and on. If that were actually true, am I being honest? Am I being honest with you? I'm on 140 milligrams of test a week. That part's honest. But if I withhold everything else that I'm taking, then that's not being honest. And guess what? I'm not taking those other things. And so that is a person who's being honest. If I started to take, for example, retitutride, terzipitide, ozimpic, various drugs to help suppress my appetite in order to stay this lean, and I don't tell you about it, and I say, I'm only on 140 milligrams of test a week, that to me would be dishonest. It wouldn't be lying per se, but it would be withholding information, which is what you did. And so I'm not taking any of these things. And if I were, I would just simply tell you. And so if Santa Cruz were to be more honest, he could say, hey, guys, look, my testosterone levels went up. I purchased enclomiphene in low doses, and I'm feeling amazing. Here's my total blood work. You see how my LH and FSH is a little bit higher? That's from the enclomiphene. Notice my SHBG. It's out of the range. I'm working on that. I'm going to perhaps start eating more carbs and stop being on moronic diets for cardiovascular athletes, and it would get better. And perhaps your free testosterone, the testosterone you're actually going to use, would be higher than 100. And so the reason why enclomiphene is beneficial for guys like Santa Cruz is because he has a diet-induced suppression of testosterone levels because his glycogen stores are too low. Bro is doing a lot of cardio, which is great. I encourage it. There's nothing wrong with this. I do a lot of cardio. We don't have to get into gaslighting and saying that somebody said this or said that. Bro is doing a lot of cardio. He's not eating enough carbs. He has a certain diet that he likes. And using enclomiphene is going to help his testosterone levels. And so in case you're wondering, when your glycogen levels are depleted, so for example, after a two-hour bike race, your cortisol is going to spike, which can result in lower levels of testosterone, I don't have to worry about that because I'm on HRT. If I was on enclomiphene, also, it solves that problem. Now, I'm not telling you to take enclomiphene. I'm not telling you to go on HRT. But if you do think that you need it, your doctor thinks you need it, you can go to Algarx, get your blood work taken, and the doctors will go over it and prescribe to you without gatekeeping at a much cheaper price than other people. For example, Merrick Health. You do the shopping around. And so if you're needing any of these things, remember to use code Greg for 10% off. I will tell y'all because people don't give a shit. It's 2026. And so yeah, Gary, I don't give a shit. No one gives a shit. I don't need to drug test you at any time. You're not Hussein Farhat. No one thinks you're on testosterone. The people who are smart and look at your blood work think you're on enclomiphene. That is all. Now I got to bring down that SHBG a little bit. Maybe dial back some of the, I don't know, some of the long days of cardio where I do like two or three things. I love doing days where I go to jiu-jitsu, I surf. And then sometimes, bro, honestly, like the days where I'm like stressed, I'll like get on the assault bike. And that's way too much in one day. I like how these guys claim to do so much cardio. Do they all realize that I literally have a bike team? It's called Harder Than Last Time. And so some guys, for example, on this team, they're riding for six hours doing 300 watts. And that is about a thousand calories per hour. They're burning off 6,000 calories in a day. I was just talking to Hayden Pucker. He's actually an HTLT athlete. And he goes by the name Farm Watts, as in he can farm a lot of watts. He's one of two people in the entire world who can do 500 watts for an hour. I can do 500 watts for at most three minutes. He's doing it for an hour. So this morning, he decides to ride 45 kilometers up a 10% hill on Zwift. It only takes him an hour and 45 minutes. It would take me about three hours. And after that, for fun, you know, doing some cardio, he's riding 100 miles. That's 161 kilometers. After riding for two hours, another 100 miles. And then said, is there something you want me to do in the afternoon? Hey, can I ride with you later? After riding all frigging morning, perhaps five, six hours at very high intensities. I said, how do you fuel your body? Well, during the ride, I consumed 721 grams of sugar. They're trying to find ways to eat enough calories. These are actual cardiovascular athletes. I'm talking world-class. And so showing up to Brazilian jiu-jitsu for an hour and going surfing isn't so hard on your body. Oh my God, you need performance enhancing drugs. What is helping fuel the farm watts? G02 max. And you didn't believe me. And why is it that the best endurance athletes in the world, 500 watts for an hour? Are you kidding me? Why are they choosing to use HGLT supplements and G02 max when they can choose anything from any company? They choose this because it works. And so if you're interested in G02 max, Turk builder, max Turk platinum, code Greg, 15% off, click the link in the description. Or of course you can use farm watts. And FYI, we got a new supplement in the works, Natty in Colmaphene. I can't wait to release this. It's going to shock the world more so than Turkesterone. And so look out for it. We're several months away. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: INSANE 238 Blood Pressure ... The Coach's Fault [qN8ySBGZO1k].txt ===

 When your blood pressure is 238, you're knocking on heaven's door, or perhaps hell, whichever one you want to pick. It is so astronomically high, you need to stop competing, you need to retire, you need to never do it ever again. Coach Greg, in today's video, the most viral topic in the fitness world in China right now, we got Mu Ray, a bodybuilder, as well as his coach, Wei, and they're going toe-to-toe. And so, this all started because his coach, the man who he had hired, who he put his faith in, the man who he trusted to him, to get him his all-time best physique, well, he decided to cut ties with him. You know, last minute, six weeks out. Now, who's going to do that? And so, he went to social media and said, why would you leave me? I've been competing, I'm trying to do my best, and you just left the door, you left me hanging, and I look worse than I did last year. And so, I'm analyzing his photo, and we see, on the left, you can see, he has a lot of muscle, he has amazingly massive arms, the biceps, the triceps, very detailed hamstrings, little bit of a wider waist, not ideal, for example, for classic physique, but he can do that for open bodybuilding, and he does have a lot of potential, a lot of muscle. Now, on the right, he's lost it. I mean, this man should not be competing. If he competes looking like this, he's going to be extremely disappointed. He doesn't have the conditioning, and he has also, on top of that, lost the size. And so, this is what you need to know. The coach, in his defense, because remember, this guy is extremely popular, and if he says, my coach sucks, and abandoned me, and left me hanging, the coach is going to lose a lot of clients, business money, it's going to be very bad. And so, he started posting videos in order to defend him, and one thing he did was, without permission, he showed his athlete, his client's steroid cycle, listing everything that he had formerly been taking. And why did he do that? Was he doing that just to be a dick, to make fun of him, to put him down? No. The coach was doing that because he said, look, I care about his health. And the amount of steroids that he was doing on that cycle, it was absolutely ridiculous. It would lead to excessively bad blood work, and he didn't want to be the coach that literally killed his client. Imagine if he had put him on the exact same cycle, and that he had somehow died. And so, perhaps this coach was scared. He said, there's no way that you're going to be using all those steroids. But remember, bodybuilders who are competing for IPV ProCards, they don't care about their health. You might think that they do, might say that they do, but they do not. And why do I know that they do not? Because they're abusing steroids. Even if it's in moderate doses, do you really think that's healthy? Do you really think that's safe? Of course not. And so, some cycles are more dangerous than others, but all of them are dangerous. But perhaps this coach, we, he said, nope, the buck stops here. But here's my problem. There's something known as patient-doctor relationship privacy confidentiality. Well, that also happens with coaching and bodybuilding. If I have an athlete, a client, and he's doing anything wrong, if he's telling me everything, whatever cycle he's doing, whatever drugs he's taking, that I'm sworn to secrecy. I'm not going to go and post on social media that this is what bro was taking. Here's his cycle. The Liver King, extremely famous. He was a fake natural. He pretended to be natural that he said he never did any steroids at. All he did was eat liver and did the ancestral tenants. And people are like, there's no way. And eventually, his former coach, he literally outed his cycle, showed that he was using over $10,000 a month of steroids, drugs, growth hormone, and so on, and that he wasn't natural after all. And so, everyone was happy about this because they knew the Liver King was dying, and somebody had outed him. But I wasn't happy at all because I know that if I was the coach, I wouldn't have said anything. The coach said he had a moral obligation to show the world that he was a liar. But what about your moral obligation to nod out your client, to reveal all of their secrets? And so, I didn't like this. As much as I didn't like the Liver King lying, we already knew we didn't need the proof. We could see it. And so, by him revealing his cycle, I do believe that was wrong. And so, Murray claims that he didn't actually do that cycle. And so, is it possible that the coach is lying about his cycle in order to make him look bad and to make the coach look good? Well, that is certainly possible. And so, we don't know. There's two sides to every story. Now, this athlete, he's saying, the coach doesn't care about my health. Listen to what he made him do for Klen and T4. He said, look, for the entirety of his journey, you're going to be taking T4 as well as Klen. Now, many athletes, they take T4 throughout their journey. Oftentimes, especially when combined with Tren and you're dieting hard, your body may need to actually do this. It depends on the doses. The coach may actually know what he's talking about. Now, one thing I don't agree with this coach is using the Klen for three months straight. Now, the athlete's saying it should be two weeks on, one week off. Two weeks on, one week off. Give your body a break. The coach made him do it all of this time consecutively. Now, what I look at and what I see his body is he's not lean enough. Is it possible that the athlete said to the coach, I want to win no matter what? And the coach is thinking, using T3, using T4, using Klen throughout the journey, well, this is not good, but he's desperate. A lot of coaches prescribe Klen consecutively throughout a diet. I personally am not a fan of two weeks on, one week off, nor am I a fan of using it for three months straight. If you can't lose fat at the start of your journey, at three or four months out, you're doing something wrong. If you need to use Klen three or four months before the competition, you're not ready. Many people think, oh, it's just a fat burner. It's nothing. It can actually kill you. It's very dangerous. Klen doesn't even burn as many calories as you think, perhaps about 150 a day. So if you use Klen or don't use Klen, the difference is about 150 calories. That's like walking a mile, maybe a mile and a half. And so rather than taking risks with your health, why not just walk a little bit longer sooner? Wait until the end, because what happens when you use Klen is your body gets used to it. And each and every week, oftentimes even sooner than that, you need to up the dose. You start at 10 micrograms. You can feel it. You're burning extra body fat. You then have to use 15, 20, 25, 30, 40, 50, 60. The problem is some people going up to 150, 200, 250, because the body's getting used to it. The longer you take it, the higher the dose is. And so if you use it for three months, you're most likely going to be using 150 micrograms, perhaps even more by the time you get to the competition. But if you start five or six weeks from the competition, you don't have to ramp the dosage as much. And so you might end at 60 micrograms instead of 150. And so much safer to use it for a brief period of time than to use it throughout. And why not two weeks on, one week off? Well, because what are you going to do in the week off? Hey, you're four months from the show. Use it for two weeks. You lose a lot of weight. Well, I lost seven pounds. Then you stop for a week. Do you know how shitty your life is going to be during that week? Clean also gives you energy. It makes you feel good. And so when you stop, you're sluggish, lethargic. You can't go to the gym. You're not burning as much fat. And so you might even be gaining weight at this point. And so why would you want that? And so please don't use Clean. But if you are, the lowest dose that makes you happy and use it for the shortest period of time possible. Next, patient aka client. He should be a patient because he belongs in a hospital. This athlete's blood pressure was 238. That's deadly. When your blood pressure is 238, you're knocking on heaven's door or perhaps heaven, whichever one you want to pick. It is so astronomically high, you need to stop competing. You need to retire. You need to never do it ever again. 238 is ridiculous. If it had said 138, I'd be like, yeah, it's high, but it's common for bodybuilders to be that high. My blood pressure was 100 over 60. I just went to the doctor three days ago and I just got over bronchitis. 120 over 80, that's what you want. When you start seeing a number two, you're thinking, how is this patient alive? That is so bad. It would be like redlining your engine the entirety of your drive. You know, when you start revving your car higher and higher than last time, it can do more damage to the vehicle. Imagine it's at the perimeter. It's redlined consistently day after day. How long before your engine rolls? It is so high, I can't explain it. If the coach didn't say immediately, you need to stop all steroids, you need to stop competing, this is done, it's a bad coach. Without any information whatsoever, knowing blood pressure over 200, you're going to die. I cannot even believe this. And so he's saying he had too much estrogen. He had too much of everything. This is ridiculous. If it was 180, it would still be ridiculous. I'm thinking, are they adding diastolic and systolic together? How is it this high? This is ridiculous. To worry about, oh, I need to take letrozole or anastrozole instead of eczema stain. This is the low hanging fruit. This is nothing. This is ridiculous. And so yeah, eczema stain is going to lower your estrogen. So are the rest. Letrozole, the strongest one by far. I wouldn't recommend you take it for a very long time. It reduces estrogen by 98%. You need some estrogen to build muscle. If your estrogen levels, your testosterone is converting to estrogen that much, the cycle is wrong. Everything is wrong. But you know what else is wrong? Your body and your genetics because it's not normal. I could take this exact cycle that he's on and double it, and my blood pressure would not go over 200. Not even close. When I was on my max cycle, the worst one I'd ever had, my blood pressure got up to 145 over 85. And that was bad. 145. That's alarming. This is not good. 238, guys. Are you starting to understand just how bad this really is? And so guys, you have to take your health into your own hands. If I had an athlete with blood pressure of 238, I immediately would say, you know, you're not competing, and you're not doing steroids ever again, and you're going to go to the doctor, and you're going to get your blood work, and you're going to pray you live to be 50. And if the client said, no, I'm still competing. I want a pro card. Look how big my arms are, coach. I would say, you're coaching yourself. I would quit. I would refuse to be the guy that coached this athlete in order to die. That's what he's doing. And so is it possible that this coach was thinking, I've done my best with this guy. I'm at my limits. I'm done. And walked away. And then this guy who's famous makes videos saying, well, my coach sucks. Well, perhaps the one thing that the coach did, perhaps he was sucky. Perhaps he sucked at everything. But he didn't suck so bad, but to continue to coach him with blood pressure 238. And so the coach says, I'm too busy. I'm going to find you a new coach. Look, you have to be open, honest, and transparent. He's perhaps saying, I don't want to have a confrontational call with my client. Why not just be truthful? Look, your blood pressure sucks. The drugs are just fucked up on your body. I've never coached anyone who used these drugs and had this kind of reaction. I don't know what to do. Does that make you a bad coach for being honest? Hey, I don't know how to coach you. You're a unique specimen. I don't know what to do. I'm not a physician. I'm not a surgeon. I don't know what to do. And so I'm going to walk away. I'm going to find somebody to replace me because I don't want to be responsible for your death. I see nothing wrong with that. But be honest. Tell them the truth. And so to this bodybuilder, you're 37, wife and kids. It's not worth it. It's not worth it. Bodybuilding. The pro card. If you haven't gotten a pro card by this time, it probably isn't meant to be. Like, is it really going to matter the pro cards that you have, the accolations, the fans, the trophies, the money, when you're no longer here to enjoy it? I'm certainly thinking a man's family and kids, wife. They don't care if you have a pro card. They just want you alive. And so you really need to rethink your priorities and understand there is life after bodybuilding. You don't need to keep competing. Now, obviously, there's pharmacology that can help. For example, Talmosartan from AlgorX. Remember, you can get your blood work done. Click the link in the description. You get all the medications, the Cialis and Clomiphene, testosterone, HRT. You need to stop, retire, and get your health in order. Blood pressure at 238, it's not a game. 138 is bad enough, but 100 points higher. It makes absolutely no sense. And for the rest of you who aren't abusing performance-enhancing drugs, why not try Turk Builder Max? It's not going to screw up your blood pressure. It's not going to take years off of your life. Get Blue Lobstered. Use the natural supplements like Creatine, G-Test Platinum, GLP Maxx for reduced cravings. Help you to stick to your diet. Don't forget, Code Greg, 15% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. If you're interested in working for HGLT supplements in terms of being a sponsored athlete or carrier supplements in your stores and or gym, click the link and apply. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: Jeremy Ethier, Get Out Of Canada. [cjLiGYhHKuo].txt ===

 This is one of the most stupid diets I've ever seen in my entire life. Come on, Jeremy, proud to be Canadian, get me into the 51st state of the United States, Canada. Coach Greg, in today's video, is the chicken, broccoli and rice diet the best diet after all? We've all seen bodybuilders eating these diets, but does it actually work? In today's video, Jeremy FA, he's putting it to the test. Does this diet essentially work no matter what? No weighing your food, no tracking calories, eat as much as you want, and if you do, well, you're guaranteed to lose weight. Let's find out. This is the simplest diet where you can eat like a buffet, every meal, no calorie tracking, just crazy fat loss results. Damn. What? That's just my theory. And so my personal opinion is, the answer is yes. I think that if you eat low calorie dense foods like chicken, broccoli and rice, or if you don't like chicken, broccoli and rice, you can eat from my cookbook. You eat as much as you want, and you're going to lose some weight. And why is that? Well, you're going to be full, and if you're full, you're not going to want to eat more calories, and it's as easy as that. Problem is, how many people are going to be able to stick to just eating chicken, broccoli and rice? A zero. A zero. A zero. And our female subject, and her body fat is 31%, which is actually far better than the US average. So both of them are already pretty fit. Jeremy, just because she's not morbidly obese doesn't make her pretty fit. She's 31%, and so she's overweight. Clearly, we can see that. How are you saying she's pretty fit? That's how bad it is in 2026. You can be obese, and people are going to say, yeah, you're pretty fit. She's not a complete sack of shit. She doesn't look disgustingly obese. And so, hey, she's fit. I call it the CPB diet, and it's pretty simple. Just three rules. One, you only eat chicken breast, potatoes, broccoli and carrots, but you can eat as much of these as you want. This is one of the most stupid diets I've ever seen in my entire life. Thankfully, it's only 30 days. I mean, just looking at the rules, how many people want to follow rules? Oh, let's see if the chicken, broccoli and rice diet that it actually works. What special caveats like no liquid calories. Okay, well, that makes sense. I mean, why would we want to drink a bunch of juices and high calorie drinks? No diet sodas. Isn't that the point of having no liquid calories to drink diet sodas? And no artificial sweeteners. How exactly are we supposed to have an enjoyable diet if we can't have the things in it that makes it enjoyable? Does that not make any sense? You can't have a diet Pepsi. You can't get blue lobster. You can't have artificial sweeteners. You can't have anything from my cookbook. Why would you force yourself to stick to a diet that's going to torture you and going to hate it? Does anyone think that this diet is going to last? Let's say it works. I mean, why wouldn't it work? You can only eat four foods chicken breast broccoli carrots and potatoes. Oh, but let me add to that some olive oil because I'm scared of having people on a low fat diet for a month because oh my God hormones. This is a pathetic loser diet that was created by a pathetic loser and decided to make a video about it. And well, it was for video. And so I give him the pass for being a pathetic loser. But hey, it is what it is. The theory behind this boring diet is simple. It's a short reset that's supposed to change how food feels to you. So you stop chasing food for pleasure. Why do people think that these kind of things actually work? A short reset. So your body eats only four foods for a month. It resets itself and it never wants any junk ever after that. That will never work. I mean, already 95% of diets fail and this is going to increase that to 96. If you eat this restrictive, what's going to happen is your body is then after the diets over going to crave everything and everything. If you can stick to it, we are going to get you 10 fully compensated buffets. Do you know how strong your motivation is when you're on TV, when you're on a show and you have 7.5 million people about to watch this? You're going to say, well, I'm going to die and I'm going to die very strong because you're in front of the cameras. People are seeing what you're doing. But once the 30 days is over, the floodgates, they're going to open and you're going to gain all the way back and more. I meal prepped some food for breakfast. I'm going to have some shredded chicken with some carrots and some mashed potatoes. What's in the mashed potatoes? Are we putting in some butter? You can't have some artificial sweeteners. God forbid you have the artificial sweeteners, which have zero calories. But go ahead and have some mashed potatoes, adding in some cream and butter. What a great diet. As expected, Max and Isabel are already struggling early on. But that should slowly subside if they're able to make it through the most difficult first week. You know what would make it really easy to subside? I'm not talking about that massive thing between your pants that you got from taking harder than last time. I'm talking about your hunger subsiding from taking GLP Max. You guys have heard of the GLPs, the peptides and so on. You've seen Oprah trying to convince everyone that obesity is a disease, that you can't control it. It's not your fault. I mean, you don't control what goes into your mouth. You just allow it to get in there. That's what she said. Oh, it's not my fault. I was born to do that. You still have a choice. I'm sorry. The choice is yours. If GLP Max, which reduces your cravings by 20%, it's not strong enough. You can, of course, go to AlgoRx, get various peptides to help reduce your cravings. You can get in Clomiphene, the Cialis, the Viagra, the testosterone, various other things that make you healthier. And of course, you get your blood work. And you know already this is from qualified doctors and its pharmaceutical products. And the prices are lower than ever before. And that's about half the price of Merrick Health. And so unless you're as rich as Oprah Winfrey, I'd suggest you go to AlgoRx, get it for cheap prescription from doctors. And obviously compare it to the other sites to make sure that I'm not some liar, that I'm not just making this shit up, that it's so cheap. And so use code Greg for 10% off. When you keep food simple and you stop constantly switching things up, that reward system, it doesn't get triggered as much. As a result, people naturally eat about 20 to 30% fewer calories. Yeah, we get it. If you're only allowed one food choice, two, three, four, whatever, hardly anything. The grapefruit diet, the only eat this diet, the carnivore diet, the whatever diet you can add. It's easier to lose weight, but you have to stick to that diet. And the part that's hard is sticking to that diet. If you're put into a room, you can't leave and they only bring out one food at a time, you're not going to eat as much as if you have an all you can eat buffet with 200 choices from my frigging cookbook. The difference with my cookbook is there's choices for everything, whatever you want, whether it's fries, burgers, whatever, you get to eat it. And the difference is it's much lower in calories, approximately 50%. And so you can eat bigger food servings, large meal portion sizes, and you're full. You're satisfied and the taste is amazing. And so if you actually want to lose weight and not suffer and only eat four different foods like chicken, broccoli and rice or potatoes, carrots, broccoli and chicken, you got to get the book. Code Greg, 15% off. You gots to get the book. I strongly recommend it. A team of researchers wanted to figure out what foods keep you the fullest for longest. So they gave participants 240 calorie portions of 38 different foods. You know, all I have to do is give them one of my 200 recipes and give them 240 calories worth. And then when they're full, they'd be like, oh, this is better than potatoes. How is it that there's 100 plus recipes better than potatoes in your book? Well, I don't know. Could it be that I spent 30 years on this frigging cookbook that I have dieted for 59 bodybuilding competitions that perhaps I've maybe over the course of decades discovered the best foods that you can eat to help you to lose weight? Oh, no, it couldn't be that. How could coach Greg possibly know more about dieting than a scientist in a lab? Here is how all the food scored. Potatoes absolutely crushed the rankings. Yeah, just as a thought, I don't see anabolic French toast on this list. They tested a bunch of low calorie recipes, but they didn't try mine. I do not see peanut butter. I do not see sloppy Greg in your mouth. I don't see protein pancakes. I don't see any of the pumpkin loaves. I don't see my anabolic risotto. The egg white bites. The lasagna. Yes. If you actually try this book and you make some of the recipes, you don't need to make them all. And remember, this book is so simple. Even an idiot like coach Greg can make these recipes. After all, I did create them. If I can make it, a 16 year old kid can make it, a 20 year old easily can make it. You only need about five. If you get five of these recipes and you continue to eat them, you can eat from the cookbook. You can have your regular meals. You can go to restaurants. You can enjoy having a normal life. You don't have to eat just four Jeremy Afe meals. You don't have to cut out your diet Pepsi and in casks. And in case, and in, and it actually, I encourage you to have more of these, more of the diet Pepsi's, the low sugar sweetened beverages. Eat from the cookbook as often as you want or don't want. And you're going to lose weight. It's that easy. Don't forget to do your cardio 150 minutes of cardio week because the more you do cardio, the better you bet at burning calories. And so the first day you go to the gym for an hour doing cardio, you probably burn 350 calories in an hour. That's going to be probably most of yours limits. Cause you're not fit. You're like this woman who has 31% body fat. You're not fit. You're like average say 350 calories an hour. It's not bad. And actually that's more than she could do. There's no way she's burning 350 calories. But anyway, the average person, perhaps you're a man. 350 calories woman, probably less. And a year from now, you're probably going to burn double that from doing cardio. And so you get to eat more. And so you can have an extra recipe. You can have extra cookie, candy, chocolate bars. I don't care, but you're going to lose weight. And so the secret is you get the cookbook and you do the cardio, try lifting weights once or twice a week. You're going to do so much better than you think. Code Greg 15% off. I made some chicken waffles because she was tired of eating regular chicken. Anyone see the ketchup, but no, you can't have a diet Pepsi. Fucking God. Why would you have a diet Pepsi? You know, because that's going to hurt your hormones. Your freaking. What are those things called? Your gut flora. Something will mess up because you had a stupid caffeine free diet. Kirk and Pepsi. Damn. It's probably not even sugar free ketchup. And so you can have all the condiments. You can fry your potatoes. You can add the olive oil. But boy, oh boy, you don't want to have a diet Pepsi with no freaking calories. Come on, Jeremy. Proud to be Canadian. Get me into the 51st state of the United States. Kirk, Canada. As for the physical results, after just one week, both of their bodies had visually tightened up and their measurements revealed some pretty insane changes. And so one week into the diet, Bro's already down five pounds and she's down 1.8 pounds. And so he's already dieting too quickly. You all know that. If you lose weight too quickly, you can start to lose muscle. This is not what you need. And she's lost 1.8 pounds a week. And so clearly it's working. But imagine if you told them you can eat those four foods and also everything in the cookbook. Add the diet Pepsi that you want and have some blue lobster. Why are you cutting out lobster from their diets? Like how would have eaten the lobster been bad? Oh, you don't want to eat that high protein lobster. Guys, I'm wearing a blue shirt. I have a blue lobster. I'm telling you, you can eat a Smurf and have it too. I've been tracking my weight. I feel like it's not consistently going down, but it's, um, it's like up a pound, down a pound, down two pounds. Like it's just like fluctuates. Yeah, obviously your weight doesn't just continuously go down like this. Has anyone out there, you know, I know she's a female, but has any woman out there invested in the stock market? Do you all know about numbers? Well, when you lose weight, it's like the stock market. It doesn't go down or up every single day. Some days it goes up and some days it goes down. It's kind of like a trend. It generally goes a certain direction. And so if your weight is trending down, you're losing weight. If it's trending up, you're gaining weight. You don't need the stocks to go up every single day in order to make money. If it goes up more days than it goes down, this is good. And so my suggestion, you take your median weight. You don't track the calories. You eat from the cookbook. You eat what you want. You're going to lose weight. You track your weight. Median. The middle number. End of the week. If your weight is down from the previous week, you keep doing what you're doing. If it's up, well, you need to do more cardio. You need to actually eat fewer calories. That's the only tracking that you need to do. You don't need to weigh every single food. You don't have to put it on the gram scale. You don't have to do all the measuring with the tablespoons and the teaspoons and the calories and the adding and all that stuff. It's a lot of work. But how hard is it to step on the scale in the morning? I got up on the scale. I weighed 192.2. That is my weight. Tomorrow, if I'm 191.8, then I write that down. The next day, perhaps I'm 189. And then the day after that, I'm 193. You take the median and every week you compare it. If it's going down, you keep doing what you're doing. And if it's going up, you eat less or you do more cardio. It's guaranteed you're going to lose weight. The goal of this experiment isn't to have them eat this extreme diet forever. It's to reset how their brain responds to food and then gradually move towards a more flexible approach. Why didn't we start them with the cookbook? I mean, this is just moronic. Let's start them on an impossible diet to follow. You know, this diet almost literally is impossible to follow long term. I don't know anyone that's disciplined enough to follow this diet for years. But basically anyone can eat from my cookbook. And so why are we giving them a stupid diet only to say, hey, now that the diet's over, let's give you an actual diet works. The cookbook diet from Coach Greg. And since Isabel absolutely cannot handle another day of chicken for breakfast, I'm letting them add in three different protein options. But there's a catch. They can only choose one. And it's one week into the diet and already they had to add in some extra foods. It wasn't sustainable. One freaking week. Already the diets gotten better for her because she's added in eggs. You see where this is going? If you add in more options, it doesn't make your diet worse or less sustainable or harder to lose weight on. It makes it better because you have foods that you like. And so why don't we add in a few things? You know, hey, week two, let's add this. Eggs. Do you know what else? Would you like some cottage cheese? Zero percent fat. What about some Greek yogurt? Oh, do you know what? Would you like strawberries in your diet? Would that make it better? What about some blueberries? Perhaps some raspberries. Maybe like Jeff Nippa. You know, the science-based lifter who won't take your picture. What about a kiwi? Would you like that? Oh my God, you love asparagus? Let's add that to your diet. And you don't like Diet Pepsi. What about Diet Root Beer? Would you like one of those? And you're not into the blue lobster. Well, why not have Janaki's juice? It's got an amazing green flavor. And it's going to help you to do cardio faster than last time. Do you see where this is going? You've already added in the blue lobster because you're cheating on your diet. And so why don't we just continue on? Just eat from the book. Just eat from the book. Oh, you wanted a snack? Oh, how's your diet now? Oh, you're losing weight. 1.8 pounds per week. And you're eating all those delicious meals. And you love the diet. And you don't want to stop eating like that? Well, could you repeat that for the people in the back not paying attention? Oh, you get to love the diet that you're on with the frigging cookbook meals, the Seco bars, everything, and it works for life. Why wouldn't we follow that diet? Oh my goodness. I don't know. Most people don't realize how many decisions they make around food every single day. But when you repeat the same three or four meals, the decision is already made for you. And that leaves more mental energy and willpower for everything else. I mean, I don't know how Jeremy's gotten to where he's gotten. I mean, he's clearly got some skills, manipulative skills. I don't know, like loser people skills. Like who's all watching Jeremy? I mean, I don't understand this. He's basically saying your diet's better because you don't have choices. You only can eat those four foods. And so rather than going out with your friends to restaurants, family meals, gatherings, Christmas, you just skip all those events because you can't eat. And so if you eliminate choices in your life, your life gets better. What's next? You're going to have your frigging family set up your marriage? Oh, here's an arranged marriage. You're only allowed to go out to this restaurant. Oh, you have to tell the government whenever you want to leave the country. Oh, let's track everything. Let's put a chip. Oh, I know. Why don't you take this vaccine? Where are we going with this? No choices. Hey, your life is better. Welcome to a dictatorship. There's no craving. It's really weird how it's just like become a habit. That's all I eat. It's really weird. It's going to be really weird when this diet ends, you gain all that weight back within a month because your body goes crazy on those 10 frigging all you can eat buffet plans that you've been given. For this week, we're going to add some special ingredients to Isabelle's diet. Oh, I'm very excited. And so two weeks in, they've added a bunch of more foods. You see where this is going? Like, I didn't even pre-watch this video. I just said, I'm just going to press play and I'm going to react to it. And this is what we're seeing. And so the stupid diet the first week, it's getting better because they're adding in more choices. And notice choices that she likes. We're also adding one treat meal per week. In the research world, this is called a planned hedonic deviation. And why don't we just add in a planned cheat each and every week? Did you know that with my clients, you know, I coach people, that they get a planned cheat each and every day? How is it possible though, Greg? Well, because if you need to eat off the cookbook, if you need to go to a restaurant, if you need to have a buffet plan, every single day you can do that because life should be sustainable. You shouldn't have to make changes to how you want to live your life in order to lose weight. There should be a diet out there that accounts for all of these things. My diet, this guy's diet. Do you not think I've coached thousands of athletes? Then I know that in secret they cheat and they don't tell their coach. Why? Because that's what people do. And so you have to allow these people to eat these things. And it isn't called a cheat. It's called in my book, an off meal plan. Do you want sushi? Do you want Chinese food? I don't care because it's on your diet plan and it's not cheating. It's part of your plan. We account for everything. And remember, if you're interested in getting coaching, of course, you click the link in the description. You're going to lose weight. Keep it off for the rest of your life. That's what it's all about. A sustainable diet that you don't like. Why would I want you to like your diet? Like Gordon Ramsay would say, you would love it. If you don't love your diet, you're going to go on to something that you do love. Think of it. If you don't love your charmuta, do you really think you're going to stick with her for the rest of your life? You kind of like her. It's all right. She's not bad. She's a seven out of ten. How long are you sticking with that? I think it would make it harder because it would distract you. Honestly, I feel totally fine. I feel like it's been easy just to kind of get back into routine again today. And so for him, you know, this is a slippery slope for her. She's like, no, no, no, no. I need this variety. This is why every diet has to be customized to you. You're an individual. You're different than everyone. No one diet fits all. Luckily, research suggests that as long as your diet is short, protein stays high, and you're training hard using a solid program, then you should be able to maintain your muscle even with rapid weight loss. No, that's not going to happen unless you're adding in steroids. If you're losing weight twice as fast as you should, you're not eating enough calories and your muscles are going to shrink. If you're laying down on a mat thinking about your diet instead of training, you're not going to keep the muscles that you once had. Now, if you're going to try to convince me that the DEXA scam is going to be some kind of proof that he hasn't or has lost any muscle, it's a DEXA scam. We can't believe that. And if you're going to convince me this guy's natural, I'm also not going to believe that. Unless I'm seeing some blood work taken during this 30 day fast or whatever you want to call it. I don't believe that this bro is actually natural. And so if he didn't lose any muscle, I think he perhaps sprinkled in a lot more than Turk Builder Max. Although that most certainly would help. Of course, the GO2 Max would help. I would say if he's losing weight this quickly and not losing any muscle at all, he's on more than Turk Builder Max, which you already have. I know you already have bought it. And so please keep rebuying it. Don't remember. And don't forget code Greg for 15% off all you guys. You've already bought it. Just keep rebuying it. And thank you yet again. What's the first thing that you're going to eat after this? I think I'll have a steak and a fruit because I haven't had fruit in a very long time. And so imagine the first thing you're craving off of your diet. The diet is now over. It's going to be something you could have been eating on your diet all along. Are you starting to get it now? In the last 30 days, you lost five pounds of fat. Oh, okay. And your body fat went from 31% down to 28%. I think it's reasonable. 3% drop in body fat increased to half a pound of muscle in a month. Although it's a DEXA scam. So it's basically guessing. I do think that she could have done this 1% per week. That's about the maximum that you could lose. And so she's losing about three quarters of a percent per week. And so to me, this does in fact make sense. And so it works out to being in a daily deficit of around 600 calories. For a man, it's not really all that much, but for a female, it is kind of a lot. And so I would just say, try not to continue to lose weight this quickly. Slow it down a bit. The slower you lose the weight, the more likely you're going to keep it off. In the last 30 days, you lost 14 pounds of fat. Wow. 14 pounds of fat. That works out to a daily deficit of 1600 calories. How many people think he was eating 1600 calories of deficit each and every day? I don't believe that to be true. Was he just not eating the chicken, potatoes and the vegetables? I don't believe that this happened. I believe he didn't lose 14 pounds. And of course it was from a DEXA scam. And so we don't really know how much he actually lost. You were at 12.9%. Whoa. 12.9%. You discovered something. That's insane. This is a breakthrough in science. The breakthrough in science is that the DEXA scams are wrong. I mean, we've even had Mike Isertel prove that this is in fact incorrect. And so, hey, if you don't expect it to go down that much, what did Mike Isertel say? You know, Mr. Mike said, go and try a different DEXA scam and then pick the one that most likely represents what you think that you actually are. And so that's how accurate a DEXA scam is. You have to do multiple DEXA scams because they don't actually scan you per se. They use an algorithm to guess what your body fat percentage is. Did you know that? I don't think you did. And so when Jeff Nippa, the science-based grifter, when he shows you a bunch of pictures of people's body fat percentages, these are actual body fat percentages. You all know that it's a scam. It's a lie. And so you can't believe what it's showing. And so, for example, when Mepsagram, you know, my girlfriend, when she had 13.8%, she didn't actually have 13.8%. And when Alex Eubank had 15%, it wasn't actually that high. My girlfriend is not leaner than Alex Eubank. She's not fat, but she's not shredded like Alex. And so you can believe these things if you want. You can continue to go down the science-based bullshit, or you can listen to Coach Greg. I honestly did not think that was possible. I don't think that was possible either. Isn't it awesome? I didn't think it was possible. I didn't think you could do that. Me neither. I didn't think so. Rather than saying, you know, maybe the DEXA scam got it wrong. They just say, yeah, well, I guess you did it. Because, you know, a DEXA scam guessed that you did. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the out of them. Like the video if you liked it. Get from Al Gorex as well as visit the HTLT website. And if you're an athlete, especially if you have a larger following, we want to sponsor you. And so please apply by clicking the link in the description. And if you've got a store or a gym and you want to carry all these amazing supplements, you can see them in your gym or store. Click the link and we gots to get you hooked up. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: Kali Muscle Almost Died... Again. [T0fRDob6qjU].txt ===

 Cali, what was that? 60, so 45. Oh, oh, oh, oh, shit. Coach Greg in today's video, Cali muscle, he has a second heart attack. It's already wasn't looking good. The first heart attack, the widowmaker, this can dramatically shorten your life, but he made it through. But now that he has a second heart attack, it's going to dramatically reduce his life expectancy. And on top of that, he's going to need to make significant changes. I'm going to go over his video. I'm going to explain what he should be doing if he wants to live longer than last time, what he should be taking, should he be using HRT, going to answer all the questions. And so let's watch and hopefully you learn. January 17th, I had another heart attack, not at home, not asleep at the gym. 60, so 45. Oh, oh, oh. And so here's the thing, when people go to the gym, they're thinking of health, but people do in fact know that if you are at risk of a heart attack, that there's certain things that you should be doing in the gym and certain things that you shouldn't be doing into the gym. And so here's a great place to start. Cali muscle has to stop training to failure. You should be at an RPE of perhaps six, maybe seven, keeping several reps in the tank. And it's not about building muscle. What you want is a moderate amount of muscle, but certainly not a lot. The larger the muscles, the larger the body and the more the heart is going to have to work. And so for Cali muscle, he should be just going through the motions, lifting the weights, not really pushing himself and just thinking about longevity, not about aesthetics. And as far as cardio concern, that is his friend. Zone two cardio, he should be trying to get in perhaps four to six hours of zone two cardio each and every week, 150 being the absolute minimum. But when you're trying to survive longer than last time, are you going to do the minimum? Are you going to do what's ideal zone to remember? You can talk, you can form sentences. It's not overly strenuous. And that is going to improve his heart. And so what Cali should be doing is, for example, a full body workout, a circuit going from one machine to the next, not pushing himself to failure, certainly not doing the valve salva maneuver, not going for one rep maxis and doing a lot of cardio. For example, going on the stepper, the rowing machine, bicycle riding, and that should be his workout. And if he could do that, that would definitely extend his life. If you think more drugs, more steroids, more intensity, mean a better quality of life than your mistake because I thought the same thing. Absolutely. When you're an athlete, such as Cali muscle, you want to go hard. You want to push harder than last time. What's hard for him is not going to the gym, not working out hard, not pushing his limits. But if he wants to live as long as humanly possible, longer than last time to be around for his kids, his family, and so on, he has to put it on the back burner and he just cannot do this. And as far as testosterone goes, people are wondering, well, what about HRT? It's still okay to use HRT, but in the lowest dose that makes you happy. And I'm not talking about sport, TRT, or testosterone optimization therapy. I'm talking about the bare minimum, perhaps 80 or 100 milligrams of testosterone a week. Many people oftentimes are going into the 150 to 200, dare I say even 250 milligrams. That is not TRT. I mean, you might feel like it's TRT. You might want it to be a TRT, but it is in fact too much. And remember, if you're looking to get TRT and clomapheny, your blood work, you're trying to avoid getting in a situation like this. Algorax, you get your blood work done. The doctors go over it and they will tell you exactly what you need. Perhaps you need Talma Sartin. Do you need Cialis? Do you need Glutathione? What exactly are you looking for? Perhaps you need peptides to help reduce your cravings, to reduce some weight. Kali muscle is not obese, and that certainly is going to help them. Many people who have cardiac events such as this, they're 300 pounds. That's going to put an even added strain on his heart. And so you can see Kali is very lean. And that is in fact in his favor. I went fruitarian for some years, which I kind of find out now causes fatty liver that causes your arteries to get clogged in blood. Eating a lot of fruit, it's not going to make you unhealthy. The same applies to vegetables, fruits. You're not getting heart attacks from eating too much watermelons. Remember, he had a heart attack only a couple of years ago. The widowmaker, one of the worst ones you can get, and yet he survived. From that moment on, his life changed. He should have been on very low doses of TRT, going easy in the gym, and doing a lot of zone 2 cardio, not pushing himself, not trying to set PRs, certainly not going back on higher doses of TRT. It's hard when you've had such an amazing physique for so long to roll back on those doses, but it is in fact a must. And so, no. Don't think that carbs are the enemy. This is ridiculous. I don't care if it's from rice, potatoes, carrots, zucchinis, blueberries, raspberries. You can eat the fruits, the vegetables, the carbs, especially if you're going out and doing your cardio. Cardio is a savior. It's more important in lifting weights if, think of it, which do you think would have been better for Cali muscle? How do you have been bodybuilding, flexing the biceps, doing the bench press his entire life, or doing zone 2 cardio? Which muscle in the body do you think is the most important? Do you think it's this bicep? This bicep? Perhaps it's the pec? It's got to be the delts, I mean, think of it. Glavicular is putting in shoulder pads to be more impressive. The heart. You need to have a strong and healthy heart. And remember, when you do zone 2 cardio, you're still using your muscles. It's not like they're not being used. You don't think that when I ride a bike for an hour, two hours, whatever, that my quads are getting a workout. Now, it might not be as hard as doing 10 rep max on the squats, but it's harder than most people are doing. Most people aren't doing any cardio at all. And so, trust me, the world would change as we know it if people on average did four to six hours of cardio a week. Imagine 45 minutes a day, seven days a week, whatever, however you want to do it. Imagine if everyone did that. The world would save billions, perhaps trillions of dollars on Medicare. That is the magic pill that doctors cannot prescribe. They can't make you, they can't write a script. Pharmaceutical companies can't make billions and trillions of dollars saying the 150 minutes of cardio a week or perhaps 300 would be even better. Do one or take two, do two hours of cardio this week and call me in the morning. It doesn't work like that. And so, they make prescriptions, medications, and they make billions and trillions of dollars on people like Cali Muscle getting sick. My genetics, yes. The more carbs I eat, the more clogged up I would get. No, it's not true. I don't care what kind of genetics you have. He didn't get this from eating too many carbs. He's going to cope and he's going to make it look like, no, it was my diet. When we all know it was the steroids. He's not wrong about genetics. He's genetics are more prone to getting these problems than others. Certain people have better genetics for using steroids. Certain people don't. Certain people, no matter what they do, they're going to get heart attacks problems at a very young age. But it doesn't mean you don't try. And the worse your genetics are, the more you should be encouraged to do zone two cardio. Those that don't know me, I did 11 years in prison. And at 11 years, I was eating top ramen every single day. Honey buns. I had to have my two Snickers. All of that perhaps is true. But what's more important than how many Skittles you're having, ramen noodles, donuts, candies, and so on is your weight. For example, you got two people. Person A, person B, let's call them identical twins. Person A eats like absolute dog shit. All candies, cakes, cookies, ice cream, horrible diet. Person B, perfect diet. I don't care who they're following. Your favorite, insert your favorite guru and they're following that diet, whether it's carnivore, fruit or whatever, skeletor, whatever diet you think is best, that's the diet that they're following. Perfect. But here's the caveat. The junk food eater, they're doing an hour or two cardio a day and they're eating exactly at maintenance. They probably have a six pack. They're 15% body fat. Person B, all healthy, the perfect foods. They don't do any cardio whatsoever. Who do you think lives longer? Junk food eater. If you think that just eating a healthy diet is all that you need, it is not. The more important factor is how much cardio you're doing and are you at a healthy weight? Well, I know I had some issues because I always seen my feet with water and a demon when I take off my socks that had an indentation. So I had already acquired some type of plaque in my heart. Genetic. It's not from eating carbs. It's not from having fruit. It's not from ramen noodles. Genetics. Think of it. He was 100% natural. He had amazing physique for athleticism, for lifting weights, for putting on muscle, but yet he had edema in his feet. Edema, in case you don't know, it's when water, it pulls in your lower legs. It's explaining how your body isn't pumping blood effectively. The heart, it pumps blood out and it goes down to your ankles and it's supposed to make its way back up. If the fluid is pooling in your ankles, it's not returning back to the heart and this is bad. And so bodybuilders out there, especially, I mean, if you're not a bodybuilder, you've got to go to the doctor. If you're a bodybuilder, you're on steroids and you see that your ankles keep getting swollen, you've got to stop the steroids. It's not normal to get all this edema. And so when you see a guy like Larry Wills gaining 53 pounds after a bodybuilding competition, what do you think is going to happen in the long run? Is it a joke? Do we laugh about it? We make fun? Oh, you're gaining 50 pounds. Oh, you ate too many cookies. Or do you think, do you know how bad that is for your body? Do you know that you're in early stages of perhaps getting a heart attack? Imagine what happens if you actually did get that heart attack and even if you don't, the damage is done. It's going to keep getting worse year after year and eventually you're going to look back and think, why did I do it? Why did I not listen to Coach Greg? I had my kids through IVF because I had to bring back up my spurs to get off steroids for two years to bring back up my sperm. Let me just remind you that I'd made a nadir nod on him in the past and I said that he was not natural. He got mad at me and said a bunch of things and turned out he was on steroids. Of course he was. And so if you're on steroids and you just lie about it and you don't even tell your doctor, how are they supposed to know if you're healthy? Now, obviously using steroids is bad, but you need to get your blood work. You need to get checked out. You need to check your blood pressure. High blood pressure, it's horrendous. I went to my doctor just the other day. He tested my blood pressure. It was 100 over 60. He says, that's great. I'm thinking, man, that seems pretty low, but it's great because what if it was 140 over 90? Oh, it's not that bad. It's okay, right? Wrong. That's horrible. And so if you're just a little bit high, that's like saying, oh, you just took a little bit of poison. Don't worry, be chill. It's just, it's not a full lethal dose of poison. It's just a little bit. Would you like that? Of course not. And so you need to do something about it. Remember, you can get things from Al Gorex like Talmasartan. And if you are in fact overweight, you could lose weight. And if you aren't doing cardio, you would add it. And if you're on performance enhancing drugs, you would stop. Stop it. Get some help. You don't need to do the steroids. You're choosing to. But if the steroids are causing bad things to your body, of which they are, you are allowed to stop. It's amazing. I know you're four weeks out, and you're about to get a heart attack, and you're allowed to say, you know what, the show isn't worth it. In the moment, it feels like it's worth it. Because trust me, I've done it 59 times. It feels worth it. Like you're dieting, you're doing the things, you're taking the steroids, of which I didn't do it the whole time. The first 42, I did natural. But I did steroids later, and you're thinking, well, it's worth it. And everyone else is doing it. And this is a sport that I love. And so if you fall in love with bodybuilding, the problem is bodybuilding involves steroids. It's kind of like if you fall in love with raving, raving involves a lot of doing recreational things, sniffing creatine, and so on. There's certain things that involve other things that are kind of not good for us. Like going to the bars usually involves drinking alcohol. And so not necessarily good. And so when you love bodybuilding, strongman, powerlifting, these sports, it usually involves a lot of steroids. And unfortunately, that's just the case. If you fall in love with badminton, tennis, pickleball, basketball, not a lot of steroids there. Not saying you can't use them, but not a lot. And so certain sports are more conducive to doing less crazy things than others. And so if you happen to fall in love with bodybuilding, you're probably watching the trend twins. You're probably watching Sam Sulick, and you're probably watching Chris Bumstead, all on steroids. You end up thinking, well, steroids is just normal. And then you do it, and then you keep doing it, and then you have to retire, you get all messed up, you can't do the things, and then you die. There is, of course, another way. And it's called natural bodybuilding. You know, we use Turk builder and use the Turk platinum and where people tell you, oh, it doesn't actually work because they haven't used it. And they don't believe that it's way better than creatine, even though it is. So I recommend you try that. And then you can be one of the coach Greg supplement users, and you can tell the rest of the world that they got it wrong. And remember, there's a money back guarantee and a $50 gift card. And so even if it didn't work, does it really matter? You're going to get all your money back. And so you get to try it, and then you get to tell other people, oh, it didn't actually work for me. Rare, but it happens. And so why not give it a try code Greg 15% off. But I was still eating that bodybuilder diet, a lot of rice. You know, my main thing was right. That's what I would eat oatmeal and rice. And for me, evidently, it don't metabolize right in my system. You know, if it hadn't been for the bodybuilder diet, probably wouldn't have had that way to make her heart attack. I'd probably be going to lift it'd be probably 90, roughly 90. How much cope is this? But I mean, the guy had two heart attacks. He's probably trying to put it all into perspective. And it's hard to say, you know what, I got this because I'm an idiot and abuse steroids. It's hard to say that it's hard to admit that a choice that you made did something bad. And so you try to say, no, it's not this, it was just genetics, it would have happened anyway. It's hard to say, I made this decision, I abuse steroids, and now I'm going to die significantly younger, of which he most certainly is. I'm sorry, but this dramatically reduces your life expectancy. He's not an old man. And when you get this a couple times, you can perhaps live 15 to 25 years longer if you do everything right. But he's not going to live to be into his 80s. So with my body, that's go converting to blockages in my artery, right? In my heart. And so boom, I've stopped my medication thinking time folks. You know, I feel like I'm teaching the kids that used to teach. I remember I was a school teacher for 11 years. Let's talk about this briefly. What do you think is more likely that caused him problems with his heart? Fruit going off his medication. Choice is yours. Ding, ding, ding. Yeah, it's the friggin going off the medication. That's the problem. It's not having too much fruit. It's not too much watermelon. Bro, no, it's not that. Firstly, I had a widowmaker and I had a stint in. I wasn't supposed to stop my man come to find out. You know, why would doctors prescribe you medications that you should take? I mean, they just do it for fun. So when a doctor prescribes you medications, they're just thinking, I wonder if this fool actually take them. That's not how it works. Doctors prescribe you medications because they think they do more good for you than harm. And so if the doctor says you need to take a Talma Sartan, if the doctor says you need to take a beta blocker, if the doctor says you take anything, it's because he thinks that by taking that specific medication that your life will get better than if you do not take it. That is why my endocrinologist, which is an expert in hormones, prescribed me HRT. After my workout, I would have four eggs. Then I would go about the day, have a cup of tea. And at night, I would have like some fish and a salad or quinoa diet seems great. Being scared of rice, no real need to be scared of the rice. You know, he had to quinoa, I was scared of the rice. You can have the rice, you know what I would be scared of though, taken 200 milligrams of test a week. I would definitely be scared of that. Would I be scared of 150? I would be scared of 150. 100, I probably wouldn't be scared of 100. So long as the doctor prescribes it and says, you know, this looks good, your HDL is okay, your LDL is okay. Everything seems in order. I would be scared of the HRT if it was in higher doses. I would be scared of not taking the medications that my doctor prescribes to me. Isn't it crazy how irrational people are on the things that they consider to be important? Like the low hanging fruit, the most important thing that you can do. And I looked up low hanging fruit. Apparently you're not allowed to say it anymore because it's racist or something. I don't feel like I'm racist by saying low hanging fruit. And so the low hanging fruit, probably to take your medications up on the hierarchy of important things to do when you have a heart attack, avoiding rice. It's so not low hanging. I can't even reach it. Now I understand I'm a five foot six manlet. I can't reach very high, but even with a step ladder, I can't get up to the part where it says that you shouldn't have rice. My father almost died of a heart attack a couple years ago. And there was a paramedic on the scene at the exact moment where he had the heart attack and saved his life. And so I understand a lot about heart attacks. And my dad is not scared of rice. I do know that he does a lot of cardio. He does a lot of fast walking. Even on the cruise ship, we're on vacation together for about 11 days. He was walking every single day. He's trying to be fit. That's what you need to do. Rice is one of the best things you could eat. It's great. Rice, potatoes. What you wouldn't want to have is a bunch of sugar laden, ultra processed foods like hog and doze and licorice and jelly beans, but rice. Rice is not killing you. Fast forward to January 17th. I had already worked out in the morning, which I can show you guys some clips. And so just the fact that he had a heart attack, holding your breath and flexing for all your worth, that is not good. You're not supposed to do the valve seal of a maneuver. You're not supposed to force maximally like this, as it does create a problem. Before I went to the gym, I banged my finger. I don't know if y'all can see it right there. So I smashed my finger in the door. So that was really a sign that something was off. I've never did that in my life. No, no. Because like, let's say he had skipped the gym that day. Oh man, I banged my finger. I never banged my finger. How often does any of us bang her finger? If I bang my finger, stub my toe, do you think I'm not bike racing tonight? Like really? I'm not going to the gym. I bang my finger. Imagine every day how many things that happen. Oh, buddy cursed me out. I'm not going to the gym today. This is ridiculous. And think of it like this. If this hadn't happened today, if he had skipped gym day that day, you don't think it would happen the next day or the day after that, the day after that, it would have eventually happened because he's not doing everything right. And as you see, I did 65 straight push up, got out and that heart must have went crazy. Yeah. 65 is too much. Had he had done 30, probably would have been fine. Cardio zone two. But when you really, really push yourself and you have a heart such as this, it's not good for it. It's not made to handle that load. EMT, he shocked me, do CPR to the ambulance come and I don't, I'm unconscious guys. And so I come to find out I was in a coma, induced coma three days. And so the reason he would have been an induced coma for multiple days is where they would have cooled his body temperature by perhaps three degrees or so. This is to increase the likelihood that he does not get brain damage. This can actually happen. You're passing out, you're having a heart attack, you're, you're collapsed on the floor. This can cause certain parts to basically to shut down. They would have been fatherless. My wife would have been a widow, you know, it's just all because of my past mistakes, you know, with eating wrong, then bodybuilding, doing steroids. There it is. I mean, he's admitting it all right now. Health is wealth. Health is everything. I got a family, all this nonsense, the eating, the bodybuilding, the abusing steroids, all this nonsense, it added to this. And the problem is you're all mostly younger people watching this. And you don't think it's going to happen to you. You're thinking, yeah, but that's just him or, hey, if I make it to 40, who cares? This is just ridiculous thinking. You need to realize that this can happen to you right now. And what's going to happen is when you're older, you're going to think, oh my God, there's so many things I didn't realize that when I was young that I needed to get more age, wisdom, maturity in order to realize it. And so if you're a smart right now, what you'll do is you'll talk to older people and you'll gather their wisdom and apply it to yourself earlier in your life because think of it, they've gone through life. They've experienced the things that you're going to experience. And so they understand. And so when they tell you something, it's because they already know this is like talking to Coach Greg. I've already seen the final exam and I know all the answers and I'm trying to help you. Now, you might think it's cheating by getting enhanced wisdom from the future right now, but there's no laws against this here in life. You're allowed to listen to me and other people who have experienced these things. And when we say, don't abuse steroids, don't abuse recreational drugs, do your cardio, don't be a fat piece of shit, lazy, obese, and not doing your cardio. I can understand you want to be fit and in shape. You could do that naturally. I was, I was super jacked at 34, never touched nothing in my life. Didn't even drink pre-workout. Exactly. You can be fit and in shape, compete all these things naturally. I mean, Sam Sulek, if he wasn't on steroids, he wouldn't be jacked like he is, but he could still be competing in bodybuilding, but in natural bodybuilding. There's drug tested bodybuilding and there's regular bodybuilding. You can compete in the IVB and you can go against Sam Sulek and C-bomb and the rest. You can compete in a drug tested version. Did you all not like the way Will Tennyson looked when he competed in natural? Perhaps Jesse James West or Hussain Farhat, they all competed in natural bodybuilding competitions and so you don't need to abuse performance enhancing drugs to be a bodybuilder. You're not going to be as big, you're not going to be as huge, you might not be as shredded, but it's still good. And who's going to laugh last when you're 50 and dead because you abuse steroids or when you're 80 and still thriving? There's a lot of bodybuilders that's going through these situations, but they don't want to seem weak. They don't want to let you know that they had an episode. And so another great point he's making, who else is explaining this stuff? You don't see this stuff. The only time you see about the problems is when they die. People aren't talking about, you know what, I had a heart attack, I had this happen, I had that happen, I went to the doctor and oh my god, my blood work and my blood pressure and I'm on these amounts of medications. It's insane. They're not mentioning that because they don't want you to know. And so Cali's a real world example of what can happen and it happens way more often than you think. People that just are blinded by these things, you're not aware of it. If people are, for example, impotent, they can't get a heart on from taking steroids and now they're off the stairs, they can't get up. Do you think they're making videos? I want to announce to the world that I can get heart. They don't say that. They announce to the world, look at the guns, look at me, I'm shredded, look how amazing I look. Look at my before and after transformation. They don't show the blood work and say all the problems. How many times do you see people showing their blood work when they do a bodybuilding competition? They show it after, when it's as good as it's been, they show you their best blood work. How many people show you their worst blood work? A big thing, like I say for me, and knowing that something was wrong with my heart was edema, water retention. So you got to be careful, man. That's the first sign, man. I would say that an earlier sign than the edema is high blood pressure. It's high. Like, why is it high? What do you think that's going to do? Do you think that's good for your body? If you have high blood pressure, every day, every beat, it's high. It's making your heart work that much harder. And so it's weakening the body. You cannot let it keep going. And so that is an even earlier sign. If you're already getting the edema, well, technically, part of it, it's already too late. You need to do something immediately. I mean, people a year die of heart attack, 700,000. In America, what you think? Maybe 100 of those people took steroids. Callie never admits he was good at math. 100 people out of 700,000. If only 100 people out of 700,000 got a heart attack that did steroids, then I would literally be making a video saying, you know what? You should all take steroids if your goal is to prevent heart attacks. Because to have only 100 out of a sample size of 700,000, it's probably closer to 5,000, is 50 times more likely than he's explaining. Don't think that, oh, well, only 100 out of 700,000. That would be one out of 7,000. You only think that one person out of 7,000 people that die of a heart attack, only one minute, you only one had a heart attack. This is ridiculous. Don't just get caught up in this fitness bodybuild world. Rice, chicken, steak, eggs, you know what I mean? Like, you got to find out what works for you and your body. Rice, chicken, steak, and eggs is not going to be the cause of a heart attack. Steroids, maybe, not getting proper sleep, using and abusing recreational drugs, increased stresses, alcohol, ignoring, going to the doctor, not getting your blood work taken ever and just live in your life, FOMO, and saying, ah, you only live once. You only live once. You don't get to come back and do over. And so please do it right the first time. I'm beyond ecstatic to be here with you guys still. My family, my kids. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the album, like the video if you liked it, do something about it. If you liked the video, change your life. Stop doing the bad things, do more of the good things, and live a longer time than last time. Watch any of those two bloops. And of course, if you're looking for HLT supplements, you can get them on the website. And if you're looking for Al Gorex, Code Gregg, for both of these things for discounts, HLT looking for sponsored athletes. If you have a big following, if you have anything, apply, click the link. If you want to carry HLT supplements in your stores, gyms, link, click, apply. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: Ketamine Just Launched Connors Fitness Career [DC6163Rsnpo].txt ===

 naringin,wegsi. R It's where I go from this baseline natural physique to one of the best physiques on the internet. Following the posting of my video Connor he quickly posted a comment of which he later deleted. In the comment he basically was saying you know why didn't you reach out to me in private? Why would you make a video? Does he not know how Coach Greg works? I do this about everyone. Now, I did see the screenshot and he said I hadn't talked to him since December. Well, Connor, January 18th, you asked me to go over your blood work. We had that conversation. And so I don't know why you would have posted we hadn't talked since December. But I stand by every single comment that I made in that video. The main one being that fitness influencing, it's essentially dead that we have a bunch of degenerates doing degenerate type things. And they go viral. And that's who we're all listening to. Case in point, what you just did. It's so funny, the academy like stance when people like always go like this. A little bit shaky. You also mentioned that you were upset that I had said that you'd lost all of that muscle in 30 days, that it was actually in four months. And so I stand corrected. Connor lost all his muscle in four months. It wasn't one. Connor admittedly is on performance enhancing drugs. He doesn't lie about this. He's open, honest, transparent. And so can I really fault him? Of course not. He's doing exactly what many other fitness influencers are doing, which is abusing recreational drugs, promoting degeneracy. Many are promoting gambling. I don't believe that he is. I hope he's not. Perhaps he is. Whatever. And they're getting viral clips. For example, him high on vitamin K, falling over, acting like an imbecile. And it allows him to go viral. So my career as a fitness influencer might be over. Of course it's not over. It's going to go even stronger. You really think that acting moronic, doing stupid type shit makes your fitness career over? This is what launches your fitness career. I mean, if anything, it's almost as if he planned and or staged this. Perhaps it's not staged. I don't care. It all comes out the same. Because of this, he's now launched his ascension. Bro's probably just going to take a bunch of steroids. Well, this is me falling down high as balls on stream. I just got out of jail, found God. But after a few weeks of prayer, I go back to my old way. Even worse, maybe. I'm hanging out with a dude who hits his face with a hammer. An academy dealer who dressed as Hitler for Halloween. When I started this shit, my goal was never to be some role model or authority. I simply wanted to make people laugh. But honestly, when I was in that K-hole, I was doing a little bit of reflecting. And you know what? I think I realized that I could use my platform for a lot more than just being a f*** clown, to be honest. A lot of you guys were inspired by my fitness journey, and I plan to bring that back. But the thing is, that stuff is a little bit boring. And I've always had this compensatory drive to do more, be seen more. And I'll do anything for the best clip. You see where I'm getting? That stuff is boring. Who wants to see a guy lock in and just train harder than last time? Tell you to put the fork down, do your cardio. People are not going to watch Bro Who's Natural and say, Hey, I'm going to main game for four months. And then at the end, show their transformation and say, Hey, I put on 1.3 pounds of muscle. People are like, so what? They want to see a dramatic before and after. They want to see so much muscle that they can't believe it. You're not going to do that by using Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum. What, you think I was going to lie? If you use this, you're going to have 15 pounds of muscle in a couple of months? It's not trend. Guys, it's natural. Now, of course, obviously, it's better than creatine. And so if you like creatine, it's better than that. But it's not trend. It's not testosterone combined with EQ. It's not a full-blown cycle. It's also natural. It's safe. And if it doesn't work, you get a money-back guarantee and a $50 gift card. And so what do you have to do? It's Code Greg, 15% off. When your job is to go viral, it feels very rational to do f***ed up shit in the moment. How do you think Togi got all of his fame? By saying stupid, moronic shit. Same as clavicular and also a lot like Connor. But what good is the money and the fame? If this is how you're achieving it. I think it's just as good. It's the same money. You're achieving money and fame by doing vitamin K. What if you were doing alcohol? Is it really any different to drink alcohol than to do vitamin K? Has Connor not kinda, maybe a little bit promoted alcohol in the past? Connor and Shands Bra, did they not get blackout drunk going to parties, frat boy parties where girls are popping their pussies and so on? I'm pretty sure I've seen them drunk in various videos, drinking, slurring their speech. And so if you drink alcohol and you watch Connor walking around looking like a zombie, how are you any different? I mean, aside from the fact that alcohol is legal and vitamin K is not, one isn't worse than the other. I could make an argument that alcohol is far worse. Pretend I'm you in the future going back in time to tell you what to do and what not to do. That is literally, well, no, it's metaphorically what I'm doing. I'm your future and wiser self looking out for you when you were younger. And so if you're 25, listen to me and I'm 50, I'm telling you what to do as a 25 year old. Please listen, pay attention. When I actually look at the clip, I don't regret it and I'm not embarrassed by it. And so why would he regret it? It went viral. More eyeballs. He can then say, I'm on a redemption arc. I'm not going to do that anymore. I have more people paying attention. Come follow me. Why would he regret that? You think clavicular regrets doing math? You think clavicular regrets driving over that guy? You think he regrets injecting people with Botox, gluing the fat cells into their faces and saying all the dumb ass shit he's been saying? Is he dead? I don't know. Hopefully. Why would he regret any of it? If Colgate loses his life savings on black, why would he care? Because now he's a multi-millionaire. The money will keep on coming. And so regardless if he's promoted hundreds of thousands of people to gamble, to make gambling cool, to make losing money cool, to make depression cool, you can't promote gambling without bad things happening. Yeah, he can donate some of his money to charity. He can do nice things. He can be a funny and laughable guy. But in the end, he's promoting gambling. And so is it better than promoting alcohol? Perhaps. Is it better than promoting vitamin K, degeneracy? It all rolls up into one. I was loopy for about an hour and then I was fine. If you've ever been too drunk, you've done the same. And so you can't judge him for acting like a sloppy drunk, but just being on something different. It's the same shit. Only it's not the same shit. But it's the same. Doing drugs on stream, it's just not my call. What is the difference between doing drugs on stream and doing trend test a whole bunch of drugs to get a physique like that? Where is it different? Now, remember, I'm in Canada. And so I'm allowed to be a hypocrite. Steroids are legal in Canada. I can go to my friend's house and pick up some D-ball, some testosterone and some trend and say to my own family doctor, I decided 140 milligrams of testosterone a week. It's not enough. I'm A-50-year-old coach, Greg. My views are not as high as they were last year. And I want to go viral. I'm going to compete against Sam Sulik. I'm going to get on all the tests, all the drugs. And I'm going to make every video talking about how much I'm blasting. Listen, let's start with 700 tests, 700 trend, and let's go from there. And so every day I flex the biceps and I'm getting bigger. I'm doing this. The testicles are moving up and down. Vascularity running through. Perhaps my voice goes down a few octaves. Who knows? We don't know. And so I take the drugs and I transform. I ascend. And I can promote all the supplements in the world and say, look at me, I'm in my 50s and look how jacked I am. Perhaps I go and hang out with Clavicular and Connor. I do some vitamin K, perhaps do a lot of math. And those clips go viral and even more people follow Coach Greg. This is the secret to going viral as a social media influencer. And so to be a fitness influencer, you have to do everything but fitness. You really think it would be healthy for me to abuse performance enhancing drugs, take test trend, put on 15 pounds of muscle for your own amusement? Of course not, but you would love to see it. Think about it. So to make sure I have the most epic lock in of all time, I'm starting a series. Jail to Jack. Jail to Jack has a better ring than jail to no longer a degenerate, no longer using drugs, no longer using steroids, and just being healthy. How many people think would watch Connor join HTLT's bike racing team and just ride bikes and become an average bike rider? Probably not so epic. Now, even if he became one of the best bike riders in the world, less views than if he continues to do vitamin K or perhaps instead of that, he does vitamin trend and some tests and puts on 30 pounds of muscle. Any amount of drugs, and remember, steroids are drugs. Are we just overlooking that? But I'm locking in on drugs that alter the mind. How is that good? How are we celebrating this? But more people are going to love it. More people are going to follow his channel. And the fitness influencing will continue. What will be the ramifications? More people will see this. They'll think, wow, you know, Connor, he went to jail, did some drugs. If I bring in a whole kilo of Coca-Cola and end up in prison for 10 years, and I come out, I can make the best video of all time. I mean, wasn't there a rapper that has one eye blind? And then he just sang a rap song. Didn't he just get out of jail? Hasn't this already happened? The more degeneracy people do, the more they stand out from doing stupid, viral, crazy shit, the more chance they're going to have to go viral. The people who say harder than last time, slow and steady gains, lock in and be consistent. And year after year, you're going to get more muscle and less fat. And let's become better butter burners. No one's watching that. And so, frankly, I'm surprised any of you are even watching me. I don't do a bunch of crazy shit. Perhaps I say a little bit of crazy stuff. But is it really crazy? I'm just speaking the truth. And so thank you for watching me for this long. Hopefully, you will continue. Hopefully, you see I'm giving valuable information. And that we're not completely dead. The world continues to want to watch actual fitness influencing, convincing you to not do the horrible things to your body and to live a long and healthy life. It's where I go from this baseline natural physique to one of the best physiques on the internet. Did he just say baseline natural physique? Now, I'm going to cover this quickly. You're not natural if you've done steroids in the past. It would be like me saying, hey, my baseline natural physique, because my HRT is only 140 milligrams a week, and my testosterone levels on my last blood work was 850 nanograms per deciliter. And so I'm in the normal reference range, and so I'm natural. Guys, he's not going from baseline natural. He's going from baseline slightly enhanced. Let's call him a half natty at best. And so do we really want to see him put on 20 or 30 pounds of muscle from taking steroids? I want to see him stay natty. I want to see what he can do without performance enhancing drugs, or perhaps just stay on HRT. Now, remember, if you are looking for HRT, perhaps just in clobifine, some Cialis, some Viagra, telmosartan, glutathione, various peptides to help you to lose weight. Get your blood work done. Get all the stuff from Algorx, and be sure to use code Greg for 10% off to save even more money than last time. Cheaper than Merrick Health. About half price. And so if you believe in Merrick Health, Algorx is better. Better service, better quality. Pharmaceutical, doctors, the owners of Algorx used to work for Merrick Health. I don't even know if they're allowing me to say this. Perhaps it's a secret. They were the ones that did it all. And so if you want to know the brains behind the operation, and you want to go to Algorx, because they felt bad on how many people could not afford to pay these ridiculous prices, you go to Algorx, and you thank me later. Remember, half price. Now, if you're a rich millionaire and the whole thing, you don't need deals, don't go to Algorx. You can go to Merrick Health. I'll plug them right now. Merrick Health, great company. They're going to give you what you need. The problem is it's double the price of Algorx. There you have it. And so if you're interested in Algorx, you go to Algorx. If you're interested in HLT supplements, of course you can get supplements there. GLP Max, for example, 28% less hungry. You take pills, you just swallow it, and you're less hungry, and you lose some weight. Is it going to get you shredded? No. Is it going to get you leaner? Yes. What are you looking for? I'm saying halfway there. You got 50 pounds to lose, you lose 25. Hey, that's enough. Do your best, maintain, maintain, and we'll go from there. If you've got a major following, you're a fitness influencer, we want to sponsor you so that we can promote HLT to the rest of the world. Also, if you own a store or you have a gym, you want to get these supplements into your store gym, click the link and apply. As well as I have coaching, I'm still coaching. Myself, just me, one-on-one, as well as me and my team, depending on those different pricing packages, apply by clicking the link. Subscribe, click bell button, comment, algorithm, boost, videos, two, watch, one. Next time, get the freaking cookbook before it's too late. It's never too late. Just get it now so that I can make more money before it's too late, before I make more. The more money I make now, I invested it and it goes up and then I become richer than last time. Get Coach Greg to billionaire status and until next time, I am out. Pop.

=== FILE: Larry Wheels Just Ended His Career [MEFgv4AOAlU].txt ===

 Bro, bro really thought that he's about to cuck me. Nice try. I'm not a cuck. I'm not a cuck. When I'm not a cuck. When I'm not there wondering, there is no cuckoldery going on here. Why would he throw that out there? I am not a cuck. There is no cuckoldery going on here. When we have visual evidence that he is. I'm not a cuckoldery going on. Also Larry, you think your OF members know I'm a cuck. I can tell them most likely. I want you, I want you, I want you, I want you, I want you, I want you to text me about this kind of stuff and talk to me like a cuckold. And so, Larry Wheels is actually a cuck. And I'm not suggesting maybe. I'm not saying I think. I'm saying that I know. This is a Brain Rot Special. Coach Greg, in today's video, you're not going to believe it. Well, some of you are going to believe it, but most of you probably not. But I have proof. And so, a number of you sent me a video of Larry Wheels and his wife going after my girlfriend, MepsoGregg. I wouldn't mind if she went and attacked Coach Greg. Hey, you're a manlet, a loser, washed up, old, short, a hobbit, snake oil salesman, a loser. No one would like you. Say whatever you want to Coach Greg. I don't care. But when you go and attack my girlfriend for no reason who did nothing wrong at all, well, you're then making it personal. And so, since you want to get personal, I'm now going to talk about the things that I know and that I actually have proof. And so, Larry Wheels is actually a cuck. I'm not suggesting maybe. I'm not saying I think. I'm saying that I know. And so, Larry gets off on knowing, watching, enjoying the fact that his girlfriend, wife, partner, whatever you want to call it, is having sexy time with other men. And not only that, let's film it. Yeah, I love that angle. Yeah, get it in all eight inches. A little bit deeper. Yeah. Make sure that you finish. Damn, shots fired. Oh, and in case you're thinking I'm making this shit up, I got this from John Bravo. Now, I only got part of it. There's a whole bunch more. I heard it. It's incredible. And so, John, release the Larry Files. And so, if you want to know in full details exactly what's going on, remember, I'm not even going to say what he's done. It's far too gross for this channel. Type in the comment section, John, release the Larry Files. Look at Larry's face right here. I mean, are you even kidding me right now? Ha ha ha ha. W-B-A-T. You think your OF members know I'm a cuck. Most likely, I can tell them. And so, in case you're thinking this is AI or you don't believe it, I got this straight from John Bravo. Does John Bravo ever release anything that he does not have proof? And so, he's talked with a number of these individuals. And he sent them these files, these conversations, these pictures. And so, it's all true. And I wish it wasn't. And so, Larry Wheels, one day I want you to text me about this kind of stuff and talk to me like a cuckold with a bowing down sign. And so, hey, Larry likes being a cuck. He enjoys it. He gets off on it. It's his thing. It's his fetish. And say, hey, whatever a grown man wants to do, a grown man wants to do. But I'm here to warn you that if you don't want to become a grown man who wants to do this, there's a few things you need to avoid. And so, remember, I'm trying to make educational videos. And of course, there's a lot of drama in this video. But there's educational content as well. Why do you think Larry wants to do this? Why do you think he enjoys this? Well, Larry has abused performance-enhancing drugs, namely steroids, trend, and so on, for years, started as a teenager. And he admits this. Have you not heard of what trend can do to your brain? There are literally men who are straight who turn gay. There's men of the world out there, like Mike Isretel, you know, Mr. Mike. And he mentions how it alters your brain. All you feel is rage. We've even had Derek, you know, from More Plates, More Dates, explain how trend can change your attraction. And so, combine the use of performance-enhancing drugs, steroids, trend, you name it, along with self-gratification at an early age. Going through magazines, you know what's in those magazines. Or perhaps watching videos. Or cam girls. And imagine that rewiring your brain, the dopamine that you're getting from these events. And so, you literally require this, you know, a greater stimulus in order to, quite literally, to get up. And so, if you don't want to end up like this, hey, be careful. Don't use steroids. And so, you think it's just the gyno, the balding, the pimples, the acne on your back. Or perhaps the fact that it's going to take years off your life, as if that wasn't bad enough. But it can also change your sexual desires. And so, does anyone want that? And so, normally, perhaps Larry Wheels enjoys tag-teaming with his wife, girlfriend, and so on. Perhaps that's what he's enjoyed. But this time, he's going to get tag-teamed by Coach Greg and John Bravo, two of the most infamous characters on the internet that you don't want to fuck around with. And I'm not talking about actually having sexy time with us. I'm talking about messing with us, poking the bear, or saying things out of character. It's Meyer, and he says, I see trouble in a row. So, that was like the second or third time he DM'd me, and then I sent his message, because I never replied. Bro really thought that he was about to cuck me. Nice try. I am not a cuck. For anyone out there wondering, there is no cuckoldry going on here in this matter. And so, now that we know this, now that we've heard that Larry Wheels is a cuck, does it not change everything that he's done in his past? For example, remember that time when Larry Wheels released his OF account? Frankly, I'm disappointed. Like, I thought more people wanted to see my jump. But it turns out there's only 63 people. And so, it turns out Larry Wheels shocked as well as I am. Only 65 people were willing to pay the $20 to see Larry Wheels' jump. Did you know that? Larry had an OF account and took it down after one, perhaps two days. It was only under 100 members, but is it possible that this was what he was after? Or do you remember how Larry spoke about spending five figures a day, over $10,000 a day, on camgirls? And I was thinking, how can it possibly cost $10,000 a day to talk to a girl on the phone? Well, if these are the fantasies that you possess, if this is what you want your women to do, it can, in fact, get very expensive, especially in Dubai. And so, imagine spending $100,000 or more each and every month, several hundred thousand dollars, so much so that Larry Wheels had basically no money. Fast forward to the last, I want to say, eight months. Every single month, I have been spending any and every last bit of extra money that I have come in monthly on camsides. And so, we've seen the video where he took $50,000 from his friend in order to put a down payment on his house. And to this day, I don't believe he's gotten his money back. How is it possible that Larry, with millions of followers, should have millions of dollars, would need to take $50,000 from a friend to put as a down payment on a house? Like, does that make sense? And so, as I was watching his videos, piecing things together, I'm thinking, how can Larry Wheels possibly state that he trusts his woman? That he didn't require to sign a prenup? After all, he trusts her. Well, A, he likes being treated like a cuck. He wants to be controlled. He wants women to dominate him, to control him. There are men out there, I do believe that girls, they call them cows. They have tons of money, and they want women to spend it all, to belittle them, to put them down. Hey, the women who are on OF, and they get guys who are spending, I'm talking about a million dollars or more. It's ridiculous, it doesn't make any sense, but these guys, they have something wrong with them, to want to give them this much money. But yet, they exist, and you're thinking, there's no way this is true? It is true. There are women out there getting this kind of money from men, and they're not even hot, there's nothing special about them, but these men allow them to use them. And so, now that we know all this, is it not changing the story just a little bit? I started thinking this when I saw a female's post on Instagram, and she mentioned that previously, she had been with a man who wanted her to bang other dudes. She was hesitant, she was reluctant to this, she didn't want it to happen. And I'm thinking, that's Larry Wheels' ex. And so, I was going to add this to the video, but I went to find it, and so I saw that it was deleted. And so, perhaps she had some regrets, some remorse, but there is proof after all. And so, those of you who had already saw that, you know this to be true. If one of Larry's exes says this, why would she say that? Do you think she's making this shit up? And even if she didn't, there's lots of other girls who have said the exact same thing. It's not a one-off. It's not somebody trying to bribe him to try to extort money from him. And so, when you watch Larry speak now, we're going to watch right now. Larry literally saying, I'm not a cuck. And so, watch this video together, and we'll see. Does Larry not look like he's a cuck in this video? Does he not look like he actually wants his wife to bang Rampage Jackson? And so, remember, you can see, she's playing with her hair. She's adjusting the girls. She's looking at Rampage seductively. We're thinking, what is going on? If my woman were to look at a man in that way, I'm thinking, yeah, it's clearly over. But, what if he wanted her to do this? Have you ever thought of that? What if he wants her to seduce him? She wants his manliness inside of her everywhere, all over. And perhaps he'll play with it a little bit later. Gargle it one last time before going down the hatch. You know what I'm saying. And what about this scene? Try her out, man. No. Brother. You got blue belt? No. Let me see. Let me see. Tap before the shit. Hell no. I don't want to roll with your wife. Bro, your wife hard as fuck. Larry's saying, I want you to wrestle with my wife. She's all dressed in spandex and tights. Remember Larry Wheel's supermodel wife? Seen it all the time. Supermodel wife. And so Rampage is thinking, bro, I'm not doing this with your wife. Like, really? And so he's trying. He's trying to pressure him and her, I would say, into having sexy time. Hey, I'm going to get them all sweaty, rubbing all over each other's bodies. And perhaps later they'll get together. She'll get out her phone, film it. And then I can get off and do what I do best. Pleasure myself all on my own while watching my woman be with another man. I know that's like clip farming, whatever. That like, I'm feeling him touching my hair, whatever. Larry? Huh? Are you? I don't, I mean, he's fine, but no, he's not my type. Larry is disappointed. He wants her to say, yeah, he's better looking than you, Larry. Larry? I want his blackness inside of me more than you. I want to be taken to the dark side darker than last time. And so he wants to be humiliated. He wants her to want him. But it's awkward. Not many women meet men such as this. And so it's not very comfortable. It takes time for her to think, you know what? He wants me to bang other dudes, but Larry doesn't want to bang other girls. He doesn't want other girls. He wants his girl to want other men. And in case you're wondering, it's not a one-off. I've had this happen twice in my life. I was coaching a guy. It was about 20 years ago. I'm not making this shit up. And he wanted to pay me $500 to bang his wife. I said, there's no way I'm doing this. There's no way I'm going to bang your wife and have you watch. I was thinking, this was my first introduction to this. Remember, I'm old. This is not something normal that I would just have seen. And so I'm thinking, is this a joke? I didn't get it. I told my friends later. I'm like, this guy wanted me. And they're like, oh yeah, that's a thing. Some men like that. I'm like, really? There's no way. And so that was my first experience with this. Another time I met a woman. Remember, this is years ago. 20 plus years ago. And she got off on me telling her about other women I was sleeping with. She wanted me to bang other women. And to tell her, explain it. Do you have any videos? Do you have photos? I want to know. And I'm thinking, is this a test? Is she testing me to see what I will say or how I'll react? And how is it possible that a girl would want to know and hear about you banging other women? Would she not just jealous? Why is it that it turns her on? Not just want to hear about it. It turns her on. You have to. Essentially, could you please have sex with another woman and explain it to me in details or at least film it so that I can get off. It's a thing. It's real. I'm not making this shit up. Yeah. Yeah, I noticed that. She didn't say no. No, I just said, yeah, he's okay. But no, like, he's not my type. And so Larry, absolutely distraught. He wants her to want him more than Larry himself. Larry is essentially like a girl. He wants her to desire other men who are high status, high value men. And so he really would want her to be with Rampage. He's got millions of dollars. Perhaps he's a UFC champion. He's got all of the accolades. And so he's the type of man that women want. And so that is who Larry would want her to want. Because he's essentially living vicariously through her. And so I don't know if this makes a person gay. Like, if you want your partner to be with another man. And you want to watch that man be with your partner. And so are you essentially imagining being the wife? And you're receiving things from this man. Are you putting yourself in her shoes? Or in his shoes? Because if you were going to put yourself in his shoes. Well, you already could. And so how does it benefit you to imagine yourself as him? Like, I don't get that. But if he's to imagine her. Because after all, he's not a female. He doesn't have those parts. And so he can't be with a man in that fashion. And so does Larry secretly want to be a girl? Is it possible? Hey, it's 2026. You can do whatever you want. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with that. And remember, the early access to performance enhancing drugs, testosterone trend and so on. As well as the magazines, the videos, the cam girls. All at an early age. Could that not rewire the brain? And so I'm not even saying that it's his fault. He's been exposed to all these things at such an early age. And it's rewired his brain quite literally. I am not a cuck. When you're out there wondering, there's no cuckoldery going on here. Why would he throw that out there? I am not a cuck. There is no cuckoldery going on here. When we have visual evidence that he is. I'm not a cuck. There's no cuckoldery going on. Also, Larry, you think your OF members know I'm a cuck. I can tell them. Most likely. One day, I want you to text me about this kind of stuff and talk to me like a cuckold. Larry's lying. He's lying. I know correlation doesn't equal causation. But it seems like guys who have abused steroids, trend, etc. They lie. For example, Mr. Mike with his PhD thesis and backdating the thing saying, no, it's the first draft. But we know he was lying. Now, Larry wheels. And so, do we see some correlation? Remember, correlation is not equal to causation. But isn't it possible? And so, if Larry actually had any money, why would he be begging people for donations on Kik? I'm not kidding. Would a millionaire, multi-millionaire at that, be asking for $10 or $20 donations on Kik? And so, you can see. It states, chat plus react. Discord, donate. In my opinion, it's frankly embarrassing to ask people to donate money when you have perhaps 10 or 100 times more money than them. Like, imagine if I made this video and I said, hey, could you all please donate me some money? Like, could you please send over $10? I have a Patreon account. I need you all to send me some money. I mean, it's one thing to sell products. For example, Larry Wheels is selling his belt, the lever belt that you can adjust all the time. And so, you buy the thing and you make money from that. He has that caffeine thing you put in your mouth, the caffeine jizz, if you will. It's three cc's, I believe. And you squirt it in your mouth and you get some caffeine. And so, if you want to support Larry, well, buy something from him. To the same extent, if you want to support me, you buy this. We both win. You win by getting more gains, improving the amount of muscle that you build. And I win by, well, helping you as well as helping me. I make money. There's actual profit in this. And so, that is how you do it. But begging people for donations on Kik, does that not prove that Larry has no money?

=== FILE: Larry Wheels Just Got Cucked [wVsJQzebtGI].txt ===

 naringin,boxing,liśmy mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage People are exaggerating. Wait till you see the body language on his wife when she's checking out, undressing him with his eyes, fantasizing about him. You decide what she's doing when she looks at Rampage Jackson. If you've ever had a woman look at you that way in your entire life, hey, you've made it. Most men will never experience that kind of gaze, that kind of seduction, the kind of look that makes a man feel like a man. Larry Wheels had to witness this. Now remember, this was caught in 4K. As she's doing this with Rampage, he's off in the distance. He doesn't know that it's happening, but it's recorded, it's live streamed, and later they talk about it and he does not like the answer. But let me show you that throughout the video, remember on Larry Wheels' own wall, when you freeze frame and look at her face, she's checking out Rampage throughout. I think I do 275 one time, it's more than your body weight. It is more than my body weight. As you can see, she has her eyes on Rampage. She's checking him out, hanging on every word, looking at him, gazing down, looking at her lips, looking back at him. That is a sheer sign that a woman is interested in you. If that wasn't enough, here's the mic drop. I want you to pay attention to the amount of time she's playing with her hair, adjusting her bra to get the girls out just a little bit more, and how long she's actually staring at him. So long that Rampage looks at the camera and is like, he is a very famous athlete, made lots of money, UFC fighter, and even he notices just how long she's staring at him. For most of you out there, most of you watching, I know you don't often experience women looking at you like this, playing with their hair, adjusting the boobs. That is a telltale sign that a woman is infatuated with you, that she thinks you're God's gift, that she would just love to rip down your pants and go to town. Now, of course, you've been using harder than last time. You know what it's for. You're most likely on Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum, because if you were not on these items, most likely women wouldn't find you attractive. Now, unfortunately, only tens of thousands of people have been buying this and rebuying it. And so the rest of the world, you don't know what you're missing. You take the Turk Builder Max, you go to the gym, you build up the biceps, and the girls, they can't get their hands off you they can't stop looking at you. Their tongues, their mouths, they salivate as soon as they see you, and they want something inside of it. If you buy Turk Builder Max and none of this happens, well, you get a money back guarantee and a $50 gift card. But remember, you have to do this within 20 days. It's not something that takes years to do. And so if you don't have a girl who wants to strip you down immediately, money back guarantee, $50 gift card, and just don't wait too long, because remember, this works really fast. Couple weeks, it's gonna happen. At least that's my experience. Sorry if it doesn't work for you that way. Remember, Larry doesn't see this right now. He's in the background. Rampage, he knows. Trust me, every man knows. Doesn't matter if that girl has a boyfriend, two boyfriends, a husband, family, kids, everything. When you see a woman looking at you that way, you know she wants you. Larry and his wife, they get into an interview and they ask, what do you think of all this? I know that's like clip farming, whatever, that like, I'm feeling him touching my hair, whatever. I was, huh? Larry is so uncomfortable right now and no man wants another man to experience this because you know at that very moment, probably over. When you find a woman, she has to have genuine burning desire for you or she's gonna find someone else. She might have chosen you because perhaps she sees you as the safest option, you make a lot of money, you're at the right time in your life, the right stage, you want to start a family. But if she doesn't have that genuine burning desire for you, she will be fantasizing of other men. I know that's like clip farming, whatever, that like, I'm feeling him touching my hair, whatever. I was, huh? He didn't let her speak. He's been bothered by this for the entirety of this. He can't believe that she would disrespect him like that. She's stalling. She's buying for some time. She doesn't know what to say. She knows by that question that she clearly has upset him and she doesn't know how to respond. Are you? Rather than caring about his feelings and looking at him and saying, no, Larry, it's okay. I don't know what I was doing. I'm here for you. You're my man. You're my stud. You're Larry Wheels. She could have looked at him and said a number of things that would have made him feel much, much better. And they could have, in fact, moved on. But instead of that, instead of looking at Larry and being present with him, turning towards him, facing him, using her body language to convey an attraction for him, she turns away from him and laughs at him to the camera. Are you? I need you to understand body language. Perhaps some of you do not. When a woman finds you attractive, she's going to laugh way more at your jokes. Have you all seen myself with Mepsagram? She's clearly attracted to me when I say things perhaps you don't even think they're funny. She's laughing. It's subconscious. It's something that she just does because that is the way she feels. When you're laughing, flirting, what women will do is they will touch you. They will move towards you. They will not turn away from you and they will not further themselves from your body. Think of it as proximity control. If she is not trying to get closer to you, she's trying to get away. This is bad. Rather than laughing at Larry Wheels and touching his arm, getting closer, she turns and looks away while laughing. If she liked Larry, loved him, she's supposed to, they're married. Why isn't she laughing and leaning forward? I don't, I mean, he's fine, but no, he's not my type. For sure not. What do you mean he's fine, but no? So he's hot, but no. He's hot, but I don't find him attractive. You know, I was just playing with my hair and flirting with him because he's hot, but I personally don't like that look. Why? Well, because he's older. Since when do women not like older men? In comparison, Larry Wheels is younger. What percentage of girls do you think go for younger men versus older men? Last I checked, I'm 50. Mepsogram is 35. Do you think that women don't like older men? Oh, he's too old. Rampage is 47. He's younger than Coach Greg. And so, what makes you think that she wouldn't be attracted to Rampage? No, I would never be attracted to a millionaire, famous UFC fighter, superstar, one that can kick almost anyone's ass and he's taller than last time. Yeah, why would I like that? You know, what possibly could I see in him? In comparison, Larry Wheels, 300 pounds of muscle. Is that what you think most women want? They want 300 pounds of muscle. I mean, it's not bad, but do you think women are more, in fact, attracted to 300 pound men who lose their breath after wrestling for two minutes? Or men who are world champions? You can tell I'm like fully zoned out and it was just funny, but, um, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I noticed that she didn't say no. The way he's looking at her, he's not happy. He can't hide it. He tries to smirk a little bit. It's like, it's very uncomfortable and he's being filmed. The disappointment in his eyes, it's very obvious. And so, at this point, there's not much you can do. She either wants to be with you or she does not. No, I just said, I just said, yeah, he's okay, but no, like, he's not my type. What do you expect her to say? Like, let's be honest right now. Do you expect her on a video, live stream, to say, well, you know, if you weren't around, like, let's say you were out of the picture, you were no longer with us, you had a heart attack from abusing performance-enhancing drugs, from abusing all the steroids, you know, from going on the trend baloney sandwiches, the testosterone, the bulking, not giving up like you said you would, you know, all those promises you made about going natural or at least only going on HRT, you kept abusing steroids and you were no longer with us. Imagine she said that because that could very easily happen. Then, you know, I probably would go after Rampage. I mean, why wouldn't I? Larry giving her the death stare. She reads out Larry giving her the death stare. It's clear. He doesn't want to look like he's giving her the death scare. He doesn't want to look like he's bothered by this. He wants to look like a, an alpha, like a very confident man. After all, he's Larry Wheels. He's stronger than almost anyone. He's over six feet tall. He has loads of money. Well, when you're with someone who doesn't have genuine burning desire for you, there's nothing you can do. And it's not Larry's fault. Well, indirectly it is. You need to choose a woman who chooses you. That is my best advice. You can try to swoon a girl. Is that even the right word? Try to convince her that she should love you. You meet a girl and she's thinking, yeah, all right, you're only five foot six though. You know, I like taller men. And the woman might say, no, I don't mind having a shorter man. You know, that's bullshit. They want a taller man. Women want taller men. But if you try hard enough, if you convince them, if you do all the other things, then you might in fact do it for them. But if you have to convince them, like they look at you and they're thinking, I's too short. And you work on them. You're nice to them. You buy them flowers. Maybe you buy them a Birkins bag or some bullshit. And eventually she's like, oh, you know, he does these so many good things for me. I think I could be with him because like, look at all the money has and so on. If she's only with you for the money, she could probably fake it for a while. But there's going to be times like this that she couldn't hide it. Her true body's desires, they come through. And there's nothing you can do about it. I mean, all due respect to him, I don't like older guys. Like I like them my age or he's a bit younger than me. He's a couple of years younger than me. I mean, is that, I listened to this like 10 times. This is what I'm hearing. I didn't hear, I don't like older guys. If she had said, with all due respect to him, I like younger men. Larry, he's a couple of years younger than me. Lorraine Page, he's old. He's washed up. Perhaps 10 years ago, I would have been into him. Guy looks all right, but he's an old man. He's washed up. Larry, you're in your prime. I love you, Larry. You're at a best. Never heard that. I heard, I like older guys and Larry's younger than me. What did you hear? Women like older men. On average, almost all of them will date an older man. Some will date younger, but mostly going to date older. I can see some saying, yeah, I like them my age, you know, just a couple of years older than me. But then she touches Larry, finally gives him some physical contact. Perhaps that's his love language. She's finally giving him this. And that's the first thing that she did right. I mean, older, respecting him, I don't like older guys. Like, I like them my age or he's a bit younger than me. He's a couple of years younger than me. What do you mean guys? There's only one guy for you to like. And then Larry, he just sounds so beta at this point. You just got to take the L. You don't try to convince a girl to like you. You never do that. You never sit there and say, what do you mean? You don't like other men. There's only me to like. Take this. You start dating a girl. Okay. It's been a couple of weeks in, you're dating her. Perhaps it's three weeks. She then says, you know, I've just started to date somebody else. I'm dating somebody else. You don't say, no, no, don't date that guy. No, no, no, no, no, no. Don't do that. What are you kidding me? Yeah, sure. Go ahead. Imagine trying to convince her not to do that. If you do that, it's over. It's already done. The fact that she's dating somebody else, you already know it's over. And hey, this is your options. You keep dating her and you keep her on the side or you just end it with her. You say, okay, you're dating someone else. That's cool. We're done. It was good. Well, it lasted. I had a great three weeks. This is what you do. This is what you need to do. If you try to convince her not to date that other person, you are a loser. You are a simp and it will never end well. And if you choose to stay with her, this will continue. And so do not try to convince a woman to stop dating another man. She decides on herself. She wants to be with you and only you. And that is a must. Full stop. No, but I mean like in general, like if I find somebody attractive, then yeah, it's definitely not. You find other men attractive beside me? Don't ask questions that you don't want to hear the answer to. Larry, what did you expect her answer to be? No, Larry, of course not. Absolutely not. You are a 10 out of 10 in my eyes. And every man out there, they're all ones. Well, Greg's a two. The rest of the world are ones. You're a 10. And so no one else is attractive to me. It doesn't work like that, Larry. I mean, I can acknowledge somebody looks good. No, that doesn't mean like I'm attracted to them. I mean, Larry, who was literally invested in cam girls was spending, was it 10 grand a day or some ridiculous amount on cam girls, gooning and so on. Larry, did you not find other girls attractive? Larry, is this the only attractive woman that you've ever seen in your life? There is no other woman that could be attractive. You're married, but does that mean it's impossible to think that somebody else is attractive? Do you really think that's the case? And so to start opening up like this, to show and reveal to the world, your insecurities, that you're not really alpha. To me, it's over. I'm sorry. I'm just telling you the truth. At the airport. And I just see a clip. Larry wheels explaining that he didn't get her to sign a prenup because he trusts her. I mean, of all the things that Larry wheels has done, you know, he's done stupid things. He's abused trend. He's done steroids. He got slapped in the face by a 300 pound man. Basically, you get a concussion. It's bad for your brain. This is probably the dumbest thing he's ever done. I mean, it's the most famous last words in the world. I trust her. What is wrong with you? And so if there's one message from this video, one thing that you must learn is that if you decide to get married, you sign a prenup. I don't care how much she's the nicest girl you've ever met, how smart she is, how much in love you are. All those things can change in 20 years. People are not the same as they are throughout their lifetimes. They can change. They're no longer the same. You don't know what could happen. She could meet another man. She could become a drug addict. She could become basically the most horrific person in the world. You never know. I mean, just look at Peter Tia. You never know what's under there. You never know what they're really like. You never really know someone. Most people, they show you the tip of the iceberg. And even when you marry someone, you at best know 50% of them. You really think that every single thought they've ever had, every ounce of their being, that you truly know everything about them and that you can predict the future. You cannot. If you're getting married, you get a prenup. Full stop. There is no maybe. There is no trust. There is no, I didn't want her upset her. And remember this. If you actually get a prenup, there's a 30% increase in staying together. And so if somebody says, no, I don't want to get a prenup, explain to them, well, does that mean that you want to get a divorce? Because by getting a prenup, it secures the marriage by 30%. If they say, oh, you're ruining it for me. You don't know what you're doing. Why would you enforce that? Why would you ask me to do that? You'd say, well, because I love you that much and I want to stay with you forever. And by getting a prenup, we've increased our odds by 30%. Let's go to comments. What are the people in the comment section? It's just coach Greg. Did I get this off? Bro's a millionaire married to a bop. Crazy work. I like older guys than says he is young. I mean, that's what I heard. I like older guys. Larry's younger than me. Like what in the world was that? Yup. This relationship done. Get out now, homie. She for the streets. Larry Hart being ripped like nothing painful to watch. He can lift heavy weights, but he can't pick up a good woman. What really is the moral of the story? Well, if you're not taking Turk Builder Max, you're going to probably end up in a relationship like this. You'll probably get married and then divorce. And think of how much that's going to cost you. And so the amount of money you will save by purchasing Turk Builder Max, well worth the price. I mean, honestly, you should probably buy an entire case of this because would you really want to be in Larry Wheels' shoes? And so for Larry, he wants some more cardio than last time instead of gassing out. Obviously, he should be taking G02 Max. It improves your cardio. You can burn more calories later in the day. You don't fatigue as much. And so this is a must. Code Greg, 15% off. Now, if you don't want to die of a heart attack and you're abusing performance enhancing drugs, or even if you just want to know if you're healthy, if you want to use in clomiphene or HRT, or perhaps you want peptides to help you lose weight, all the different things, please go to AlgoRx, compare their prices to, for example, Merrick Health. And when you see they're about half the price of Merrick Health, and if you want to save a lot of money, you can get them from AlgoRx, of course. And so buy from wherever you want or don't buy it. I don't care. Well, I kind of do. I make money when you buy from AlgoRx. And so if you want to make me richer than last time, you can go to AlgoRx. It's a win-win situation because like you get it for about half price. I also make money. It's a win-win. And so if you're interested in that, code Greg, 10% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the album, like this video. If you did in fact like it, don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. Keep the Coach Greg videos going. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: Mike Israetel 1 Fart Away From 3% Body Fat [9DAltuO3DJU].txt ===

 I challenge all of you watching right now, and I bet every single person watching this right now, understands estimating body fat by looking at a person more than these machines. Coach Greg, in today's video, Mike gets his body fat tested in every single way, except mine, and decides which is the most accurate. None of them are accurate. I'm sorry, the number one method is my laser eyes. I'm sorry, the number one method is my laser eyes. You know it, Mike knows it, the audience know it. Let's see the number one comment. You didn't do the Doucette laser eye test. And so frankly, I'm going to give it to you right now. Mike is leaner than you think. I have him sitting at about 8% body fat. There it is. While it's funny, it's actually another good measurement. More accurate than last time. And so if I'm going to give it to you straight, the only actual accurate method that's more accurate than my laser laser eyes is the MRI. And so frankly, that is the gold standard. Now, previously, and remember, I met up with Mr. Mike in person, myself and editor Steve, we talked to him, we told him, the DEXA scan is not accurate. He argued with us. No, I'm Mr. Scientist. I know better than you. I'm smarter than you. And the DEXA scan, it's very, very accurate until they told him that he was 14% body fat. Said, no way. He went back a couple of weeks later on a different DEXA scan. He was 6% body fat, also not accurate. And so he then changed his tune and said, none of these things are accurate. And so which actually is accurate? Well, let's find out. First up is the bod pod. And we can get your density by weighing you and then throwing you in the bod pod. And the bod pod just really measures one thing, how much volume you take up. And so the bod pod, it's not going to be accurate. And why? Because you don't know the density of your body. What it's doing is it's guessing how dense your muscles are, your bones are, what you've eaten is, how much air is in your intestines. And how could it know this? And so when Mike goes in a bod pod, it's automatically going to underestimate his body fat percentage. Because as we know, his bone density is about five standard deviations above average. And so because Mike is very, very dense, the body fat estimating machines, they're going to under predict the amount of body fat that he actually has. Mike, he should know this. It's based on the bones. I mean, depending on how big your schlong is, it's going to expand. Are you freaking, are you full of blood? Is it flaccid? That's going to make a big difference. I have a 10 inch dick. And is it too soon to mention that Mr. Mike may or may not be with his woman? There's rumor online that Mr. Mike is single. And so if you like what Mr. Mike has to offer, slide into his DMs. It doesn't matter if you're male or female, as perhaps he likes both. It's a little claustrophobic in there, but I like it because every single bod pod is also a time machine and teleportation device. So Mike gets inside of a condom and it's going to predict his body fat percentage. 4.4. 4.4%. I mean, I've never been 4.4% in my entire life, but Mike, he's clearly way leaner than Coach Greg. Leaner than Coach Greg on stage. Or C-Bomb. C-Bomb, I've said he's probably closer to 4% body fat when he competes. And so he's at least a week or two out from being as lean as C-Bomb. You know, six-time Mr. Olympia champion. Pretty much. He's pretty close. That's generous. I wish. You know, there's levels to this. That ain't me. That's a little optimistic. And so Mike himself admits that's a little optimistic, a little generous. He isn't actually that lean. And so does anyone want to believe that the bod pod is accurate since it guessed that his body fat is 4.4%? My laser eyes said 8. What do your laser eyes say? I challenge all of you watching right now, and I bet every single person watching this right now understands estimating body fat by looking at a person more than these machines. You want to guess his percent? Write the guess in the comment section. What do you think that he is? Do you think that you're not more accurate than a bod pod? Does anyone think even one person in the world that Mike is sub 5%? Had a DEXA just a few days ago. Got me at 6%. I kind of believe more of that a little bit. You know, although this is cool. Amazing reference standard. And so Mike is saying, you know, I like the second DEXA scan that had him at 6%. The first DEXA scan had him at 14%. He didn't like that DEXA scan. And so he found another one that gave him a number that he enjoys. But I'm with you. That's low. And I would say generous, but yeah, but it seems more accurate than a 12%. Yeah, it sure does. And so if the person testing him says, yeah, it's a little generous. It's a little low. Why didn't he just tell the man, Hey, what body fat do you think I am? Well, I think you're 7.8%. There go home. Wouldn't that save time? I mean, why are we doing tests that simply are not accurate? So you're going to sit right on that platform. The platform moves. Yeah, it does move because that's what's weighing you ultimately. How did he break the platform? Mike is just that dense. So we got live data on the screen. This green line is measuring his weight underwater and it says his body fat percentage is 3.9. 3.9%. I mean, close to being the leanest person who have ever lived almost as lean as the leanest bodybuilder to ever have set foot on stage. But remember, if your bone density is too high, of which we know it is, it's going to underestimate body fat percentage. And let I remind you that Ronnie Coleman did a body fat test when he was negative 0.33%. 0.33 was dipped underwater. He had less body fat than zero, which is physically impossible, but yet the machine said so. Remember, Ronnie Coleman, also very dense bones, had a lot of muscle. And the more of an outlier you are, as in you don't meet the social norms of what they would expect, the less accurate the machine is. And so if you're a five foot five and a half inch manlet with a lot of muscle and a weird looking stomach and had surgeries and so on, and you're on performance enhancing drugs, it's going to increase the inaccuracies of the machine. But if you're Joe Blow, perhaps 25% body fat, you don't go to the immuno workout and you're of average height, perhaps you're five foot nine. Well, perhaps it's a little more accurate. Ready, Mike? We're going to do another one. Go ahead. I got 3.4, at 3.4 when I look at the full data set. So yeah. Beautiful. Yeah, good. And so this time he was able to blow some more air out and he came in at 3.4%. Bro was one big fart away from being sub 3% body fat. Literally one big fart letting out the air. He's going to be more dense and he would be sub 3%. And so does this make sense? How could it accurately predict to know to 100% accuracy what your body fat percentage actually is? It would depend on your lung volume. How much air can you actually get rid of your body? What about the air in your intestines? Did you eat a lot of fiber? Are you holding in a fart? Several farts later, you could be up to 10%. It's true. You guys don't understand that I did this perhaps before Mike was born. This is how old I am. I'm 50. 30 years ago in university, I would test people using this machine. I did it myself. I came in at 7.8% body fat. I was two weeks out from doing a bodybuilding competition. We blow the air out. We do the thing. And that was what I did. I mean, does he look 3.4% as he's walking slowly across the screen? I mean, even coach Greg looks almost as lean as Mr. Mike. I mean, do we not look similar? And my body fat is over 8%. What's next? We're going to do skin folds now. Okay. I love it. The same skin fold caliper machine as me, the Lange skin fold caliper. I have that exact green machine. I've tested your body fat. I've done probably not a thousand, but many hundreds I've done. And the machine is only accurate as the person testing. And what you perhaps don't know is there's several different ways to do the test. You can use the sum of four, the sum of three, the sum of five, seven, eight different skin folds. You can test every single part of the body. And some of them are more accurate than others. And so what I've chosen when I do it is four sites. And based on those four sites, it lines up the most with my laser eyes. Sometimes it's a little bit off. Some people just hold body fat in different locations, but it's okay as a guess. When we dropped it down to seven site, I got 8.3%. What can play a role in that is the two that it eliminates is bicep and calf. Those are my leanest bodies. Well, exactly. Every man's leanest body part is biceps and calves. You think a man has a lot of fat here. How much fat do we have? If you aren't penis shredded in this area, you're very fat. How much fat do you think I have on my calf? I have two and a half millimeters of fat on my calf. Do you really think men have fat on their calves? If you don't have striations on your calf, you're pretty much fat. This is just everyone. And so when you're a man, what happens is you carry more fat sometimes in your stomach or in your lower back. And so if you want to find fat on me, it's going to be back there. And so depending on the test, Mike has between 5.9%, 8.3%. What else does he have? Same thing with three site down to three site. We got a 4.13 ish percent. That is actually closest to the other two methods. Which of those do you want to pick? Do you see that just because you got skin full tested doesn't mean that, Hey, that's one thing he had between about 4% body fat and 8% body fat, 4% body fat, about 8% body fat with the same skin full cowper. It just depended on what method he looked to compare to. We can see it's also not as accurate again, as my laser eyes, Jim Carrey. I'm literally here for an eye laser test conference. You guys know I'm in Miami. Look, what do you think? This looks like frigging Palifax. I'm in Miami at a laser eye conference. I'm the guest speaker. We're explaining all the eye surgeons around the world are gathering here to talk to coach Greg about my ability to measure body fats. You did not know that. Also, what you don't know is that the Turkestrone from coach Greg is a hundred percent authentic. It's from Uzbekistan. And I can't wait till every single one of you tries it so that you can all believe me finally after trying it. And if you don't actually get the benefits, it's a money back guarantee and a $50 gift card. You're ultimately, you've done this before. I'm just going to hold it out in front of you. It's going to throw you a number. So it'll think, and then it will give you your response. Oh yeah, baby. Oh, the BIA is next. It should stand for big intense asshole. What? It just sucks. It's not accurate. It's stupid. It shouldn't exist. And you think that my laser eyes are accurate? Children's laser eyes are more accurate than the BIA. It should not exist. The only person that thinks that it's okay is Jeff Kirk. King Nippa. Jeff Nippa. I am. You know the science-based lifter, the dropout dentista. He literally said that he used the BIA to try to say, oh, your body fat is this and body fat is that. BIA is bullshit. Anyone that even suggests that it may in fact sometimes be accurate is an absolute moron. 20.5%. 20.5%. It's like when I did the frigging BIA, I stood on a scale. It was 19.8%. Remember we did that in Instagram? We did that on the frigging cruise ship. I was 19.8%. I was like 24. You're 24 and you came out at 13.8 on a DEXA. Neither is accurate. And the skinfold said you're 18 and I said you're 18. There it is. What do you think she is? She's close to what I tell you she is because my laser eyes are accurate. Let's see another BIA. Oh, a different kind of BIA. That's going to be more accurate. Okay, go ahead and step on and see what it gives us. I got my numbers. You can step off. 32.8%. Body fat. 32.8%. I rest my case. Any machine that has an athlete button. Oh, I'm an athlete. It now knows your body fat percentage. What kind of athlete are you? A fat power lifter? Fat straw man competitor? Or are you a lean gymnast? Are you a marathon runner? You can't just press athlete and it knows what body fat percentage you are. He had him at over 30%. That would be obese. Mr. Isretel is not obese. Yeah, we got one more. This last one's a relatively new one. Whoa. Um, it's an AI technology. It's going to take a picture of you. It's called Spren. Didn't Mike get some kind of a surgery to make his waist smaller? Like what am I seeing? I don't see a smaller. Did you see this? I mean, is he going to have to go and get the like suck out your stomach thing again? Like what did it actually do? It sucked out some fat cells and some skin. All you have to do is go on a diet long enough and the fat is going to go away. It's not going to make your waist smaller. Like you can't suck out his stomach. Like when you abuse growth hormone and steroids and so on, you just get a bigger belly. This is one of the things that happens. I got two Dexas showing me at 14 ish percent body fat and show that I had lost like 20 pounds, but apparently only 1% fat. Let me just wrap this up for you. These methods are all inaccurate. And so what they're basically saying is go and get all the testing done and then pick the number that you think is the most accurate. Why not just get none of the testing done and you just decide for yourself by looking in the mirror roughly what you think that you are. Analyze videos that Coach Greg has made. I've given certain people different body fat percentage and then generally get an understanding. And so which method is better? Is it not better to just say, hey, I'm probably 30% if you just look like you're 30%. And so all of this say for vibes, for fun, for some numbers to compare, well, you can do it. But how does that actually matter? It doesn't matter. Judge for yourself. Do you have a lot of jiggling around? Is it, do you have a gunt? Are you fat? Do you look like you're chubby? If you don't see any kind of abs anywhere, probably you're overweight, not saying that you're obese, but you probably could lose some weight. And so remember, it's not about being perfect. It's about being better than you are. I'm not saying you're a loser if you don't have 15% body fat. I'm saying 15% body fat for men, it's probably ideal in terms of your health. Getting lower than that, it's probably going to get you more girls. You're going to look more aesthetic, but you don't need to do it. Now, once you get into the 25% body fat or more for men, you're obese, you're fat, and it would benefit you both physically, mentally, intellectually, healthily, living longerly. It would benefit you by being leaner. And so maybe try going on a diet, maybe try getting my cookbook. Maybe you should do some cardio. You should get some G02 max to improve your cardio, increase your needs, recover faster. And if you haven't got the Turk, get that. If you haven't got the Blue Lobster pre-workout, get that. You can get G-Shred, G-Test. You can get G-Wiz. For all I know at my website, there's so many new products being added. And so get there, code Greg, 15% off. Now, if you want to get in clomiphene, testosterone, the peptides to help you to lose weight, of course, go to AlgorX and enter code Greg for 10% off. Now, if you want to keep watching Mike Isertel videos, well, you can do that. But why would you do that when you can just watch my videos summarizing what he got wrong? Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to Boosie Agra, like the video if you liked it, like the video if you liked the view, like the video if you like anything in your life. If you like a girl, if you like a boy, if you like animals, click the video. If you think that Epstein wasn't a nice person, click the like button. Let's get the likes up, for frick's sakes. And until next time, je suis... ... ...

=== FILE: Mike Israetel Teaches us how To Please Women [iWYecW3hTgI].txt ===

 all the way to my hand is on your vagina, all the way to my hand is on your vagina, and I'm staring you in the eyes. Mm-hmm. Yeah! You wanna have sex? Yeah! Wow, that's so wise! Aww! Yeah, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, you gotta talk. How dare you be sexually excited by looking at me, so much so that you had to touch my ass! I don't like that! What's wrong with you, bitch?! Yeah! Yeah! We're gonna be doing a video on Mike Risratel, on the psychology of pleasing women. I'm just finding this out right now. Okay. And so, if you're under 19, tune out, because... Tune out. We're gonna be talking about the Rizzler, Mike himself. If he's got the gift of gab to get the girls to do what he wants. Okay, so on va voir si ça va rentrer! Ça va rentrer! And if it doesn't, you might want to pick up harder than last time. You know what it's for. You know what it's for. Is it okay to call you a sex expert? Yes, you can. Whoa, cool! Absolutely! I don't know if she's a sexpert. How much has she been getting it on? I feel like we're sexperts. Whoa! Like, what exactly do you need to be... We're pretty experienced. Like, what do you need to do to be considered a sexpert? Read a bunch of books? Or you try it out. Do you know that nice young lady on social media? I think her handle is like, love bites or something like that? Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. I do know her. She's a sex therapist. Therapist. There's so many different titles. Do you know sex with Sue? If you think you're going to take that whole thing in your mouth, you're going to throw up. No. She's a young lady. She wasn't around with Sex and Sue. Sex with Sue was a 75-year-old grandma, like Grandma Josephine. Okay. And when I was a teenager, we would watch this in the evening. We'd be on late at night, around the time when Bleu Nuit would come on. You ever heard of Bleu Nuit? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Bleu Nuit is a bit of sexy style stuff. Yeah. And this is the only time that yes, young men could see naked women talking about it. Yo, sex with Sue, that sounds good. Scott, where do you stack up in that? Uh, sex novice. Sex novice. Sex pre-score. Oh gosh. That could have come off really wrong if you mixed a few words there. It's not those two words. Not really something you want to say. Not ideal. Mostly do's, maybe some don'ts, of making sure that the woman with you, who is there consensually, when you're both there for a good time, you're doing the sex thing, that she's having a good time. Step one, don't look like Mike. Try to look attractive. Try to be hot. Don't have hair all over the place. Groom yourself. Clean. Don't be smelly. I do think that's step one. I mean, they're there consensually. And once the clothes come off, they want to be like, not disgusted. Yeah. Do you feel like that's good advice? They don't want to go from being like, in the mood to like, why did I make this decision? Now that I've seen this, I've got to go. I've got an early morning meeting. I've got to go like packing my shit and going. Yeah. No, no. You don't want to change their minds once you take your. So step one, if you're paying along, don't look like Mike. How to please the woman. Now, I would know nothing about this. I'm just the interviewer here. I've, as the public knows, I've never been with a woman. Arguably, you're the first woman I've actually seen in real life. I mean, he's not lying. Thank you, Greg. I do believe Mike would be a sexpert on pleasing men, homoerotic fantasies, all the things. Perhaps with his boyfriend, Scott. I mean, they make a great pair. I thought he was with Jared. Jared is his like. Another boyfriend. Childhood fantasy. Like he's his younger self. Got it. Got it. He wishes he was Jared. How does a man please a woman? Not from a technical, what is the frequency at which your tongue vibrates across? You feel free. Sure. But like more from a starting from it's two lovely young people sitting on a couch next to each other. So cunningling this three reps in reserve. Make sure you don't lick to the left as often as to the right. I mean, is there really a science handbook on pleasing a woman? Everyone is different. Mm hmm. Greg has read the book. That's for sure. Same couch two hours later and they're both smoking cigarettes and regretting things that happened, which I think is just how all sex ends. Yes. It's Mike's experience. Yeah. It's not mine. How come I have never experienced that? There's none of this regret bullshit that has to go on. So is it okay if I ask you a few questions? Of course. Super, super, super. So this is kind of a big one. Take this wherever you like. Did he just say put it wherever you like? I mean, where would she like it? Perhaps everywhere. Generally speaking, though, there are three orifices, if you will, which can accept the male body part. The options. And all three are totally optional. So long as she's down. Pick the one that she likes. Pick the one that she likes. And you, of course. With consent. I feel like Mike is nervous during this interview. Well, it's awkward as fuck. Yeah. He usually talks about men, about gay stuff. Like it's tough. This is like straight talk about sexy time. It is a tough podcast to do. He's struggling. Right? I think the first thing is like, okay, even before you get in the bedroom, ideally, it's like, hey, what are you into? Like, it's such a simple question, but like, hey, what are you into? And so the first question to ask is, how much do you charge? I mean, let's be honest. Most of these people are not getting laid. And so the first question is, how much are you charging for this? By the minute? Does it go by the hour? How much is the minimum spend at drostanolone in order to get you to come back to my house? And how many times do I have to take you on a date before you're going to give me some? This is the real questions that men are thinking. You probably didn't notice. Being a woman. Yeah. Being a woman. You don't know this. You don't know that men are thinking this. Think about that. Like, think of clavicular. Okay. Clavicular is thinking, how many times do I have to talk to you before you're just going to let me get into your pants? Because that's all I'm doing this for. I hate discussing with people. I hate the bullshit. And so let's just get to it. Yeah. That's something that as girls, we don't have to like think about. Do women realize that men only go to the bar to get laid? Like, that's it. There's no other reason. Girls don't realize that. And the only reason they're going to dinner with you and paying for dinner is because they're hoping that it'll make you like them enough to have sex with them. This is it. This is the only reason. Yeah. Is it sad to hear that? Girls would be like, no, they want like a serious relationship. They want to date me. Because listen to this. Hear me out. If a woman has to make you date them 10 times before having sex with them, she doesn't actually like you. Yeah. She just is like taking advantage of your money, what you're offering. Because there's no way. I have a rule. Four dates. If it's not by date number four, she doesn't really want you. Yeah. Does that hold true in the real world? Or no, women are just saving it for marriage and all that stuff. Yeah. I think, I mean, maybe there's exceptions. But in general, if you really desire someone, I feel like four dates, four dates is a long time. Yeah. Girls. I mean, there's really different opinions, but I'm not like that. Girls make the good guys wait. But the bad guys, the ones that they actually want, they ain't waiting. They want it right now. And so if your girl is saying, and unless he's like super religious, I know there's religious women out there. This doesn't apply to you. But for most women, if she allowed other bro to have sex with you in the first, second, third date, and it's taking you 10, she doesn't like you. She liked him. And so you need to read between the lines and find someone who likes you back. But maybe she doesn't want a relationship with that bad guy that she thinks he's really hot. She just wants to like sleep with him. But then she won't make him wait because in the end she's like, oh, I don't really want a relationship with that guy. He's like a bad guy. And so my advice is you need a woman to want you the way she wanted that bad guy. And if you don't, it's not worth it. You're better off just staying single. You're better off waiting for ChatGPT to become a robot, purchasing the robot and marrying it, just like Mike Isertel is going to do. That's better. It's worth trying to be like, hey, what are you into? Like, I'm into this. Like, I like this. What are you into? The problem with all of that is it only works if she thinks that you're hot. If you're Mike Isertel and on your first date, you say, hey, what are you into in the bedroom? She's going to be like, what a creep. She's going to leave and you don't get a second date. And so if you look like. Yeah, it would be a bit of a weird question at drostanolone, right? Like. You tell me. Like. First date. What do you like in bed? Do you like anal? Even second date. Like, it's just over dinner. Babe, second date. I could have asked you anything I wanted. Yeah, because. Because you're into me. But if you're not into a guy, if he's not hot for you, if he's just not wanting you. I can't picture it like we're eating steak, second date. So what are you into in the bedroom? Like it's. How do you lead to that question? Like just out of the blue, popping it out? Hmm. Yeah. It's not an easy question to ask. It is. But if the guy's hot enough, you can ask it. And I would say. You joke about it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He'll be like jokingly saying it. And then the girl eventually she'll actually like answer or something. Yeah. I would joke about it. Yeah. I would say literally on date number two, by the way, if I don't have sex with you by date four, we're not dating anymore. I would say it. And you know why? Because if she's like, oh, this stupid. And she didn't like you. And then you can move on. And if she didn't like you, she'll think it's funny. She'll be like, oh, yeah, you're right. She'll know. And so that's the way to do it. You're putting the conversation into the atmosphere. You're manifesting sex. I don't think you should say it, though. I would say it. It would be funny. And they would say, oh, I don't like a guy who's so open like that. And I'd say, well, you don't like me? Then move. Get out. Let's find another girl. It can be like without knowing you, it can be perceived like. It was the second date. How much did you need to know me? I don't know. It's not about like having just an opinion on something. This is kind of like pushy there. I feel like you should just happen. Yeah. I just happened to have sex with you on the second date. Yeah. So that's why we never had to have this like talk. Well, I would assume that every single person watching at drostanolone, making out with each other probably knew that was going to happen while at drostanolone. It was almost embarrassing to go to drostanolone the next time. I can't go back to that restaurant. They're like, oh, my God, this couple. Like it's a really well-known restaurant and great restaurant in our city. And I just we can't we can't go anymore. There's no way they would forget us. That was hardcore. It's like, guys, get a room. Oh, my God. And so I don't know. I was I guess I wasn't. And so if you can get to that level of desire before you even leave drostanolone, then getting home is going to be easy. You know, it's about to go down. Yeah. But if you're not have to talk about it because it's like, you know, but if you're not even bringing it up, then this is what people are going to do. Guy is going to try to get said girl drunk or intoxicated so that he can try to get his way by loosening her up. That is what people do. That is why guys buy girls drinks at the bar. Do you hear about this? They opened up a women's only bar. Couldn't go men. We had enough of these guys like women had enough guys coming up to me, hitting on me, flirting with me. A women only. They tried it and it lasted one day. True story. No one was buying drinks. Girls were there sitting there having their good time. They're just sitting there sober. I don't drink. No one's buying them drinks. I don't even take drinks from men like from you. Guys go to the bar and they buy all the girls drinks after drinks after drinks, hoping one of them will get drunk enough to settle for them. You know, the beer goggles. You're going up from a six out of ten to an eight. Eventually, you're enough. That is the goal of the bar. That is why you're going and don't lie to me. And all you girls going clubbing with your girlfriends, you're going there to get free drinks from buys. From buys. Not just buys, but guys. And you're doing it to get like affirmation, words of affirmation. What's the word when people like you and they say validation? Validation. Validation, all that kinds of stuff. The girls are going there to get validated, to increase your self-worth and to basically use men. That is why. I don't really feel like I would. Full stop. Yes. The bar doesn't really interest me anymore. I lost interest. If I was single, I would go. If there's good music or a good DJ, I'll go. If I had a cute outfit to wear and my friends are going, whatever, but that's it. And I don't even go. I just don't go. There you have it. You have to cultivate the stage for desire and arousal. How do you do that? By being hot. Point A, you'd be hot. You'd be six feet tall plus. And if you're not, you can wear hookah shoes. We just discussed this in the HLT group chat. I think it's hookah. Hookah shoes. Hookah shoes. They add a couple inches of height. Yeah, he likes them. It literally makes you more desirable. Your SMV goes up. All these kind of things. You can make less money when you wear those shoes. Yeah. And on top of looking good, then you just have to be a good talker. Like essentially, you just have to be personable, funny, interesting, charming, confident, all the good things. And if you do that, she's going to be like, I'm attracted to this guy and he doesn't sound like an idiot when I talk to him. I want him inside of my pants. That is how it works. Flexing your muscles like doing the pec bounce. That's good. Yes. No. Damn it. She says no. Is the flex bounce good? At drostanolone there? Somewhere. Anytime. If I just did that. I think if he did it, because I was already into him, I would be like, Loki, that's funny. What do you think about this? You want to see my abs? What do you think, babe? I would like it. This stuff works. Whatever you've got works if you're caught enough to do it. If you're confident enough to use what you've got, it's going to work. Yeah. That's fine. Going back to the, I have to have sex with you before the fourth day, I just think saying that is a bit like, it can really not go over so well. And so be careful. Only say that if you know it's going to go over well. Like, you know she likes you. That's just a tricky one. Because I've said that to multiple girls in my past. I've said it. And it was always like, I can't believe you said that. I'm like, it's the truth. I know. It's the truth. No one speaks the truth. People just talk in silence. They don't say what they actually think. And I'm like, I'm just telling you the truth. If you are on date four and we haven't slept together, you don't even like me. Why would we waste time? Yeah. I think if you explain it to them, like your point, like, yeah. Because it can be like, oh, you're just using me. And then you're not going to call me again after we have sex and stuff like that. So that's what girls are worrying about is that they don't want to get used. But you're like, no, it's just, it shows that you don't really like me if we don't have sex before the fourth date. Versus they're thinking, oh, he just wants to like use me or like, you know, have sex with me and then he'll never call me. He'll ghost me. So it's just like, I feel like they have different point of it. It's an interesting paradox because see, men have to spend their whole lives gaining value. You go to the gym, you work out, you, you get a good job, you get money, a career, you establish yourself. And women are born with all of this value and they have to fight to not lose it because as women get older, they lose some of their SMV. They're less desirable. Most men are going to want a younger woman. If you have to choose between, for example, a 70 year old woman, A-50 year old woman and a 30 year old, probably most are going to take a 30 year old. And so women have to fight to keep their youth. That's why they're all doing their makeup and their hair and their skin moisturizer and their salmon sperm on their eyes. What else you put on? They're all going to hate on me now. So that's what I'm saying. You don't have to talk because I think it's very scary, especially in a new relationship to be like, oh, I have to talk to you and tell you like what I like. Like, that's kind of scary. But you can be like, okay, like, how does this feel good? Yeah, no. You're not just going on a date and being like, okay, let's just not talk and let's just explore each other's bodies. Yeah, no, no, no, no, no, no. You got to talk. Like what? You're going to like. Like five minutes later, you're just rubbing areas of the body. Blindfolded. Just like in the dark. Who's doing that? You have to talk. It's all about the talk. They started out by saying it's all about the communication. You keep communicating. The more talk, the better. You like being talked to during sex, right? There you go. Keep talking, people. Not too much, but a little bit. A lot. Almost every part of the body can be an erogenous zone. So like take time to explore each other's body, both male and female, right? Like actually like touch each other and be like, oh, does this feel good? Does this feel good? Like, and you know, like enjoy, like luxuriate in the experience. Yeah. Wow. Wow. That's so wise. Wow. Every. He's never heard of this before. Touch the other person's body. And explore. Different parts. Doesn't have to be the one area that you want. It can be her shoulder, her arm, her hair. It could be anything. It can be erogenous. Anything. But it is interesting. Like the elbow. Like, I don't know if I would be able to make that. Erogenous. I'm sure we could try. I'm sure we could try. I've never, but I've never thought of that. I never thought of that. For next time. The elbow. You know, the big thing that I think, I hope that more men know this now. This is your chance to tell more men. But that like the clitoris is the homologue of the penis. I'm pretty sure that most people know that the dolorous is the same thing as the pen. What was that French word for it? The pen? And doche. You want me to say like push? Push? Or bit? Bit. Bit. And so la bit is the same thing as la dolorous. Dolores. What's Dolores? It reminds me of something. Clitoris? Shh. We don't get demonetized. We're probably already. Oh. Yeah. Well, how come they're able to say it? I don't know. Maybe you can. Maybe you can't. I don't know. Penetrating a female and you expect her to orgasm. It's almost like me expecting a guy to orgasm from like touching his balls. I think that everyone knew that that Dolores was a pleasure spot. Are there men in the world that don't know this? They just think that the entrance area is all that is good. It's just the tunnel. There's no way that people think this. When I was a teenager, I knew that. It's the ring bell. Ding. And then? People know this. I don't think. They think that they're giving us information. Oh, yeah. Let's teach men. Men. Did you know that there's a Dolores that needs some attention? I mean, sometimes you've got to state the obvious because then if no one says it, at some point, some people won't know, I guess. Yeah, but it took a sexpert to say this? Yeah, I guess it took – I don't know if it took a sexpert to say that. If you are not focusing on the clitoris, it is not going to happen. And then she will fake it. And then you will – right? I think that's over-presumptuous. If a woman doesn't reach their pinnacle, she's going to fake it? No. I don't think so. Sometimes, maybe. But to just say, oh, 85% need this stimulation or else they're going to fake it. No, I feel like there's so many girls now that are just like, if it doesn't happen, I'm not going to even fake it. It just didn't happen. Who cares? It just didn't happen. Save it for next time. Do you really need to validate him so much that he was able to do that for you? No. I feel like this is so bad to do that. Yeah, we don't need fake. No. Faking is pretty short-sighted if you're with a partner who you want to cultivate with, right? It's short-sighted. Eventually, you'll actually want to be pleased. So why fake it? Because he'll think he's doing – You're teaching the wrong thing. Yeah, you're teaching the wrong thing. He's going to think, oh, I'm doing great. But eventually, you're going to actually want to be pleased. And so you're teaching him the wrong thing. That's negative reinforcement. Or it's – Literally. Fake reinforcement? Well, it's not positive. Like you're giving positive reinforcement for negative behavior. You're doing it all wrong. Oh, yes, God, please thank me again. Yeah. It's like if you're learning a trick and he doesn't do it well, the dog, and you're like, oh, that's great. You're giving him like cookies and treats and so it's like – Makes no sense. You may not like like the way she's handling your genitals or whatever, right? And you have to be able to say that. I can't imagine having to say like, I don't like the way you're handling my genitals. Well, I don't think you use the word genital. You prefer like cock, right? Sex, yeah, it's natural. You kind of have a sense of what you want to do. But to get good sex versus mediocre sex, you have to work at it. I 100% agree. I don't think you need to be good on day one. It's not how you start. It's how you finish. It takes practice. How would it not with anything? With anything. Like how do you expect to be good at biking or lifting weights on the first try? I mean I feel like if you're good right away, then perhaps your ceiling of awesomeness is going to be higher. If you're bad on day one, you can get good. If you make a bad pizza and then the person says, well, I didn't like olives and it was undercooked, it's like the next pizza there's no olives and they cook it longer and it just got twice as good. This is how easy it is. But you need to communicate less teeth, more this, slower, faster, harder than last time. Could you not watch Coach Greg while we do it every single time? I'm kind of jealous about this guy. Like you know the little things. Like please speak up. When your girl's watching me while you're having intercourse, she may be thinking a little bit about me too much. And I know it might be the thing she needs to hear to get her over the edge, but that's not good for your relationship. You want her to finish because of you, not because of the screaming parrot from Aladdin. Calories! And she's like, oh! We're such a rush I think in life. Like, oh, I got to like really quickly get to this orgasm. And like we forget about the journey. Like what's the rush though? I mean, it's not a race. I mean, I can see that point. It's a competition. See how fast I can finish and get out of here. But like most people are going to want it to take longer than last time. The longer the better. It's one of those things where finishing last means you win. Yeah. Like. But some people got to go to work and it's the more. I get that like in the day-to-day life. If I wanted to get to work, I wouldn't want. Hey, this is my number one advice for you. Don't ever have an orgasm. Don't finish. I mean, sometimes it's going to happen. But like the less often the better. And so if you're rushing before work, do it for three and a half minutes and then don't finish. Don't get to that point. Stop early. And that's the thing. You spend the time enjoying it. You will have a better orgasm. You will have an even more intense orgasm. Oh, by a long shot. Did Mike just say he shoots it a lot? He gets a long shot. I didn't hear that. By a long shot. He was so excited about that. Like Mike is just like, whoa. He's just way amped up today. Man. Like, yeah, if it's your favorite meal, like you'll enjoy it for a week, two. Eventually you're like, okay, I need something else. Is she referring to a tossed salad here when she says eating dinner? Tossing your salad. Tossing your salad. Careful where you eat out. You might get pinkeye. As an optometrist, pinkeye is bad. I'm not an optometrist. As an ophthalmologist? Yes. Pinkeye is bad, right? It's not even that bad. It's not that bad, guys. Don't worry about it. It's not that deep. And so if somebody has pinkeye, you should continue to make out, do all the things? No. You can go eat a salad, just not my salad. So when you get pinkeye, don't go and lick anything except for your own ice cream cone. There you go. You can reach. You know, it can be simple and it can be slightly different, slightly challenging, and it can be enough to make it such a new experience. Yeah. You know what? This advice isn't really useful because if a guy's gotten to the point where he's had it so many times in the same room, he doesn't need to watch this video. This is for like trying to pleasing a woman. Like once, I mean, I get it, but like if you've actually gotten to the point where you're continuously having se sex with the same woman for months on end, you're probably pleasing her. My perspective has been for a while the following. Like this is a standard template. There are, of course, exceptions to this, but as a standard template, it is okay. And here's the template. And so not the template. Not the template. Mike's got a template on how to please women now. And he's like, I really want you to absorb it. Where men see sex as like some stress release, women are like, if it's not sex worth having, it's just a chore. Yeah, 100%. Yeah, but if she starts seeing sex as a chore, it's like you're so cooked. If she starts seeing sex as a chore, there's a door. Yeah. Like, no. Like, no. Like, if it gets to that point, there's no point in trying to keep on. If you're already married, then you f***ed up and got married too young and you got to stick it out. But like for average people dating, if it's already a chore, there's a door. It's not worth fighting to keep the relationship alive. But I can't imagine thinking, oh, now I have to have sex. Like, this is, it's, it's, I don't know. I don't think you should get to that point. No. If you haven't got a partner that wants it, I don't care what her excuse is, there's a door. We don't end up with like that, a cash. Remember a cash and his wife? Yeah. I just feel bad for like, I guess some girls are just so overwhelmed. They're like mother of five and they're just like, they have their jobs and then they have to please their husband. Like, I know it's hard. If they please their husband, they would be pleasing themselves. Well, they could please themselves, which would please their husband. I'm sure a guy would want to see that. But that's besides the book. Like, if your husband's happy, you're going to be happier. Like, it just helps. If you're pleasing your man, I would suggest you at least go down on him three times a week. I'm not going to say every single day. Three times a week. You got to do that. That's basically the minimum. And if you do that, he's going to work harder for you. He's going to just boil you more. He's going to treat you better. And it goes back and forth. You're going to mirror each other. But if you're, like, always saying no and turning him down, he's going to hate you and he's going to go have sex with somebody else. It's as simple as that. Yeah. I also think as a man, if you provide a life for a woman where she's, like, calm and she has time for herself, then she'll definitely give, like, pour more into you and do more for you. And then by doing that, you're going to have more energy. You're going to, like, feel better and then be more productive. It's just like I give and then it gives. Yeah. You're describing it in an ideal, proper relationship. Because what often will happen is the man will provide, makes money, goes to work, and the woman will just say, give me another Louis Vuitton purse and take advantage of it. And not just do what she should be doing. Instead of pouring into him, giving him anything. Yeah. She uses sex as a way to control and manipulate and gaslight a man, which is not what we want. No. She should give him sex as fuel. Yeah. Regardless. Everything else is bonus. It shouldn't be held as ransom. And it's not just, like, it's not transactional. Obviously, she enjoys it. Begin to touch in a way that at first can really seem and is non-sexual. First of all, all touch is sexual. There is no non-sexual touch. If you touch somebody of the opposite sex, it's sexual. Remember on our first date with my colleagues? What about it? I was, like, touching you a lot. Oh, she's like, don't tell them that we're on a date because it's my work, staff, keep it professional. And so I walk in and I sit down and her arms are all over me. And she's just going to town, rubbing on me. I'm like, man, this girl really likes me. She's got some kind of a drink. And I'm like, how many drinks have you had? Whispering because she's, like, so affectionately all over me. It was, like, my first drink and I didn't even touch it. I've only had three sips of my first drink. And I'm like, holy shit, this is going to be freaky later tonight. I already knew. I knew it, guys. So any touch. Start of the second date. Any touch. It's sexual. And so if you're at a bar and you're meeting a girl for the first time and she starts touching you for any reason, take that as a sign that she likes you. I think so. Automatically. Any kind of a touch. If she smiles. If she does this right in her hair. If she looks at you. If she pivots towards you. If her feet are in your direction. If she laughs at even your stupidest jokes. Even just like this. Oh, yes. Yeah. Like frigging Tom Brady. That woman that had a pan on the back. Yeah. That's all it took. Oh, my God. Like, you've got to take the hints. And so here's the worst thing that could happen. Yeah. You should include a clip of Alex Earl and Tom Brady. Literally. It was just one little touch on his back. It was kind of a back rub, though. And they made the internet go wild. Like. Yeah. Like, here's the worst. Like, imagine this. You assume she likes you and she doesn't. You made that mistake. Yeah. And you act appropriately. Oh, you're interested. And you just take it with confidence and you try to get a date out of it. And then she's like, I don't like you. What are you talking about? What sign did you give you? I screwed up. On to the next. Versus. I wonder if she means she likes me. She's touching me. Oh, it's probably. That's just the type of girl. She touches everyone. It's better to just assume that she likes you and act based on that because you will do the things to get in her pants later. Every single large transition point from non-sexual touching all the way to my hand is on your vagina and I'm staring you in the eyes. Man, that went south fast. My hand is. And I'm staring at you in the eye. Oh, my God. I would be like. Four. People call it foreplay. I think that's almost like a disservice to the term. Because like. It's part of it. It's part of it. Like it's preparatory. Like, I don't know, man. Like, just jerking in the bathroom has no foreplay. It feels fun. I mean, it's a good point. Foreplay is kind of like it's part of it. It's fun. But like they need a name for it. What do they call it? Other than foreplay, say non-penetrative sex. Lead in sex. Like, I mean, you need a name. Yeah, it's like a. Kissing and touching and all this stuff before the. Introductory. The penetration. It's got to have a name. And foreplay is the name they chose. I feel like it's a good name. It's fine. I like the name. I really like the name. It's four is like before. Yeah. And then play. You're playing around. I actually love that name. Let's do the name. I feel like we should have a pre-workout that's like foreplay. That's kind of hot. Yeah. What would we put in it? Kratom. Yes. And. Slydricide. Slydricide would be good. Some caffeine. Some caffeine for sure. Because it's. Some canna maybe. Okay. And probably some my friend Molly. Let's leave that out. And some weed. But honestly, that's a very. That's a good idea. Foreplay. And you're like, I'm going to take my foreplay before the gym. It's kind of like exciting. Foreplay before. Foreplay. Or before play. Whatever. Whenever. Would people buy that. Answer in the comment. Would you buy a pre-sex drink. Oh. It would be for the bedroom. Yes. Yeah. It would be like a foreplay. It would have some like horny goat weed or something in there. Something to get you going. Rebbed up. Yeah. Let's work on that. It's a potential idea. You feel them melt into you. Right. You feel them start like their pupils start dilating.  aut aut autopoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop this area she should be like like the hips should be like like uh what's that girl rihanna she's she's securing towards you there's gonna be some shakira action going on yeah and so if you feel that just keep going keep going green light and i would say in general a good rule of time is go half as fast as you want to oh like as soon as you want to do the next thing that you're thinking of doing like sticking your finger in her ass just wait a little bit longer yes yes yes just one more one more wait yeah thank me later and i i mentioned this in another one of our videos but like foreplay starts in the morning right you want to actually tell show your partner they are desired no no it doesn't start in the morning it starts when it starts this is what does it do it starts in the morning by making the bed for and taking out the trash and cooking your breakfast and running your love note before dinner no this is yeah women don't want that if i have to do all the things all day to get her in the mood she ain't in the mood it's too much work it's too much this is ridiculous this is the advice all day to to rev her engines all day long i pressed her ferrari it's ready to go in 15 seconds you don't need to rev it all day just get yourself a ferrari yeah it's like this always ready exactly just press a button and spending that quality time i think sometimes and people hate when i say this but i'm like if you actually schedule this time with your partner so like hey you schedule brunch you schedule a meeting you schedule this you schedule that you schedule the gym but you don't schedule time with your partner i see nothing wrong with scheduling sex people are busy some people are busy and it's like hey friday night the kids are off to grandma's yeah we're gonna have sex at seven o'clock until two a.m even though it doesn't sound six times i think it can actually save you like save your relationship yeah what's wrong with it we plan a date friday we're going to dinner or a movie what's wrong with saying we're gonna have a dinner movie but we're gonna have sex before the dinner because who wants to have sex after you're bloated like i like being more spontaneous that's just me but i know for people you have to plan it or it doesn't happen yeah but sometimes we plan sex like every couple weeks we'll plan like a day of it kind of thing yeah but it's a full day like 10 hours or so like with breaks of course so you can plan it be like hey let's free up sunday let's not leave the house let's just like be naked all night and just enjoy the day a little day yeah what's wrong with that a field day a field trip we'll go have sex there here there explore the house outside outside by the pool then the neighbors get mad because you're too loud and then you have to stop yeah yeah sometimes there's problems with the neighbors because even though they're far like it's they can hear sound travels especially be really careful near water sound outside because you don't want this the downside with scheduling sex is like then it becomes performative and you're like well we have an hour better get to the sex but it's like no you schedule some cuddling or some massage time if that's the furthest it goes what a great time right no one turns down a massage that's crazy are you comparing a massage to sex is ridiculous i get it some girls like a massage i love but if i schedule a massage with her for an hour from seven to eight and it ends in just a massage that would never happen this is ridiculous i was not going to just accept a massage you'd be like why are you massaging my shoulders you know what i want massaged get to it and use your tongue that's what i i mean is this not true guys oh i'm sorry here do you like that lower lower that's it girl yay that's how we like it the the partner who has a lower desire might feel like well i'm feeling pressured into having sex and the other person might feel like man why won't this person have sex with me even though they've agreed on intimacy and so you really have to work on that what is your advice on that one person has more interest in the other you just you just do it right that's what i'm thinking for sex one person has higher sex drive on some days one will be hornier than the other yeah and on the other day it'll be the other one and it's just like so whichever partner's up here on the horn in the scale the other one they bring the other one up yeah if you're higher here you say get up over here probably about yeah right around this level and get busy regardless and if she's like i'm just tired it's like this and it's like that you make it happen and once it gets going you're going to get interested in it yeah it's no different than if your partner's going to the gym together oh yeah you're hung over and you're like i don't really want to go today you're coming yeah we're going to train there's always going to be one that has like more energy on that day like yesterday like for example i think maybe i felt better than you doing that i don't know how you said a pr yesterday yeah i was just feeling really good and greg was like it wasn't his best day energy-wise and so i was trying to like motivate him i was like yeah you got it for the it's just an energy transfer and same thing for the bedroom yeah this is how men initiate right they'll smack a butt they'll grab a breast whatever because they're just trying to be playful and funny also they're gorillas but they're just like we don't really know how to do this so we're just going to do this because it makes our intentions clear we're just being funny right and that for a lot of women is like if your partner isn't turned on by you slapping her butt and grabbing her secondary sexual organs as mike put it she's not for you like if that annoys you you got to ask yourself the question why did that annoy me why am i a karen yeah why are you a karen like why why do you have to be that way oh it's so crude you slap my butt when i walk by how dare you be sexually excited by looking at me so much so that you had to touch my ass i don't like that what's wrong with you it makes me so happy when he does it like it makes me smile and i'm like oh that's like i like it so remember don't go and do this to people that don't already like you're not in a relationship just don't go grab girls out of the blue i'm not saying do that but if it's your girlfriend and she doesn't like that you have to dump her it's that simple yeah plenty fish in the sea so much just like you would think about like edging a lot of guys know what edging is right so like i think it's just an internet meme right yeah i said it's an internet meme it's my daily life what are you talking about it's not a meme this is my life this is my life this is my daily life women will show you that like okay they want a little more they might like sort of change their body position or turn towards you or i mean just like non-verbal cues yeah it's the the pelvis grinding and the moaning and the this and the yeah they're gonna they're gonna show you it's not gonna be five minutes of this and you don't even have any feeling that you could go more pay attention right and like and you can ask them be like it's not so far-fetched to like just ask yes i also think there's nothing wrong with asking yeah you want to have sex yeah like literally i could ask right now well i can press pause the video and have sex before the bike race like if you want it you just ask yeah like i want to be respectful like yeah you know it's it's a hard it's a hard balance i think it's more of a turn on to ask if you come from a frame of confidence mike is right good point if mike asks it's a definite no but if i ask it's a definite yes it depends who it's coming from frame of confidence that's key yeah please yeah like you're not if you simp up it's not good begging you're not like weak beta you're just very sure of yourself where do you find that there is a place for expressions of dominance vast fractions of women want to experience safe consensual correct masculine dominance two-thirds of women i got in trouble once for posting about this on my instagram stories i posted facts oh you're encouraging men to be violent against women i'm like no i'm encouraging men to ask their girls if they like to be dominated won't use any word to get cancelled here and if they say yes then do it i don't see anything wrong with that what is your opinion on that one miss mepsagram yeah i think a lot of girls like it and if it's done safely and risk like with respect i think or lack of respect yeah what's respect it's like respect if a woman wants you to spit on her and a spank her ass but i think everyone has boundaries where like this is okay but like this is not you just have to kind of know so i just think you communicate and you kind of know what's too much and what's not too much and then after that it's safe it's it's it's pretty generally simple girl says no if you're doing too much yeah she'll tell you she'll tied her up too tight she will tell you her boundaries like if you do one thing that's a bit over her come like past her comfort zone she'll she'll tell you yeah dominance i mean there's a prior yeah there's a lot of girls that are into that two-thirds or you could watch like 50 shades of gray and like are you into this right i like 50 shades of gray did you like it i think i watched it it was good i don't remember what it was about was it about a rich guy that had a girl in a dungeon in the basement yeah someone see women are up they think that that's a good thing but see here's what they want if the guy's a billionaire or a vampire she wants him to do anything what i've heard from some folks some females excessive checking in or telling the guy that you want to be dominated is destroying the fantasy it's ruining the frame yeah that's a real piece of feedback you just do it gradually and you check for reaction if she's like pulling your hand off of her neck or saying stop or no or just not acting like she's liking it then you stop if she's not you keep going with it until she's like happy with it reading the room yeah not everyone can read the room you would hope the girl would be like confident enough to say no or to stop choking me i can't breathe i'm gonna die yeah like i feel like you know some girls maybe wouldn't say anything because they're like shy so that's a bit it's tricky there i mean some guys get very very aggressive and some girls are insane and they want that and it's like you have to be careful yeah so i don't want anyone to take this advice and start doing crazy things to girls and then they're in jail yeah if you can't ask her outside the bedroom and say hey you know what i i'm kind of into this dominating thing and you can't ask her then there's something wrong with your relationship where you can't have that kind of communication and if that ruins it for her then she sucks literally if it sucks you can't ask do you want me to do this to you tomorrow and oh you ruined it for me because you asked it's just stupid she shouldn't be like that we're gonna end the video here um i think the most important thing if you want to get with a girl is to have a great body and so to do that turk platinum glp max glp max to do to lose the weight go2 max help you with cardio horse the bedroom stack for your hardness yesterday i got a pr on the bike and right before the bike race i took three go2 max which is more than i usually take i usually take one or two and i couldn't believe it i couldn't believe how i felt insane i just felt like i was unstoppable it's it's insane uh the level of athletes we got one guy hayden he's putting out 520 watts in half an hour i don't know if people understand it's it's about three times more calories that he can burn per hour than a normal human being machine it's almost not quite double what i do but it's getting there it's pretty crazy how fast and he's swears by joe max he's like he's like i'm scared to promote it because i don't want my competition to use it because he wants to win the world championships so why would you want your second place guy to use the products that's going to help you win makes sense yeah if you're interested in getting these things you can use code mep m-e-p you can always use code greg if you want or you can code mep it doesn't matter to me it's either way it doesn't matter and if you want to have more uh sexy time uh instructions from us too you can uh follow us for more tips follow for just the tip or just the tip and that's it subscribe click bell button comment to boost the algorithm watch one of those two bloops and until next time we are out

=== FILE: Mike Thurston Makes Hussein Farhat Look Natty [mzfnDEyOYeU].txt ===

 And so just based on the bones, just based on their physiques, when you're looking at Mr. Mike and Mr. Hussain, if you had to pick one as being a fake natty, let's assume one is natural and one is not, who are you picking? Which body, which physique looks more unnatural? Coach Greg, in today's video, two of the best lifetime natties of all time training chess together. Mr. Mike, no, not that Mike, Mr. Delicious himself, Mr. Delicious himself, Mike Thurston, who claims lifetime natural, who, of course he isn't, along with Hussein Farhat, who many believe also is a fake natty. I don't believe that to be true. And you know I'm gonna give it to you straight, of which I don't think Mr. Mike actually is, and I'm talking about both Mr. Mikes. Hey, I said it. Not that there's anything wrong with that. Just two lifetime naturals. Mike's shirt is so tight, if he sneezes, he'll break a rib. In saying that Hussein is natty and close to your size in like three years, imagine X. Well, frankly, it's four, but the difference with Hussein is it's mostly from here to here. Hussein Farhat's upper body, it's stupendous. However, his legs are not up to the same caliber as Mr. Mike. Is it just me, or does Mr. Mike look like he just finished a workout? Look at him just standing there, drinking a coffee with the arms, with the bicep vein. And so do you know how you get that from being not natural? Using performance sensing drugs, it's gonna extend your pump for that much longer as well. This actually is natural, and it's using Cialis. If you use Cialis before you go to the gym, and you just carry a heavy object. So for example, Mr. Mike's phone with all the DMs from so many people, it's gonna be heavier than last time. And he's gonna get a little bit of a pump from just doing this. If you're not on Cialis, most likely you're not looking like this. If you're natural. If you are natural and you use Cialis, well, if you have amazing genetics, you might look half as good as this, which to me is plenty. And so if you're interested in Cialis, in Clomiphene, testosterone, which probably could help you to look half as good as these guys, Algorx, code Greg, 10% off. Remember, they can give you your blood work, they can do the things. It's pharmaceutical. And so if you're interested, click the link. Seriously, guys, look at the size of Thurston's arms. The vascularity. That is not a natural arm. You can debate me till you're blue in the face, but Thurston, he does not look natural in the slightest in comparison. At least Hussein, it looks like he needs to get a pump first. Notice he's got the pump cover on. He doesn't show up to the gym looking jacked. Now, unless Thurston does a bunch of push-ups in secret before he even gets to the gym, perhaps he trains at home before getting to the gym. I don't know, but this, it doesn't look natural. Oh yeah. Oh. Keep track of everything that's inside. We haven't even started to work yet. How do you understand importance? The way it is. Exactly. Even Hussein notices. How are you already pumped? It's just the way it is. Well, imagine he's responded, well, 10 milligrams of Cialis along with a bunch of peptides. And I actually did a bunch of push-ups before I met you. And so that is my secret. Imagine if he said that. Every single set, I go to failure. And so Hussein, he trains a lot more like Coach Greg. You show up to the gym. There's no tracking involved. You do what you want. And you train to failure. You train harder than last time. If you outwork other people, you put in the work. You train hard. You're going to get better development than almost anyone. You give me two identical twins. One follows an exact program, perfect based on science, but doesn't train hard enough. The other person, they don't do all the best exercise. They don't track anything, but they train hard. The person who trains hard, they're making more gains. Is that how you train? That's how I used to train, yeah? And then I started to get old. I was like, fuck, I can't handle this amount of volume and stress. Mr. Thurston, he's trying to explain why he doesn't do as much volume, why he doesn't train as hard as he once did. He's saying he got old. It's not that he got old. It's that he's already built up his muscles. Once the muscles have been built, perhaps you're using testosterone or peptides or SARMs, or you've been going to the gym for 15 years and you've already put on a lot of muscle. And if all you want to do is to maintain it, you only need to do one third as much as you used to. And so what does that mean? Well, if you used to do six hard sets of chest, you now only have to do two. And so it's a lot easier to keep the muscle once you've built it than it is to build it in the first place. And many of you, you know this. You know that muscle memory is a real thing, muscle nuclei, the whole thing. You know that once you've built the said muscle, even if you take time off, if you've been sick or if you've been injured and you go back to the gym, the gains that you once had, they come back faster than ever before. And so Mike, he doesn't want to go to the gym for two hours each and every day. He wants to get in and get out. He wants to keep a pump. He wants to look good for the ladies, the men. I don't care. And so he does the minimum to get the most. And I see nothing wrong with that. Case in point myself, I lift weights two days a week. I do a full body workout twice a week or perhaps twice every eight days. And that's all I need. I don't need to have more muscle. I have plenty. Remember, I already built that muscle. And to keep what I have, it's a lot easier. I don't have all the time that will just to like lie down and rest. Like I have like loads of other things going on. Now, frankly speaking, he does have all the time in the world. It's Mr. Mike. I mean, is he going to try to convince us that he has a nine to five job or he's working 100 hours a week? He has no time to go to the gym. Mr. Mike has it easy. He's kind of like Coach Greg. I can train whenever I want. I can travel. I can train. And so when he says, you know, I'm too busy to go to the gym, stop making excuses. I mean, of all the people in the world, Mr. Mike, if he wanted to train two or three hours each and every day, if he wanted to become a cyclist, he could actually do it. And I'm not talking about cycling steroids. I'm talking about riding a bike. If you want it to be elite level at bike riding and rode his bike 14 to 20 hours a week, he absolutely could do it. He has plenty of time. Stop making excuses. Three years ago, you told me like you were giving tips on how to like build a business and build like a personal brand and be successful on YouTube. And one thing that you mentioned is like stay away from controversy. I would give the opposite. Lean into it. How has it worked for, I don't know, Togi or for example, Clavicular? Would any of you even know these guys if they weren't controversial? Togi bragging about abusing performance enhancing drugs, rubbing in our faces and Clavicular being Clavicular. Why do you think we're even mentioning these people's names because of the controversy? I don't, didn't want it to get to that extent. But when you're friends with Greg, it kind of just happens. Well, here we go. I got like 200 million views that month. How's it working for him? Well, he's literally in Dubai working out with you. And so it's clearly been highly effective. You might be thinking, oh, but people think he's a fake natty. Yeah, they think he's a fake natty despite the fact that he is 100% natural. And so why not talk about it? Just stay away from it. Delete everyone's comment. You're a fake natty. Delete. Is it not better to tell people to their faces? You're a loser because your genetics and work ethic is worse than mine. I'm better than you. They're then going to get their panties in a knot and think, oh, I hate you. You're a fake natty. You're a liar. And so the controversy, it keeps going. Hussein Farhat is one of the most famous, what people say is a fake natty in the world. One of the most famous in the world. And so is it actually working for him or is it not? I've watched people like Simeon Panda, Matlin Fitness, where they would document the process of trying to prove that they're natural. Yeah. And still people are like, no, I don't believe it. Yeah. Mike, he brings up a great point. Even if you try to prove that you're natural, people still aren't going to believe you. We've seen that with Hussein. He's posted his blood work four times. He's done a lie detector test and he's passed every single time. Yet people still say he's fake natty. Mike Thurston, on the other hand, where's the blood work? And so Mr. Delicious Mike, he says, there's no point in trying to prove that you're natural because people aren't going to believe you anyway. This is true. But if you don't try to prove it, they're going to believe you even less. And so, hey, do what you want to do. If you really do want to prove that you're natural, you have to get your blood work taken when you're looking really good with no notice whatsoever. And it can't be a drug test. It needs to be blood work because the blood work is going to tell the story. And then if you want to send your blood work to myself, remember, it has to be done with no notice. If I go through your blood work, I'm going to see if you're natural. Now, it doesn't prove that you're a lifetime natural, but if you're at your all time best right now and someone says, yeah, but you used to take steroids. How are you better now than when you used to take steroids? We've seen Connor Sinan. We've seen him. We've seen how much muscle he lost. That is what literally happens in the real world when you go off steroids. And so if you take steroids and you stop, you're going to lose muscle. And so if Mike wants to prove he's natural, he just has to look as good as he did when he was in Ibiza with the red shorts. You know what I'm referring to, Mr. Mike. And get your blood work and send it to Coach Greg. And I'm not talking about just your testosterone. I'm talking about everything. I think a lot of people do underestimate what the human body is capable of natural. I feel like there is a lot of crazy freaks out there that are just, they're genetic freaks. And remember, Mike, who wants you to believe that he's natural, he believes himself that Simeon Panda is natural, despite the fact that Simeon Panda hasn't shown the blood work, the full blood work to show all the other variables. And so why would you believe him? Would you believe me if I said, hey, I'm natural now. I'm not an HRT. Why would you believe it? But if I then posted my blood work and you saw my LH and FSH in the normal range, my testosterone was normal, you'd be thinking, well, maybe Coach Greg went off HRT. But without the blood work, you got to call cap. I'm the biggest green white. Probably 190 something. Is that good? 87. 87. And so Hussein, he weighs in at 187 pounds. Mike Thurston, he's closer to 210, about 20 pounds bigger than Hussein. Hussein is about an inch, perhaps an inch and a half taller than Mike, but weighs 20 pounds less than him and isn't as lean as him. Y'all realize that Hussein is not nearly as big as Mr. Mike. I mean, you can say whatever you want. You can blame it on not having a proper tan, but Mike Thurston is actually massive. And if you don't believe it, I worked out with him. Remember, I'm an IFBB pro and yet he still had more muscle than me. And so just based on the bones, just based on their physiques, when you're looking at Mr. Mike and Mr. Hussein, if you had to pick one as being a fake natty, let's assume one is natural and one is not. Who are you picking? Which body, which physique looks more unnatural? It's almost better if you like gradually start building up your income over time instead of like zero to everything. It's hard to feel the same. Now guys, I know it's not a financial channel, but I do like to coach you up a little bit. As far as money is concerned, you only need a little bit. When you go from say $50,000 a year to $100,000 a year in terms of your income, it's night and day. It's a huge change. But to go from $100,000 to $200,000, it's not really that big of a deal. To go from $100,000 to $1,000,000, there's less of a difference than going from $50,000 to $100,000. When you're buying cars, the car either works or it doesn't. If you get a $50,000 car and jump to a $500,000 one, it's not that big of a deal. It's not really worth it per se, unless you're making so much money that it doesn't matter. Once you have money, you have money to go and buy a $5,000,000 car when you already have a $0.5 million car. There's almost no difference. It's like a 10% jump for 10 times the money. And so be thankful that you don't need to be a multimillionaire to be happy. You do need to work. You do need to study. You do need to get a job. But by making 10 or perhaps 100 times more money than you do right now, it's not going to make that much difference. Would you recommend me to move? Yeah. If I was you, I would definitely go to where all the action and the potential is for just to elevate yourself even further. If I'm advising Hussein on where he should live, he needs to avoid Miami. There's nothing good in Miami for someone like Hussein, somebody who's religious, who's not partying harder than last time. This is not the place you want to be. Never mind the taxes. When you live in Canada, you're essentially giving 50 plus percent of your money to the government right away. And then there's taxes on top of that. In comparison, Dubai, the taxes are almost the lowest in the world. And so if he had to pick a place to live, it's clearly better for him to be in Dubai. Sorry, United States. That is the truth. Have you competed before? Yeah. Yeah. When I was 23, 24. Have you competed? I've done, yeah, I did one show. Greg coached me for it. And so remember, he entered a bodybuilding competition that was drug tested. The only problem is they never tested anybody. Let me remind you, just because you enter a drug tested bodybuilding competition doesn't mean that people are going to think that you're natural. It doesn't mean that everybody is in fact natural. But if you do enter a drug tested show, it would be kind of nice for them to actually do some drug testing so they don't have problems like this. And remember, for the show, Hussein actually had a proper tan. And so when you're comparing his physique to Mr. Mike, maybe, just maybe if he had a proper tan, he would be making Mike look bad. And so clearly you can see now that Hussein has gotten a pump, his physique is catching up to Mr. Mike. He's standing in the background of the side laterals and you can see visibly the chest. It's getting bigger. The arms, the vascularity. This is a true story. When I go and meet people in person who have never seen me, they've been a fan for years. Oftentimes what they say is you're way bigger in person. And I'm thinking, why do they all think that I'm small? I feel I look fairly big on camera. But one thing I do not do that I never do is a bunch of pushups, bicep curls, side laterals before recording. Many people think that, oh, I care so much about how I look. I mean, I do, but not so much that I'm going to like do a fake thing, like pump myself up to look better for the camera. I don't do this. I show up and I record. And so oftentimes people see me, I'm in the gym and I'm working out and I have a full pump. And so of course I'm going to look bigger. I wouldn't say it's a case of, oh, I've been struggling to find the right person because I've found a lot of very good candidates. So that's not a problem. It's more so me waiting to pull the trigger. Wow. I mean, is that not telling? Mr. Mike is like, look, it's not that I haven't found the right person. I've found a lot. He's talking about wives or husbands for marriage and so on. And so he's saying, you know, I just don't want to give up the freedom of not having kids. And so here's the thing. If you've met a lot of people, a lot of women, let's call it, let's assume that he's not gay. He's met a lot of females that would be great wife. Well, where are they now? Like just because you're not ready to have kids, you can't have a girlfriend. You can't be engaged. You can't have a wife. I mean, if you really love that person, they're amazing. They're perfect. Why aren't you with them? It's not that he hasn't found the right person. He's found a lot. Great candidates. It's that he feels selfish, that he doesn't want to be a dad right now. He doesn't want to have a family and he's not ready to settle down. Well, you don't need to have a kid just because you can. Like you're allowed to just stay with that person and say, hey, I'm in love with you. You're a great person. I would love to spend the rest of my life with you. And let's just not have kids right now. I see nothing wrong with that. I've had a very good experience with women here. If you're a guy, you can't complain about being with someone or dating someone when there's literally been red flags everywhere. He's right and he's wrong. Here's the thing. Look at this guy. Are you looking? Mr. Delicious himself. How many girls do you think want to go with a good looking, fit, multi-millionaire? In comparison, how many men are good looking, rich, famous, multi-millionaires? There's not a lot. And so most men, they take what they can get. Mr. Mike, he gets whatever he wants. And so he has his pick of the litter, so to speak. And so he's saying he dates excellent women. He's not, he doesn't have to pay them. They're great girls. And technically for that, I believe him. I believe he can date a really good girl. Other men, when they experience these women, they realize, I can't get the girl that I want. And so when I settle for this girl, she's not good. And so if you want to get girls like Mike, well, grow a little bit taller. Get a proper tan. Have the proper hair transplant if you do, in fact, lose your hair. If you don't have an amazing physique, you know, do like Mr. Mike claims and be 100% natural. Now, if you're 100% natural, you can, of course, take Turk Platinum. You can take Turk Fildermax. You can get Blue Lobstered. And if that doesn't work, you can go to Al Gorex and say, maybe I have low levels of testosterone. Maybe you need HRT. Maybe you need some Inclomiphene. Perhaps you need peptides. Ask Mike if he's ever used peptides. And see what he says. Like, I'm just being honest. I'm just going to tell you, I don't believe that Mike has never used peptides. I believe he's used peptides. I don't know if he's used testosterone before. I don't know to the extent of it. I don't believe he's lifetime natural. But I believe he's using something. Even the Cialis alone, along with the proper tan, it does go a long way. He clearly has gifted genetics. I'm not saying he's on trend. I don't believe he's ever used that. But I believe there's some periods in his life where he views certain things more than others. So it's usually like, it's the men's fault looking in the right places and not being tempted by, you know, the seductive vibes that some of these women are giving up. Yeah, like, think of it. I mean, Larry Wheels in a similar situation to Mr. Mike, although not quite as attractive. He is, in fact, taller and has a lot of money. But yet, what if you go for a girl who doesn't choose you back? You know, somebody who perhaps wants to be with Rampage Jackson, you know? And so if you're a man and you're simping for women and they're not infatuated to you, they don't choose you, you got to be careful. And besides all that, you know, you do what you got to do. You know, I'm just trying to give you advice. But this advice, you do have to take it. If you do get married, you sign a prenup. I don't care what you want to tell me. I don't care about any of that shit. A prenup is a must. You can date whatever gold digger that you want. She's hot. She's worth it. Hey, by all means, if she's making you happy, who am I to judge? But sign the prenup. And if she says no, there's the door. You found out exactly what you needed. She's only after you for her money. If she makes you sign that prenup, a prenup of which puts you at a 30% greater chance of staying married, then she's literally trying to find the back door. And I'm not talking about your back door. You don't want to get pegged. Yeah, especially like the way you find them, where you find them. It's really important to find a girl at the club. They're expecting to get married. And so exactly. If you're meeting somebody in the club, well, she's a club girl. What do you expect? I mean, I'm not saying that there's no good girls at the club. But the chances of meeting one there, they're very slim to none. And so how do you in fact meet them? Well, it is in fact very hard. My best advice would be to try to find them doing the things that you like to do. So if you're a bike rider, you like going to the gym, perhaps meet them on that club bicycle ride or meet them at the gym. That would be ideal. If you like reading books, meet them at the library. If you like singing at some kind of place where people sing. If you can do that and you share similar interests and they're out in the real world and you're not actually intoxicated while you're getting to know them, that would be ideal. And to the girls, if you guys would only wake up and stop being idiots. Do like Mepsogram and write your dream men. My name is such and such. I saw you here and there. And I would like to go out with you. What is wrong with that? Women think that men have to make the first move. But yet, 85% of men are not going to make the first move. And so if you want to increase your chances of meeting your dream men, start going after what you want. Start liking their photos. Stop making it look like the men have to approach you. I know if I can send a DM and that's all it takes to be able to, you know, do whatever with someone. It's probably not someone you want to be with. I don't usually, I don't send a DM. Mike actually agrees with me here. He's like, you have to go out there and do things where you're going to meet girls in person. Sending DMs and stuff, it works amazingly well if you look like Mike. I mean, let's be honest. But the average guy who doesn't have a million followers and isn't six foot two is not going to work for them. The way I see it is if you're a hot girl, she's got a couple hundred thousand followers. Yes. You send a DM, you're one of hundreds, if not thousands of guys who are basically going to like... Yeah, but you're Mike Thurston. And also, please realize that all the girls with the thought photos, you know, the half naked photos and stuff where they're advertising for you. If you send them a DM, you're competing against hundreds. Every guy is doing the same thing. Copy paste. And so, girls, you're looking for validation, but all you're doing is getting men who are copy pasting your hot and sending it to a hundred women, hoping that one will write back. And so, what you're doing is you're picking the guy that has the most money. You're going on the yacht parties and so on. And the men are only using you for your body, for your looks. They don't really care. And so, you're both using each other. One is using them for money. The other person is using them for looks. Nothing good is going to come out of this. Some narrow waist as well. Yeah, it helps with the... Like, when I pose... He's got, like, guys, he's got little stick legs. That's why he's wearing the bag. Yeah, yeah. He's all right. And so, Mike's calling him out. He's like, why do you think he's wearing pants? His legs aren't up to the caliber of muscle. Although, they're better than most guys. It's just, compared to the supreme development of the shoulders, the chest, the arms, they're not at that level. And so, why Hussein looks so incredible and has so many fake natty accusations is because the majority of muscles are here. They're in the tank top, the show muscles, the beach bod muscles. With that small of a waist and muscles all here, he just looks like a fake natty. He isn't, but he looks it. I mean, clearly, visibly, he doesn't look natural. Now, if you took all of those muscles, let's call it 20 of those pounds, and you spread it out evenly over his body. You added 10 pounds in his legs. Perhaps you widened his waist a little bit. Everyone would say, natural. They would say, clearly, he just works out hard. But because of his genetics, making the waist look so small, and having smaller legs, and all the muscle being in the exact places that you want as a man, that is why he gets so many fake daddy accusations. Hey, I'm just telling it like it is. You see how Mike's waist actually looks wide? It isn't. Mike's waist is small. The difference is, Hussein's waist is minuscule. It's invisible, almost. It doesn't exist. And so, that is why he looks so crazy. It's not because he has so much muscle that it doesn't make any sense. It's because his proportions are out of this world. Even next to a specimen like Mr. Delicious himself, you can see how small the waist is. And so, of course, Turk Platinum, Turk Builder Max, all the supplements. You can use creatine. You can use GLP Max to help reduce your cravings. You can use G-Test Platinum. All the products. Don't forget about the Sequel Bars code CICO for 50% off. And there's the money back guarantee with the $50 gift card. And so, please try out the supplements. If you're interested in becoming an athlete, part of HLT supplements, click the link and apply. If you want to carry the supplements, sell them in stores or gyms, the link. If you want to be coached by myself and or myself and my team, the link, click it as well. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost the algorithm. Please like and subscribe. Watch those two bloops, at least one of them. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: Obesity Gene Makes You Fat [VZb0JbBxKms].txt ===

 in 1994-nifzeze,liśmy mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage and you have no choice about it. And so all of these years, it's never been your fault all along. It's actually the obesity gene. And so, hey, pat yourself on the back because it's not your fault. If you carry the obesity gene, if that is what you have, that is what makes you overeat. How many people out there believe that Oprah said this for free? That the multi-billion dollar company selling ozempic, terzipitide, whatever, that there isn't an ulterior motive for her to tell you these things. I mean, after all, Oprah, one of the most famous females in all the world, if she says that it's not your fault, then you're going to believe her. And you know what you're then going to do? You're going to buy ozempic. You're going to buy more of these drugs. You don't overeat and become obese. Obesity causes you to overeat. Let's get things straight. There is no obesity gene. She's acting like there's some gene and if you got it, you're obese and there's nothing you can do about it. Obesity is on a spectrum and every one of us has either more propensity to becoming obese or less. Yes, your genes are going to make it more difficult for you to stay lean, but ultimately in the end, the choice is in fact yours. Biology doesn't erase physics. You still need to eat any calorie deficit in order to gain weight. You can't say, well, if I'm in a calorie deficit, I'm going to break out in hives and so I need to be obese. You're obese because you chose it. That's right. You chose it. We've had this debate for years. Obesity is a choice, a difficult one for some people, but a choice nonetheless. If you think that you're obese because you have an obesity gene, you're thinking, well, I have no say in this. I have no control. What Oprah stated takes the power away from you and so you might be thinking, she's so understanding. She gets me. She feels me. What she's doing is she's disempowering you into thinking there's nothing you can do aside from buying ozempic or whatever GLP that there is and so I'm full disclosure here. I'm a part owner of AlgoRx and if you go to the website and you purchase said peptides, I'm going to make more money and so indirectly or actually directly when Oprah says this, it actually makes me more money but I'm still not going to sit there and agree with Oprah Winfrey and not only that, did you all know, did you miss that video where I explained that ozempic can cause blindness, that they're being sued for over a billion dollars and not only that, I saw this in a study just the other day over a 100% increase in people committing that thing where you're no longer with us. I don't want to say that word, it starts with an S. This is what ozempic, Terzipitide, the GLPs can also do aside from reducing the food noise and making it much easier for you to lose weight. That I agree with. Remember, this is a no bullshit channel. I speak the truth and I'm not going to lie to you. Aside from making it much easier for you to lose weight, it also reduces the level of dopamine you experience from doing a variety of different things. For example, sexy time, smoking cigarettes, shopping, gambling, eating. You have less pleasure from the pleasures in life, the fun things. I mean, how many people out there are going to disagree with me that gambling, sexy time, smoking, drinking, partying, and so on, that those things are not pleasureful. And you know what that could ultimately do? Well, for some people, it makes them not want to be here. When you purchase these things, it can make me more money, but I don't want to make money at the expense of you no longer being with us. That would make no sense. Does it happen to everyone? Of course not. When they do studies on ozempic, trizapatite, and so on, a whole bunch of people benefit from it. And then there's a whole bunch of people that don't, who experience negative side effects. Nausea throwing up. They can't use the bathroom. They're in pain. This is bad. But remember, we're a very vain society and people will do anything to lose weight. And so if you dangle an injection, hey, if you take this, you're going to have an easier time to lose weight. What do you think people are going to do? They're going to take it to the same extent. Hey, you inject this, you take TRT, steroids, testosterone, and clomiphene, your life is going to get better. And so you buy it. But remember, I always recommend that you try to do things naturally first. And so rather than using hormones, testosterone, HRT, ozempic, whatever, to try to lose weight, try to lose it on your own first. Now, of course, I sell a cookbook to help you to lose weight. I encourage you to go to the gym to do cardio zone too. And I explain to that in videos, but many of you, you're going to hate me. All you do is care about money. Yeah, whatever. I care about money. I care about helping people. Two things can be true at the same time. Try to lose the weight. Try to do it without it. But if it's not working and you're still obese, I'm not here to say, don't try ozempic. Don't try Terzipitide. I'm not saying don't go to AlgorX to try to save a ton of money because in comparison to AmeriHealth, it's significantly cheaper. It's about half price. And obviously, use code GREG for 10% off. But I don't want you to buy these things if you can do it on your own. And if you do end up needing it, please use the lowest dose that makes you happy. I don't understand every single day. Even my friends are using too high doses. You have no idea how many messages I get, DMs, friends telling me, oh, you know, I'm on ozempic, but I never want to eat anymore. And I always have a stomach ache and I'm nauseous. It sucks. And I'm like, do you ever think about using half that dose? Why are you taking so much? If you're taking something, so much of it, and it's ruining your life, why are you not reducing the doses? And so I feel like I'm a reasonable person and I'm listening to people explain to me what they're doing. And I'm thinking, why don't you just listen to me? I'm 50 years old. I've been young once before. I think about these things. I consider myself an educated person. And so if my theory is to try something and you don't know what to do, why not just listen to me? Like take my opinion and go with it. And so when I say the lowest dose that makes you happy, I'm not saying take the maximum dose. I'm saying less is more. Just enough to get you the results that you need. The food noise is too strong. You need it. Okay. Okay. I get it. Your genetics suck. You can't lose weight without it. And so you take a little bit of the ozempic. Enough to reduce the food noise just so that you can stick to your diet. Not so much so that you never want to eat, that you have no pleasure in life and you want to commit you know what. What's wrong with you? And if you don't want to try the ozempics, you don't want to go to Algorx for Enclomiphene and so on, why not try GLP Max from HLT supplements? And have you not already tried GLP Max to improve your cardio? I mean, imagine you can actually go and do cardio and burn calories, become a better butter burner. And Turk Platinum, you know, the Turk that's actually legit. Unlike the other companies that have been scamming you for years, the actual Turk, you get to the website, you buy all these things, you put in the blue lobster into your cart, you do the pre-workout, you do the cardio, and you lose the weight and you listen to Coach Greg. Just because it's 2026, you think that pharmaceutical companies, do you know, out of the kindness of their heart, they don't care about making billions of dollars. Talking billions with a B. People will do almost anything for thousands of dollars. Imagine millions or make it billions. When there's billions of dollars on the line, do you think people are willing to lie? Oh, let's not talk about those negative side effects from OSEPIC. Let's not mention the ocular difficulties. Let's not mention the sadness, the depression, and what that could lead to. I mean, what the hell? It's only a 106% increase. Why would we put a black box warning on that? It's not like it's going to matter. Yeah, once you've made billions of dollars. Years later, hey, oh, it turned out that there was a problem all along. Does that not sound like the Halloween mask we were forced to wear? Oh, years later, oh yeah, we didn't need it after all. Sorry. After we made $100 billion on its sales. And so if you think for one second that no way would the government or pharmaceutical companies or any of them lie to us, well, you probably also still believe in Santa Claus and the tooth fairy. Now don't you. Obesity is about biology. Obesity is not a choice. It is not a personal failure. Two thirds of Americans did not wake up one morning and decide to have a disease. Isn't it ironic that there's more people that have this deficiency, this problem, than people that don't? What are the odds of that that most people would be born with something that we shouldn't have? That we wouldn't have evolved to be like this? That magically, out of nowhere, we're all wrong. Our bodies, our biology, inaccurate. If it was 5,000 years ago, this obesity epidemic, it wouldn't exist. Why do you think that is? Because obesity would be a benefit. The more calories that you can eat, the hungrier you are, the lower likely you're going to survive. Because when you're more hungry, trust me, you're more motivated to go and eat. Only thing is, you couldn't just open the freezer and get out a tub of Haagen-Dazs. You couldn't go in the pantry and grab some cookies. You had to go and hunt. You had to go walk, perhaps in the woods, pick some blueberries, pick some strawberries, go and hunt a deer. You had to go out and get food and it was hard. Burn a lot of calories. And so, the people who were hungrier ate more food, they had more body fat, and they were able to survive the harsh winters. And so, obesity, it's not really a thing. There's just people who are more hungry and people who are less hungry. I think understanding that obesity is a disease starts to shift from that. That's what shifted me. That's what got me to use the medications. Why do you think they want to say that obesity is a disease? Like, let's put our thinking caps on for a few minutes. Do you think it's possible that if they label obesity as a disease, then healthcare providers are suddenly going to have to pay for all these medications? I mean, if it's the same thing as high blood pressure, if you go to the doctor and your blood pressure is 170 over 120, they're going to give you telmosertan, they're going to give you whatever. They give you the prescription and it's free, it's covered because it's a disease. If you need insulin, hey, you're diabetic, you need it. And so, it's covered. Medical coverage worth billions of dollars. And so, if we can convince everyone that obesity is some form of a gene, disease, mutation, whatever, then the healthcare provider as well is covered. And then, guess who makes all of this money? Now, in Canada, with free healthcare, isn't it great though? Because it's free. How do you think it's free? We, as in me, mostly me and some other Canadians, they pay for everyone's healthcare in Canada. We pay for it out of our taxes. And so, when it's free, it's not really free. We, mostly me, pay for it. And I say mostly me because I make more than most people. And how it works is they charge 10 or 100 times more than it actually costs. And so, by the time you get it free, you know, the medication that costs 20 cents, for example, the prednisone that they prescribed for me because I had bronchitis on the cruise ship, the 21 cents each that it cost me. Well, in Canada, they're going to charge you hundreds of dollars. Yay! Thanks, Canada! It's kind of like when you get in a car accident and you have to repair your car and they say, oh, is it under insurance? And they say, yeah. And they say, oh, I had $6,000 to repair that door. But if you pay it out of your own pocket, it's $2,000. And why do you think that is? Because, well, the insurance is going to pay for it and so it's free. It's not how it works. And the fact that it's free when you have your car accident, how do you think they're paying for that? They're paying it from your freaking deductible. They're getting it from the amount of money you spend on your insurance. For example, the $21,000 a year I spend on my car insurance in case I get in an accident, they're using that money to pay for your free car repairs. I've been on blood pressure medication for as long as I can remember because both of my parents have high blood pressure. High blood pressure runs in the black community. You know what else increases blood pressure? Obesity. Being obese, you know, eating too much chips and hogging dollars and being 100 pounds overweight. And if you lose weight, you know what typically is going to go down? Your blood pressure. But do you know that with ozempic, these changes don't happen as much as you would predict. For some reason, when you're using ozempic, terzipitide and so on, the health markers that you would see through blood work, blood pressure, all the different things, they don't improve as much when you're on said medication than when you're not. And so isn't that strange? If you lose the weight from doing cardio, you know, going to the gym, lifting weights, eating from my cookbook, you're actually healthier than if you lose the weight when you're taking ozempic. And so ozempic isn't as good. And I'm not saying you shouldn't use it. I'm not saying it doesn't have any benefit, but it's not as good as if you were able to do it on your own. Just saying. All these years, I thought I was overeating. I was standing there with all the food noise, what I ate. I thought that that was because of me and my fault. No, your biology didn't change physics. You can't break the laws of thermodynamics. You were still eating in a surplus. That's your fault. You chose to do that with personal chefs at home and cardio at your disposal. If you chose to do the cardio and you chose to eat healthy and Oprah, if you had it in my freaking cookbook or if you had Coach Greg as your chef, no way would you be overweight. But why would you want to listen to that? You know, if Oprah watched all my videos and she did what I said, Oprah wouldn't be overweight. She probably wouldn't even eat ozempic. Now I understand that if you carry the obesity gene, if that is what you have, that is what makes you overeat. Now I understand that it's not my fault whatsoever. I'm taking all accountability away because you know, after all, I am a woman. And so why would I want to be accountable? I would not. And so I'm going to make excuses. And so as Oprah Winfrey, she's so famous and people respect her. And so when she says this other fat piece is a shit out there who are lazy, they can sit there and say, see, is saying see, is that beneficial? I'm fat because of the obesity gene. It's not my fault. I couldn't have done anything about it. Coach Greg and his yapping about a cookbook and 150 minutes of cardio and going to the gym. What a loser. He hates us. He just wants to make fun of us, cause us fat pieces of shit, cause us lazy. Oprah, she's a nice woman because she says it's not our fault. Well, perhaps being paid by pharmaceutical companies worth billions of dollars. I mean, why would she do that? But she's so nice because she makes us feel good about ourselves. You really feel good about yourself right about now? Oprah's saying it's okay that you're fat and lazy and that you don't do cardio and you eat shit food and it's all your genetics fault. That makes you feel good about yourself. Well, it's gonna make you feel good when you're dead. Wouldn't you rather hear the truth? A wake-up call, if you will. Get out there and move. Who cares whose fault it is? As soon as you start blaming other people, putting accountability on everyone else, you limit your ability to change. And so that changes everything. Oprah is ruining it for so many people, but yet she thinks she's doing a good thing. That's what got me to use the medications and to come out about using the medications and no longer feel shame about the medications. I mean, the fact that you guys are such losers and you care what people think of you this much, like, I don't understand it. Like, why do you give a shit so much about what people say? Oh, I'm too ashamed to use ozempic because somebody will make fun of me and say I have ozempic vulva, ozempic face, ozempic this and that. Who fucking cares? Men use testosterone. Oh, I can't admit it because if people find out I'm on HRT, they'll think I'm a loser. Why do you care what people think? Take what you need, take what you want. If it's Enclomiphene, if it's Cialis, if it's Viagra, if it's Telmosar, take what you need. Go to Al Gorex, code Greg, 10% off. Obviously, you want to get a deal on these items. You get pharmaceutical products from a doctor, prescription, not illegal, not some SARMs bathtub website, prescription, pharmaceutical grade, legal items prescribed by a doctor. That is Al Gorex in a nutshell and so whatever you need, don't feel ashamed of it. I'm getting secondhand embarrassment that you're embarrassed to admit what you're taking. Oh, I couldn't tell anyone that I'm on ozempic or Telmosartan or that I want Cialis to get harder than freaking last time. Literally, I can't admit it because what if she or he makes fun of me? Are you that big of a loser? I mean, goodness, come on. That's enough of this video. Stop being losers. Stop being pathetic. Stop giving a shit about what other people think of you. Ending it here. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you liked it, watch one of those two bloops. And if you want to get sponsored, get paid even by Coach Greg and HLT supplements, apply. The bigger the following, the better it is for us because you can promote it to more people. And if you want to have HLT supplements in your stores, gyms, and so on, click the link and apply. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: Peter Attia YOU ARE DONE [P0fjKzL1Ddw].txt ===

 Xeno付eter, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, slimestare, talking about a shipment, the fact that he was missing, getting withdrawals of Jeffrey Epstein, and that, you know, the private area of the downstairs and females, well, it doesn't have very many carbs. I don't care how much you like Peter to you. I don't care. People are going to say, oh, but he's a good person. He has a wife and he has kids. He's helped so many millions of people get in better shape, fitness, and so on. All of that goes out the window when you find out about him being a PDF file. Best case scenario, he didn't actually engage in these activities with minors, with children, and so on. He just knew about it and covered it up. That's the best case. The best case is that he didn't physically act on it himself, but he covered for it, kept it secret, and allowed it to go on. And last I checked, that is illegal. And so with this new information, there had better be some investigations. They had better find out exactly what's going on. And the full extent of the law, they need to do something about it. One of the country's most prominent physicians is in the Epstein files, and the emails look pretty damning. Dr. Peter Atiyah is a longevity doctor who is a New York Times bestselling author and the host of a popular podcast. Here's an alleged email from Dr. Peter Atiyah to Leslie Groff, who was one of Epstein's assistants. And it says, no, thank you so much. See you next time. Hopefully, J.E. in town when I'm back in two weeks. I go into J.E. withdrawal when I don't see him. I mean, what exactly does that mean? No matter what he's referring to, it's already looking bad. And this email apparently between Dr. Atiyah and Jeffrey Epstein with the subject, got a fresh shipment. You the biggest problem with becoming friends with you. The life you lead is so outrageous. And yet I can't tell a soul. Why would you be friends with someone like that? Now, this is what you should do in case you don't know if you should find out about something like this. Now, remember, there are millions of people that could potentially watch this video. If you find out that somebody is taking advantage of children doing anything, you don't just turn to blind eye. You don't just say, I'll cover for you. I'll keep your secret. You go and report it to the police. This is what you do. The fact that people keep it secret, that they cover for people. And I don't care what your reasons are. Oh, if I don't say anything, he's going to give me money. He's going to give me a raise. He's going to promote me. I'll get in with all the cool, famous, rich people of the world. And I'll be a famous YouTuber. Perhaps AG Greens will sponsor me. They'll pay me. And I'll be a multi-millionaire, well-respected man. I don't care. None of that is worth it. If you can let this happen and you can sleep well at night or even sleep at all at night, there's something mentally wrong with you. How can you let this happen? On your watch, how could you do this? You the biggest problem with becoming friends with you? The life you lead is so outrageous and yet I can't tell a soul. To which Jeffrey E replies, afraid not. With that sequence of events, the responses back and forth, the emails, I'm afraid not, can't tell anybody, can't tell a soul, can't tell anyone. Clearly there is a cover-up. Clearly he knows what's going on, but yet chooses not to, chooses to remain to be friends. And so whether or not Pierre Atouya engaged in said activities, I don't care. It's just as bad, possibly perhaps even worse. Language that I don't want to share with you here today that is just not good. One person is reporting that there are 175 pages of documents with Dr. Atiyah in the Epstein files. In general, I don't agree with canceling people. I don't think they should be canceled. Most of the time you make a mistake, you apologize, you forgive, you get over things, but not this time. There's some things that in this life that if you choose to do, there is no going back. When it involves minors, children, these types of allegations, there's no one doing that. Once you've done this to kids, it changes them for life. They cannot be ever the same. Another example, if you take someone's life, you can't bring them back. And so this is the severity of what we're hearing right now. They should follow the law, but let's not get our knickers in a twist here. Yeah, let's not get our knickers in a twist over child rape. When people try to say that this isn't a big deal, the Epstein files, I don't care. Let's just keep it covered up. What are you talking about? We've been waiting for this for so long. And the fear is that because these people have so much money that they'll actually get away with it. No matter what happens, I don't care if it's the president of the United States. I don't care if it's the prime minister of Canada. I don't care if it's the most beloved, best actor in the world, most famous. I don't care who it is. If they did something like this, they need to be punished. Why are you talking like that? It's insane. Like, it's insane. The Epstein files is a multinational, multi generational child and woman sex trafficking ring. So your attitude right now, you're you're you're sort of like, well, shucks, devil be gone is just horrifying to me. Every woman in the world that is watching this, it's not just every woman. Don't act like it's women against men. This is not a woman versus men problem. This is a the rest of the world knows how ridiculous this is. And we cannot try to minimize it. P ends with a Y, you know, pussycat. Well, it is indeed low carb, still waiting on the gluten content, though. If that was just him joking around with his buddies, if he was saying, hey, Andrew Huberman, you know, low carb, just joking around. It's not a big deal. Guys talk like this all the time. But not with a PDF file. Not when you know what's going on. This is so inappropriate. It's shocking. And so I'm seeing God a fresh shipment. And below that it says, afraid not. They're not talking about a fresh shipment of turkesterone, guys. This is not what they're talking about. They're talking about people 20 plus year marriage, wife, kids. It means nothing. Just because you think someone is a good person doesn't mean that they are. I always tell people that what you see is just the tip of the iceberg. Oh, you're a good person. You're a bad person. You're seeing just the tip. And did you all know Peter Tia did not even graduate medical school that he had dropped out? The life you lead is so outrageous. And yet I can't tell a soul. 20 plus year marriage to a nurse with three children, at least two daughters. He went to Stanford Medical School, dropped out of surgical residency at Johns Hopkins, is not board certified, and has made millions from his wellness grift online. He is either currently or formerly associated, affiliated with each of these companies. And so he's associated with AG Green's been promoting that as well as the David bar. And so, you know, first thing I'm going to do is unfollow Peter Tia. I've actually written him in private a number of times trying to do podcasts with them. Well, that is not going to happen. Before we talk about emails or names or excuses, I want to talk to survivors. If you were abused as a child and learned that powerful adults joked, minimized or stayed silent about people who hurt kids, I need you to hear this. You are seen. You matter. This should never be treated casually. I'm a pediatric specialist and my job is to protect children and advocate for people who were harmed when adults failed them. There are documented emails showing Dr. Peter Tia communicating casually with Jeffrey Epstein, a man who abused and trafficked children. This isn't about rumors. This isn't about internet outrage. This is about judgment, responsibility, and accountability. When the topic is to harm children, there's no place for jokes, no place for coded language, no place for silence. And right now, the silence matters. These topics demand seriousness. They deserve transparency. And they deserve adults, especially physicians and public figures who will clearly say this, this was wrong. Advocacy means we don't look away, means we don't minimize harm. And it means we speak up even when it's uncomfortable. To survivors watching this, you are not invisible. We will keep advocating because protecting children and honoring survivors is not optional. It's our duty. If you know about somebody doing harm to children, it's your duty to report it. And if you do not do that, well, you are not a man. You're not a woman. And you're almost as bad or possibly just as bad or possibly worse than those actually doing it. We need to speak up. This is not okay. It's not something to say, oh, I'm going to look the other way. People should be making videos and you shouldn't be worried about the content. So many people are not going to talk about this because they're thinking, well, the algorithm isn't going to like it. I don't want to talk about this. It's negative. If all you care about is getting views, making money, what kind of person are you? Oh, Coach Greg, you're a bad person because you try to sell Torchesterone. You make videos, you make fun of people, you put them down, but at least I speak out when it matters. What are you doing about it? How are you trying to help? All right. So I made some comments about Peter Atiyah. I like his approach when it comes to fitness and health. He's a doctor who's very knowledgeable when it comes to practical and very good information when it comes to, you know, zone two cardio, zone five cardio training, et cetera, increasing mortality. Homeboys on the Epstein files. What's he doing on the Epstein files? And if you go with the Epstein, you got to have a lot of money. So regardless, just like that, F you, Peter, like done. Like I, it ain't that hard. It's not that hard for me to be like, see ya. And so you're done. We're not going to promote you. We're not going to listen to what you tell us to do in regards to fitness. We're not watching your podcast. We're done. We're moving on. We're done with you. I'm going to assume you are okay with PDF files. You sick. Or you are one yourself. Period. I got no time for that shit. I got zero time. Zero time. So I made it clear. The problem is when people find out that their hero did something wrong, they're trying to make excuses as to why, well, maybe this, maybe that. But if somebody that you don't like and you find out they did something wrong, you're very quick to condemn. And so depending on who you find out did something wrong, you might in fact change your opinion. I'm unbiased. I don't care if it's the worst person in the world or the nicest person in the world. I'm judging you the same. Based on the information, based on what comes out, that is how you should be deciding it. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the album, like the video if you liked it, watch any of those two bloops. Of course, you can get the terkesterone, the supplements, the code Greg, but this is not what it's about. It's to spread awareness and to send out a message that this is not okay and we will not sit back quietly and ignore it. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: Sam Sulek Has No Chance At The Arnolds [AFbVnhWXlNI].txt ===

 show Sam flexing, I mean, look at this guy, he's likely not going to be as good as he could be. He'll be lucky to beat anyone if I'm going to be Frank and so who cares. Coach Greg in today's video, Sam Sulik is five and a half weeks out, about 40 days, and he writes, Donuts pre-workout. Sam is way ahead of schedule. He's so fast. He's so far ahead of schedule that it's actually concerning me and he's so far ahead of schedule that it's actually concerning me and remember he's opted not to have a coach, he's coaching himself. I see nothing wrong with that. However, he's likely not going to be as good as he could be. Who cares? Like, he has no chance of winning this contest and so why not just have fun with it and having fun with it and having fun is what he's doing. Is it a rest day if you still did an hour of cardio and then ran around outside for probably like a half weeks? And so for Sam, doing an hour of cardio and 45 minutes of shoveling, that for him is a rest day. For you, that's a workout. Well, for most of you. No, when you do an hour of cardio, that's not a rest day. A rest day is when you rest and if you're doing an hour of cardio, you're not resting. For most people, that is in fact a workout. But for Sam, who's training harder than last time, you know, main gaining, doing all of the correct things, when he only does cardio, that is an easy day. Imagine an hour of cardio on the bike, kind of like Coach Greg, and then on top of that, shoveling the snow. Have you seen all the storms as of late? I'm really glad that I'm ahead of schedule for this show or for these competitions compared to last year because I don't think any of the guys who are coming to do the Arnold are off plan. Sam is showing up as an underdog. As an amateur, he was perhaps the favorite. He was expected to win. But as an IFBB pro at the Arnold's, which is for the best bodybuilders in the world, he'll be lucky to beat anyone, if I'm going to be frank. And so even if he makes the last call out, even if he only beats one competitor, that is a win. And the competitor that I'm referring to, it is in fact himself. So long as he looks better than he did at his last competition, that's winning. Remember, you can't control how other people show up. If every person that shows up is a top Olympia competitor and they're all at their all-time best, what chance does Sam have? And so it's not about him beating other people. It's about him beating himself at 2.30, shredded, looking the way he does. Show the video. Show Sam flexing. I mean, look at this guy. This is 40 days out. He looks four days out. For many people, this would be peak week. And so if you're asking me, he's at least two weeks ahead of schedule. He could go into relaxation mode. He could up his calories by 500. He could reduce his cardio. He could just simply go through the motions. If you're shredded for too long, it actually hinders your ability to come in at your best. I mean, think of it. Is it better to peak early? To be ahead of schedule? To be more ready than you need to be far sooner? Well, let's analyze that. Is it better to be at 5% body fat 10 weeks out when your plan is to compete at 4? I think everyone would understand that the longer you're at 5% body fat, the harder it is to put on muscle, the more you're going to suffer, and the less quality muscle you're going to bring on stage. And so if we consider that he's 40 days out, but he's two weeks ahead of schedule, that's two extra weeks that he's going to suffer and have a very hard time putting on muscle. Remember, the longer you're in a deficit, the lower your calorie intake, the more cardio that you're doing, the harder it is to retain muscle. If it wasn't for that, why would people go on bulks? Why wouldn't they just maintain contest shredded condition year-round? I mean, think of it. If you just compete and you keep going and you stay at 4% body fat, you're ready way out. 16 weeks out, you're contest ready, you're shredded. You have to just cruise into the competition. That is not ideal. And so Sam is in fact making a mistake by being this far ahead of schedule. Now, it does in fact make your mind set at ease. Oh, I can just coast in. I'm ahead of schedule. Look how good I look. But you don't want to be ahead of schedule. You don't want to be behind schedule. You just want to be on schedule. When you're on, you're on. Ahead? It's not good. You might be thinking, hey, ahead is always good. You're running a mile and you're in the Olympics and you run out the first 400 meters and you're five seconds ahead of the competition. You're way ahead. Is that good? Of course not. You wasted your energy. You tapped into your anaerobic lactic energy system way too much and you're not relying on your aerobic power. And so you're ending up with a slower time. And so Sam will in fact be losing some quality hard-earned muscle tissue by being ahead of schedule. When I got hit with a Jay Cutler, like your shape's decent, that was a real take. As you know, last year he was behind schedule. Jay Cutler had to give him a wake-up call saying your condition is decent. Your condition's decent. Decent. Okay, good. He then had to up the ante. And so this year, he wanted to do the opposite. And perhaps a year from now, he'll figure it out. Remember, he's his own coach. He doesn't have an expert who's done this for years to tell him exactly what to be doing. And so the first year of his competition, he was behind schedule. The second year, he's ahead of schedule. And perhaps in the next year, he'll be bang on. I'm feeling beastly. I'm feeling beastly after that one. But no, I... Holy shit. Holy shit. I mean, does it not put a smile on your face to watch Sam look at himself in the mirror and be in awe? He's looking at his biceps, his shoulders, and he's thinking, this is me, this is Sam. I remember that feeling. Thinking, I can't believe that people on this planet look like this and that I'm one of them. You're literally looking at your reflection in the mirror and you can't believe what you see. You see so many striations, the size, the definition. And so it's exciting. He's giddy. He's happy. And this is why he does it. It's not for the plastic trophy of which he has zero chance of earning. It's for the moments that you experience on the journey towards that destination. Oh, this is crazy for me. I don't know if it translates on camera sometimes. Yeah, trust me, it's translating. It looks redonkulous. Me just looking in the mirror right now? I just feel like a total freak. So, that's what I want to see. Like, not even... Holy crap. I mean, the holy craps, the smiles, the laughs, the looking in the mirror. This is the most impressive I've ever been. Okay, let's run through a few. Sam is recording himself. He's recording himself every single day, every moment. His training, his philosophy, his drive to the gym, everything. And in reality, people don't generally do this. And so, what he's doing is he's vocalizing what you would experience if you did the exact same thing. Anyone who diets, anyone who competes, feels this way. You may not be as good as Sam Sulik. You may not have his genetics. You may not even be on steroids. You might be 100% natural. But when you watch, you witness the transformation of your physique because of the hard work that you put into it. Remember, you're the one that did it. You put the fork down. You did the cardio. You lifted the weight. You trained harder than last time. When you see it come to fruition, the work that you put in, you're going to feel exactly like this. I mean, one pose after the next, each more impressive than the last. This looks amazing. Now, when I say he looks about 20 days out, for most people, this is show ready. But I'm talking about at the professional level. He's 40 days out, but he only needs about half. Oh my gosh. No, that is crazy. And you can see how hard this is. I mean, just flexing, holding it, breathing. It's hard. And speaking of hard, you know what this is for. Harder than freaking last time for the downstairs. Increased blood flow, circulation. You're going to look and feel that much better. Also, pre-pump. If you want to get a pump like this, this is what I consume intra-workout. Many people take this before the gym. I take the Blue Lobster. You get Blue Lobster before the gym. And then while I'm training, I get the extra enhanced pump. The flavor is amazing. It's going to help me get hydrated. Increased blood flow. And so you get to be harder than last time all over wherever it's supposed to count. So of course, I'm kind of cheating. Really fancy lighting. Cool camera. It's not cheating to have fancy lighting. You're cheating yourself if you don't. You ever think of that? I got amazing lighting right here. If you don't have amazing lighting, you're only cheating yourself. And so when you send your photos to your coach, your trainer, or when you judge your own physique, don't judge it in shitty lighting. Because if you do that, you're going to remember Sam Sulik from right now. You're going to remember that photo, that physique. And you're going to be comparing yourself to that. You might not think you're comparing. You might not want to compare. But subconsciously, indirectly, you're comparing yourself to Sam. If you've seen Sam, you're flexing the mirror and you're doing your thing. And you're thinking, I'm not as big as Sam. I'm not as lean as Sam. I'm not as good as Sam. But don't make it any worse. Don't pose under horrible lighting and say, I feel fat. I must have 15%. I thought I had 12. Don't say these things. Give yourself the best chance to feel like you look good. Trust me. Almost every social media influencer on Instagram, YouTube, they're posting their best photos. Many are editing their photos. They're even using AI. They're using the best downlining, the best angles. And so when you compare yourself to anyone that you swiped out on the internet, understand that you're comparing them to their best. And so why not look at yourself when you're at your best? I mean, I can see all my freaking lat inserts all the way at the bottom. I mean, he's almost, I mean, dare I say, is he almost as lean as Mike Isertel? Thank you, Greg. With the proper tan, would Mike Isertel be leaner than Sam Sulik? Look, I don't know if it translates. Yeah, buddy. It translates. Trust me. You could have had Coach Greg translating for you. I've been practicing my Duolingo. But I am a happy freaking lifter. And so we're all happy to see how good it feels. And what we're referring to is how good it feels to get a discount by using code Greg at HCLT Supplements. That is a better feeling that I cannot describe. Does it get any better than this? Yeah, it gets even better. If you go to Algorx, you get 10% off by entering code Greg because not everyone can do it natty. Algorx have doctor-prescribed prescription medications, pharmaceutical, and it's all legal. And clomiphene, testosterone, like HRT, peptides, all the things. And so if you need to lose weight or you need telmosertin because your blood pressure is too high, you need Cialis or Viagra because, well, harder than last time, it ain't quite enough. Code Greg 10% off. It just keeps getting better. Does it get any better than this in terms of overall satisfaction? Man, the satisfaction. Bruh. I mean, I'm seeing all these crazy jokes into my mind, but I don't want to say them. I don't want to become the next Mr. Mike, except not gay. I can definitely feel a little bit of extra, a little extra juice, a little extra gas in the tank that lift. Gay to see he's got extra gas in the tank. You don't want to be running on fumes, especially during the winter season when there's snow everywhere. You run out of gas. It's not the time to do this. I think I want to make some of my meals a little bit less enjoyable because it actually makes it easier to sit and eat it for longer and take my time with it and not scarf it down like super quickly. Noted. Sam, do not order or purchase the anabolic cookbook. You want boring, bland recipes that you don't want to eat. Apparently for Sam, enjoying his diet, it's not a thing. It's not something that he wants. It's too hard to resist a food. If he doesn't like the food that is played, he eats it slower and it helps him to be more satiated. Hey, whatever works for you. Sam is a specimen. He's an IBB pro, but for the rest of us, you know, for 95% of the people out there, I strongly recommend you get the cookbook because of the high protein, the delicious, massive recipes that make you actually full. But if you want to have boring shit food, chicken, broccoli, rice with no condiments, no sweeteners, no Diet Coke and Pepsi, by all means, you can hate your life. I don't care. Hate your life. But I make sure to drink at least a liter of water before a meal because that kind of already hits me with like an instant fullness feeling. And so the next strategy that we can learn from Sam is before any meal, drink one liter of water. That way your stomach is slightly distended. It's going to send a signal to the brain saying, you know, you're kind of full. It tricks the brain. It doesn't know the difference between water and food to an extent. And so it is actually a good tip. If you consume more water before you eat, every time you eat, imagine you have to drink a water. Imagine every single time you have to eat, you drink a liter of water. That's five liters. If you eat five times a day, that is a lot of liquids. And more liquids can make you more satiated. It's healthy to drink water. And so I think this is a great idea. Why not incorporate it? And even if a liter is too much, why not just try a half a liter? A lot of these guys, they've got to come in from Europe. They're going to show up early. I'll be going early. I'm flying up on the 5th. They're going to be there to attend and meet the fans and do all the comments. All kinds of stuff Coach Greg could be doing at the Arnold's. And so make sure you get your tickets. Show up to the Arnold's. You can meet perhaps Sam Sulik, Jay Cutler. The list goes on and on. Subscribe. Click the stinking bell button. Comment and boost the algorithm. Get up off your feet and start screaming for it. Boy, we're getting a little excited here. Buy supplements from Al Gorex and HTLT supplements and apply to be sponsored. If you've got a great following and you want to be on the HTLT team to promote the supplements, apply by clicking the link. And if you've got a store or a gym and you want the supplements to be sold there, apply and click by linking the link in the description. And until next time, out.

=== FILE: Sam Sulek Pulling Out [jrnyfA_OAg0].txt ===

 naringin,boxing,liśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmymliśmy to 226 like that that's given me the low terrain pull up signal why is sam pulling out no he's not pulling out of the arnolds he's pulling out of his diet the reason is well he was 230 229 228 which is what he would expect for five weeks out but suddenly he was 226 now on any given day you could be lighter from dehydration and so on but two days in a row that is not just a fluke that is a trend and remember he only has to weigh 228 pounds at the competition and so seeing as they're still close to five weeks left that is very very light and so he doesn't want to lose too much muscle and so because of that he's increasing the calories in his diet now what have i been saying you in almost any of my diet videos you weigh yourself every day of the week at least five you take the middle number you cross out the highs and the lows and that is your average weight if the weight is going down too quickly you increase the calories if the weight isn't going down quickly enough you lower the calories that or increase or decrease cardio and so sam is simply going by the median weight or the weekly weight and so on and has decided that he is going to up the calories why because he's getting leaner too quickly now if sam had a coach for example myself i wouldn't be letting him diet so strictly 2500 calories for a man 230 pounds with that much muscle doing cardio it's too low and where is the evidence that it's too low well the fact that he now has to up the calories to over 5000 which is double the calories he's consuming on any given sunday and as i record this it's super bowl sunday what he should be doing rather than starving himself every day of the week and then having crazy cheats to make up for it is upping his calories to perhaps 3000 that would allow him to continuously lose weight slower than last time but it wouldn't have to have these crazy cheats he would have more energy he would end up with more muscle come show time and that is the proper way to diet now you can say i'm not teaching you anything from this but what have you learned don't over diet if you're losing weight too quickly it means there's too low amount of calories in your diet and you should up the calories this is actually the best case scenario i could think of for this prep is the fact that i'm ahead of schedule and i've got room for some refeeds this is not the best case scenario the best case scenario is he's actually 228 pounds and he's eating 3000 plus calories or even better a better best case scenarios is he's 230 plus pounds that he's building muscle as he's getting leaner yes that in fact can happen you can build muscle and lose fat at the same time that is best case when you're losing weight too quickly you might be thinking this is the best case scenario i'm ahead of schedule i'm getting leaner faster than last time this is amazing it's not amazing because when you get lean too quickly you are in fact going to lose muscle and if you try to maintain for example five percent body fat too long your body is going to experience more cortisol you're going to have a difficult time having the energy to train as hard and you're not going to retain as much muscle as if you dieted effectively losing at most one percent of your body fat each and every week now remember the leaner you get for example when you're single digit body fat you shouldn't be losing more than half a percent body fat each and every week because that calorie deficit for example thousand calories deficit each and every day that would allow you to lose two pounds of fat in a week but that is a crazy low deficit to be in a thousand calorie deficit each day that is a lot trust me you're not going to want to do this and so sam he basically he knows this perhaps for next time he'll do it effectively he needs to eat more calories but it wasn't 5 200 calories of just like straight junk uh really i just ate a lot of the foods that i'm already eating but you know what that's what coach told me to do so that's what i'm going to go ahead and uh and make happen coach being me and so his coach told him to do this obviously no he's coaching himself and he added in some yogurt some steaks some tacos he's basically just eating anything there's technically nothing wrong with that but consider that it's way better when you're dieting to add in more calories each and every day than only once a week or perhaps once every two weeks to have a giant cheat some of you you perhaps don't realize this you're thinking no i'd rather eat 6 000 calories 5 000 calories once a week and have 2500 on the rest why wouldn't you rather divide out those extra calories for example he had about 2700 calories give or take why not have it over two days 1300 calories on one day having a cheat and 1300 calories the next when in doubt spread it out you don't need to eat that much in a single meal it's better to have it spread out over the course of for example a week guess what weight i woke up this morning so 5 200 calories well he probably weighed up roughly the amount that he wants to be so around 528 perhaps even 529 i basically ate two days worth of food for me so did i just screw my whole diet up am i screwed am i gonna have to pull out of the arnold now obviously he's not gonna have to pull out he added in about 2700 calories that is about three quarters of a pound of fat maximum that he could possibly be gaining it is not a lot and remember your glycogen stores are gonna first refill and so all those extra calories aren't magically turning to fat your glycogen stores are going to be full first before it's eventually going to turn to body fat and so all that's happening is essentially he's refeeding his body the glycogen stores are filling up he's gonna have more of a pump he's gonna feel more full and he's gonna have a better workout than last time but imagine if he had spread that out those 500 calories added each and every day 125 grams of carbs added to each and every meal imagine if he did that before his workout like really think about it an hour perhaps two hours before every workout of the week he adds in 125 grams of carbs that's a lot what is that five bananas and so he would then go to the gym every day and think wow look at the pump look at the vascularity i'm feeling amazing and so for my clients i would typically say hey why not add in a bag of popcorn perhaps two bags of popcorn before you go to the gym it's gonna be about 500 calories imagine how much better you would feel the pump the strength the vascularity the mental strength that you would have knowing you can eat all that food before you go to the gym every day you're gonna want to go to the gym that much more in comparison you're running on fumes there's no carbs left in his body he's probably running on ketones for all we know and so you don't have the same level of oomph when you go to the gym but if you have those carbs 125 extra grams each and every day you're going to train that much better it's a very nuanced kind of case by case sort of thing to uh to give yourself a refeed and i think about it the same way as a rest day don't do it just because actually have a legitimate reason behind it and a plan to implement it into your training and so i have to agree with sam he says don't take a rest day unless you need it in the same way don't have a refeed day unless you need it some coaches they literally plan this out you're gonna have a cheat day every saturday why what if i don't need it what if i feel great what if i'm losing effectively i'm exactly on point why plan a refeed and to the same extent why are people planning deloads the goal of the gym is to go and train harder than last time if you can train harder than last time you're making gains you're not overly sore continue to train harder than last time to say no i need a deload i need a week off what what plan is this who's coaching you mr mike thank you greg as if mr mike knows what he's doing mr mike is abusing performance enhancing drugs taking peptides every drug in the world to make him less hungry perhaps it's the retitutide or the terzipitide whatever and he's on growth hormone insulin how many things is he actually on if you're on enough drugs yeah things are different for you you're going to make gains no matter what but if you're natural you have to do things effectively and more often than not you need to train harder than last time it's not the volume hey doing a bunch of bullshit sets that don't add up to nothing it's how hard are you training now if you want to get your blood work taken you want a doctor to go over it perhaps you do have some problem perhaps you need HRT perhaps you need enclomaphine perhaps cialis talamisartan you name it get to algorex remember their half price of merrick health on average everything is cheaper than last time and so go check out the prices remember these are pharmaceutical prescriptions by doctors it's not some sarms website where you just get nothing and you don't know if you can trust the source this is legit enter code greg for 10 off the guy was just feeling a little tired that day and he didn't really feel like it he's like yeah i'll take a rest day you know same thing with the dieting oh man i've been dieting hard you know maybe the guy's been in a deficit for three days yeah i earned it bro i earned his refeed yeah let's go get crumble yeah i'm glad he said crumble i see this all the time it's like the trend twins oh we're having a refeed it's a refeed it's this kind of calorie challenge is this why is this fitness content how is eating crumble cookies become fitness content it's anti-fitness it's hey guys i'm not actually locked in i don't have an actual good diet and so i'm gonna do this for a bit over diet be too strict and then because of that i'm gonna need to eat a box of crumble cookies this is moronic it's asinine it makes no sense and speaking of what makes no sense it's buying ajuga turkistanica aka turk builder from anyone aside from hdlt supplements in case you're new to the channel sometimes people are living under a rock and they don't know about this but hdlt turkestrone has been vindicated we actually have the real legit ajuga from uzbekistan the other people almost all selling copycat cyanosis plant that's what it's called and so if you want to actually make the gains from the product that actually works you got to get it from hdlt supplements code greg 15 off but on one of the last days the road trip uh like right before we're about to get there all right you know let's get some mcdonald's you know i haven't really eaten anything today i get it and as soon as i get into as we get to this cabin i'm like just stomach's turning it's funny how i'm the opposite like sam if he goes on a cheat and he eats like fast food and junk food and all that kind of stuff his stomach is going crazy on him probably using the washroom i'm the opposite if i cheat on a bunch of fruits and vegetables i'd extra salads extra strawberries too much fruit i'm visiting the toilet like no other and so coach greg has like a bizarre world metabolism inverted upside down stomach where the more health food that i eat above and beyond a certain minimum i suppose the worse it is for me and so for me i don't need more health food i need more basic calories now probably you're not like me and so i wouldn't suggest you just add in a bunch of carbs and so on but for me adding in more fruit more vegetables more very healthy items not really all that beneficial if i throw some junk in the mix it is kind of going to dunk up my gears if you sort of feel me and so for example you guys know that david bar with the epg well don't ask me to consume a few of those because even though it's a diet health kind of food low in calories if i eat two of those you don't want to go to the bathroom after me because hey it is a nightmare mepsogram can vouch for that it's disgusting and so i would suggest you don't have too many of the david bars perhaps leave it at one maximum because epg it's not really meant for us it's kind of like altered fat it's low calorie 0.7 calories per gram instead of nine instead of that have the seiko bar why don't i just bring out my own and show what it looks like and so if you want a better bar than the david bar i would recommend the kyco bar i think it's still half price if you use code cico and so please go check out the website remember there's so many amazing things on the website it's not just turk it's go2 max it's g test platinum get there get blue lobstered have a great time and i'll see you there let's start from the backside and then flip around as you can see sam is peeled he's got plenty of time my opinion he's ahead of the schedule and so he doesn't really need to diet all that hard and in the next video he reveals his legs look at the cross-striations on the quads i mean we're seeing the zippers going up and down it looks like he's got a zipper coat on his quad and so clearly bro is only a few weeks out if he were to diet harder than last time for probably two weeks maybe three at most he would be ready and so that's what he means when he says he's had a schedule which is the perfect situation of which i said no the perfect situation is being exactly on point when you're five weeks out you look five weeks out when you're three weeks out you look three weeks out if you're ahead of schedule hey it's five weeks out you look two weeks out it's not good it's not better if it was better every coach would just have you diet early like think of it if it was actually better to be ready early you would be all be ready early why wouldn't you be and so what's better is being on point like the energy wasn't there you know and i'm not trying to whine and so sam is saying look i didn't really have the best workout even though he was eating the extra calories he just didn't feel that extra oomph now this is what you need to know when you're very very lean like five percent like what mike isertel wishes he was you're always gonna have no energy i don't care if you had 5 000 calories 5 000 grams of carbs 20 000 calories i don't care what you did every day sucks i don't care what you ate pre-workout you can have the best meal in the world you're gonna have no energy and so when i dieted for professional bodybuilding competitions once i get down below six percent body fat there is no energy i don't care if i have three cheat days in a row i could eat a thousand grams of carbs i still don't feel good i go to the gym and i feel like i might look good i might have a swole pump but i don't feel good on the inside half the time the downstairs isn't working even with tialis and it's because you're dieting too hard your body needs a certain amount of body fat in order to function properly and so you can't just maintain five percent body fat by taking for example zempic or reddit to tried or to zip tied all the different things remember you can get certain peptides to help you lose fat from algorex you can get glp max from coach greg at the website but you can't just use these items and starve yourself and think oh as long as i have some carbs before sexy time before the gym that i'm going to be a hunky dory there's certain baseline body fat that your body needs we're all within a certain set point for me it's probably somewhere between seven and a half and let's call it 15 if i get below that my performance fails it doesn't matter my diet above that well i'm slower i'm sluggish i don't feel good but that's okay because at the end of the day guess what the lift got done i got a badass pump i stimulated my tries and my buys to the point where as i keep getting leaner i know they're not going to shrink down and they're going to maintain their mass and so sam is basically saying you know you choose to diet you choose to feel this way and so if somebody's asking you how you feel lie tell them oh i feel amazing it's great i wish everyone in the world could feel as good as i do right now meanwhile you're suffering inside your dick can't get hard and all you're thinking about is when your next meal i feel amazing you're manifesting a reality that doesn't exist i'm more like this i'm more i'm not gonna lie this sucks but i chose it i feel horrible today but this is on me rather than lying i think you should just be honest i think you should be accurate and just be like look this sucks but i chose this i'm a bodybuilder this is about the life of a bodybuilder i get to suffer i get to feel this bad and imagine how good it's gonna feel when it's all over and i have the first place prize subscribe click the bell button comment the boozy album like the video if you liked it like me if you like the view oh and if you want hlt supplements in your stores or in your gyms you can click the link there i cannot wait to announce to the world the thousands of stores that we're in it's going to be super exciting yeah woo and so you're gonna be able to buy the turk um at an actual store not have to just buy it online and why do you think that is because well people now realize that ours is legit that's why why do you think they're putting mine in the stores and not the others you'll soon find out and so until next time i am out

=== FILE: Scottykfitness Ended His Career [nNlg22H-ZlE].txt ===

 XR 하나付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付 I owe you all an apology. The virtue signaling, the pretending to be a good guy, and the fake apology, and most recently, the lie about his call to the police, he's been exposed. Now, you can see all of this on Garrett Walker's IG page, Run V Us Coaching, and essentially, it's just like watching John Bravo without him calling him a piece of shit. I caught you, you piece of shit. In case you don't know what's going on, this all started because somebody wrote in Scotty's comment section that he looked like a guy who was gay, who's on Ozark, an actor, a famous actor. And so, he actually does look like the guy. And so, perhaps Scotty, who has pronouns in his name, he, him, he's all tatted up, and he's got the huge mustache, he doesn't like it when people say that he looks like a gay guy. I don't give a shit. Small, medium, large, big, bad pile of shit. I don't care. Gay, straight, trans, none of that matters. Yeah, f***ing political. That was murder. And I see you, nurse, who worked at the VA, who was legally carrying a firearm that was f***ing holstered while he was filming. You're clearly very amped up about what you deem an excessive response to something that was not that problematic. But if that's the case, shouldn't you be consistent with that across everything? And so, Scotty, he always wanted you to think he was a great guy. Swell guy, you know, Percival, funny, has a great physique, sponsored by Rise. Oh, sorry, used to be sponsored by Rise. Two million followers on Instagram, almost 10 million worldwide, as we'll see in that police phone call, of which has been revealed. He wants you to think that he's just a swell guy. And so, what people do is they find things that are going wrong in this world and they speak about it. Did you see what that person did? Did you see what that person did? And they say, if I were in that situation, I would never do that. They call out the bad, negative things in this world. And people say, oh, wow, bravo, you said exactly what we want you to say. And so, does he actually mean it? And so, the problem is, no. So, say somebody said you looked like a gay guy, and then you doxed him, his job, his address, and his entire family. Would that be something that was too excessive? Because you did do that. Rather than just seeing the comment, you know, bro from Bangladesh, rather than just letting it slide and saying, oh, you got me. I kind of do like him. Or, I don't know, ignoring the comment. Just keep it on going. Instead of that, he makes a video and says, I used to be a bounty hunter, and I did some research, and he doxes that person. Gives his address. This is his phone number. This is where he lives. These are the names of his family. Why would he do that? He's hoping that somebody goes and terrorizes that person. Perhaps harms them. Perhaps goes to the house. And horrible things could happen. And so, is he not enticing violence? Last I checked, is it legal to actually encourage other people to do bad things? I don't think it is. And so, in my opinion, this was a huge red flag showing his true, actual character. And when somebody went to dox him on his own account, his own thread, Reddit, whatever, they then deleted that comment. And the person who wrote that comment said, why would you do that? Why is it deleted? Is it not allowed to dox someone? They said, of course not. That's never okay. Funny. It was okay for him to do it about somebody that said he looked like the guy from Ozark. But it wasn't okay when somebody did it on his own account. Of course. He then makes an apology. He brings out the tears. For days now, I have been lying to myself. Saying things like, I'm a good person. I've done a lot of good for the world. It's all bullshit deflection to keep me from taking responsibility for my own actions. I'm so sorry. Sorry that, you know, you're offended. Sorry that these things happen. Sorry if you don't want to follow me. I've built this entire platform on inclusivity and kindness. And I lost sight of that in my own ego. I lashed out at people. Never apologize to the individual that was being doxed. Never apologize to the person he made fun of. But for right now, I have to focus on the safety of my family. So I'll be back. I'll see you guys soon. I'm sorry and I love you all. Hope you'll come back and follow me deep down. I'm a good guy. And, you know, because of all this, some people showed up to my house and endangered my family. And so appeal to sympathy. Because of what I said, my family is in grave danger. People came to my house. I saw that and I was like, you know, he did do a wrong thing, but in no way do I think it's okay for somebody to go and go up to his house and endanger him and his family. Bad enough to endanger him, but his wife, kids, they did nothing wrong. And so imagine to my surprise, when I find out that he made up the entire thing in order to gain sympathy from his millions of fans. Scotty announced to his Discord, which would be full of his closest fans, that he is in fear for his family's lives because people have showed up to his house due to his information being leaked online. Well, unfortunately for Scotty, when you call the police, that becomes public record. And those records can actually be requested. And my friend Slacker Blue has actually gotten a hold of the police call. And what you'll find is he has zero mention of somebody actually showing up to his house and that he's just worried about it maybe happening. I'm calling to request a increased patrol at my home address. I'm heading out of town and I'm a social media content creator with almost like 10 million followers. I'm receiving death threats. And so let me get this straight. He received death threats. And so because of that, he's going to leave and leave his family behind. And so he calls up the police and says, you know what? I'm going to head out of town. I got this thing, you know, this event. I'm going to be attended, but my wife and kids, they're going to be staying at home. And so would you mind sending over some police cars, you know, surveillance, surveillance, make sure that they're okay while I go and do the things that I feel like doing? Is there a single person watching this that would do that? Think about it. You're threatening the lives of you and your family and you leave and you leave your family behind. If you're actually in fear for your life and your family's life, do you not bring your family with you? Do you not go in hiding? Or do you just leave and go do your volunteer work or attend your event and act like nothing's happening? And if you're actually in fear from your life, should you really be showing up in public where everyone can see you? Does that make sense? But remember, he said they had already showed up to his house. If they had already showed up to his house, would he not have said to the police while on the phone, they've came to my house. I'm scared. This is not some idle death threat, you know, on Instagram. Do you know how many death threats I've gotten on Instagram? Do you think every time somebody sends me a DM, I'm calling the police and saying, send all the backup to my house. Loser. And to leave your family behind, what does that say about your character? And so all these people say, he's such a good person. Couldn't believe it. Are you kidding me? People show you the tip of the iceberg. I'm telling you, everyone has a certain personality from within. Not many people show you the real them. Their true authentic self. Some people do. Most people are too afraid to be their true authentic selves. And so they navigate through this world by saying and acting in a certain way to get certain reactions from other people. They'll pretend to be a good guy. They'll say the right things. They'll pretend that they care about this and care about that. But in reality, they don't care. They just say whatever they say so that you will like them. Do you think that I don't know that some of the things that I say are going to be insulting? That some people are not going to like me for it. But I say it anyway. In comparison, other people who are way worse than Coach Greg, they'll say anything that you want to hear in order for you to like them. They may think and feel horrendous, horrific things. They don't let you know about that. Oh, I think this and I think that because I know that they're going to click like. They're going to say you're a good person. And then when you prove that you're not, they still think you're a good person. How many times does this guy have to do something wrong before you think he's probably not that great? Think about it. If somebody showed up to your house and you were worried about them threatening you and your family, you would mention that in the call to the police. You wouldn't have one call out to the police saying that people are saying they're going to show up to your house and saying that they're threatening you. You would actually have to, you know, tell the police that somebody showed up to your house. Much like you told your followers. Why are you lying to your followers? And so he lied about being a bounty hunter, not actually registered, lied about people showing up to his house to harm his family. What is he not willing to do? Do you really think that his apology is heartfelt? Or do you think he regrets getting caught? He, I'm sure, regrets the fact that Rise is no longer going to sponsor him. And you think HTLT is going to sponsor him? Of course not. Is any company touching this man? Of course none are. And so he's thinking, geez, you know, I just lost millions of dollars. My millions of followers no longer respect me. And so what do I now say? What do I now do to undo all the damage? Well, if I say that my family is in danger, that people showed up to my house, people are going to have sympathy for me. They're going to say, well, I don't deserve that. My family doesn't deserve that. Definitely. And so I'll try that. I'll cry on camera. I'll say I did a bad thing. And then sooner or later, my fans will forget. They'll say, hey, why would we cancel this guy? He only did one thing wrong. And to add to this, later on in the call with the police, he mentions that he has to go out of town for a charitable event. If you're getting death threats and your family's life is actually in danger, what kind of man, what kind of father and husband are you? Okay. And so he's a husband with kids. You don't leave your family behind. You're just a bad person. And what kind of man, like a macho real man, is he? You're clearly fatherless. Like we can tell now. And you're not a good husband because I mean, you let your wife other men because you guys are swingers. I don't know if that's true or not. Frankly, I don't care. He can do whatever the frick that he wants. I don't care if he's banging other dudes. I don't care if he is banging the guy from Ozark. None of that matters. What matters is how do you treat other people? And he may have thought he was being a nice man. He may have been pretending to do all the nice things. But when push came to shove, when it was his time to be judged by other people, did he pass or did he fail? You know, it's very easy to be a good person when life doesn't throw any obstacles at you. But when it's time to be tested, what are you then going to do? Well, in his case, he lied and lied again. One thing I know for certain is that if he had been on Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum, none of this would have happened. These supplements are so good that it makes you become a good person. It changes your brain chemistry and it doesn't allow you to be evil. And so if you want to be the best person in the world with great morals, Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum. All of that was a lie, but it does in fact build more muscle than creatine. That is the truth. And so if you're interested, Code Greg, 15% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost your rhythm. Please like the video if you liked it. Watch one of these two boops. I'm surprised it took me this long to make a video on this. One thing that really pisses me off is these fake virtue signaling pieces of shit. And so I was actually triggered by this, but I said, I'm not going to weigh in. But once I saw that he lied, lied about people coming to his house, I said, the video, it's going to happen. Hopefully John Bravo does the video. Hopefully Garrett Walker continues to expose this man. And until next time, subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost your rhythm. Like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two boops. Of course, you can get the cookbooks. You can go to Al Gorex, use Code Greg for 10% off. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: Stop Talking To THESE Women [CTgYoSx9u5I].txt ===

 If you're a man, get away from me, why are you speaking to me, goodbye sir? She's being open, honest and transparent, and I defend the right of people to be honest, to tell us what they think. I hate men. If a girl asks me how many sets I have left, not a problem. If you're a man and you ask me how many sets I have left, it's just different. Like I automatically think you're my all the right, like I automatically think you're! You're my op! Who uses the word op? I automatically think you're my op. I mean, this woman's 35 years of age, what does she think, she's a rapper? You're my op? Really? My op-position? Get away from me, why are you speaking to me? Goodbye, sir. Why are you speaking to me? Because I want to use the leg press. Because I'm waiting to do some shoulder presses. Why do you think? What really gets to me is the tone of how she speaks. I mean, she couldn't just say, When I'm at the gym, I'm uncomfortable by men talking to me because I think they're flirting with me. Maybe they're trying to get my number and I really don't like that. But when women do it, I don't really feel the same. Even if that was true, what if the guy's gay? Excuse me, can I? How do a gay guy talk? My god, man. Swoon. Oh, hello dear. Can I do a set after you're done, please? Men who are gay, there's a certain way they stress, they stretch out the vowels. You know that people who are gay, they speak different than men who are straight. The majority of them. And I'm not going to name any names, but you know, those guys who are still in the closet. Mr. Mike, Mr. Munthurston. Sorry, I have pneumonia, I have bronchitis, all the things. And so, they talk normal. Why are you speaking to me? Goodbye, sir. This is the problem that I think has happened. Their parents, they raise them wrong. They think they're privileged. They have this smug attitude that they're better than everyone else. And when a woman talks like that, you know what I mean. Does she not sound like Akash's wife? Let's listen to it again. Get away from me. Why are you speaking to me? Goodbye, sir. Steven DeMarco is 12 shades of f***ing up. I feel like six shades are like narcissistic. There's a certain stress of the syllables, certain ways that she sounds. It's just so freaking annoying. But I don't even know if it's like a lack of remorse or just like... The only man that would end up with a woman like this is a simp. And so, men of the world, listen to women speak. Any woman that talks like this, you stay away. And so, yeah, essentially we're profiling. If a woman talks like this, you stay away. To the same extent, if you're a woman and you're trying to date a man, and he talks like this, and he's gay, and he doesn't want to be with you. Think of it. He's gay. And so, there's nothing wrong with profiling someone as long as you're right. You're saying any man that approaches you, he's your op, stay away. If he's gay, is that okay? What if he's six feet tall, 128 pounds, and flamboyantly gay, dressed in pink? Is it okay then? What about if he's hot? He's six foot three, extremely good looking, and you know he's a doctor and or a lawyer. Or he's six foot five, blue eyes, finance. Or perhaps he's five, six, brown eyes, cookbook. You're really going to be offended by that excessively attractive, rich, good looking, charming young man who approaches you and asks how many sets you have left. Or is it only that five foot four balding fat guy that smells like your ass? And so, what we have to remember is she has every right to say this. You're thinking, shouldn't she be cancelled? Shouldn't she be not allowed to speak out her own mind? No. What's wrong with her saying this? She's saying exactly what she feels. She's being open, honest, and transparent. And I defend the right of people to be honest. To tell us what they think. I hate men. I don't want men approaching me. I will hate you if you do. I'd rather her be honest and say it. That's her true theory. In the same way that she has the right to say it, we have the same right to make fun of her and to call her an idiot for saying it. In situations like this so that you can fully grasp the gravity of this. What if the opposite person said this? What if I made a video and I said, if he's a man, hey, by all means, you know, I understand it. But if it's a woman, get away from me. Why are you even in the gym? Go in the women's section. Why are you here in the co-ed section? This is not meant for you. I don't want you. You're weak. Why are you asking me how many sets I have left? I'm superior to you. I'm a man and you're a woman. Oh, I would be a misogynist. Wouldn't I? Wouldn't I be a bad person then? And so why does she get to say it? Or imagine if I said, hey, I don't mind when people go to the gym and talk to me and interrupt me between sets. Ask me how many sets they are, but not if they're obese. I don't want a fat person to talk to me. Oh, what about this? Oh, you can talk to me so long as you're white. But if you're black, no. No, that's called racism. And so that is not cool. And so how is it that sexism is normal and okay and that we allow it, but that racism is wrong? Do you ever notice how people get shit on for making fun of other races and so on, but yet women are allowed to make fun of men all the frigging time? You're a five foot six manlet. You're short. Hey, will you date a man shorter than you? Absolutely not. They need to be at least six feet tall. If you're under six feet tall, well, you're a short king. Really, that's okay. Would it be fun for someone to make fun of somebody for having darker skin, for being black, for being brown? Would that be cool? Because how is this different? She's making fun and provoking hate amongst other people. You're a man. Don't talk to me. How is it different than saying you're fat? Don't talk to me. You're black. You're white. You're native. That's a different. My suggestion is if I were to see her in the gym or seeing someone like this in the gym or if for example you see her in the gym. Ask her to work in. I mean she has the right to say these things. And you know what? you know what? You have the right to go and ask her how many sets she has left every single exercise that she does. You're in a gym working out. And so imagine you see her. I mean, she looks fairly noticeable. I feel like you could see her in the gym. And so when she's in the gym on the leg press machine, walk over to her and say, hey, I was just wondering how many sets you have left. All the men in the gym, they should do this. Every single one of them. Line up one by one by one rotation. And I'm not talking about her being a village bicycle. I'm talking about asking her how many sets she has left. And then when she moves on to the next exercise from the leg press to perhaps the leg extension machine, hey, just wondering how many sets of leg extensions you got because you know I'm training legs today too. Is there anything wrong with that? You have every right to do so. And if she doesn't like it, there's the door. You can train at a different gym. You can train at home. And women, at least in Good Life in Canada, they have a lot of them women's only sections. Like, does that even sound fair? When I trained to my local Good Life, the closest one in Sackville, there's a women's only section with better equipment than in the co-ed section. It was just a few months ago and the shoulder press machine was taken. But then in the women's only section, there were multiple women's shoulder press machines and I couldn't use any of them. Does that make any sense? And so where's the men's only section? And so my personal opinion is we don't need a women's only section. What's next? Trans only, gay only, whites only, blacks only, only Acadians, only those who can speak three languages, only those who speak Spanish. Would that make sense? Oh, that's the bodybuilder only section, the powerlifters only. You can't go and do a bench press unless you're a powerlifter. You can't go in the posing room unless you're dining for a show and you have a proper tan. Sorry, Mike, you can't go. Oh, I love this. Joey said the same thing I said. Anyone that works out at the same gym as her, please, when you see her, ask her how many sets she has left. Pressing the button right now. Imagine posting and thinking is a good idea. I mean, I don't know if they want hate. I mean, there's something about being infamous, famous for doing something wrong. Some people, they just want attention, any attention, whether it's positive, negative, it's still attention. And so perhaps she wants it because she's most certainly asking for it. I swear to God, this girl just loves sounding their own voice. There's something about that voice. And remember, this is coming from coach Greg. If I'm annoyed by the voice with my voice, imagine how bad it really is. Scientists recently confirmed the earth rotates around me. Sorry for the inconvenience type energy. Okie dokie lady. I mean, exactly. Like imagine thinking that you're so privileged, that you're so special, that you're so important that men can't ask you how many sets you have left. And so imagine bringing that into the dating world. You don't think you can learn a lot about a girl from how she acts and behaves at the gym or whether she goes there or not. If a girl thinks this about the gym, imagine dating her. Hey, I want a new Birkin bag. I knew I want a new Hermes. Why would I give you that? Well, because I asked because I, as a woman, am the table. And so I want a Hermes bag and a Van Cleefy bag on top. There's no way you could date this woman unless you're a simp and you have millions of dollars and you just want to give it to her hands over fists and she gives nothing back in return because this is her mentality. She runs the world. The world revolves around her. I think this is good. I think it's good that we've seen this because it shows her true character. Would you rather her be silent? She looks pretty good. I think she's fairly attractive. She's above average. And so you would see this woman working out and you'd be thinking, oh, a fellow gym girl. I think I would like to date her. You don't know that this is the type of woman that she is. The talking with the bird hands and the slang and accent and the privilege and so on. And so by her outing herself, she's doing the rest of the world, the rest of the men out there, she's doing them all a favor. And so how is this bad? I mean, we're making it look like she's such a horrible person. We're making fun of her. She has every right to think what she wants. She can hate men. She can grow old and have no kids and live with multiple cats. This is her own choice. And by vocalizing her stupidity, by showing you who she really is, she's helping everyone. And now we can all know that we should just avoid her. Isn't that good? And so I don't think it's bad to be vocal. Like I see on Instagram and I'm doom scrolling all the time and I really got to stop. And you see these guys who are promoting hatred and violence. They're racist. They're promoting this. They're promoting that. They're speaking out about what they really believe. And I'm thinking, well, how is this bad? They're vocalizing that they're pieces of shit. Like they're doing it to themselves. They're proving to everyone what they're all about. And so you now know. And so if you're trying to date them or become their friend and so on, you can just say, you know what? You know, I think I'm going to go to friend B. There's a lot of people in this world. And so why would you limit yourself to a bunch of losers? And so why don't we just let everyone speak up? Other people can then just explain why their thoughts or behaviors are not ideal. Let's put it that way. And why people should perhaps not think that way. But if we go and stifle everyone and prevent them from speaking up, prevent them from saying what they're really thinking, we'll never know how people act. People are one of two ways. They're the way that they present themselves and then the way that they actually are. Most people present themselves in a way that's fictional. It's a way to get what they want from the world. It's not what they really think, what they really are. They might be super nice. They're so nice. They speak out. They're so kind on social media to see all the nice things. But behind closed doors, they're abusive. You don't know. And so just because a couple acts perfectly, all you see is their highlights. Wow, I wish I had a great girl or a great guy just like they do. I mean, they have the perfect dream relationship. We don't know. We've seen what 1% of their lives on social media and you think they're perfect. Every minute in private might be a nightmare. And so rather than comparing yourself to other people and thinking that your relationship, your happiness isn't good enough, that you don't measure up. Think again because other people are only showing you the tip of the iceberg of what they actually are like. Ending it here. Rather than settling for girls from like this, go to the gym, get Turk Builder Max, get some creatine. What else do I got here? Get Blue Lobstered. Get a good workout in. Don't worry about if girls reject you at the gym and they don't let you work in with them and they get mad at you for asking them questions. This is my biggest advice. Stop giving a shit about what other people think of you. I mean, I was telling that to one of my staff this morning. You got to not care about what other people think of you. If you stop caring what they say, think and do, you can then be yourself. Stop pretending to be something that you're not. Stop avoiding doing certain things because you're fearing the embarrassment, the ridicule that people will judge you for what you really are. And stop caring and do what you want to do. And then you will find like-minded individuals, the people that like you for you. Isn't that what you want? You want people to value you, your opinions, your thoughts, your behaviors, the ones that are really about you? Because would you rather have people like you for you pretending to be something that you're not or them actually truly deep down really liking you? Coach Greg, 10% off for Al Gorex. Obviously, you can get your Enclomiphene and your Testosterones and so on from there. And Coach Greg, 15% off from the HLT supplements. We're looking for sponsored athletes as well as stores and gyms to carry your supplements. And so if you're interested in any of these things, sponsorship, care and stuff, click the different links to go and apply. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: Terrible News Update Logan Dishman [dxHlNf2yuGY].txt ===

 When he brags about his health being good, look, I told you, you can abuse steroids and be healthy at the same time, have you not watched my videos, Young LA? And so, how the TURK are you sponsoring this guy? Coach Greg, in today's video, an update on Logan Dishman, he's redone his blood work and he says he's now got a clean bill of health, the only problem with this is he's got about 10 years to live at most. DAAAAMN! I wanted to say that this was going to be a great story, that he'd listened to his doctors, that he went 100% natural, but instead of that, he ignored Coach Greg, ignored his doctors, and continues to abuse performance-enhancing drugs. His blood work, of which he posted, and we're going to be going over that with you right now, and I'm going to prove to you just how horrible this actually is. But, let's hear it from himself, does he think that he's unhealthy? The new blood work I had before surgery to get cleared, health has improved so much and is proof that you can be healthy and do what you love at the same time. I don't know if that's actually sarcasm, I don't know if it's a joke, if it's rage made, if it's made on purpose to get Coach Greg to make a video, because his blood work is horrendously bad. This is a problem. This is a problem. This is a problem. Yes, sir, glad to see you are healthy. Big things. And so, someone says they're healthy, and without going over the blood work, you just say, hey, I take your word for it. Congratulations. Good job, Logan. Problem is, 131 down from 215 seems like the right path to me. Next comment. It's the right path, but it's still not healthy whatsoever, and he seriously needs to pattern up his labs, or he's generally going to die soon. If your blood pressure was, let's say, 250 over 150, and you went to the doctor and he gave you medication, and your blood pressure was now 210 over 130, you'd say, hey, great improvement, it's improving, I'm healthy again. Would you say that, or you say you're still going to die? Just because one marker got better by a little bit doesn't mean that his blood work is suddenly great and that he can blast allosteroids. No, he is not, but he is not healthy whatsoever yet. People think gear just kills you instantly. It happens over time and built up stress over decades. And so, steroids is not something that typically you just take and then you get a heart attack and you die in one day. It's something where the damage accumulates over months and or years, typically years. Remember Boston Lloyd? Mr. 3CC? Well, he's no longer with us. People warned him, but he didn't listen. But yet it still took years for this to occur. And so, if he continues at this pace, he'll probably still most likely make it into his late 20s, but he most likely isn't seeing 30. Might be tripping, but it's still cooked, bro. Even the average viewer who had a look at his blood work was saying, bro, this isn't healthy. And so, why are you making look like it actually is? But you know how it is. Teenagers, they don't want to believe that anything can happen to them. And so, let's see exactly why it's so bad. The first thing we see, if you zoom in, free testosterone, it's at 820. That's about four times the high normal. His actual testosterone, the total T, it's at 1,955. That's double the high normal. And so, clearly, he's using testosterone as a base. I would guess somewhere between 300 and 400 milligrams of tests a week. And so, certainly, at least double what he should be using if it was just HRT. You can see a big X marking off his former labs for LH and FSH. They were above 20. Most likely, that's indicating that he was on in clomiphene. But now, you can see it's under one, both markers. This is because he's using external or exogenous testosterone. He's injecting it into his body. And so, his body is now shut down. Perhaps the testicles are smaller than last time. That's not a major concern. But, it does prove that bro is not natty and using higher levels of tests. Next, we notice potassium is at 5.1. The range is 3.8 to 5.1. You might be thinking, well, that's normal. It's 5.1. It's right at the max. Two standard deviations from the main. In Canada, that reference range is actually lower. Most likely, the cause of this is from taking talmosartan to control blood pressure. And so, is he actually healthy as a teenager if he's already using blood pressure medications? This is known as polypharmacy. In order to control the fact that being on testosterone is going to increase his blood pressure. Blood pressure, in my opinion, is the first sign of heart disease, heart problems that are going to happen. And so, if you already have high blood pressure and have to use drugs to control it as a teenager, how are you making it into your 30s? Next, A-S-T-A-L-T, both above the reference range. Now, remember, I'm on HRT and my liver enzymes are not elevated. And so, when you're using injectables, you don't expect it to raise your liver enzymes to this extent. If he was just on injectable testosterone, for example, you wouldn't expect that. But, oftentimes, when you're using orals, so for example, if you added in Anavar or perhaps D-Ball, any of the different orals, or even SARMs, these can directly affect your liver. And so, most likely, based on this, he's both using an injectable as well as orals. Not good for your liver, especially for a teenager who's continuously abusing SARMs as well as steroids. Another thing which we notice, or if you examine, is you see that the calcium is high, as well as potassium. These are right at the limit, just above the limit. And this is something seen in chronic kidney disease. And so, is it possible that he's already early onset for kidney problems that are only going to get worse as he gets older? And creatinine, 1.21. Notice the max is 1.24. He's almost right at the limit. That is a marker of kidney function, and he's already right at the limit. Would want to expect him to be a lot lower, because as he gets more muscle, gets bigger, continues to boost steroids, it's only going to go even higher. For those of you saying, yeah, but he's taking creatine, he has more muscle. I was an abusive steroid using competitive IFBB Pro, and I've never been above 0.84. He's way higher than Coach Greg while I was using Tren and so on. And so, to say, oh, it's just creatine, it's just because he's using that. You really think this is going to end well? If it's this high as a teenager, if I was him, I would be stopping right now. Next, it's only getting worse. Cholesterol. LDL is 131, which is high, and the HDL to good cholesterol, it's only 9 single digits. This is bad. The LDL-HDL ratio, it's horrendous. It's over 15, and prior to this, it was at 3.7. You're supposed to be below 5. And so, anyone that knows anything about blood work, as soon as they see this, would say, bro, you need to stop. It's not close. It's not maybe. It's not, look at my blood work. It's actually good. It's, I can't believe it's this bad. And so, let me break it down to you straight so that you can understand. Independent risk factors for cardiovascular disease. HDL low, bad. LDL high, bad. Triglycerides high, bad. Triglycerides plus HDL low, bad. Triglycerides plus LDL high, bad. All three together, multiply it all together, horribly awful bad. If you actually look at all of this factor in his age, you're looking at, maybe he makes it to 30. Maybe. It's possible. I mean, if he stops right now, obviously, it helps him out. He'll probably make it into his 40s, 50s, perhaps. But if he doesn't, if he doesn't care, he continues to do this. Bro, he making it to 30. Does he think that Boston Lloyd was a one off that you can just use performance enhancing drugs and abuse them? And clearly, based on what we're seeing, he's not just abusing testosterone. He's probably on trend. He's also using orals and it's affecting his body entirely. And so we're seeing essentially here, it's the same thing as an IV drug user. They do it for a couple of weeks, couple of months. They're still surviving. The blood work looks like this. They're not dead yet. But if they continue to do it, two, three, four, five years go down the line. How many are making it 10 years and or more? This is the situation he's under. And remember, it's not like he hasn't had any risk factors in his past. He's already been hospitalized. He already almost died. And what have we seen about people who have already almost died? It oftentimes happens again, case in point, Cali Muscle. Cali Muscle never started taking steroids until he was around 34 years of age. And so imagine had Cali Muscle started at 16, 17. What do you really think he would have made it up into his 40s? What we're seeing here is a guy using drugs at a far earlier age, which reduces his life expectancy by that much. And so anyone that looks at this guy and encourages him, says, I'm proud of you. Your blood work has come down. You're doing a good job. You are an enabler. Supplement companies, if you're sponsoring this guy, you're essentially promoting degeneracy. You're promoting somebody who's doing horrible things to your body. And so why would anyone do that? Shame on you, Young LA. Young LA, you're promoting this. He's got 92,000 followers. 92,000 kids, teenagers, are going to look up to this guy and perhaps copy his actions. When he brags about his health being good, look, I told you, you can abuse steroids and be healthy at the same time. Have you not watched my videos, Young LA? And so how the f*** are you sponsoring this guy? If we wanted to make an analogy for a female, imagine a female, she sells her body for money and she's 17 years of age. This is worse than that. Would Young LA sponsor a 17 year old who's selling her body? Probably not. But at least that girl probably going to live into her forties. What we're promoting is a 17 year old who's promoting death. How can you have an athlete like that and literally think it's okay? This is horrendously bad. It's even worse because this kid is so young. He doesn't even realize he's going to die far younger than he should. Goblin gear company. What are you selling? Steroids? What exactly is that? Goblin gear. Why would you sponsor him? Is making money worth that much that you will sponsor? Well, that would be like me saying, hey everyone, let's all sponsor Peter Attia after releasing the Episcene files. Why would we do that? Imagine, you don't care. You don't have morals. You don't have pride. You're just going to promote degeneracy. You're going to promote all this shit on social media just to make a quick dollar. What else is there? Well, we see his hematocrit. It's in the red. It's above the reference range. So his blood is too thick. And so it's easier to get heart attacks, clot strokes and so on. But hey, that's not a big deal. Right? And so imagine if teenagers didn't look up to, for example, I don't know, Togi, who used steroids when he was young. The Trend Twins, Sam Sulik, Chris Bumstead, whoever, even Coach Greg. Perhaps he was watching old Coach Greg videos and said, I want to look like that. And so all of us are somewhat to blame any of us who have used steroids, whether we've admitted or not. By having larger than life physiques, having more muscle than last time, some people are going to try to copy and to look like lust. And so rather than using steroids, especially when you're a teenager, stop comparing yourself to other people. The first thing you do when you get to your natural genetic limit, remember, you don't need them as a teenager when you're an adult. Turk Builder Max. Going to help you to build muscle, have more energy, to train harder than last time. And it's waterproofed. You're not going to be failing any drug tests. And it actually does work. Use natural supplements first before, if ever, you get into steroids. And remember, some people are going to get older, going to do what they're going to do. The lowest dose that makes you happy. I know that many of you are going to say, yeah, but you're a hypocrite. Use steroids. I started in my 30s. I was already a competitive bodybuilder, 42 shows under my belt. And so if you say, yeah, but you use steroids, how could you say you shouldn't use them? I've had the experience of not using them, 42 shows. Then I used them, got all those gains. And then I realized this isn't worth it. I shouldn't do this anymore. And I stopped. And so who better to explain the pros, the cons, good, bad, the ugly, than somebody who's been through it all. I regret taking steroids. And Logan Disman right now, probably no regrets. Until he has a life altering event. He goes to the hospital, heart attack. He's on beta blockers, aspirin, blood thinners. The list goes on and on. It says, hey, you can't go to the gym. It's not safe for you. You have to stop lifting weights. Then it's too late. He gets off the steroids, loses all the muscles, all the gains, and doesn't even want to go to the gym. And so then he trained with those weights for what? To have a good time for two or three years as a teenager? He should have waited. No one cares that you're this big and this strong. Only you care and the people who are enablers. And so find yourself some better friends. The friends who are like Coach Greg, who will literally sit there and call you out. It's not fun to hear that you're going to die 50 years younger than you should be. Who wants to hear that? Coach Greg is so mean. Follow your dreams. Anyone who says to follow your dreams despite the fact they can kill you is not your friend. It's just somebody there along for the ride to witness the car crash in person. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost you out of them. Like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch any of those to boost. Remember, we're looking for harder than last time sponsored athletes. You got a following. You want to promote the brand. Click the link in the description. You want our supplements in your stores and or gym. Of course, do the exact same thing. Don't forget code Greg for Al Gorex and code Greg 15% off on HLT supplements. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: These Genetics Deserved Steroids - 16 year old [AWWpMIrbZjs].txt ===

 naringin,liśmy mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage Because he has potential. Isn't that the famous last words? You know, it's different. I'm different. I deserve to use steroids. All of you, you shouldn't be using steroids. But me, I'm going to be the next C-bomb or Sam Sulik. And so I need steroids. This is called coping and or justification. You've convinced yourself that what you're doing, which you know is bad, that it's actually okay. And so his cognitive dissonance, it's going harder than last time. And so he goes by the name of Donat Cardos. And people had asked me to do a natty or not on him. Because after all, he has an amazing physique. But he actually came out and admitted everything on his own. And so at least give him that. At least he's not a fake natty. But I mean, would anyone believe him if he'd actually said that he was natural? Because all you need to do is look at his physique and know of his age. You know, there's no way that he could have a physique like that while being natural. Bro's 96 kilograms is about 215 pounds. Clearly at 15, he already looks like a fake natty. But I personally, I'm going to believe him. I'm going to take his word and assume that he's natural. Clearly he's got ridiculously good at genetics. But does that mean he should be hopping on steroids at such an early age? Will you ever get tested to prove that you're natural? Crazy physique, regardless. By the way, he's not natural. Are you kidding me? And so he shows himself at 15 years of age, 84 kilograms natty. And what you can see is that he's very, very lean. He has a lot of muscle, big arms, quads, abs. Not really the smallest of waist, but it could be just the pose. And in comparison, at 16, he's literally up 12 kilograms. And based on what I'm seeing, it's all muscle. And so from 15 to 16, he put on over 25 pounds of muscle. And so he says, this is when I hopped on. And so he's not pretending. He's not faking it. We've seen Chris Bumstead say, I started taking steroids at 18. I started because I was doing my very first competition, of which he competed about 214 pounds, about the same weight as this guy. But remember, Chris Bumstead was peeled, but he was in fact 18. And so people just keep using steroids younger than last time. And so all this came about was because he posted on his Instagram stories, ask me anything. So you are not natty. His response, I started 250 milligrams of test around six months ago. Did that for six weeks. Added in 20 milligrams of Anivar for a month. Then I went off for a month and a half doing a PCT and clomiphene, nolvidex, and so on. And now he's on 250 milligrams of test and he doesn't plan to hop off anymore. Why would he want to go off? I mean, bro's already 16 years of age and he's just going to use HCG to keep his fertility. I mean, first of all, it baffles me that you're 16 years of age and you think you need to use test already. Could have continued to train natural. Clearly things were working. You could have added steroids when you were older. Next, already thinking you need to use HCG at 16 in order to maintain fertility. Bro, if you're so stupid and moronic and dumb to be using steroids at 16, we don't want to pass on your DNA at this young of an age. I mean, think of it. I want to be able to get girls pregnant at 16. Tell that to your parents. If you say, mom, I just got my girlfriend pregnant or perhaps the village bicycle, it's not going to go over well. Perhaps this is the problem because if he in fact has parents, and I don't want to assume that he does or that he doesn't, perhaps it's his parents, his guardians, whatever. If you're his parents, you probably have access to his Instagram, right? This, if I can see it, you as parents, guardians, and so on, grandparents perhaps, perhaps you can see it. There has to be someone in his life that cares about him enough to tell him that what he's doing is stupid aside from me. I can't be the one to tell every single person around the world that they're too young to be abusing steroids. And I don't care what kind of genetics he thinks he has. It doesn't need to start at 16. You train natural for as long as you can first, even if you have amazing genetics. Not even sebum started at 16. I am in a unique situation compared to most people since I actually have potential and great genetics. Me doing this after four years of lifting already is not comparable to someone doing this after a couple of months. Do you know how stupid that sounds like? And people actually go with this. They're like, yeah, you know, he does have great genetics. The guy who just wants to look average, a guy who's below average, do you really think that he deserves to use steroids less than somebody who's genetically gifted? Average people want to look good. The world wants to look good. Whether you're advanced, normal, below average. And so if you already look better than almost everyone, why do you deserve steroids more than the person that just perhaps wants to look half as good as you? The only reason I haven't talked about this is because it's heavily criticized and looked down upon for regular people. And I, of course, understand why people think I am stupid for doing it and I don't argue with them. At least he's intellectual enough to understand why I and the rest of the world would think he's a moron. At least he gets it. And so if you get it, have you ever thought that maybe they're all right? If all these people, if you're smart enough to understand why we would say that you're too young, is it possible that you are in fact too young? You're bragging that, oh, I trained for whole years and have great genetics and so I deserve steroids. You're going to brag about having such great genetics because you look so good at 16. I started at 10, bro. I didn't start steroids until I was in my 30s. Should I have used steroids at all? No, but I'm at least thankful I didn't start at 16. Imagine if I had said, oh, I have more muscle than all of my friends. I'm the strongest bench presser in my school and I'm only 13 years of age, stronger than all the high school kids, stronger than the teachers. I have better genetics and so I need testosterone. Imagine if I had said that. Perhaps I wouldn't even be here to this day and I'm only 50 years of age. And so did you think of that? Do you really think that starting steroids at 16 is so important to your career that if you didn't start until you were 18, you would have no chance of success. If your genetics are so good of what you're saying that they are, why can't you wait until you're 18? I'm not saying to start at 18, but why couldn't you wait a little bit longer? Oh, four years of training. If you haven't trained 10 years, why are you using steroids? Or at the very least, five? Or at the very least, not be a freaking teenager. I didn't wait until I'm 18 or 19 is basically because honestly, I don't like wasting time if I know what I should do. You don't know what you should do if you're 16. I know you think you do, but let me remind you that I was once you. I was once also 16. You don't think that your parents or that older people were ever once a child, a teenager, that they actually grew up as well. And so let me tell you this. When you're young, you don't know any better. You think you know everything, but you haven't had the life experiences, the wisdom to know when you're doing something moronic of what you are. Do you think there's even a 1% chance that what you're doing makes sense? That, hey, I know the odds are stacked up against me, but maybe I'm right at 16 to use steroids. All those adults telling me I'm too young, they're all wrong because I have better genetics than them. Hey, maybe they're just jealous. And so what your parents should be doing right now is confiscating all of your steroids, bringing you to counseling and saying, we need to talk. Perhaps they've failed you. Perhaps you haven't enough talks. You don't have enough self-esteem or self-worth to know that you're good enough without the steroids. I don't know. I wasn't there. But what I do know is that parents are supposed to look out for you. If you have parents, they're supposed to prevent you from doing harm. And so, for example, if your parents are letting you drink alcohol at 15 or 16 years of age, they're idiots. They're morons. They're stupid. Alcohol is poison. If they let you ingest poison, are they doing their jobs as a parent? Steroids, also bad for a 16-year-old. It is a medication, a prescription of which you do not have. And so, if a parent lets a child use a drug without medical supervision, without a prescription, that parent is allowing their teenager to willingly break the law. And so, by that reason, the parent's also breaking the law. And so, why would a parent allow their child to abuse themselves? Every time you inject that, you're performing self-abuse. It's not okay. It's not cool. You need to stop by posting this in public. And the fact that you have over 50,000 followers, thank God he doesn't already have some Young LA or Gymshark sponsorship. All that would do is promote it to even more 16-year-olds. And the problem is, everyone follows someone a couple years older. And so, you follow Seabomb. He started at 18. I'll start a couple years younger. Somebody who's 14 going to follow you and say, oh, I started at 14. A 12-year-old going to follow the 14-year-old and so on. And so, it never ends. What's your opinion on SARMs? Do you use them? And so, it's so important to get the opinion of a kid. You know, I really want to know what a 16-year-old's opinion is on SARMs, on drugs. Only consider them if you're running it with a test base. But even then, there are always better alternatives. By the way, I wouldn't advise anybody hopping on SARMs or gear to just gain some muscle and then quit. That's the biggest bullshit ever because the muscle you will gain will 70% be lost after you quit. So, only do it if you actually thought it through and plan to do it long-term. By reading that, if I'm his 14-year-old follower, I'm going to think, okay, if I go on SARMs, I don't want to lose my games. And so, I'm just going to go on SARMs and never stop. That's all I see. I don't see any mention of the harms it could cause, the dangers, side effects. All I'm hearing is you're going to lose muscle if you stop taking SARMs. This advice is being given by a 16-year-old who has no medical degree, not even a university degree, and he hasn't even tried them himself. Why would you ask him? Why would he post this? What benefit could it cause? Perhaps he's trying to start a coaching business. Perhaps he can coach 14, 15, 16-year-olds on how to use performance-enhancing drugs. Might that be the case? Will you ever get tested to prove that you're natural? Crazy physique, regardless, by the way. People actually thought maybe he's natural. And so, the problem is there's so many liars out there, people pretending to be natural when they're not. And it's hilarious to me. Like, almost every single day, I get some message from a guy saying, Is Bro natural? He just posted his blood work. And I'll literally go and see the blood work, and I'll say, absolutely not. And he'll say, he just said he proved he was natural. His testosterone levels were only 48 nanograms per deciliter, and his LH and FSH, well, they're tanked. Did you ever think that maybe Bro hopped off, and that his LH and FSH are down, testosterone down, because he was on steroids? And so, this is where it all begins. David laid at 25, 89 kilograms. And so, we have David laid right here, very famous, millions of followers, doing his thing. Also, we said he was a fake natty back in the day, using SARMs probably, when he increases bench press by a ridiculous amount in a small period of time. And you can all believe that he was natural his entire life, but he's not natural now. So, you're comparing yourself to him. Okay, at 25. And so, you're at 16, 15. Why are you comparing yourself to David laid? Now, let's see the comparison photo. Me at 16, 96 kilograms. Okay, and so, you're a kilogram bigger than him. David has a much better looking physique overall, for aesthetic purposes. You have way more muscle. You have more muscle than him. You mog him in a bodybuilding competition. Great. Do we not see that comparison is the teeth? The teeth of joy. And so, you can compare yourself to David laid and say that you're bigger than him. How about if you compare yourself to genetic anomaly? You post in there. How about you compare yourself to Sam Sulik? And you're going to say, you know what? I'm not as big as them. Timed up the doses. You will always find somebody bigger than you. Half these guys develop body dysmorphia. You probably have body dysmorphia right now. You probably think you're not big enough. Why would you take steroids at 15, 16? Why couldn't you just be like, I'm a jacked natural guy? Why couldn't you have competed in a couple of years as a natural bodybuilder and dominated? And then said, you know what? I'm just going to win the national title natural. And then, oh, I know. I'll turn pro natural. And then, I'll compete natural. I'll get my pro card in the IFBB natural. Perhaps in classic physique because you're not big enough in the open. You do that. And then, eventually, maybe when you're 25 or you reach your natural genetic limit, you then say, you know, I'm going to hop on because I just can't grow anymore. That's what I did, except I was in my 30s. And so, why can't we wait? I don't care if you think that you're ready. I know that I'm ready. I can feel it. Do you know how many people I can think of that I've coached in powerlifting, bodybuilding, and so on who were really gifted as teenagers? And once they hit 18, 19, they got out of school, they stopped. Don't think that you're special just because you have elite level genetics. A one in a million physique. There are 4 billion men on this world. One in a million means there are 4,000 of you. You ever think of that? And so, your genetics are so good that there'S4,000 other guys with equally good genetics. And I'm telling you that using steroids at 16 doesn't give you an advantage. It gives you a disadvantage because you're preventing yourself from getting future gains. The earlier you start to use steroids, the less gains you're going to get on steroids when you're older. If you start steroids at 16, do you think you're going to put an ounce of muscle on after you're 26? Very, very difficult. If you start at 26, what do you think will then happen? You're going to make crazy gains even after you've hit your genetic limit. You're using steroids while your body would have built muscle anyway. And so, essentially, you're wasting your natty newbie gains. And so, why waste it? I'll tell you why you wasted it. Because you couldn't wait. When in doubt, wait it out. You couldn't wait. You didn't have the discipline, the mental strength to say, I'm going to hold off until I'm older. That's because you are weak. You succumb to using drugs at far too early of an age. You lacked the willpower. You lacked the courage to say no. And it's probably because of your upbringings, your parents. Clearly, if you're able to post this and nothing is happening. I mean, I don't see your channel taken down. You really think that my parents, if I had have posted, I'm going to start using steroids at 16, that they would have allowed it? I wouldn't have been living in the house. I would have been kicked out. There's no way they would have let me done this. And so the fact that you still have an account with 50,000 plus followers, your parents are allowing you to do this. Now, remember, I don't know if it's parents or guardians, but there's somebody that's looking after this guy and they need to do better. You need to do better. I mean, I understand if you're going to get some creatine, just the basics. But bro, you're going to make gains no matter what. And so you're even too young to be using HDLT supplements. Wait until you hit a plateau. When you hit a plateau, when you're a bit older, perhaps 18, 19, at some point, eventually the gain is going to stop. You've been training since you were 12. Eventually you gain, slow down. You take the Turk-Bilder Max and the gains, they continue. But you don't use steroids. This is moronic. It's ridiculous. Now you're obviously very young, but if you're older, I would strongly suggest you go to Algo RX and at least get your blood work. Find out. Do you have low levels of testosterone? Is there anything that you need? This guy, he doesn't need anything. But perhaps you need inclomiphene, testosterone. Perhaps you need Cialis. Remember, Algo RX is prescription medication prescribed legally by doctors. And it's about 50% the cost of Merrick Health. And so please do some price shopping comparisons and pick what you need. Code Greg for 10% off. And for the Turk and all those items, for example, the Kyco, Seco bars, you can get it with code Greg and code Seco gets it 50% off. Money back guarantee, $50 gift card. And so guys, before using steroids, at least use your natural supplements first. Don't take the chances. Don't risk your life, especially when you're a teenager. It's not worth it. There's too many side effects. It's not worth using the steroids. It's not worth altering your mind, altering your body. Be careful. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you like it. Don't forget to watch one of the two bloops. It's right there. If you want to be a sponsored athlete, of course, click the link in the description. You want to have HLT supplements in your stores and gyms, click the link. Coaching by me and my team, click the link as well. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: This Is Obese [EMzc9gGKm4Q].txt ===

 I recently made this video, and it made a lot of people upset, some of them call me obese. Is he in fact obese? And I'm saying yes. And if you look at his photos from back then, do you think he looks healthier now, or back then? Coach Greg, in today's video, is this obese? And so we got a famous man, his name is Trevor Wagner, and he posts a video to say how BMI's are flawed. And frankly, they actually are. The only problem is, in this case, it is not. Friendly reminder, this is obese on the BMI scale. And so in case you're new to this, anything above 30 is classified as obese. Now, the problem with the BMI scale is if you have a ton of muscle, it's not going to be accurate. And so for example, on the BMI scale, I'm about 30, and so I'm kind of obese. Despite the fact that I had sub 10% body fat on the DEXA scan, and according to my laser eyes, I'm probably 9% or less. I'm obese on the BMI scale, and so what he's saying is partially true. The problem is, his physique is still obese. You might be thinking, I'm hating on him, I'm putting him down, and perhaps I'm making fun of him because of the color of his hair and so on. Nothing could be further from the truth. I'm not saying that he looks bad, I'm not saying that girls, or perhaps even guys wouldn't be attracted to him. What I'm saying is that he's overweight to the point that he's obese and it's not healthy. And if he were to lose some weight, let's call it 20 or 40 pounds, then he would be significantly healthier. Just because you're overweight doesn't mean you're not attractive. And to the same extent, just because you're at a healthy weight, it also doesn't mean that you're attractive. Is he in fact obese? And I'm saying yes. I think that the problem is society thinks that when you say obese, you're thinking of someone who weighs 400 pounds. 40% give or take of the United States is obese. And so essentially, every second person that you look at is obese. Does this not look like a guy who lifts weights, who's strong, but is also fat? Fat and obese is the same thing. Does he look lean? Do you think he's at an ideal body fat percentage? Do you think that at six foot three and 265 to 270 pounds, that that is his ideal weight for longevity? Now, remember, I did some research about close to four years ago. He competed in a powerlifting competition. He dehydrated, dieted a little bit. He weighed in at 220. And so he's over 40 pounds heavier than that. And if you look at his photos from back then, do you think he looks healthier now or back then? You don't need to bulk to 28 or 30% body fat in order to put on muscle. You don't need it to be stronger. But remember, it's your choice. But if you make a video and say that this is an example of why the BMI scale is wrong, because look at my body and you have 28% body fat, probably closer to 30, it doesn't prove your point. Even though your point is correct, you're not proving it. Anything over 25% body fat as a man is considered obese. I'm not saying he's morbidly obese. I'm not saying that he's next up on my 600 pound life. I am just saying that he is obese. He has so much body fat on his body that he's obese. You might like the way he looks. You might like the way that you think he's handsome. It doesn't matter. Objectively speaking, he is obese. I love how the only one criticizing our boys when all the girls are drooling. Men can call out other men. Women will tell a woman who's obese that she's a 10. You're a 10. And then you know what you say, do you know what you look exactly like her? And she'll say, what the are you talking about? I'm not, I don't look like her. Well, you just said she's a 10. Like just compared to you. Deep down, she knows she's fat. But what women do is they butter each other up. They compliment each other. They don't say mean things. Guys in there then, you'll be at 9% body fat and bro will say, look at you, you piece of shit. You're ugly as fuck. This is what guys do. It's way harder to be truthful and say, you don't look good. You eat like shit. You're a fat piece of shit. You're lazy than to say, oh, love your body. No matter what. Comments here prove that men literally don't know what women want or like. Women don't know what they want or like. Women just say what they think you want to hear. And so when you show bro at 28 or 30% body fat, and then you show bro at 15% body fat, and you say, which do you think is better? Which would you like? And they say the guy with 28%. Now, they say that in an interview with a camera on them. I like the dad bod, but in reality, that's not the bro that they're taking. Looks aren't important. It's what's on the inside that counts. I am guaranteeing you that this man at six foot three and 268 pounds, if he weighed 228 pounds, more women would find him attractive. If he went from 28% body fat to 18% body fat, more women would find him attractive. Now, am I saying that more women would find him attractive at 5% body fat? This is not what I'm saying. But based on the literature, based on the science, women prefer men who are somewhere between 10 and 15%. If you're looking to look, Max, and you can see the chisel jawline, the bone structure, and so on, the number one thing you can do as a man to improve your attractiveness is to lose some weight. Let us just analyze this, bro. Let's look at some of his older photos. Let's see when he was leaner. How many of you think he looks better here? Friendly reminder, you're hot as hell. Nobody's saying he's not attractive. We're saying he's obese. You know, it's frustrating to be a YouTuber and to constantly make videos about people and to say you're fat and then they'll respond. What are you saying? Why are you saying they're ugly? I said they're fat. I never said they were ugly or beautiful or anything. I said fat, obese. Obese does not mean ugly. Did I make myself clear? But I can guarantee, and you cannot trust me, you cannot believe me. You can take a woman's opinion on this, but girls prefer men who are leaner than guys who are obese. Do you really think that the problem with most men who can't secure a woman, they can't attract the opposite sex is you're just too lean. Most men who are at 10 to 15% body fat, if they only gained 30 or 40 pounds of fat, they would be way more attractive. And so you should strive to have a dad bod. Women don't know what they want. Men tell them what they want. They show them. Don't listen to what a woman says. Listen to what she does. Women on average go after leaner men than they do fat men. Women on average go for six foot three tall studs more than five foot three tall studs. If he was five foot three and had 20% body fat, there wouldn't be a bunch of women chasing after him. He's tall. He's attractive, but he's obese. If he loses weight, he will be just as tall, but more attractive. Do you get it? If you're overweight and if you're obese, you're not healthy. If you lose weight, your blood pressure is going to go down. Your blood markers are going to get better. You're generally going to be healthier and live a longer and healthier life. Bigger bodies in general don't live as long as leaner bodies. And so if you're six, three into 70, the harder has to be harder, more wear and tear, and you don't live as long of a life. And so you're not as healthy as if you were leaner. I don't think you can debate this. I mean, you can try, but you're going to lose. Trevor Wagner just got his body fat tested to confirm whether or not he is actually considered obese. And the results came back saying he was 28% body fat, which is clinically considered obese. Here, take a look. My dry weight was 268. My body fat percentage was 28 and my lean mass was 192 pounds. Let's see the aftermath. He recorded a video to explain himself, to prove to the world that he isn't fat. He was 25 and he was 25 and he was 25 and he was 25 and he was 25 and he was 25 and he was 25 and he was 25. And so the thing is, the world is watching my videos and learning from them and their laser eyes are more accurate than the DEXA scam, the hydrostatic weighing, the in-body scam, the BIA, all the bullshit. You can just look in the mirror with enough practice and you know roughly give or take if you're fat or you're not. I recently made this video and it made a lot of people upset. I did get some interesting comments. Some of them call me obese. Some of them saying I'm 40% body fat. And I thought that's a little bit of a stretch. Like, I don't think I look that bad. I don't have a shirt on right now. See, he's saying, I don't think I look that bad. See, the difference is we're medically defining his body as being obese or not obese, overweight and so on. And so by saying, Hey, we think you have 40%. It's not to say that you look that bad. It's that you look that fat and it's not 40%. Some people are exaggerating. This is what people do. They try to get viral comments. They want to make people upset. I'm just guessing exactly what I think. I guess 30%. It came up at 28. The scale is off by 2%. It's almost accurate. I mean, according to my eyes, it's 30. We know that's more accurate than whatever scan you're going to do. And so you're obese. I mean, what else do we need to say? I do lift. I know in that post, a lot of people were saying it looks like I don't lift. I do lift. See, these are morons. Clearly he lifts. He looks like an average, strong, fat person. An average power lifter that competes that's strong. That is how you look. Do you look? Argue with me. You saying no? Power lifters, strong guys, 270 pounds. Do they not look like that? Most of them. Some are leaner. Some are fatter. Average. Is he not that? I never said he doesn't look like he has muscle. I didn't say he doesn't look strong. I never said that he's ugly. I said that he's obese, which is fat. Period. I do lift five days a week, unfortunately. Why would you say, unfortunately, what's wrong with lifting five days a week? My personal opinion is you don't do enough cardio. If you were riding a bike five days a week, I believe you'd probably weigh 220 pounds and be your ideal weight. And if you posted the BMI scale has me looking obese, everyone would say, yeah, this is ridiculous. Imagine this guy, 220 pounds. He doesn't look obese. He looks amazing. Have done strongman, power lifting, bodybuilding, classic physique. I've done all those and I've competed. So just to prove to people that are being kind of mean in those comments, I'm going to get my body fat checked right now. I just got the results. So you can see it at the top. Today's date. My dry weight was 268. My body fat percentage was 28. Yeah, confirmed obese, 28%. I mean, he just proved all the commenters correct. Now the liar saying he looks like he has 40%. Those are just idiots. I said 30. So for the people that are saying I was 40% body fat in the comments, that's a stretch. I was like, I thought that was crazy. Um, it's all the like fitness guys that were switching my videos. It's all good. I get it. You guys need to get some views in. And it was easy picking. No bad blood. I don't really care. So people are making videos about this because a he's famous and B it proves their point. You can look good and be obese at the same time. And if you think that you shouldn't diet or you shouldn't lose weight or this is healthy, it's not. Just because a lot of girls find him attractive doesn't mean that he's healthy. Are you getting what I'm explaining? If you wanted to lose some weight, make it easier. He could of course get my cookbook. You could also purchase GLP max code Greg 15% off and reduce your hunger by 28%. And so think about how easy it is to not eat when you're not hungry. You reduce your cravings. You go from eight out of 10 hungry to six. You eat less calories. You lose some weight. Now, if he really can't lose weight, if he's really struggling, you know, he's born with too many fat cells to grow in his true loop. He could go to Al Gorex. He could get his blood work done there. He could also get HRT, he could get in Clomaphine, but he could get the various GLPs to reduce the appetite cravings even more. Hey, do what you got to do. If you need to get Cialis, Viagra, BPC-157, NAD, glutathione, the list goes on and on. Go check out Al Gorex who has pharmaceutical medications prescribed by doctors, 100% legal. Go get it right now. I'm putting him in his place. I'm being honest, open, transparent, saying exactly the truth. And so if you want to hire a coach to just say you look amazing no matter what, don't hire me. Now, if you want to be coached by me, of course, you click the link in description. I have personal coaching one-on-one myself as well as myself and my team. Depending on the package you provide, it's me and you, direct contact. We're on the phone. We're doing everything. Or we have bi-weekly scheduled meetings where I meet all of you all at the same time. And so if you're interested and you actually want to lose weight and you don't want me to sugarcoat it, click the link right now. Now, make a video on what the ladies commented so that the guys can hate you more. Do you really think that men hate this man? Nobody hates him. People are correcting him. He thought that he wasn't obese because, hey, I have some muscle. He then did his body fat test and it came back at 28%, which is obese. Now, I'm talking medically. We're not saying that there isn't a girl that thinks he's attractive. We're saying he's obese. And so why would men hate other men? You think we hate him for not being sub 25% body fat? We don't hate him at all. In fact, I think most men would wish everyone else was fat. Think of it. If you're the only man under 15% body fat in the world and everyone is 28% body fat or more, you have less competition. Think of it. You would win every bodybuilding competition you ever entered. You're the only one that enters that has a six pack. You automatically win. Every other man is 28%. And so why would you hate other people for not being as good as you? This is ridiculous. And so there's no hate. It's simple correction. Why is it hate when you're trying to help somebody to learn something? And frankly, if he has any intelligence, which I'm sure that he does, he understands that when you make a video and it goes viral because there are people who are talking about you, it brings more fans to your channel. And the more negative things that people say about you or the more negative comments that you receive, the better it is for you. Because you know what? Your fans all come to your defense. AKA look at his comments, look at the positive versus the negative. And so what you want is you want a lot of negativity. You're gross, you're fat, you're disgusting. No one would ever want to be with you. Then all the women who simp and feel bad for you are going to write, no, he's actually hot. We love the dad bod. Everybody wins. And so if you truly do want to win, you're going to get the cookbook. You're going to get the GLP Max. You're going to purchase the turkestrone. Of course, you're going to get the G02 Max, and you're going to go and check out all of HTLT supplements and get yourself 15% off. And remember, if you don't like the product, you get a money back guarantee and a $50 gift card. Who in the world is doing that? I don't know of any. And that's it. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you like it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And until next time, I am out. X

=== FILE: What Was Your Stack？ [7d7u2yeyV9M].txt ===

 naringin,boxing,liśmy mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage transformation like this. The only problem is that out of 100 people, 99 are not going to make this transformation. And I don't care about seven months in seven years. Most people with steroids will never in their entire life look this good. And he did it in seven months. And so that is the temptation to use steroids. People, they make it look like it's way better than it actually is. Now, I'm not saying that steroids, performance-enhancing drugs, that they don't work. But most people, 99 plus percent of them, are not going to get results like this. Based on what I'm seeing, Bro looks like he went to the gym for seven years. On top of that, used steroids and got a proper tan. What was your stack? A, it doesn't matter. Because whatever the stack is, insert stack A, stack B, stack C. If you copy it, you're not going to get the same results. Just because he got amazing results from whatever stack that it was, doesn't mean that you will. And so you should not copy it. Let's say his transformation was five times as good as this. He literally looked like Chris Bumstead at the end of it. What was your stack, bro? It doesn't matter. You could copy it and you will not get the same results. And so regardless of it's a good stack, a stupid stack, the best stack in the world, the worst stack, high doses, low doses, it doesn't teach you anything. Looks like all I gotta do is get lean. No, you need to put on 40 pounds of muscle and get lean. This isn't just a guy that went on a diet, got a six pack. This is a guy who put on so much muscle and got lean that almost no one would put on this much muscle in their entire life. Looking great. I mean, these questions are so stupid. Did you notice a huge difference being on gear and off? No, I noticed no difference at all. I clearly looked the same on the left as on the right. I mean, I don't think so. I think I just recovered faster. No, there was no difference whatsoever. You know, I didn't notice that every single day I went to do the bench press, it was up 10 pounds. I didn't know that every week I stood off the scale, I gained a pound of muscle. I didn't notice that my libido was through the roof. I didn't notice that more girls than ever before talked to me and more bros asked me how big my biceps were. Nope. Never noticed. Do you really think you can make this kind of a transformation and not notice anything? That you can jump on steroids, so much steroids so that you make a transformation like this and that you barely notice the difference. Guys, we're not talking about him adding in some BPC-157 and asking you, hey, did you notice that your injury healed a little bit quicker? We're not talking about, hey, you added in five milligrams of Cialis. How much did it improve your erection quality? It's not in Clomaphene that we're talking about. Hey, did you notice that now that your testosterone levels are doubled, did you feel any different? It's not as simple as that. This guy is blasting everything to make a transformation like this. And as much as I'd love to tell you that bro just used Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum, unfortunately, it's not going to make that much of a difference. And of course, it's way better than creatine, of which we sell as well. But Turk is not going to help you put on 40 pounds of muscle in seven months. It doesn't do that. And so if you want to get in Clomaphene, HRT, Talmasartin, Cialis, all these things, you can go to Algor X. And so of course, you know, we get your Turk straight from Uzbekistan. You know, it's legit. We've been vindicated. Money back guarantee. $50 gift card. And also the G-Test Platinum, the G-O2 Max, whatever you need, we got you covered, including your blue lobster. How much easier was it to gain muscle and to cut fat? A lot easier. I mean, how is he going to quantify? It was 107.4% easier to burn fat and it was 1038% easier to build muscle. It was way easier to do both. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. The Rock knows it doesn't matter. Some percentage, you're going to put on muscle 10 times faster, at least on steroids than you are when you're natural. Burning fat, it's going to make it easier, but it's not easy to burn fat. You still have to eat in a calorie deficit. Were you blasting for the full seven months? And what was the diet like? I mean, why even ask these questions if bro isn't going to answer? And so the answer is, of course, he was blasting for the full seven months. Why would you show a before and after transformation after seven months and you only used it for the first three months? For the first three months, he put on 50 pounds of muscle, then went off, trained for four more months, lost some of those gains. And then after seven months, he showed you his after. When you show a before and after, you clearly show the worst before and the best after. And it took seven months. And so it doesn't take a genius to factor in that, of course, he was taking performance enhancing drugs for the entirety of the seven months. Use your brains, fellas. And so he actually answers this question. Are you kidding me? And this is the answer that he came up with. I mean, is he a politician? Like bro, I've always put my best effort into training, diet and recovery before even touching gear. So I'd say the latter. Gear is just an amplifier of your training and diet. I mean, how much copium is he on? This is insane. Oh no, it's just diet, training, cardio, all the good things. And here's just the amplifier. We're looking at your before and your after. Let us remind you of what you look like. And you've always trained hard. You've always done it the proper way. You've always done anything. And that got you to here, which is pretty damn good. And then in seven months, it got you to there. And so here isn't just an amplifier. It put him into the oblivion. Were you blasting for the full seven months? And what was your diet like? Two blasts and one cruise here. That doesn't say anything. People have different definitions of what a blast is and what a cruise. For example, this could be what he means. I did 800 tests, 800 EQ, 800 Mastron and 800 Tren. I did that on my blast. Then I cruised on 800 tests. And I did that for two weeks. And then I went back to my original cycle. I blasted, cruised and went back on a blast. Meanwhile, the 800 milligrams of test for most people, that would be a blast. And so depending on the person that you're talking to, they're going to say, you know, I was just cruising, cruising on 500 tests, you know, nothing. And then basically I was half natural. And then I went on a blast. It says nothing. And so you learn nothing. That teaches you nothing. If 1 million people who are using steroids, listen and read that answer, they all, 1 million of them would learn nothing. What do you learn from that? Two blasts and a cruise. Do you listen to that and think, okay, I really like those results. I too am going to go on a blast, going to cruise and then blast off yet again. And I should make some great gains. How does that help? How long was the blast? How long was the cruise? How long was the next blast? What did you blast on? What did you cruise on? And what was your blood work? Nothing is stated. There's no explanation. Oh, I put on 15 pounds of muscle in the first 15 days of my blast. And then I cruised for 30 days. Then I blasted for four. There's no explanation whatsoever. And so you learn nothing, nothing at all. It's like, hey, coach Greg, I once saw you were obese and then you lost weight. How did you do that? I went on a calorie deficit. Every single human being that loses body fat was in a calorie deficit. And so you taught nothing. Even the phone got on a diet. Well, good observation. Hey, amazing physique. 25 milligrams of var is as effective as 50 milligrams of var without the cholesterol side effects. By the way, how have your blood changed? So he literally just asked, is 25 milligrams of anivar just as effective as 50 milligrams of anivar, but without the negative side effects? Does that even make any logical sense whatsoever? Like why even ask that question? Is a low dose of steroids going to build as much muscle as a higher dose of steroids, but without any of the side effects? And so I could re-translate that into, is 25 the maximum amount of anivar that a person can take in order to get gains? No, you're obviously going to make way more gains with 50 milligrams of anivar than you are at 25. And without the negative side effects, both have negative side effects. And so specifically, HDL, we have the good cholesterol. When you take anivar at 25 milligrams, your good cholesterol, it goes down. It's not good. At 50 milligrams, it goes down more. And you know what else happens? Your bench goes up more and your biceps get bigger and you get more hugeness and you like it more. And so the more benefit you get from the steroids, the more side effects you get from the steroids. That is how it works. It's not going to give you maximum results at 25 in comparison to 50. And 25, you can't take that much and experience no negative side effects whatsoever. And if you're a woman, well, at 25 milligrams, expect your voice to turn into a man, expect you to eventually turn into a man. It's too much. That's why people cycle these things. By the way, how have your bloods changed? He doesn't respond because they changed poorly, negatively. You really think this guy went to Al Gorex, got his blood work done, read all of his biomarkers, made sure that he's perfectly balanced in line with all of his health? Of course not. When you blast like this, you don't have good blood work. And so what you hope is it's not horrific. When you do blast some steroids this bad, you're hoping, I hope it's not horribly awful. It's kind of like when you don't show up to class and you didn't study enough and you show up to write the exam, you're not thinking, I hope I still get an A, maybe not an A+. You're thinking, hopefully I don't flunk out of this. All you're hoping for is a pass. And so when you do your blood work and you're abusing steroids, you just hope that by some miracle, it's not so bad that the doctor's going to say you can never do steroids ever again. How much TRT did you use melanotan? No melanotan and just actual tanning, but I'm hopping on Melano 2 next week. TRT dose is usually 150 to 200. The blast dose is 300 to 400. Never past 400. I just don't respond well past that point and I get too much water attention. Raise your hand out there, you, if you believe that his blast was only 400 milligrams of test and that he cruised on an HRT dose of 150 to 200. Not many people are seeing hands raised. And why is that? Because 400 milligrams of tests is less than a minute people's blast. I'm on 140 milligrams of tests a week and that is actually a high HRT dose. And so if you're on 150 to 200, that is actually a lot. I would not call that HRT. I would call it more sport TRT or health optimization therapy. It's certainly not replacement doses. Those are very high. Natural. If not, what did you take? Why even ask if he's natural? I mean, it's an insult to think that he might've done this while being natural. Think of it. There's one bulk in between here. It was just 400 tests and 50 milligrams of VAR. Then the right photo is mid shred, 350 tests and 50 milligrams of VAR and 400 milligrams of Masteron Prope and two milligrams of RETA. We've now discovered that it isn't just 400 milligrams of tests and a little bit less tests while on his HRT. He's added in Mastron and he's added in a significant amount of VAR. 50 milligrams. It's actually a lot, especially when taken for consecutive weeks and or months. And the two milligrams of RETA, it's certainly going to reduce his appetite, reduce his cravings. And so essentially he didn't have to change his diet whatsoever. He could eat whatever he wants, whatever he wants. And with the addition of the RETA, well, his body has less cravings and so he's going to eat fewer calories. Now remember, Algorx is not going to prescribe you Mastron and high doses of tests. But if you want a prescription for HRT and or Inclomiphene and or various peptides to make you less hungry, to make you not eat your face off, they can do that. And remember, on average, half the price of Merrick Health. And so please do yourself a favor, compare prices. I want you to shop around. I want to make sure that you're getting the best possible deal. And if there's any possible way that any other HRT clinic out there is going to give you a cheaper price at Algorx, we'll never go to Algorx, but you're not going to find it. Although I dare you to try. And when you go to Algorx and you do purchase, code Greg 10% off to save you even more. Any side effects from Mastron, how'd you like it? Mast is my favorite compound other than test. Mast doesn't give me sides. If anything, it lowers estrogenics related sides. When he says he doesn't get any negative side effects, he's talking about negative side effects that he can see or that he can feel. So in other words, he doesn't get gynecomastia. Mastron doesn't convert to estrogen. You're not going to get gyno. And it generally allows you to build lean, dry tissue without a lot of body fat. And so it gives you a lean, athletic appearance. Now remember, that only happens if you already have lowish body fat percentage. If you're 25% and you take Mastron, you're not suddenly going to look vascular lean and like an athlete. Now, myself personally, what his cycle looks like, it's almost exactly what I would have been doing. Testosterone combined with Mastron combined with Anivar. Anivar was my favorite steroid that I could visually notice and see and feel. Aside from actually testosterone, because that is generally the base. You can't just do what you can, but you shouldn't just use Anivar on its own. And so you need some testosterone in there. And Mastron in higher doses is going to add to the cycle strength and help you to build more muscle without gaining a lot of water, the gynecomastia, the bloating and so on. And so what he's doing, it actually makes a lot of sense. And that is, of course, if you don't care about living your longest and best life, if you're abusing steroids, you're likely going to take years off of your life. You don't really know that. And I would argue that if he made this many gains this quickly in seven months, his dosing was too high. Whether or not he's telling the truth, we'll never know. He could be lying. He could be telling the truth. He could have just amazing genetics responding like crazy. But if he's making this kind of a response, did he really need the 50 milligrams of Anivar? Could he have not done it with 25? Did he need that much testosterone or could he not have stayed on HRT? You've seen the before and after. Why would you need to blast when you make that kind of a transformation? He trained how many years natural to get that before physique of which he earned through quality hard work. But then he blasts steroids in order to go and make more gains in seven months than he did in seven years. Why not lower the doses? The lowest dose that makes you happy. Did he really need to take that much? I don't think so. Why Retta and test at the same time? I'm going to answer that because Bro wanted to make a transformation. He wanted to get leaner and put on more muscle at the same time. Some of you think you need to bulk and then you cut. You go on testosterone and then you bulk up, you eat your face off and then after you go off the test, you then go on Retta and then you can shred. If you do that, you're going to lose so much more weight in the after and you're going to hate your life. Why not do both of them at the same time? Hey, listen, I don't think you should use steroids. I don't think you should do all these things. But if you're going to do it, then it makes sense to do both at the same time. How many bodybuilders do you think, for example, getting ready for the Olympia or the Arnolds are using Retta and test at the same time? Perhaps you're not using Retta. Perhaps it's terzipitide. Perhaps it's ozimpic, but it's a GLP. They're doing that to reduce the food noise. They're doing that so they can reduce the cravings. They want to have a lean, aesthetic, six-pack looking, shredded, massive looking physique. And that can be done by the use of using pharmacology. The Retta, the GLPs, the testosterone, the mastron, the anavar, all those are going to help you to build more muscle. And if you eat less junk food, shit food, you're going to build muscle and get shredded at the same time. And that's it. Hopefully you learned something. We're just trying to be honest with you. And frankly, this guy, he's not natural, but he's admitting it. He's telling you what he's doing. Maybe he's being truthful. I'm not 100% sure it's plausible. And so, hey, you know, at least he's out there showing you his work, showing you his progress and saying, this was done with steroids. He didn't try to claim natural. He at least admitted that he did this. He did that. He answered a lot of your questions. And so I see nothing wrong with this. Now, hopefully he's getting his blood work done. Hopefully his blood work isn't horrific because imagine if he posted this and then the third slide over was his HDL tanked, his blood pressure through the roof. If this was true, he should tell people about it. He avoided answering the question that came to asking about his blood work. And so if you show all the good about using steroids, the before and after Bravo, I mean, look at the frigging changes. It looks like he trained for seven years. But if you don't talk about the bad, the blood pressure, the HDL, the cholesterol, the liver enzymes, all the bad things, you're going to encourage more people to do it. Because honestly, if I'd never seen steroids in my entire life and I just saw that and I'm like, so 400 tests and Mastron and VAR and Reda and that's what I get, I'd probably want to do it. Especially if he says, oh, I didn't experience any negative side effects. No negative side effects and all that muscle and you look like that, I want it. And so you need somebody like a coach, Greg, or other people to say, look, yeah, you build a lot of muscle, but a lot of shitty things can happen. Let's just keep it real. Let's be honest, but let's not make it look better than steroids actually are. Let's present both sides of the story. Although he doesn't present any side effects that he's talked about, perhaps the blood work does. And so unless we see the blood work, we don't know the actual damage that he's done. I would encourage you to stay natural as long as humanly possible. If you haven't tried Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum, why haven't you? Get on it. And if you don't experience significant growth, you get your money back. It's a 100% money back guarantee. And on top of that, a $50 gift card. Get the Geo2 Max, get Blue Lobstered, get out there, train harder than last time, do all the things, get the freaking cookbook, train harder than last time. And don't forget to use code Greg while you're at it to save yourself 15% off. Now, remember, we're looking for HLT sponsored athletes. We have over 3000 total athletes in total varying levels of sponsorship, as you know, and so depending on how large a volume and how much you can do, we would love to sponsor you please apply by clicking the link in the description. And also if you have a store or a gym and you want all these supplements in your store gym, then please reach out, click the link description. I can't wait to announce to the world the 1000s of stores that we're going to be in in the very near future. Very exciting. And until next time, I am out.

=== FILE: Why Are You Hiring Fat Personal Trainers？ [VlRZ22DVcyU].txt ===

 Does being fat automatically prove that you're an idiot? Hi, I'm Roy, I am a fat personal trainer. Hi, I am Miss Carrie, I'm a personal trainer and a power lifter, and this is what my body looks like. Whatever you look like, that is in fact, your choice. Coach Greg, in today's video, hiring a fat personal trainer. Yeah, that feels good. Chris, don't forget to mist onto his chins. Joe Fasier, he puts the question to the test, Should personal trainers be fat? Does it not show that they don't know what they're talking about? Let's get right into it. When you think of a personal trainer, I assume you're imagining big muscles, toned abs, you know, just a person who's in great shape. This is probably not what you imagine. I may as well start by saying, no, it isn't at all what I imagined. I was a physical education teacher, and if I were to close my eyes and imagine what people would think about their phys ed teacher, they're probably not imagining someone who weighs 300 pounds. Now, does that mean you can't technically do it? No. You can do whatever you want, and if there's someone out there stupid enough or, you know, insane enough to want to pay you the big bucks and your 400 pounds, then by all means, they can do whatever they want. But does being fat automatically prove that you're an idiot? That you don't know what you're talking about. I'm not sure that it does. Hi, I'm Roy. I am a fat personal trainer. My name is Carrie. I'm a personal trainer and a power lifter, and this is what my body looks like. There are people online who think this is completely wrong. I do believe it's somewhere in the middle. It's on a spectrum. Like, yeah, you can be fat and be a personal trainer, but should you? Like, I could be a relationship coach, but have had four divorces. But does that not prove you don't know what you're talking about? You can't assume I'm unfit based on how I look, but you are. Yes, you can. She is not fit, and I have proof. Exhibit A. You just need to look at her. You know she's not fit. Now, does that mean she doesn't have, for example, a PhD in biomechanics, understands the human body? She has perfect technique. Of course it doesn't. She could know more than perhaps anyone, but she simply doesn't follow her own advice. And just because you're fat, it doesn't mean you don't know how to train. It just means you're either lazy or you're not putting any of what you know into practice. But the difference is you know what you're doing, I think. Whereas when I'm instructing, they don't know what they're doing. And so she starts off making a great point. The people who I train don't have a clue what they're doing. And so they're here, I'm there, and I get them to this point. You're already here. And so for you to hire me, does that make any sense? Of course it doesn't. And so if you're this fat, you can train people who are perhaps half as fat, if that makes any sense. For me, health and fitness is not just about weight. It's everything from your mental health to your cardiovascular health. And so she's right. It is more than just weight, but weight is part of it. Most people who go to the gym to train, to lift weights, to do cardio, don't want to end up morbidly obese. It's kind of the goal to get away from. And so when you're listening to somebody who's morbidly obese, you know for certain that they themselves are doing something wrong. And so if you do everything that they're doing, it's not going to work for you. And so the proof is in the pudding. And so when you see someone this bad, this out of shape, you know for certain that they are doing something wrong. And so if you hire them, well, hire them at your own risk. I'm meeting Bobby, who's a personal trainer on the other side of the argument. It's a free country. You can do whatever you want. I just don't think it's morally correct to be a full-sized personal trainer. So his opinion is, isn't morally correct, but that she does have the right to do it. Now, here's my opinion. I think she has the right to do it and there's nothing immoral about it. I mean, that to me is ridiculous. Morals? Morality? You can't personal train if you're overweight. Morals aside, does that make any sense? I don't think so. This is my opinion. This is what I think. I don't think she could be, she can, but I don't think it's morally correct. The morality, it's not like she's lying. She's not saying, hey, look at my body. It's 25% body fat. I have an ideal physique. And so you should take your advice from me. She ain't lying. She's not making shit up. She's not writing some BS thesis like Mr. Mike did. We have Bobby and Rhiannon here. Bobby is a personal trainer. Rhiannon is also a personal trainer. And so those of you watching this and thinking, well, this isn't fair. You're going too hard on her. Let's compare the two. If you had to say that the gentleman on your left was going to be the personal trainer for the woman on your right, would you think, yeah, that makes sense? But what if it were the opposite? She was training him. Would that even be possible? I think the answer is no. I don't think it's possible for her to train him effectively. Now, if he gained 150 pounds, if he was morbidly obese, if he was so out of shape that you thought, well, there's no way this guy could even walk. Could she then be a personal trainer for that guy? I think everyone would believe so. And so let me present this scenario. There's a 400 pound woman. She has to choose between man on the left, woman on the right. Remember, she's 400 pounds. She's female. Perhaps she's uncomfortable. She's never been in the gym before. Who do you think she might prefer to have as her personal trainer? Many people probably thinking, you know what? Despite the fact that he is more qualified, that he looks better, probably knows more, all the things, she might perform better with the woman on the right because she's more relatable. She probably knows the hardships, the insecurities, and that she can get her from point A to point B. Now, once she loses 100, 150 pounds, once she's halfway to her dream physique, maybe she then can pivot and hire him on the left. And so my personal opinion is that both should be allowed to be personal trainers. There isn't anything morally wrong. And depending on the client, depending on the situation, it might be, in fact, better to have a overweight, obese, lazy female who probably doesn't know how to eat, who perhaps doesn't listen to her hunger cues, is an emotional eater, whatever got her to this state, that she's actually better for personal training for that woman than he is. I'm a big person and I think that there's nothing wrong with that. No, there isn't. That to me is body positivity. And so she says body positivity, there's nothing wrong with that. Why? Because I'm a big person and, you know, I should be allowed to be big. Yeah, you should be allowed to do whatever you want. You should be allowed to drink alcohol if you're of age. You should be allowed to do whatever is legal. You should be allowed to do it. But should you? That is a better question. And so you shouldn't be this big. It's not good for you. It's stupid. It's moronic. You're throwing 20 years of good living away for nothing. Well, not for nothing, for the taste of a donut. But hey, you think that you're right. I just feel that someone should feel accepted and proud of their body if they're not meeting society's expectation of fit. Yeah, you feel this and you feel that. This is the problem, especially when you're arguing with a female, is that she thinks her feelings matter. We're basing the argument on facts, not feelings. Fact. You're fat and you're going to die younger because of it. Feel. I feel like I should be able to be fat and feel people should like me and love me the same no matter what. I feel like I'm just as good of a person. So? So what? Feelings do not trump facts. My reasons going over this side. I don't think there's anything inherently wrong with being bigger. Again, feelings versus facts. Is it okay to be overweight? Well, by okay, it's okay you're allowed. But is it smart? Of course not. Like, is it okay to have four liters of ice cream every night before bed? Well, yes, you're allowed to do that. It's okay. You're not breaking any laws. But you're an absolute moron if you do it. And so, if by okay you mean whatever you want to feel like doing, well, yes, you can. But it doesn't mean it's a smart choice. If we lived in a world that just said it was wrong or that it's not okay to be big, I think that would be disadvantaging all the people who are big, who maybe are big for various reasons. It could be a medication. It might be mental health. If you're overweight, it's for one reason. Not two. Not three. Not four. It's because you eat more calories than you burn off. You're in a calorie surplus. That's the only reason. Now, there's tons of reasons why you're overeating. You could be an emotional eater, your mental health, your boyfriend cooked you too much leftovers, whatever. But in the end, you decide what goes into your mouth. I don't wake up every day, though, and choose to eat in a calorie deficit. So, I think I'm neutral because the reason I am the way I am is because of my mental health. And I don't choose my mental health. By choice, she thinks it means you snap your fingers and you look the way you want. And so, hey, I don't choose to be fat. I just am fat. No. The choices that you made were not snapping your finger and deciding, you know, I want to wake up 340 pounds. It's a series of choices that you made over the course of the last 20 years where you chose to eat in a calorie surplus. Mental health, emotional health, whatever reason, every single day or at least more days than not, you were eating too much food, aka calories. And that's what led to this final answer of you being morbidly obese. To the same extent, do you choose to be muscular? Do you choose to be lean? Can you imagine saying, no, I didn't choose to look like this. Do you think I slipped and woke up the wrong way and look like this? Like A-50-year-old phenom. I don't think so. It took 40 plus years of hard work to get to this point. And so, trust me, whatever you look like, that is in fact your choice. You definitely, definitely can have the choice of whether you want to eat or be in a calorie deficit. I mean, it's 2026. If you're literally obese to this extent, have you not ever heard of GLP Max or even GO2 Max to improve your cardio? This to reduce your appetite? Why starve? Why be hungry when you could literally get my cookbook, get my supplements and make it easy? Like losing weight, it isn't even hard. It's hard to get shredded. Of course it is to get single digit body fat. But to have less fat than this, like you think it would be hard for her to lose 20 pounds. She's got 120 to lose. The first 20 would go off like that. She'd add in some GLP Max. She'd be less hungry, eat less calories. Now, if you have some medical disorder, it's horrible. It's so bad. Have you ever heard of something called ozempic? Terzipitide, RETA, these certain GLPs. Why aren't you using them? I mean, they're literally medications. Even Oprah freaking Winfrey is saying that, hey, it's not from overeating. It's obesity. This thing called obesity, it makes you eat. She's labeled it. The gene obesity makes you eat. You have no choice in the matter. You can't stop yourself from putting the fork down, from saying no to the 17th bagel of the week. You can't say no. So Oprah says it's not your fault. You just need to use ozempic. Now, if you need, for example, in clomiphene, testosterone, you have low levels of testosterone. You can't get it up. You need Cialis Viagra. What if you need various peptides to help you to lose weight, to decrease your hunger cravings? Why not go to AlgoRx? You know what it's for. Prescription medications that are legal, prescribed by your doctor. Pharmaceutical, not some scam SARMS website where you don't know what you're getting. Only legal medications at about half the price of Merrick Health. And so if you're not a millionaire or even a billionaire like Oprah Winfrey and you want to get a good deal, AlgoRx, code Greg, 10% off. Click the link in the description. I disagree. Okay. I eat as a form of self-harm. Aha. And so bingo. She finally answers something honestly. I eat as a form of self-harm. And so let me make this clear. When you eat to this extent, to this much, to being this fat, super fat, morbidly obese, it's equivalent to calvicular taking a hammer, smashing his face, or people who do things to their body on purpose. They're doing horrible things to their body. They're doing things on purpose to hurt and injure themselves. That is what happens when you overeat. It's no different. It just society says it's okay. You know, we're not okay with doing self-harm. People aren't cool with that. Hey, you need a counselor. You need a psychologist. You need to stop hurting yourself. We don't want that. When you eat like this, it's the same thing. She is self-harming, but with food rather than implements objects and so on. If that personal trainer can help one big person, then they should exist and they should be able to be a personal trainer. Yeah, I mean, honestly, I agree with her on that. Remember, I'm trying not to be biased. I'm looking at this impartially as much as I can. And I do think that she wins that answer. You can be out of shape and be a personal trainer. You just have to be in better shape and motivate, inspire the person who hires you. And so there's nothing wrong with being a fat personal trainer. I think the world needs some of them. Perhaps one out of a hundred should be this fat. And so if she's getting clients, if they're paying for her, it's not a scheme. It's not a scam. It's not immoral. She should be allowed to do this. And so I see nothing wrong with this. I feel like it's just morally correct for a personal trainer to be in shape. Yeah, I'm just not a fan of saying it's immoral. I mean, we're not talking about lying, cheating, stealing, breaking laws. It's not immoral to be a fat personal trainer. The idea that you think that the way I exist in the world and the job I choose to do is morally incorrect, which is pretty much what you've just said, really bothers me. See, I don't think that you should be bothered by what he thinks. You can't control what other people think of you. You can only control what you think of yourself. And so why is it bothering you so much what he thinks? He can think whatever you want. You think these OF models that are making millions of dollars are bothered by people saying, hey, that work that you're doing, it's immoral. So, why does it matter? So to say this, you think it bothers me when I try to sell my cookbook and other people say, oh, it's a scam. It's going to give you cancer. It's horrible. Or when I say to buy Turk Builder Max and some people out there think that it doesn't work. They think it's a scam. They think it's not actually going to be beneficial. When we literally have a money back guarantee and a $50 gift card. And so, is it immoral for me to try to push the sales of Turk, a company of which I own, to try to make money by selling something that I believe is the best supplement in the world? Way better than creatine. And so, how would that be immoral? And so, imagine me caring when Bro from Bangladesh. Have you seen Bangladesh? The horrible living conditions that they're under. And Bro from Bangladesh. He's had a bad day. He was riding on a train. There was thousands of people. He almost died. And he writes, oh, Coach Greg is a scammer. He's selling Turk. How could that bother me? And so, this to me, it's no different. And so, you got to let the muscular, good-looking young man here say, hey, it's morally wrong for you to be a fat personal trainer. She should be like, yeah, okay, whatever. You know, I'm fat. Whatever. I'm moving on with my day. My clients seem success as me. Because mentally, I'm existing in the gym. My main goal is to get them started on their health and fitness journey. 100%. But you think it's about getting in shape. I don't. I mean, I'm on her side. Her goal is to get them to want to take part in a health and fitness journey. His goal is to make them fit. And so, we have two different personal trainers, two different styles. He gets people to be actually in shape. She gets people to actually start their journey. And so, how would that be different for myself? People watch Coach Greg to lose weight, to get in shape, to get the motivation, and make a difference in their lives. They may watch another YouTuber to simply inspire them. Hey, I watch a video. People exercising look kind of cool. Maybe I'll try it. They watch my videos. They want to try it. Go to the gym. Listen to me. Get inspired. And they make a difference. And they change and lose 100 pounds. And so, from start to finish, I'm a channel you can listen to. Other people, they do a different task. The approach is very different, though. And I think... I don't think it... I really don't think it is. I think it is. And I think we appeal to different people. And fundamentally, I think that's the difference. Disagree. It's funny that he disagrees with her. She's saying, I have a different clientele than you. He's like, nope, nope. We all want the same thing. You really think that the people that hire her are the same guys and girls that are going to hire you? Come on. Like, the people that are hiring her are not people that are 50 pounds overweight. They're probably scared shitless to go to the gym. They've never even thought about it. They're just in there ready to do something. Anything. Perhaps they're there with her to go for a walk. A slow one at that. You, on the other hand, I'm certain that the people who are hiring you have way more confidence. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost the album. Please like this video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch any of those two bloops. Don't forget to go to AlgorX as well as HCLT Supplements. And remember, we're looking for sponsored athletes. And so if you have a large follower, even a smaller one, you can click and apply by clicking the link in the description. And remember, if you want to carry HCLT Supplements in your stores or in your gyms, you can click and apply as well. And until next time, I am out.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.377431Z ===
