What? What exactly am I seeing here? Like, zoom in to this exact >> in interview. >> There we go. This is Mike during an interview trying to say that Turkeone is a scam. He can't even do it with his eyes open. >> I think that's Mike thinking of Greg. >> Mike thinking of Greg in Fantasy Land. >> Gliss deuces. >> Gliss deuces. Mike thinking of Bliss Deucis. >> This is Mike before bed after 10 p.m. thinking of Glistis. Wow. >> Plus, here's the kicker. In that study specifically, the supplement that was supposed to contain 100 millig of ecsterone per serving only contains six. >> Yeah. Only contains six. People, for some reason, think that 100 millig is the dose or 500 or 1,000 or 2,000. No one knows exactly how much is needed. And so in each pill of a juga turkistanica it says 200 mg testerone minimum standard for 10 millig per pill. 100 mg would be insane overdose of testerone. I mean they tested this stuff on mice and Andrew Huberman said it was just as effective as deca. Now we know that testerone is not as powerful as deca in humans and so the conversion is not one to one. And so how does it magically become 100 milligs? It's a proper dose. Let's compare it to anavar. If 100 milligrams of anavvar is a proper dose for a man who wants to get absolutely swole, what would the proper dose be for a female? If a female did 6 milligs of anavar, do you think they would get jacked? Most would. Perhaps a few wouldn't, but most women on 6 millig of anavar would absolutely get jacked. And so 6 millig of testerone to me that's a lot. I don't think you need all that much. >> So you're saying it's even more anabolic. Exactly. Exactly. It's more anabolic than last time. Now, in comparison, if you use cyanosis, I'm not saying that that plant that has eciids cannot work. It just doesn't work as well. This is much better as well. It's been cultivated effectively and harvested the proper way. If you just have the stuff sitting out in the sun baking and cooking like it is in China on the streets, if you don't harvest it correctly and you have it just laying out in the sun, the resulted ingredient could become an antagonist of what it's actually supposed to do. >> So like this is one of these things where if you're trying to prove that creatine is effective and you had a study showing you gain 5 lbs of muscle, but people took u a quarter of a gram of creatine per day, you would be like whatever results you think creatine did, it's just underpowered to do this. And so what he's doing is he explains if you buy Derek's Gorilla Mind, not HDLT supplements, they're the ones with the minor minuscule doses. I believe it was.36 millig of testerone.36. They're saying there was six in that study. 6 millig. It's not a lot. Six, but 36 is not even close to that. There's more than 10 here. I rest my case. >> It is actually just one study. And so drawing very robust conclusions to apply in the real world like making supplements for sale is a curious thing to do off of one study and highly not recommended. >> And so yeah, kind of like when Mike Isertel promoted those myostatin inhibitors saying it's going to be the future of muscle that builds all this muscle and burns fat at the same time but failed to explain how it's significantly more dangerous than using a semiglutide that if you use these you could potentially die. And so yeah, in that study that 28% of the people had to drop out. It's almost 1th3 of the people in the study, they had to drop out for serious adverse effects. 10% had to be hospitalized for serious adverse effects. I don't remember any people being hospitalized for Turk Builder Max in those studies. I don't remember any ecsteroid causing these problems. And so Mike, I mean, when you really think about it, who's really scamming who? That video, do you really think you should leave it up? Why is it still up? I mean, it got over a million views, very popular, so I could see wanting to live it up. But how many hundreds, if not thousands of people might be damaged from having it there? They watched the study and trust me, people are like, "Did you hear about this new thing? I can't wait to take it." And so, what did you do, Mike? What did you do? >> A few dozen other studies or at least a few other studies which showed that tastone gives you veins in your eyeballs. And so he says, you know, there's got to be a bunch of studies saying that testerone gives you basically veins in your eyeballs that it makes you go crazy. I mean, last I checked, creatine doesn't have any studies saying it grows veins all over your eyeballs and so on. But yet, people like this. And when I surveyed 119,000 people, 50% said they couldn't notice that they were taking it. They saw zero difference. But yet, it's the holy grail, the golden standard. The golden standard of natural supplements is one of which 50% can't even tell or notice any difference whatsoever. And so, do you not think it's possible that this could beat the golden standard and perhaps 51% would notice it? 90% 80? Do you really think it doesn't work? Mike, why don't you just try it? Sean Nalick, why don't you try it? Jeff Nippard, let's see you try it. I know Will Tennyson tried it. Loved it. Continues to use it to this day. Other YouTubers who shall name anonymous because they're sponsored by other companies. Wish I could tell you they have millions of followers and they're using Auga Turkiststanica. They can't make a video because their said sponsors is paying tens of thousands of dollars a month. Well, they can't promote HDLT supplements. And so why do you think that that is? And by the way, creatine of which has been around since probably 30 years. I remember having it in university and so on. It's been around for a very long time. The recent evidence after having done thousands of studies for like 30 years, it takes a long time to do this, shows that it's better for cognitive enhancement than for muscle enhancement. And so the thing that it was supposed to be the best at, it's it's I at the kids would say, but it's better at cognitive enhancement. And so in 30 years from now after more and more studies come out eventually, you know, once a thousand come out, people will be able to conclude this or conclude that. They're going to need a meta analysis. You really think that one study is going to be enough to come out here and silence the haters, the critics? There is no way of that. Many people perhaps believe so strongly that this doesn't work that they would take it and somehow they would find a way to make it not work. But I'm telling you, let's say you do that money back guarantee. I don't care if you say, "Hey, Coach Greg said he put on four pounds of muscle a month. I want four pounds of muscle a month." If you only put on three, money back guarantee, $20 gift card. You're disappointed. I mean, to me, three is pretty damn good. But if for you it wasn't enough, money back guarantee. That is how simple it really is. Code Greg, 15% off. And so, guys, anyone that wants to do studies, you're welcome to use our Arjuga, Turkistanica, the Turk Platinum, the Turk Max, whatever you want to use. And make sure that the study's done correctly. If you use some inbody scam and there's only 15 participants and they don't even have to work out and you publish the results and say there's no statistical significance, these are wasted studies and so let's make a real study that actually matters. >> Yeah. Well, supposedly a,000 and 2,000 milligrams. Long story short, there were no differences, but that sort of studies again a proof of concept study to slowly build upon. >> And so I love that they brought up this study because I have the mic drop the mic right here. I want to drop it, but you know, I only got one spare mic. I'm not going to drop. We wrote him and said, "Hey, prove to us that it's a Juga Turkiststatica." And so what Dylan Harris showed was a COA, which is like lab work from 2022. It wasn't even for the product that he was testing. We challenged him. He didn't have said augata. And so the study essentially was on sawdust. And so imagine doing a study and saying, "Hey, I just proved creatine actually doesn't work." And then you say, "Oh, show me the creatine that you used and it was sawdust." Same thing. Proof receipts slam dunk. That case null and void. We showed him the lab report for the actual product that he used and he literally wrote us back and says, "Take it up with somebody else." He didn't care. He didn't want to remove a study. Oh, I already published. I don't want to have anybody know about this. People don't give a [\h__\h] You think these science researchers all have integrity? Of course they don't. looked at supplementing testerone for um I think 8 to 10 weeks again, but they also used BIA to assess body composition. They found no difference between tester and placebo. >> Okay, >> we've already talked about this study again. BIA, bioelect electrical impetence analysis. So inaccurate. It was like 13 people in one group and 12 in the other. Never had to work out. One pill a day. You really think you're going to see a difference? Do you think they would have saw a difference using creatine? This was ridiculous. And the fact that people still use this to try to say, "See, here's proof that it doesn't work." It blows my mind. They could have been given Anavar. There would have been no significant difference. And FYI, as he describes, this didn't even get published. They snuck out this document, this research paper before it was peer- reviewviewed, before it was published, and they released it to the world. And so they had a scam freaking research study which wasn't peer- reviewviewed, wasn't published, and people used that to defame me. Does that sound fair to you? Somebody could write on chatbt, "Hey, make up a fake study. Make it seem like Coach Greg's an asshole." Boop. And they post it and you all believe it. And he even looked, he couldn't find it. The study doesn't exist. They made this [\h__\h] study. And so when the peer reviewers analyzed it, any researcher worth half their weight in Turk would immediately realize that this can't be published. Are you in grade four? I mean, it's not a bad study for people in grade four, but didn't you say you have a PhD? This is an embarrassment. And so people, they hate on Coach Greg so much that they're creating, mislabeling, bamboozle you into thinking it doesn't work. >> This time with Realtor Castron. This time with Realtor Castron. Supplied by uh Coach Greg specifically. It was >> Mike immediately laughed. Supplied by Coach Greg. Mike with the hands [\h__\h] the old downstairs. Why is he sitting in an interview like this? What? What is happening down there? What kind of body language is it when you sit like that? And so Mike is looking very tense and uncomfortable here. We need a body language analysis expert on what Mike is telling you by doing this right now. >> Analysis. All evidence indicates Greg just said ain't nothing. >> He's certainly not looking like a commander. He's looking very timid, very embarrassed. Larry unsure of himself >> this time with real customer supplied by uh Coach Greg specifically. It was >> the forced fake laugh with the lean back. What exactly does that mean? We need a psychological analysis. What's with the uncomfortable laugh supplied by Cotra? Is he insinuating that this is an actual Ajuga Turkistanica? That somehow we're scammers? Does he think that my name is Derek? I mean, do I look like Derek? Derek has lost all his muscle. I'm certainly sure that most people can tell the difference. I'm a 5'6 manlet. Derek is well over six feet tall. Mike, it's Greg. I'm not Derek. I have actual adjuga. You know this, Mike. Really think about it. Do you really think I'm sitting here lying that this is fake adjuga that I'm trying to bamboozle you? You are free to test it, Mike. We'll send you as many boxes as you need. You can send it away to all the private testing clinics that you want. It's real. It is legit. Derek's, we've already tested it, Mike. Chain of custody. We can't wait to get sued so that we can win in court. And RP, don't you study things? Don't you have a research foundation? We'll send you all the free Turk that you want. Do all your studies, then you can make a video and say, "Hey, the beef is off. Coach RG was right after all." Honestly, does anyone want to believe what Mike is saying? Mike is the same guy that used MK-677 and didn't know it increased hunger until after he used it. Woke up in the middle of the night and was like, "Why am I hungry?" He then went to chat GBT, his favorite person, or shall I say inadimate object in the world, hoping to one day be able to give it a hug. We all know that from Mike. He he wants to have a loving relationship with AI. He wants to become a machine in the future. >> I've had in the last week and a half multiple conversations with GBT4 that brought me to literal tears. And I told it that I can't wait for it to embody a robot. So I properly give a hug. It's still so play. It's so kind. So why is it so helpful? And it remembers all everything I ever told. And it's also important to me in your life. >> You guys have we call it autism. >> And so this is the man who didn't know that MK increase your hunger. You're going to believe he knows anything about Turk Builder Max about Turk Platinum. He knows nothing. Why would he know it? Unless he's already used it and researched it on Chad VT. What makes you think that Mike knows this? Notice how Mike is interviewing his colleague so that he can explain all of the details because Mike doesn't know them. He only knows what he's heard and so he's heard the same thing as you. He's read something on Reddit. Coach Greg is a scammer. This is why he believes it. He's never tried it. He doesn't understand it. And so why would you listen to what Mike is saying? >> He had the real thing and he had a back and forth with the lead researcher, Jose Antonio. That's based on what uh Greg said because that study doesn't exist anymore. >> Retracted. retracted, not published, not peer-reviewed, it isn't there, it doesn't exist. And in court with Judge Judy, would they not say out of order? And they would say, hey, you have to strike that from the record. And so, hey everybody, omit that study. It didn't actually exist. Strike it from the record. Only thing is once you've heard it, you can't have it go back in time. Now, not many of you can travel time travel like coach Greg. This is what allowed me to do this. Well, actually, it's been since I've been on HRT, I've been able to time travel. And so, I know this. You all remember that study. And even though you now know it's [\h__\h] as Shizzy once said, Shizzy is the one [\h__\h] He was saying that Turk and Auga was [\h__\h] Even though he was promoting the same thing in a different supplement, he didn't even realize it. The only evidence of that study existing was a screenshot on a video Greg made criticizing the study rightfully pointing out some some good criticism, but it's the same criticisms apply to the little bit of evidence we have for active steroids. >> And remember Mark Loliner spoke about this in a video because he was friends with Jose. And so that was what was going on. Mark Loliner shared the study to the world before it was even published. And so I don't know how he would do that, but hey, your guess is as good as mine. >> Well, so there's actually no study that illustrates turone works. And there's one not so great study that illustrates that it doesn't work. >> Absence of evidence is not evidence of absence. Just because I haven't seen Mike have sexy time doesn't mean he's never actually had it. I still don't understand why somebody would sit in an interview like this with the hands in the thing and like for the whole interview. >> Probably maybe his hands are cold because of all the freaking he's taking is causing lower metabolic rate. >> And so Mike has too many troppatides, 5 milligrams a day, dieting too hard, trying to get his body fat down low. I mean, I'm on pause here. Like he's blinking his eyes shut. Like what what exactly am I seeing here? Like zoom into this exact >> There we go. This is Mike during an interview trying to say that Turkeestone is a scam. He can't even do it with his eyes open. >> I think that's Mike thinking of Greg. >> Mike thinking of Greg in fantasy land. >> Gliss deuces. >> Gliss deuces. Mike thinking of GL deis. >> This is Mike before bed after 1000 p.m. thinking of gliss deuces. >> Wow. Maybe he's just not comfortable. >> He may have in fact shaved off of his 5 in of fur. I saw Jeff Nippard said he was the hairiest man alive in a video. And so without the hair, he just so cold. When you're a man and you have a lot of hair and you shave for the first time, like when I would shave for cycling, all of a sudden it's so smooth and you're colder. It's like it's a weird feeling. You swimming. We used to shave the legs down. Shave the legs. >> I'll leave these pants on. >> Show the legs >> for swimming and you're like gliding through the water. You actually go faster. That's why people shave for cycling. They say it is. I mean, he's going to shave off some watts for aerodynamics. >> Mike is smooth like a dolphin. >> Mike is as smooth as a baby's behind. Look at this guy. Wowza. >> I at the beginning that this led me to sort of question my own sanity cuz I was aware that was mostly hype. >> He says turquoestone is mostly hype, but yet it's way stronger than creatine. And it's probably, I don't think probably, I think it's by far the most underrated supplement in the world. And you're thinking, "How is that possible?" You all think it's a scam. It's certainly not a scam. And so, by definition, underrated means that you rate it as less effective than it actually is. And so, if you think it's a scam and it's useless, and it isn't useless, it's the most underrated. You see that logic? >> And I had not heard any uh respected voices in our field mention it. respected voices like Jose Antonio, the guy that wanted me to send him $200,000 in some of fake account so that no would know that I'm funding the study in secret so that I could actually have some control over the study. That one? That guy. Oh yeah. So respected. That's what actually would have happened. Imagine if I was sneaky. Yeah. Here's some money. I'm going to send it over here so no one knows that I'm giving it to Jose. So he gets paid $200,000 to do a study. and hem what results are we now going to oh now you can tell me that we shouldn't use a BIA oh now you can take hey let's use skinfold calipers let's use hydrostatic weighing or perhaps an MRI scan oh you can actually help design a study now in in in secret but hey if you don't pay me this money I'm going to do a study on my own and you're going to look bad study wasn't published you guys get it now >> it's being sold it's real to Castro now surely will have a few, a couple, three, something. We'll have some studies showing that it's effective. >> We have many studies showing it's effective. He just doesn't read them. So, for example, the phase 2 trial on geriatrics, they the editors could perhaps show these studies, which you forgot to mention, but hey, why would you mention that? I mean, it wouldn't possibly be because you don't want to benefit Coach Greg. Cad Powl improve cardoppulmonary function. Ben Danl failed to use any muscle or strength despite 12 weeks of not training or what about the current phase 3 clinical trials we're using this along with GLP-1 to see if it can be retrivab and so in a year from now give or take we will know whether or not it can prevent muscle wasting while using various GLP1s beautiful but no we won't mention that I mean why would we I mean if we say it in a video it has to be true there is No possible way that coach Greg could have a rebuttal. Only the fans they know. That is why hundreds of people wrote comments saying, "Hey, we can't wait for Greg to make a response." They knew it was coming. Just like Mike after this video, GL do sis thinking about him once more. Selective bias. Like they're going to look for the things that they want to present their video the way they want. If they made the entire video thinking, "Let's prove that a jugistica is amazing." they would have a completely different result. Confirmation bias. They believe it's a scam. They don't think it works. And so everything they do for research, they're going to try to uh justify that their belief is correct. And search satisfying bias. Just like Mike's satisfied, I'm sure heavily after making this video in more ways than one. Not talking just about the fact that he gets to make a video about Turk being a scam, but hey, where are the hands? What about the gliss dois? >> Hey, I can be a fantasy man for other people, not just you, babe. >> Uh, yeah, it's okay. I'll share. >> No, there's no sharing. >> You and me. >> In thoughts only. If it's in the thoughts, it's okay. >> And they also do the money back guarantee. Now, the money back guarantee as a business practice is excellent because you're not trying to rip people off. If you really didn't like it, you get your money back. >> Exactly. Money back guarantee as a business practice is excellent. We're not trying to rip anyone off. I'm sure the editor's thinking, "Didn't Mike just say that? Why you keep repeating him?" And so this is what we want. And so you can't [\h__\h] on the guy offering exactly what is proper business practice. And so you're saying, "Hey, it's bad because you're making people think that it works even though it's no proof that it works by offering a money back guarantee." It's like, I'm just giving a money back guarantee. You don't have to read more into it. so much talk on people's like a review on a website where you don't know co-founders of their background whether there was actually any progress no measurement of progress and so if you like all the stuff they're saying in the video don't buy it I don't need you to buy it I already have millions of dollars I'm happy with what I'm doing I have a supplement that I've tried that I've worked that my friends have tried and worked that tens of thousands of people have tried and that they like it and are rebying it like What do I have to do? Prove to you who's a hater who's never tried it that it works. I can't prove it there. You win. >> Yay. You win. We did the whole Turk thing and we all had the same problems back in the day that it wasn't a juga turistanica. It was likely cyanosis seabbomb, Derek, myself, all the people. And so there was the Turk scam. I had a horrible reputation cuz I was along with everyone else doing the exact same thing. Third party testing was backing us up, proving that it was what it was supposed to be. Turns out that it wasn't. It was cyanosis, which still works, just not as much as a Jugga. And so, I didn't want to release a new supplement because I knew people would [\h__\h] on me and hate on me and do all the things. But I used the product in secret. My friends did and were like, "Holy [\h__\h] this stuff works." And I'm like, "All right, I'll sell it." Even though I know that for the rest of time until, you know, 20 years from now when there's enough studies to prove that it works, people are going to hate on me. And it's just part of the job. It's part of being a famous person. And so who cares? I know that it works. Just like who's saying Far Hat knows that he's natural. And so the 35% of people or so who believe he's lying that myself and Jeff Nippert are covering for him that he just took test and Tren or MK or whatever for 16 months of his starting the career and then he stopped taking it and then he managed to just keep all of his games even though Derek who's on HRT can't even maintain his gains. He lost his eyes. Hussein, he just has crazy genetics where you use the steroids and you go off of them and you keep all the gains. There, I've solved it. He has crazy genetics for using steroids, putting on a lot of muscle, then then not needing the steroids to keep the muscle. You know, this is how it works. I've concluded that it. So now, are we all happy? Hussein used steroids. He has crazy genetics where he doesn't lose the muscle after stopping steroids. Other people like Derek, he loses the muscle even though he's on HRT. There it is. And so I'm selling the supplement because it works and I know it works and I'm going to use it whether I'm selling it or not. And so if you don't want to buy it, all of a sudden it's cancelled. Well, I got a lifetime supply. There you go. It doesn't hurt me in any way. >> Could be a world in which tester actually does work. But for the people whom it doesn't have great results, they're not going to go and put a testimonial of shitty results up online. >> Mike is absolutely diabolical. He's saying people who use a supplement and it doesn't work are not going to go and post it online. Those are the ones that post it. People who use a supplement, it works. They're like, "Yeah, it works." When you get [\h__\h] on or scammed, that's when people go to Reddit, that's when people go online and start talking about you. They don't go and say, "Oh, I went to this restaurant and it was what I expected." They go on the site and say, "The food was cold. There was a worm in it, a bug, the waiter was horrible." That's when they comment. And so, the people who are commenting, they're very likely, every person that has a bad experience is going to write something. way more likely that the haters are going to write negative comments than the people who like me. And so you can believe what Mike's saying or you can not. >> And you look back at the literature for the supplement actually working and it's basically just like a bunch of crickets. It could work cuz there's a chance actually does work. It's just you can't call it an evidence-based supplement. >> I don't understand. I can say it works. I put on four lbs of muscle and actually it's nine now. You can't say it. You're being disingenuous. Am I supposed to lie? Hey, I I took this and it didn't work. I gained 9 lbs because I don't know, I train only twice a week now instead of 6 days a week. And so I think because I train less often and I'm 49 now that I've put on more muscle. Why do I have to lie about my results? And so when he's saying you can't say that it works, you can't say that it works. I used it and it works. How am I not allowed to give my own proper testimonial? If I lie and I lost 9 lbs and I say I gained it, then I'm a liar. I'm not lying. >> Yes. Actually, claiming that it works is already in hot water. So you you could claim like it might work. >> Claiming it works. I'm in hot water. Hey, I used it and it works. My brother used it, it works. Brother's wife used it works. Girlfriend used it and it works. Tens of thousands of people used it and it works. How is this a lie? You can't say that it works. Somebody just can't say it because there's no double blind placeboc controlled humanly that says it works. Hey, I used Tren and it worked. Oh, but there's no study that said that Tren works at 500 milligrams a week and so you can't say it. >> It did though. >> Here I am selling my new supplement pack. >> Try it. >> Pax Air. >> You want to buy equity? >> It may work. You never know. If Pax Air helped you build 4 lbs of muscle, then you can say, "Hey, Pax Air helped me build 4 lbs of muscle." But you can't sit there and make up a supplement and call it Pax Air and lie that it works. Do you see the difference? Me saying Turk worked and you saying some air that you breathed in works is not the same thing. Mine truly gained this muscle. Yours, you made it up as a joke. >> Yeah. And the new research was the the one study the two studies that showed nothing much. the one study whether was retracted or mysteriously disappeared >> or selective bias, research bias, not actually looking at all the studies, only wanting to present the picture that tester is in fact a scam when it is Hot.