Coach Greg and welcome to my new studio. And what a video I have for you. Mike Gizertel finally comes out as being gay. >> Is it perfect? >> Yep. >> Okay, then. >> No, it was really good. It's so cool. >> I just I need to make the video though. Okay. >> Edging. Hold on. >> No, but he's like this. When we record together, he literally treats me like a slave. I [laughter] have to I'm not making this up. I'm going to prove what I'm saying. And as if we didn't know it all along, let's get right into the video and see what will come of all of this. Now remember, it doesn't matter if he's gay, straight, by none of that stuff. We have Daddy Noel. Everyone knows that he's openly gay. And so the world, it doesn't care. It's just really good to see him finally admit it. >> I have to put on 15 lbs. What stack? >> You want to get a nice base of testosterone. So, we're going to get your base to like 250. Annavar Primo. >> Apparently, you have to put on some Primo Pizza Squeeze barbecue sauce. In order to put on 15 lbs, I suppose it makes sense. If you eat a lot of pizza calorie surplus, you're going to put on a lot of muscle. That combined with 250 millig of test, some anavar, and what else could we add in order to add on those 15 lbs? >> So, we're going to go on the other side of that curve and give you 1,000 mg of trenbalone acetate. >> 1,000 mg of tren. I do believe that's a little bit much, but remember, he wants that on 15 pounds in 15 weeks. It's going to cause horrendous number of side effects. insomnia. You're going to feel anxiety. But wait till you hear this side effect that I bet you would not predict. It's going to make you gay. >> Now, I know that sounds scary, but I can explain. >> Now, remember, trend ACE is the fast acting trend. You should be injecting this every single day versus every other day and so on as you want to reach more stable blood levels. I don't recommend it, but remember this guy, he doesn't care about his blood markers, his health. He only cares about putting on 15 pounds in 15 weeks. You might feel insanely aggressive all the time when you're not feeling super sexual and strangely erogynous to every single gender at that point. Everybody can get it. >> And finally, FINALLY, HE ADMITS THAT HE'S actually gay and proud of it. I think it's great. I think he should come out. I think there's nothing wrong with this. I'm proud of him for having the courage, the ball, the sissular fortitude in order to finally admit this. It'll turn you uh it'll turn a straight man almost gay. >> I'm gay. >> We've all been alluding to that answer. Why are you gay? We finally have an answer. Trenalone acetate in high doses. Personally, I don't believe that it turns a straight man gay. I think it brings the gay out of the straight man. And my personal opinion, there's no such thing as being a bisexual. If you're bisexual, you're gay. If you're attracted to both males and females, you're gay. It's as simple as that. And so my kids are tell due to the very high doses of trend, it's finally brought out what's always been inside of him. >> Freeze frame on you. And that's the end of the podcast. And I never do another podcast. >> I used to watch the cartoon the Bugs Bunny at the end of the show that that's all folks. And so Mike Israel officially is gay and I see nothing wrong with that. I mean, it was to be expected. I was wondering how long it would take for him to admit it. And so, let's go into the comments and see the difference it's already made. The ending, skullface, I mean, the ending is just the beginning. Imagine the videos that are come from finding out that Mike Zutel is gay. I am a gay man as well. Already, we could see that Mike coming out. Remember, he has almost 4 million followers. It's giving the courage to other men to come out. And so perhaps by next year 30% of men will come out as being gay. All along people were holding their their secret desires in secret. They didn't want other people to know. They were afraid of being judged. But because Mike had the courage to come out, other people are going to do the same. It's not gay if you're on trend. Now, I'm sorry, but it kind of is. Just because you're on trend, you can't say, "Oh, I'm not really gay. I was just on trend. It's like saying, "Hey, I was drunk. I didn't mean to kiss that man." Yeah, you did. The alcohol was the lubricant that allowed you to lube it up and put it inside of him. Yeah, boy. And so, Tren, it makes you more aggressive, and it allows you to do what you always wanted to do, which is, of course, to use sweet and blow on your provider. Forget natty or not. It's all about who's gay or not. Who do you want me to do next? >> That's what she said or he said. >> And I don't mean to literally do next. I mean, who do you want me to do a gay or not on next? Now that we've found out that Mike is gay, does everything now begin to make sense? Often times once you find out facts that weren't present in the past, you can reanalyze all the things he said, his behaviors, mannerisms, the things that he said, the 200 mistakes on his PhD. Perhaps he was in love, confused. He was exploring his options with other men. Can you blame him for having those 200 mistakes? Can you blame him for all those gay jokes? Knowing now the difficulties of navigating this world while having all those thoughts inside of you, it does bring out to a lot of questions of what is he now going to do? Is he going to address this in his future videos? Will he simply go to other channels and address it there or will he talk about this on his own channel? Normally when Mike Isertell is provoked, pushed if you will, he'll address things but only on other people's channels knowing that not many people are actually going to watch those channels. And so I would love to see Mike directly addressed on his channel and simply tell the world, I'm gay. I'm gay. And so remember, the same rules apply if you're gay, straight, or whatever else you could be pansexual. What you require is more muscles than last time and you have to get a proper tan. As of late, I'm sure the world has noticed Mike is leaner than last time. I believe he's down to 212 lbs. Previously, a few years ago, I said Mike needs to get down and compete in the 212 category because as an open pro, he's too short. He's shorter than Coach Greg. He needs to get down to 198 lbs, compete in the light heavyweight division, and maybe, just maybe, if nobody else shows up, he could be next IB Pro. You want to get the Turk Builder Max, the Turk Platinum, because there's literally a money back guarantee. I read a few comments, people saying, "No, it's not true. There isn't a money back guarantee." Somebody even made a video about it. Does it look like I'm lying? Just to prove that it's a money back guarantee, I've upped the $20 gift card to $50 freaking dollars. If you don't believe me, this is what you do. You go and you buy Turk Builder Max. You try it and then you ask for your money back. And if you don't get the money back, you can make a video and say, "Coach Greg's a liar." But if you don't, you're going to try it. And this is what's going to happen. You're going to like it so much you're going to buy 10 pack more and you're going to make Coach Greg a freaking billionaire. While you're at it, you can get the Blue Lobster pre-workout. Remember, he's been a bad little Blue Lobster. Perhaps he was on trend. He's been swinging so many different ways. He took this Blue Lobster, that Blue Lobster, and heavens forbid he was making out with the scissors. Lobster is crazy like that. And if you want to make a bunch of these, I would suggest you don't go on testosterone because it can in fact make you infertile. And so if you want to get tested to make sure that you're safe, not if you have an STED to see if you need to take things like inclapene or testosterone, you go to algorex code greg 10% off. You get you the seialist, it's dalifil, you can get Viagra, you can get telmardin, you can get ompic, BUT IT'S NOT REALLY OZEPIC. IT'S A SEMIGLUTINE. IT'S THE SAME FREAKING THING. TZEPIDE. YOU DON'T NEED ROTATIDE. >> YOU JUST GET ON THE DIET. YOU GET SHREDDED. YOU GET THE SIX-PACK AND YOU freaking you go crazy in the stew. THE BEST PART OF THIS video is this is all AI. IT'S NOT EVEN COACH GREG. DID you believe it? You're watching this right now thinking Coach Greg's lost it. THIS IS NOT COACH GREG. COACH GREG'S IN THE OTHER ROOM watching this video. And this IS THE FUTURE OF ENTERTAINMENT ON YOUTUBE. SUBSCRIBE IF YOU LIKE IT. SUBSCRIBE. CLICK THE BELL BUTTON. COMMENT. LIKE VIDEO. LIKE IT. WATCH THOSE LOOPS. And until next time, get the cookbook.