 niazzaia, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, niazza, I brought him in today just as a special guest. And so what are we doing today? We're going over exercise scientists critique fitness influencer workouts. All right. And so it's Jeff Nippa, the dropout dentista, and Mr. Mike. Our two favorites. Absolute two favorites of which we can't wait to put them in their place. And 17,000 people, they're waiting. I see the comment here. Greg's already editing 17,000 likes. 17,000 people have been waiting for eight months. That's actually insane. Like, imagine what they're thinking to the editors. Eight months and the video's still not out. Everyone is assuming I'm doing the video because they're going to make fun of Coach Greg. They're blaming the editors. Like, why is the video not out? And this is the best part of this. This was done eight months ago. And so it's before we proved that science space lifting was bullshit. So back then, SBLs, they were still kings, right? Enrique! Yeah! SBL science space. He's like, bleh! Yes. Exactly. SBL. Back then, people actually thought science space lifting made sense. Yeah. And since that time... SBLs were coded back then, eight months ago. Absolutely. I think we should watch the video and see what happens. Okay. My friend, Dr. Mike Isertel. Mike has a PhD in sports science. She has a PhD. A PhD which had 200 mistakes. I heard that. How long did you study in university? 11 years. 11 years. Have you ever had 200 mistakes in your lifetime of 11 years put together? In an assignment, I... No. Very far from that. Like, if you added every assignment you did in 11 years, do you think you would have had 200 mistakes? Enrique! It's a lot. It's a lot of mistakes. It's a lot to get to 200. For one. Mm-hmm. And so... We're not sure. Enrique! Oopsie! What? I have a degree in biochemistry. A degree in biochemistry. I mean, it sounds good. He's a dropout dentista. You know? And he won't take your picture. He won't. He refuses to. Singing the song. All that. I mean, writing the song out. You guys think ChatGPT wrote that? We wrote this together. It's your spiritual stance. Modern AI is us building God. I've had multiple conversations with GPT-4 that brought me to literal tears. I told it that I can't wait for it to be embodied in a robot so I could properly give it a hug because it's so polite and so kind and so wise and so helpful. This isn't about calling anyone out. A lot of these lifters are better bodybuilders than us. So isn't it interesting that I do reaction videos and see I'm all about drama? Like, how many videos do I do like this where I watch somebody and I critique it and I talk about it? I feel like you do that every day. Almost every day. Every day. Almost every day. Almost every day. I'm both on a raw IQ scale smarter than almost every coach. Maybe every coach. But when I do it, it's bad and it's in bad faith. But when Mr. Mike does it, well, it's hunky-dory. Ronnie Coleman, he's a hottie. Can't wait to recritive this. Ronnie? Ronnie. I didn't know, like, low-key, like, back then. Ronnie or Ramondino? Who's got the better build? Enrique! Well, I think, like, it's Ronnie. Ronnie. There you go, guys. She's a fan of the wrongster. Yeah, but I'm a fan of Ramon, so that says a lot. But more Ronnie. He's got a better... Enrique! Bro, you did a set of leg curls. They're unspeakable. You went on Fuad's podcast and made the claim that you think Ronnie would have had better quads and a lower risk of injury had he trained in a more science-based optimal way. Now, it's one thing to say he'd have less injuries. I mean, I agree with that. Everybody's different. Like, Dorian Yates versus Ronnie Coleman versus me versus you. We all grow in different ways. And so, science-based lifting is going to say two or three reps in reserve, long-range partials, the clown curls laying down on a bench to do your biceps and all kinds of bullshit. But in reality, we all build muscles in different ways. And as a science-based actual lifter, you experiment with all these ways and you choose the best way for you. Like, I'm still experimenting. I'm honestly, like, I've tried low volume, have all the things. Like, now I'm doing definitely... You're training harder than last time now. Yeah, now I'm training harder than last time. But I actually changed my methods recently. And so, I'm still experimenting and figuring out what works best for me. But I think everyone should do that. And so, when Mr. Mike says to Ronnie that he should be training more like him and his legs would be bigger, I mean, isn't that kind of silly? He probably tried training like him. Oh, I'll try more volume and I'll hold myself back a little bit. And then his muscles didn't respond as much. Now, did you watch the Smya video with Larry Wheels? Yes. Bro has 26-inch arms. I'm obsessed with him. It's as big as your waist. This Russian monster? Yeah, it's crazy. Yes. Like, I want more of him. I want more videos. I got another video coming out on this guy. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And so, he's doing like a thousand reps. Sets of 30, 40 reps. Partials. And so, do you think that he would get bigger by doing the clown curls with 10-pound dumbbells like Mr. Mike? Yeah, no. I mean, maybe. Quizás. Quizás in Spanish. I don't speak Spanish. It's possible, but probably he's training in an ideal way. And so, although it goes against all science-based lifting articles and studies done on Soccer Moms for eight weeks. But for Smya, how do you argue with a guy who's benched in 660, who's doing one-arm chin-ups, wing 330? Not even holding his arms. It's unreal. And so, my opinion is that people need to train the way that they need to train. It's another Greg-ism. We love Greg-isms. I mean, it makes sense. Train the way you should train. And that is on an individual basis. And if you're watching this video right now, you're watching this video right now. Exactly. And so, continue to watch. And warning, I've already watched the video. He didn't include a sunbed. And they did it right for sure, but there's better degrees of right that could have separated Ronnie Coleman even further from the rest of the pack. Think of this. What if I switched around the question, played the reverse you-know card on, and said, Would Mr. Mike have bigger legs and be a pro if he trained like Ronnie? I mean, if he had his proper 10, we know he'd be a pro. But what if he trained like Ronnie? Right. Maybe. Maybe he would be a pro. Maybe. The reason why Mr. Mike isn't an IPB pro is because he isn't training like Ronnie. And so to say, if he trained like me, he would be so much better. What if it's actually the reverse you-know? The you-know card. Reverse you-know. Yeah. The song. In reverse it. Flip it back up and then reverse it. Flip it back up. I reversed it. I reversed it onto him. Yeah. I just feel like even, yeah, okay, it's okay. You have a PhD. What if Ronnie would have looked better if he had less of a 10? Maybe he's too dark. What cars is Larry buying? A Cox nigga Bugatti? What the heck is going on? With lighter skin, like Mike, maybe he would be even better. Like Dorian. There's, like when we say proper 10, it's like there's somewhere- Oh, it's a bronzario propercio? Yeah. We had Spanish class and he asked, how do we say proper 10? I think it's bronzada appropriada. Bronzada appropriada. There. And so that's why Mr. Mike didn't have- Appropriate. Appropriate. Appropriada. Bronzeada. Yeah. Bronzeada appropriada. Perfectamente. Yes, he could have been better if he used very commonly accepted, well-understood mechanisms, like more scientific approach to training. To say he could have been better if he trained like Dr. Mike from Renaissance Periodation, it's kind of sus. Like you picking the best body in the world and saying, if he had to train like me, he'd be better. How do we know that your training is better than his? Because a study said so? I mean, what is Mr. Mike's credentials? A PhD with 200 errors. And so because he said so, it has to be true. We don't really know much about Ronnie. Let's assume his maximum recoverable volume under all decent conditions was, let's say, 25 hard sets of quads per week, or just making up numbers. Wise bro sound like that guy from Halifax. Who? I said maximum recoverable volume. There's a guy from Halifax. He talks exactly like this. Remember he had sunglasses on? Furthermore, he goes on to say the biceps are in a less biomechanically advantageous position. During a wide greater pulldown. However, that isn't a bad thing. It's a good thing. And I said, bro must be reading off of a prompter. I said, doesn't he sound like Mr. Mike? Adrian. Oh, man. He would help. He's friends with Marwan. He's got like, I think reddish hair. I love how you're like this guy from this one city. But I talked about him like a week ago once. About a week ago. Week ago. I don't know. I just think, maximum recoverable volume. Like, no one cares about that stuff. It just sounds like a bunch of yapping. Yeah. Like, imagine bro science bro. Yeah. What's his name? We need Don Mazzetti? Yeah. Is that his name? Exactly. I don't know you. No, it's not. P-A-P-N-L-S-T. You called him Don and he was like, bro, I'm Dom. Like. Don Mazzetti. No, I think it's Dom. As in Dom and Matrix. Yeah. Dom-inator. Dom and Matrix. His name is Dom or Don? Dom. Dom? He like, corrected you. He was like, and then he called you Craig. I am Craig. Thank you. Craig. Yeah. Okay. Craig. Craig. Craig is kind of cute. Are you Craig-ing your Doucette to these guns? How about these guns, baby? Huh? You Craig-ing that Doucette? Yeah, you're wrong, baby. I'm a fucking Craig that shit. Don't react. Okay. I feel like we should move on. Craig and Gliss. Craig. Craig. Craig. Unk. Craig. Craig. Unk. And Dom. Gliss. Gliss. Because in LSD and bro lifting. LSD and drugs. LSD and bro lifting. LSD and recreational. Thank you, Craig. But as we've been finding out in the recent literature, if your systemic fatigue is not a limiting factor, potentially for some muscles, 20 and 30 and 40 sets per week for short sprints is even more hypertrophic. Bro trained harder than last time. He's got the quads that he needs. If he had done more or less, it probably would have been suboptimal. Why is Mike thinking that if he did this graphed out amount of reps and sets that he would have somehow bigger quads? Show me this graph. Yeah. Do they remember that one? Show me the graph. Look at this graph. And so he's saying that Ronnie should have done 40 sets per week because the graph showed 40 sets as being better. Based on a study with some soccer moms. How do you think I would do if I added in 40 sets of squats a week? You'd be paralyzed. I wouldn't be alive. Yeah. I mean, like, I couldn't do it. I can't even do squats now. You would have to stop biking. It would be done. You would just, yeah. And so... You couldn't even have sex. Yeah, I probably wouldn't be able to function. I wouldn't be able to get up, let alone get it up. Bro would be useless. Absolutely useless. Like, I mean, like, I can't even do four sets of squats a week or it would be detrimental to my size game. I'm putting on more muscle than last time and I'm training less because there's only so much training you can do in a week. 40 sets, too much for most people. Now, if you're a soccer mom and you don't train hard at all, maybe you can handle those 40 sets. But Ronnie Coleman, the way he trained, there's no way he should be training with 40 sets. This is ridiculous. I used to train like a kitty cat, like low-key. And then I could have done 55 sets a week, like, no problem. So easy when you don't train hard. Yeah, because you train like half-assed. It's so easy. I could do 100 sets a week. You're leaving five reps in reserve. Yeah, like, I've been there. I get it. But it's like, for him, the intensity that he trains. Yeah, like, and even Jeff didn't train hard. You used to watch my videos back in the day. I called Jeff. I said he trains like a pussy. I used to say it all the time. Eventually, he's like, you know what? I'm going to train harder. And what happened to Jeff? He actually got muscle this year. Yeah. And he rode a new training program. I got jacked, too. I pulled a Jeff nipper, too. Can you hop a nipper? That's the question. Yeah. I think I could. And land it. Like, land it. Well, you can certainly run faster than Mike's five-minute and 28-second half-mile. But for horizontal jump? Used to be running. I'd like to get tested. I'd like to see if I can jump a nipper. Yeah. At least you can run faster than Mr. Mike. I can run. Who's a jiu-jitsu killer black belt. You are presuming you know more than me about the thing I'm one of the top experts in the world in, and also the thing I'm literally involved in myself. So whatever ideas you have about how I can improve, just f*** right off. Usually the answer is just like, Ben, who the f*** are you to talk about Ronnie? Which is dope for bro vibes, but I wouldn't call that thinking. I think we're bro vibes. Like, bro, what are you talking about? Mike doesn't call what we're doing thinking, but yet he's the one thinking. By saying, oh, maybe he should have done 10 more sets in an alternate universe. If he had done 10 more sets, he'd have bigger muscles. What if he tried doing 10 more sets, and he noticed he was overtrained and he couldn't go to the gym? And so he reduced that to the point where it was optimal for him. Don't you think that Ronnie Coleman, who won eight Mr. Olympia titles, experimented enough to know what worked best for his own body? But no, I don't think. I haven't learned that skill yet. Yeah, I have two more. One, it can reduce your proximate or even ultimate intelligence level, which is real bad news, especially for developing brains of young people. I mean, isn't it shocking that Mike's IQ is above 160, despite the fact he's been abusing steroids for 13 consecutive years? Would it be above 200 without that? That's the thing. I think that means that prior to steroid usage, it was probably like over 200. And so Mike, back when he wrote the PhD, it's roughly the time when he was still natty, roughly back then. So he had that 200. And so his IQ then would have been around 200. This is prior to abusing steroids, but yet he still had 200 mistakes. What is the only explanation? Was he high on shrooms the entire time? Marijuana? What drug was Mike on during university that allowed him to write a PhD thesis with 200 mistakes? I have the worst grammar of anyone that I know that actually has highest average university. No one's worse than me. And I didn't have that many mistakes. No. I didn't even have 20, let alone 200. I would maybe have like two. If I could write a paper with two mistakes and Mike's IQ is significantly higher than mine, how could he not do one better than me? I mean, it doesn't make any sense. It doesn't compute. If you got low testosterone, I think you should be on something. Bro, I like him. It's not a video about who we like and dislike. Oh, bro vibes. Oh, that's why. I'm just here to bring vibes. I'm just here for vibes. We got Ronnie Coleman or Mike O'Hearn. But what's cool about Mike O'Hearn is like right now. You like Mike because he keeps sharing me when I dressed up with the mustache. I love that he does that. He's sharing Greg with a baby don't hurt me. Remember this was me for Halloween. So I think you're a fan of Mr. Hearn right now. Oh, I'll ask you this. Do you think that Michael Hearn is more natural than me? Enrique! Because we don't think he's natural. But do you think, because I'm on 140 milligrams, everyone knows that. But in case you are new to the channel, do you think that if Mike is on less tests than me? I mean, is it even a question? I feel like silly. It's still a question. I have to answer, but I'm sure he's on more than you. Okay. So Mike is less natty than coach Greg. And if you want, I would welcome the blood work. I can compare mine. I have a blood requisition. Anytime you want me, Mike, ask me. I'll go get the blood work and we can compare. And I would love for you and Michael Hearn to do a bodybuilding show. And Mike Isertel and Michael Hearn open challenge for 2026 if you want to compete against Coach Greg. That would be really fun. I would love that. Absolutely. Funny thing is Michael Hearn, I think a lot of people would think that he would beat me, but he doesn't have the legs. He's much bigger than me, but... No, I think you're a... I still think I got Mike. I think he's serving, like, the Michael Hearn vibes and the look, the face. But, like, I just think you're a better bodybuilder. It's unfortunate, guys. The short king still prevails. But he definitely... Yeah, he looks great. Yeah.