 all the way to my hand is on your vagina, all the way to my hand is on your vagina, and I'm staring you in the eyes. Mm-hmm. Yeah! You wanna have sex? Yeah! Wow, that's so wise! Aww! Yeah, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, you gotta talk. How dare you be sexually excited by looking at me, so much so that you had to touch my ass! I don't like that! What's wrong with you, bitch?! Yeah! Yeah! We're gonna be doing a video on Mike Risratel, on the psychology of pleasing women. I'm just finding this out right now. Okay. And so, if you're under 19, tune out, because... Tune out. We're gonna be talking about the Rizzler, Mike himself. If he's got the gift of gab to get the girls to do what he wants. Okay, so on va voir si ça va rentrer! Ça va rentrer! And if it doesn't, you might want to pick up harder than last time. You know what it's for. You know what it's for. Is it okay to call you a sex expert? Yes, you can. Whoa, cool! Absolutely! I don't know if she's a sexpert. How much has she been getting it on? I feel like we're sexperts. Whoa! Like, what exactly do you need to be... We're pretty experienced. Like, what do you need to do to be considered a sexpert? Read a bunch of books? Or you try it out. Do you know that nice young lady on social media? I think her handle is like, love bites or something like that? Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. I do know her. She's a sex therapist. Therapist. There's so many different titles. Do you know sex with Sue? If you think you're going to take that whole thing in your mouth, you're going to throw up. No. She's a young lady. She wasn't around with Sex and Sue. Sex with Sue was a 75-year-old grandma, like Grandma Josephine. Okay. And when I was a teenager, we would watch this in the evening. We'd be on late at night, around the time when Bleu Nuit would come on. You ever heard of Bleu Nuit? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Bleu Nuit is a bit of sexy style stuff. Yeah. And this is the only time that yes, young men could see naked women talking about it. Yo, sex with Sue, that sounds good. Scott, where do you stack up in that? Uh, sex novice. Sex novice. Sex pre-score. Oh gosh. That could have come off really wrong if you mixed a few words there. It's not those two words. Not really something you want to say. Not ideal. Mostly do's, maybe some don'ts, of making sure that the woman with you, who is there consensually, when you're both there for a good time, you're doing the sex thing, that she's having a good time. Step one, don't look like Mike. Try to look attractive. Try to be hot. Don't have hair all over the place. Groom yourself. Clean. Don't be smelly. I do think that's step one. I mean, they're there consensually. And once the clothes come off, they want to be like, not disgusted. Yeah. Do you feel like that's good advice? They don't want to go from being like, in the mood to like, why did I make this decision? Now that I've seen this, I've got to go. I've got an early morning meeting. I've got to go like packing my shit and going. Yeah. No, no. You don't want to change their minds once you take your. So step one, if you're paying along, don't look like Mike. How to please the woman. Now, I would know nothing about this. I'm just the interviewer here. I've, as the public knows, I've never been with a woman. Arguably, you're the first woman I've actually seen in real life. I mean, he's not lying. Thank you, Greg. I do believe Mike would be a sexpert on pleasing men, homoerotic fantasies, all the things. Perhaps with his boyfriend, Scott. I mean, they make a great pair. I thought he was with Jared. Jared is his like. Another boyfriend. Childhood fantasy. Like he's his younger self. Got it. Got it. He wishes he was Jared. How does a man please a woman? Not from a technical, what is the frequency at which your tongue vibrates across? You feel free. Sure. But like more from a starting from it's two lovely young people sitting on a couch next to each other. So cunningling this three reps in reserve. Make sure you don't lick to the left as often as to the right. I mean, is there really a science handbook on pleasing a woman? Everyone is different. Mm hmm. Greg has read the book. That's for sure. Same couch two hours later and they're both smoking cigarettes and regretting things that happened, which I think is just how all sex ends. Yes. It's Mike's experience. Yeah. It's not mine. How come I have never experienced that? There's none of this regret bullshit that has to go on. So is it okay if I ask you a few questions? Of course. Super, super, super. So this is kind of a big one. Take this wherever you like. Did he just say put it wherever you like? I mean, where would she like it? Perhaps everywhere. Generally speaking, though, there are three orifices, if you will, which can accept the male body part. The options. And all three are totally optional. So long as she's down. Pick the one that she likes. Pick the one that she likes. And you, of course. With consent. I feel like Mike is nervous during this interview. Well, it's awkward as fuck. Yeah. He usually talks about men, about gay stuff. Like it's tough. This is like straight talk about sexy time. It is a tough podcast to do. He's struggling. Right? I think the first thing is like, okay, even before you get in the bedroom, ideally, it's like, hey, what are you into? Like, it's such a simple question, but like, hey, what are you into? And so the first question to ask is, how much do you charge? I mean, let's be honest. Most of these people are not getting laid. And so the first question is, how much are you charging for this? By the minute? Does it go by the hour? How much is the minimum spend at drostanolone in order to get you to come back to my house? And how many times do I have to take you on a date before you're going to give me some? This is the real questions that men are thinking. You probably didn't notice. Being a woman. Yeah. Being a woman. You don't know this. You don't know that men are thinking this. Think about that. Like, think of clavicular. Okay. Clavicular is thinking, how many times do I have to talk to you before you're just going to let me get into your pants? Because that's all I'm doing this for. I hate discussing with people. I hate the bullshit. And so let's just get to it. Yeah. That's something that as girls, we don't have to like think about. Do women realize that men only go to the bar to get laid? Like, that's it. There's no other reason. Girls don't realize that. And the only reason they're going to dinner with you and paying for dinner is because they're hoping that it'll make you like them enough to have sex with them. This is it. This is the only reason. Yeah. Is it sad to hear that? Girls would be like, no, they want like a serious relationship. They want to date me. Because listen to this. Hear me out. If a woman has to make you date them 10 times before having sex with them, she doesn't actually like you. Yeah. She just is like taking advantage of your money, what you're offering. Because there's no way. I have a rule. Four dates. If it's not by date number four, she doesn't really want you. Yeah. Does that hold true in the real world? Or no, women are just saving it for marriage and all that stuff. Yeah. I think, I mean, maybe there's exceptions. But in general, if you really desire someone, I feel like four dates, four dates is a long time. Yeah. Girls. I mean, there's really different opinions, but I'm not like that. Girls make the good guys wait. But the bad guys, the ones that they actually want, they ain't waiting. They want it right now. And so if your girl is saying, and unless he's like super religious, I know there's religious women out there. This doesn't apply to you. But for most women, if she allowed other bro to have sex with you in the first, second, third date, and it's taking you 10, she doesn't like you. She liked him. And so you need to read between the lines and find someone who likes you back. But maybe she doesn't want a relationship with that bad guy that she thinks he's really hot. She just wants to like sleep with him. But then she won't make him wait because in the end she's like, oh, I don't really want a relationship with that guy. He's like a bad guy. And so my advice is you need a woman to want you the way she wanted that bad guy. And if you don't, it's not worth it. You're better off just staying single. You're better off waiting for ChatGPT to become a robot, purchasing the robot and marrying it, just like Mike Isertel is going to do. That's better. It's worth trying to be like, hey, what are you into? Like, I'm into this. Like, I like this. What are you into? The problem with all of that is it only works if she thinks that you're hot. If you're Mike Isertel and on your first date, you say, hey, what are you into in the bedroom? She's going to be like, what a creep. She's going to leave and you don't get a second date. And so if you look like. Yeah, it would be a bit of a weird question at drostanolone, right? Like. You tell me. Like. First date. What do you like in bed? Do you like anal? Even second date. Like, it's just over dinner. Babe, second date. I could have asked you anything I wanted. Yeah, because. Because you're into me. But if you're not into a guy, if he's not hot for you, if he's just not wanting you. I can't picture it like we're eating steak, second date. So what are you into in the bedroom? Like it's. How do you lead to that question? Like just out of the blue, popping it out? Hmm. Yeah. It's not an easy question to ask. It is. But if the guy's hot enough, you can ask it. And I would say. You joke about it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He'll be like jokingly saying it. And then the girl eventually she'll actually like answer or something. Yeah. I would joke about it. Yeah. I would say literally on date number two, by the way, if I don't have sex with you by date four, we're not dating anymore. I would say it. And you know why? Because if she's like, oh, this stupid. And she didn't like you. And then you can move on. And if she didn't like you, she'll think it's funny. She'll be like, oh, yeah, you're right. She'll know. And so that's the way to do it. You're putting the conversation into the atmosphere. You're manifesting sex. I don't think you should say it, though. I would say it. It would be funny. And they would say, oh, I don't like a guy who's so open like that. And I'd say, well, you don't like me? Then move. Get out. Let's find another girl. It can be like without knowing you, it can be perceived like. It was the second date. How much did you need to know me? I don't know. It's not about like having just an opinion on something. This is kind of like pushy there. I feel like you should just happen. Yeah. I just happened to have sex with you on the second date. Yeah. So that's why we never had to have this like talk. Well, I would assume that every single person watching at drostanolone, making out with each other probably knew that was going to happen while at drostanolone. It was almost embarrassing to go to drostanolone the next time. I can't go back to that restaurant. They're like, oh, my God, this couple. Like it's a really well-known restaurant and great restaurant in our city. And I just we can't we can't go anymore. There's no way they would forget us. That was hardcore. It's like, guys, get a room. Oh, my God. And so I don't know. I was I guess I wasn't. And so if you can get to that level of desire before you even leave drostanolone, then getting home is going to be easy. You know, it's about to go down. Yeah. But if you're not have to talk about it because it's like, you know, but if you're not even bringing it up, then this is what people are going to do. Guy is going to try to get said girl drunk or intoxicated so that he can try to get his way by loosening her up. That is what people do. That is why guys buy girls drinks at the bar. Do you hear about this? They opened up a women's only bar. Couldn't go men. We had enough of these guys like women had enough guys coming up to me, hitting on me, flirting with me. A women only. They tried it and it lasted one day. True story. No one was buying drinks. Girls were there sitting there having their good time. They're just sitting there sober. I don't drink. No one's buying them drinks. I don't even take drinks from men like from you. Guys go to the bar and they buy all the girls drinks after drinks after drinks, hoping one of them will get drunk enough to settle for them. You know, the beer goggles. You're going up from a six out of ten to an eight. Eventually, you're enough. That is the goal of the bar. That is why you're going and don't lie to me. And all you girls going clubbing with your girlfriends, you're going there to get free drinks from buys. From buys. Not just buys, but guys. And you're doing it to get like affirmation, words of affirmation. What's the word when people like you and they say validation? Validation. Validation, all that kinds of stuff. The girls are going there to get validated, to increase your self-worth and to basically use men. That is why. I don't really feel like I would. Full stop. Yes. The bar doesn't really interest me anymore. I lost interest. If I was single, I would go. If there's good music or a good DJ, I'll go. If I had a cute outfit to wear and my friends are going, whatever, but that's it. And I don't even go. I just don't go. There you have it. You have to cultivate the stage for desire and arousal. How do you do that? By being hot. Point A, you'd be hot. You'd be six feet tall plus. And if you're not, you can wear hookah shoes. We just discussed this in the HLT group chat. I think it's hookah. Hookah shoes. Hookah shoes. They add a couple inches of height. Yeah, he likes them. It literally makes you more desirable. Your SMV goes up. All these kind of things. You can make less money when you wear those shoes. Yeah. And on top of looking good, then you just have to be a good talker. Like essentially, you just have to be personable, funny, interesting, charming, confident, all the good things. And if you do that, she's going to be like, I'm attracted to this guy and he doesn't sound like an idiot when I talk to him. I want him inside of my pants. That is how it works. Flexing your muscles like doing the pec bounce. That's good. Yes. No. Damn it. She says no. Is the flex bounce good? At drostanolone there? Somewhere. Anytime. If I just did that. I think if he did it, because I was already into him, I would be like, Loki, that's funny. What do you think about this? You want to see my abs? What do you think, babe? I would like it. This stuff works. Whatever you've got works if you're caught enough to do it. If you're confident enough to use what you've got, it's going to work. Yeah. That's fine. Going back to the, I have to have sex with you before the fourth day, I just think saying that is a bit like, it can really not go over so well. And so be careful. Only say that if you know it's going to go over well. Like, you know she likes you. That's just a tricky one. Because I've said that to multiple girls in my past. I've said it. And it was always like, I can't believe you said that. I'm like, it's the truth. I know. It's the truth. No one speaks the truth. People just talk in silence. They don't say what they actually think. And I'm like, I'm just telling you the truth. If you are on date four and we haven't slept together, you don't even like me. Why would we waste time? Yeah. I think if you explain it to them, like your point, like, yeah. Because it can be like, oh, you're just using me. And then you're not going to call me again after we have sex and stuff like that. So that's what girls are worrying about is that they don't want to get used. But you're like, no, it's just, it shows that you don't really like me if we don't have sex before the fourth date. Versus they're thinking, oh, he just wants to like use me or like, you know, have sex with me and then he'll never call me. He'll ghost me. So it's just like, I feel like they have different point of it. It's an interesting paradox because see, men have to spend their whole lives gaining value. You go to the gym, you work out, you, you get a good job, you get money, a career, you establish yourself. And women are born with all of this value and they have to fight to not lose it because as women get older, they lose some of their SMV. They're less desirable. Most men are going to want a younger woman. If you have to choose between, for example, a 70 year old woman, A-50 year old woman and a 30 year old, probably most are going to take a 30 year old. And so women have to fight to keep their youth. That's why they're all doing their makeup and their hair and their skin moisturizer and their salmon sperm on their eyes. What else you put on? They're all going to hate on me now. So that's what I'm saying. You don't have to talk because I think it's very scary, especially in a new relationship to be like, oh, I have to talk to you and tell you like what I like. Like, that's kind of scary. But you can be like, okay, like, how does this feel good? Yeah, no. You're not just going on a date and being like, okay, let's just not talk and let's just explore each other's bodies. Yeah, no, no, no, no, no, no. You got to talk. Like what? You're going to like. Like five minutes later, you're just rubbing areas of the body. Blindfolded. Just like in the dark. Who's doing that? You have to talk. It's all about the talk. They started out by saying it's all about the communication. You keep communicating. The more talk, the better. You like being talked to during sex, right? There you go. Keep talking, people. Not too much, but a little bit. A lot. Almost every part of the body can be an erogenous zone. So like take time to explore each other's body, both male and female, right? Like actually like touch each other and be like, oh, does this feel good? Does this feel good? Like, and you know, like enjoy, like luxuriate in the experience. Yeah. Wow. Wow. That's so wise. Wow. Every. He's never heard of this before. Touch the other person's body. And explore. Different parts. Doesn't have to be the one area that you want. It can be her shoulder, her arm, her hair. It could be anything. It can be erogenous. Anything. But it is interesting. Like the elbow. Like, I don't know if I would be able to make that. Erogenous. I'm sure we could try. I'm sure we could try. I've never, but I've never thought of that. I never thought of that. For next time. The elbow. You know, the big thing that I think, I hope that more men know this now. This is your chance to tell more men. But that like the clitoris is the homologue of the penis. I'm pretty sure that most people know that the dolorous is the same thing as the pen. What was that French word for it? The pen? And doche. You want me to say like push? Push? Or bit? Bit. Bit. And so la bit is the same thing as la dolorous. Dolores. What's Dolores? It reminds me of something. Clitoris? Shh. We don't get demonetized. We're probably already. Oh. Yeah. Well, how come they're able to say it? I don't know. Maybe you can. Maybe you can't. I don't know. Penetrating a female and you expect her to orgasm. It's almost like me expecting a guy to orgasm from like touching his balls. I think that everyone knew that that Dolores was a pleasure spot. Are there men in the world that don't know this? They just think that the entrance area is all that is good. It's just the tunnel. There's no way that people think this. When I was a teenager, I knew that. It's the ring bell. Ding. And then? People know this. I don't think. They think that they're giving us information. Oh, yeah. Let's teach men. Men. Did you know that there's a Dolores that needs some attention? I mean, sometimes you've got to state the obvious because then if no one says it, at some point, some people won't know, I guess. Yeah, but it took a sexpert to say this? Yeah, I guess it took – I don't know if it took a sexpert to say that. If you are not focusing on the clitoris, it is not going to happen. And then she will fake it. And then you will – right? I think that's over-presumptuous. If a woman doesn't reach their pinnacle, she's going to fake it? No. I don't think so. Sometimes, maybe. But to just say, oh, 85% need this stimulation or else they're going to fake it. No, I feel like there's so many girls now that are just like, if it doesn't happen, I'm not going to even fake it. It just didn't happen. Who cares? It just didn't happen. Save it for next time. Do you really need to validate him so much that he was able to do that for you? No. I feel like this is so bad to do that. Yeah, we don't need fake. No. Faking is pretty short-sighted if you're with a partner who you want to cultivate with, right? It's short-sighted. Eventually, you'll actually want to be pleased. So why fake it? Because he'll think he's doing – You're teaching the wrong thing. Yeah, you're teaching the wrong thing. He's going to think, oh, I'm doing great. But eventually, you're going to actually want to be pleased. And so you're teaching him the wrong thing. That's negative reinforcement. Or it's – Literally. Fake reinforcement? Well, it's not positive. Like you're giving positive reinforcement for negative behavior. You're doing it all wrong. Oh, yes, God, please thank me again. Yeah. It's like if you're learning a trick and he doesn't do it well, the dog, and you're like, oh, that's great. You're giving him like cookies and treats and so it's like – Makes no sense. You may not like like the way she's handling your genitals or whatever, right? And you have to be able to say that. I can't imagine having to say like, I don't like the way you're handling my genitals. Well, I don't think you use the word genital. You prefer like cock, right? Sex, yeah, it's natural. You kind of have a sense of what you want to do. But to get good sex versus mediocre sex, you have to work at it. I 100% agree. I don't think you need to be good on day one. It's not how you start. It's how you finish. It takes practice. How would it not with anything? With anything. Like how do you expect to be good at biking or lifting weights on the first try? I mean I feel like if you're good right away, then perhaps your ceiling of awesomeness is going to be higher. If you're bad on day one, you can get good. If you make a bad pizza and then the person says, well, I didn't like olives and it was undercooked, it's like the next pizza there's no olives and they cook it longer and it just got twice as good. This is how easy it is. But you need to communicate less teeth, more this, slower, faster, harder than last time. Could you not watch Coach Greg while we do it every single time? I'm kind of jealous about this guy. Like you know the little things. Like please speak up. When your girl's watching me while you're having intercourse, she may be thinking a little bit about me too much. And I know it might be the thing she needs to hear to get her over the edge, but that's not good for your relationship. You want her to finish because of you, not because of the screaming parrot from Aladdin. Calories! And she's like, oh! We're such a rush I think in life. Like, oh, I got to like really quickly get to this orgasm. And like we forget about the journey. Like what's the rush though? I mean, it's not a race. I mean, I can see that point. It's a competition. See how fast I can finish and get out of here. But like most people are going to want it to take longer than last time. The longer the better. It's one of those things where finishing last means you win. Yeah. Like. But some people got to go to work and it's the more. I get that like in the day-to-day life. If I wanted to get to work, I wouldn't want. Hey, this is my number one advice for you. Don't ever have an orgasm. Don't finish. I mean, sometimes it's going to happen. But like the less often the better. And so if you're rushing before work, do it for three and a half minutes and then don't finish. Don't get to that point. Stop early. And that's the thing. You spend the time enjoying it. You will have a better orgasm. You will have an even more intense orgasm. Oh, by a long shot. Did Mike just say he shoots it a lot? He gets a long shot. I didn't hear that. By a long shot. He was so excited about that. Like Mike is just like, whoa. He's just way amped up today. Man. Like, yeah, if it's your favorite meal, like you'll enjoy it for a week, two. Eventually you're like, okay, I need something else. Is she referring to a tossed salad here when she says eating dinner? Tossing your salad. Tossing your salad. Careful where you eat out. You might get pinkeye. As an optometrist, pinkeye is bad. I'm not an optometrist. As an ophthalmologist? Yes. Pinkeye is bad, right? It's not even that bad. It's not that bad, guys. Don't worry about it. It's not that deep. And so if somebody has pinkeye, you should continue to make out, do all the things? No. You can go eat a salad, just not my salad. So when you get pinkeye, don't go and lick anything except for your own ice cream cone. There you go. You can reach. You know, it can be simple and it can be slightly different, slightly challenging, and it can be enough to make it such a new experience. Yeah. You know what? This advice isn't really useful because if a guy's gotten to the point where he's had it so many times in the same room, he doesn't need to watch this video. This is for like trying to pleasing a woman. Like once, I mean, I get it, but like if you've actually gotten to the point where you're continuously having se sex with the same woman for months on end, you're probably pleasing her. My perspective has been for a while the following. Like this is a standard template. There are, of course, exceptions to this, but as a standard template, it is okay. And here's the template. And so not the template. Not the template. Mike's got a template on how to please women now. And he's like, I really want you to absorb it. Where men see sex as like some stress release, women are like, if it's not sex worth having, it's just a chore. Yeah, 100%. Yeah, but if she starts seeing sex as a chore, it's like you're so cooked. If she starts seeing sex as a chore, there's a door. Yeah. Like, no. Like, no. Like, if it gets to that point, there's no point in trying to keep on. If you're already married, then you f***ed up and got married too young and you got to stick it out. But like for average people dating, if it's already a chore, there's a door. It's not worth fighting to keep the relationship alive. But I can't imagine thinking, oh, now I have to have sex. Like, this is, it's, it's, I don't know. I don't think you should get to that point. No. If you haven't got a partner that wants it, I don't care what her excuse is, there's a door. We don't end up with like that, a cash. Remember a cash and his wife? Yeah. I just feel bad for like, I guess some girls are just so overwhelmed. They're like mother of five and they're just like, they have their jobs and then they have to please their husband. Like, I know it's hard. If they please their husband, they would be pleasing themselves. Well, they could please themselves, which would please their husband. I'm sure a guy would want to see that. But that's besides the book. Like, if your husband's happy, you're going to be happier. Like, it just helps. If you're pleasing your man, I would suggest you at least go down on him three times a week. I'm not going to say every single day. Three times a week. You got to do that. That's basically the minimum. And if you do that, he's going to work harder for you. He's going to just boil you more. He's going to treat you better. And it goes back and forth. You're going to mirror each other. But if you're, like, always saying no and turning him down, he's going to hate you and he's going to go have sex with somebody else. It's as simple as that. Yeah. I also think as a man, if you provide a life for a woman where she's, like, calm and she has time for herself, then she'll definitely give, like, pour more into you and do more for you. And then by doing that, you're going to have more energy. You're going to, like, feel better and then be more productive. It's just like I give and then it gives. Yeah. You're describing it in an ideal, proper relationship. Because what often will happen is the man will provide, makes money, goes to work, and the woman will just say, give me another Louis Vuitton purse and take advantage of it. And not just do what she should be doing. Instead of pouring into him, giving him anything. Yeah. She uses sex as a way to control and manipulate and gaslight a man, which is not what we want. No. She should give him sex as fuel. Yeah. Regardless. Everything else is bonus. It shouldn't be held as ransom. And it's not just, like, it's not transactional. Obviously, she enjoys it. Begin to touch in a way that at first can really seem and is non-sexual. First of all, all touch is sexual. There is no non-sexual touch. If you touch somebody of the opposite sex, it's sexual. Remember on our first date with my colleagues? What about it? I was, like, touching you a lot. Oh, she's like, don't tell them that we're on a date because it's my work, staff, keep it professional. And so I walk in and I sit down and her arms are all over me. And she's just going to town, rubbing on me. I'm like, man, this girl really likes me. She's got some kind of a drink. And I'm like, how many drinks have you had? Whispering because she's, like, so affectionately all over me. It was, like, my first drink and I didn't even touch it. I've only had three sips of my first drink. And I'm like, holy shit, this is going to be freaky later tonight. I already knew. I knew it, guys. So any touch. Start of the second date. Any touch. It's sexual. And so if you're at a bar and you're meeting a girl for the first time and she starts touching you for any reason, take that as a sign that she likes you. I think so. Automatically. Any kind of a touch. If she smiles. If she does this right in her hair. If she looks at you. If she pivots towards you. If her feet are in your direction. If she laughs at even your stupidest jokes. Even just like this. Oh, yes. Yeah. Like frigging Tom Brady. That woman that had a pan on the back. Yeah. That's all it took. Oh, my God. Like, you've got to take the hints. And so here's the worst thing that could happen. Yeah. You should include a clip of Alex Earl and Tom Brady. Literally. It was just one little touch on his back. It was kind of a back rub, though. And they made the internet go wild. Like. Yeah. Like, here's the worst. Like, imagine this. You assume she likes you and she doesn't. You made that mistake. Yeah. And you act appropriately. Oh, you're interested. And you just take it with confidence and you try to get a date out of it. And then she's like, I don't like you. What are you talking about? What sign did you give you? I screwed up. On to the next. Versus. I wonder if she means she likes me. She's touching me. Oh, it's probably. That's just the type of girl. She touches everyone. It's better to just assume that she likes you and act based on that because you will do the things to get in her pants later. Every single large transition point from non-sexual touching all the way to my hand is on your vagina and I'm staring you in the eyes. Man, that went south fast. My hand is. And I'm staring at you in the eye. Oh, my God. I would be like. Four. People call it foreplay. I think that's almost like a disservice to the term. Because like. It's part of it. It's part of it. Like it's preparatory. Like, I don't know, man. Like, just jerking in the bathroom has no foreplay. It feels fun. I mean, it's a good point. Foreplay is kind of like it's part of it. It's fun. But like they need a name for it. What do they call it? Other than foreplay, say non-penetrative sex. Lead in sex. Like, I mean, you need a name. Yeah, it's like a. Kissing and touching and all this stuff before the. Introductory. The penetration. It's got to have a name. And foreplay is the name they chose. I feel like it's a good name. It's fine. I like the name. I really like the name. It's four is like before. Yeah. And then play. You're playing around. I actually love that name. Let's do the name. I feel like we should have a pre-workout that's like foreplay. That's kind of hot. Yeah. What would we put in it? Kratom. Yes. And. Slydricide. Slydricide would be good. Some caffeine. Some caffeine for sure. Because it's. Some canna maybe. Okay. And probably some my friend Molly. Let's leave that out. And some weed. But honestly, that's a very. That's a good idea. Foreplay. And you're like, I'm going to take my foreplay before the gym. It's kind of like exciting. Foreplay before. Foreplay. Or before play. Whatever. Whenever. Would people buy that. Answer in the comment. Would you buy a pre-sex drink. Oh. It would be for the bedroom. Yes. Yeah. It would be like a foreplay. It would have some like horny goat weed or something in there. Something to get you going. Rebbed up. Yeah. Let's work on that. It's a potential idea. You feel them melt into you. Right. You feel them start like their pupils start dilating.  aut aut autopoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop this area she should be like like the hips should be like like uh what's that girl rihanna she's she's securing towards you there's gonna be some shakira action going on yeah and so if you feel that just keep going keep going green light and i would say in general a good rule of time is go half as fast as you want to oh like as soon as you want to do the next thing that you're thinking of doing like sticking your finger in her ass just wait a little bit longer yes yes yes just one more one more wait yeah thank me later and i i mentioned this in another one of our videos but like foreplay starts in the morning right you want to actually tell show your partner they are desired no no it doesn't start in the morning it starts when it starts this is what does it do it starts in the morning by making the bed for and taking out the trash and cooking your breakfast and running your love note before dinner no this is yeah women don't want that if i have to do all the things all day to get her in the mood she ain't in the mood it's too much work it's too much this is ridiculous this is the advice all day to to rev her engines all day long i pressed her ferrari it's ready to go in 15 seconds you don't need to rev it all day just get yourself a ferrari yeah it's like this always ready exactly just press a button and spending that quality time i think sometimes and people hate when i say this but i'm like if you actually schedule this time with your partner so like hey you schedule brunch you schedule a meeting you schedule this you schedule that you schedule the gym but you don't schedule time with your partner i see nothing wrong with scheduling sex people are busy some people are busy and it's like hey friday night the kids are off to grandma's yeah we're gonna have sex at seven o'clock until two a.m even though it doesn't sound six times i think it can actually save you like save your relationship yeah what's wrong with it we plan a date friday we're going to dinner or a movie what's wrong with saying we're gonna have a dinner movie but we're gonna have sex before the dinner because who wants to have sex after you're bloated like i like being more spontaneous that's just me but i know for people you have to plan it or it doesn't happen yeah but sometimes we plan sex like every couple weeks we'll plan like a day of it kind of thing yeah but it's a full day like 10 hours or so like with breaks of course so you can plan it be like hey let's free up sunday let's not leave the house let's just like be naked all night and just enjoy the day a little day yeah what's wrong with that a field day a field trip we'll go have sex there here there explore the house outside outside by the pool then the neighbors get mad because you're too loud and then you have to stop yeah yeah sometimes there's problems with the neighbors because even though they're far like it's they can hear sound travels especially be really careful near water sound outside because you don't want this the downside with scheduling sex is like then it becomes performative and you're like well we have an hour better get to the sex but it's like no you schedule some cuddling or some massage time if that's the furthest it goes what a great time right no one turns down a massage that's crazy are you comparing a massage to sex is ridiculous i get it some girls like a massage i love but if i schedule a massage with her for an hour from seven to eight and it ends in just a massage that would never happen this is ridiculous i was not going to just accept a massage you'd be like why are you massaging my shoulders you know what i want massaged get to it and use your tongue that's what i i mean is this not true guys oh i'm sorry here do you like that lower lower that's it girl yay that's how we like it the the partner who has a lower desire might feel like well i'm feeling pressured into having sex and the other person might feel like man why won't this person have sex with me even though they've agreed on intimacy and so you really have to work on that what is your advice on that one person has more interest in the other you just you just do it right that's what i'm thinking for sex one person has higher sex drive on some days one will be hornier than the other yeah and on the other day it'll be the other one and it's just like so whichever partner's up here on the horn in the scale the other one they bring the other one up yeah if you're higher here you say get up over here probably about yeah right around this level and get busy regardless and if she's like i'm just tired it's like this and it's like that you make it happen and once it gets going you're going to get interested in it yeah it's no different than if your partner's going to the gym together oh yeah you're hung over and you're like i don't really want to go today you're coming yeah we're going to train there's always going to be one that has like more energy on that day like yesterday like for example i think maybe i felt better than you doing that i don't know how you said a pr yesterday yeah i was just feeling really good and greg was like it wasn't his best day energy-wise and so i was trying to like motivate him i was like yeah you got it for the it's just an energy transfer and same thing for the bedroom yeah this is how men initiate right they'll smack a butt they'll grab a breast whatever because they're just trying to be playful and funny also they're gorillas but they're just like we don't really know how to do this so we're just going to do this because it makes our intentions clear we're just being funny right and that for a lot of women is like if your partner isn't turned on by you slapping her butt and grabbing her secondary sexual organs as mike put it she's not for you like if that annoys you you got to ask yourself the question why did that annoy me why am i a karen yeah why are you a karen like why why do you have to be that way oh it's so crude you slap my butt when i walk by how dare you be sexually excited by looking at me so much so that you had to touch my ass i don't like that what's wrong with you it makes me so happy when he does it like it makes me smile and i'm like oh that's like i like it so remember don't go and do this to people that don't already like you're not in a relationship just don't go grab girls out of the blue i'm not saying do that but if it's your girlfriend and she doesn't like that you have to dump her it's that simple yeah plenty fish in the sea so much just like you would think about like edging a lot of guys know what edging is right so like i think it's just an internet meme right yeah i said it's an internet meme it's my daily life what are you talking about it's not a meme this is my life this is my life this is my daily life women will show you that like okay they want a little more they might like sort of change their body position or turn towards you or i mean just like non-verbal cues yeah it's the the pelvis grinding and the moaning and the this and the yeah they're gonna they're gonna show you it's not gonna be five minutes of this and you don't even have any feeling that you could go more pay attention right and like and you can ask them be like it's not so far-fetched to like just ask yes i also think there's nothing wrong with asking yeah you want to have sex yeah like literally i could ask right now well i can press pause the video and have sex before the bike race like if you want it you just ask yeah like i want to be respectful like yeah you know it's it's a hard it's a hard balance i think it's more of a turn on to ask if you come from a frame of confidence mike is right good point if mike asks it's a definite no but if i ask it's a definite yes it depends who it's coming from frame of confidence that's key yeah please yeah like you're not if you simp up it's not good begging you're not like weak beta you're just very sure of yourself where do you find that there is a place for expressions of dominance vast fractions of women want to experience safe consensual correct masculine dominance two-thirds of women i got in trouble once for posting about this on my instagram stories i posted facts oh you're encouraging men to be violent against women i'm like no i'm encouraging men to ask their girls if they like to be dominated won't use any word to get cancelled here and if they say yes then do it i don't see anything wrong with that what is your opinion on that one miss mepsagram yeah i think a lot of girls like it and if it's done safely and risk like with respect i think or lack of respect yeah what's respect it's like respect if a woman wants you to spit on her and a spank her ass but i think everyone has boundaries where like this is okay but like this is not you just have to kind of know so i just think you communicate and you kind of know what's too much and what's not too much and then after that it's safe it's it's it's pretty generally simple girl says no if you're doing too much yeah she'll tell you she'll tied her up too tight she will tell you her boundaries like if you do one thing that's a bit over her come like past her comfort zone she'll she'll tell you yeah dominance i mean there's a prior yeah there's a lot of girls that are into that two-thirds or you could watch like 50 shades of gray and like are you into this right i like 50 shades of gray did you like it i think i watched it it was good i don't remember what it was about was it about a rich guy that had a girl in a dungeon in the basement yeah someone see women are up they think that that's a good thing but see here's what they want if the guy's a billionaire or a vampire she wants him to do anything what i've heard from some folks some females excessive checking in or telling the guy that you want to be dominated is destroying the fantasy it's ruining the frame yeah that's a real piece of feedback you just do it gradually and you check for reaction if she's like pulling your hand off of her neck or saying stop or no or just not acting like she's liking it then you stop if she's not you keep going with it until she's like happy with it reading the room yeah not everyone can read the room you would hope the girl would be like confident enough to say no or to stop choking me i can't breathe i'm gonna die yeah like i feel like you know some girls maybe wouldn't say anything because they're like shy so that's a bit it's tricky there i mean some guys get very very aggressive and some girls are insane and they want that and it's like you have to be careful yeah so i don't want anyone to take this advice and start doing crazy things to girls and then they're in jail yeah if you can't ask her outside the bedroom and say hey you know what i i'm kind of into this dominating thing and you can't ask her then there's something wrong with your relationship where you can't have that kind of communication and if that ruins it for her then she sucks literally if it sucks you can't ask do you want me to do this to you tomorrow and oh you ruined it for me because you asked it's just stupid she shouldn't be like that we're gonna end the video here um i think the most important thing if you want to get with a girl is to have a great body and so to do that turk platinum glp max glp max to do to lose the weight go2 max help you with cardio horse the bedroom stack for your hardness yesterday i got a pr on the bike and right before the bike race i took three go2 max which is more than i usually take i usually take one or two and i couldn't believe it i couldn't believe how i felt insane i just felt like i was unstoppable it's it's insane uh the level of athletes we got one guy hayden he's putting out 520 watts in half an hour i don't know if people understand it's it's about three times more calories that he can burn per hour than a normal human being machine it's almost not quite double what i do but it's getting there it's pretty crazy how fast and he's swears by joe max he's like he's like i'm scared to promote it because i don't want my competition to use it because he wants to win the world championships so why would you want your second place guy to use the products that's going to help you win makes sense yeah if you're interested in getting these things you can use code mep m-e-p you can always use code greg if you want or you can code mep it doesn't matter to me it's either way it doesn't matter and if you want to have more uh sexy time uh instructions from us too you can uh follow us for more tips follow for just the tip or just the tip and that's it subscribe click bell button comment to boost the algorithm watch one of those two bloops and until next time we are out