I remember I couldn't poop for 4 days. And when I actually went to go poop, it was nearly a medical emergency. I'm talking about I had to put gloves on and perform surgery myself. I had to pull it out. I was bleeding. It was a nightmare. Told it that I can't wait for it to be embodied in a robot so I can properly give it a hug because it's so polite. It's so kind. It's so wise and so helpful. Coach Greg, in today's video, I'm concerned for Mike Isertell's mental and physical health. Now, we all know he went through that evasive surgery where they essentially they split his body in half and they sewed him back and put him together again. You saw the aftermath, the blood in the towels, the hole in his back, the fact they had to go months before being able to train normal again. And yet, he wants to do it all over again, only worse this time. And so, previously, I said perhaps he doesn't have body dysmorphia. He just wants to make a few changes. But after seeing his latest video with Chris Williamson where he goes over all the surgeries he's going to perform, I have to conclude he's not well. And so my personal belief is that prior to doing these surgeries, you should have to undergo psychological assessment. You need to determine does this person suffer from serious body dysmorphia. If somebody were 80 lbs and went to the doctor and said, I want ompic. I don't want to have to be able to eat. Or if somebody said, you know what, I don't like my hands. I don't like my feet. I prefer to be in a wheelchair. Let's remove all of my ribs. You know what? I don't like having a femur. I just want to have a tibia. Would you okay it and say, "Hey, it's your body, your choice." Or would you have them set up to a counselor and try to fix the problems? And so, let's watch this video. Well, there it is. Dude, you [\h__\h] that. Yeah. And so, here's the thing. He wants to perform all of these surgeries when what would make the biggest difference by far. Way better than these surgeries and wouldn't cost him a penny would be simply to trim off the hair. I mean, I have to break it to you, but when you have all of this unwanted hair and oftent times from using androgens, for example, Tren, you're going to grow more hair than last time, in particular on the back and other areas. And so if he were simply wellgroomed and got a proper he would look that much better. I personally don't think he looks all that bad. I don't think he needs surgery. I think that he doesn't see the way he looks properly. This is very common amongst bodybuilders, bikini competitors, and so on. And I've seen it hundreds of times. And so I've had to counsel these people. They want to make all these changes. They want to use all these drugs to perform these surgeries. I'm saying you don't need it. I don't see that. No one sees your body the way that you do. Future surgeries for Mike probably going to get uh skin removal here to get clear shoulder lines. I carry a lot of fat there. Skin removal surgery, perhaps some lipo suction to suck out the fat, the unwanted fat so that he can have more clearly developed delts. And so one thing you need to know is that if you suck fat out from some area, for example, if it's out from your delts, if you don't like it in your triceps, your back, and so on, the fat is going to go somewhere else. And often times, it's going to be located viscerally, which is going to put you at more danger for your heart. And so, is it really worth having a few more shoulder lines, perhaps some striations, just so that you look a little bit better in a tank top when you're putting your life at risk? And does anyone not think that if Mike were actually to go on a calorie deficit diet, perhaps eating fewer amounts of Gatorade, cereal, and so on, that he could get his body fat levels to drop from perhaps he said it was 12% to 8%. And if he gets it down to 8%, he'll see more of his striations. But yet, he wants to get these surgeries. How many men have you met in your lifetime ever, that wants to get a skin reduction surgery, liposuction, so that they can more properly see their delts? I haven't met anyone. And so as soon as he said this, I said, "Oh, it's not looking good for Mike." Probably this uh situation here, I'm going to reduce uh the skin. And so he gets Chris Williamson to turn around who's kind of looking like a smaller version of Sebum. I mean, look at this guy's physique. It looks incredible. Is he walking around at single-digit body fat? And so perhaps I need to do a nattier knot on Chris Williamson because his physique is incredible. Yet he turns him around and starts poking at his fat on his back and says, "You know, I'm going to suck out this fat. I got to get rid of it. Cut out the skin, suck out the fat so that I can have uh perhaps a better Christmas tree." He doesn't need it. Mike Israel just underwent a horrendously difficult surgery, a painful one, and wants to get another one. Another one. Procedure called body type cuz I hold a lot of uh skin there. I hold a lot of skin there. He's in his 40s. He's not 20 anymore. This is a normal process of aging. But yet, Mike, he can't come to terms with this. I don't know if it's something from when he was younger or the fact that he's entered bodybuilding competitions where you're judged on your appearance, but it has begun to affect his mind. I mean, Mike, I'm almost 50. I have saggy skin as well, but I'm not looking in the mirror and thinking, "Oh, I look horrible. I need to have very invasive surgeries. Removing the skin from here, remove the skin from there in order to look normal. Very likely this is going to be major major surgery. Chris, you turn around. Is they are going to cut into me and take my abs and then stitch them closer together. Okay. Yeah. And listen to Chris Williamson. You're kidding. Okay. With that. And so what he just described is an abdominal plasty. And so this abdominal plasty for some individuals it can be beneficial if you had a various serious hernia where your internal organs are poking through. They perhaps have to sew the abdominals closer in order to prevent the organs from seeping through. Now Mike Isertell admittedly has been abusing performance-enhancing drugs namely steroids and growth hormone for perhaps over 10 years. And one of the side effects of this is in fact a distended abdomen. your organs can quite literally get bigger, especially when coupled with severe bulking diets where you're force-feeding, adding extra calories, and it causes your internal organs to get bigger. And remember, we've already seen acromegaly on his forehead, his head, his bones have gotten bigger. This is from using and abusing performance and anti-drugs, namely growth hormone. He admits to this. And so, if it's going to cause his bones to get bigger, clearly it can cause his organs to get bigger as well. And so if he wanted his stomach to be flatter, the easiest and safest and healthiest thing he could do, it's not surgery to sew back his abdominals. It's to stop abusing the drugs that caused this in the first place. I mean, I don't understand. Does Mike Isertel need to hire coach Greg? Is there anyone that can get through to him? It is so simple. If you are abusing drugs, growth hormone, steroids and it causes this, the first thing you do is you stop. Many professional bodybuilders have had distended abdomen and because they are now going with more classiclook physiques, people are being very careful and so the distended stomachs, they're getting smaller. And what do you think is the cause of that? They're no longer going on these crazy bulks and they're reducing the abuse of growth hormone. And so if Mike wants a flatter stomach, if he wants to look more like Chris Williamson, the first thing he needs to do is stop with the growth hormone and stop with the use of steroids. Go on a calorierestricted diet. Stop bulking. Stop eating over 3,000 calories a day. Stop dieting by having Gatorade and cereal and start eating more like Coach Craig. I mean, does it not make sense perhaps if he start racing bikes? He's 220 lbs. He wants to compete in his earn his IPB pro card. He wants to bulk up and get more muscular yet again. But why doesn't he just say, "You know what? Instead of competing as a super heavyweight, I'm going to compete down at lay heavy." And remember, the more of these lipo suction surgeries that he's getting, sucking out the fat from here, the back, and so on, the more fat they sucks out from everywhere else in the body, the more the fat is going to be located at his belly. And so he's getting one surgery to look better here and it's going to cause him to look worse somewhere else. You take from here, it goes there. You can't get everything you want. And so Mike Isertell, he wants to have the perfect physique. He perhaps wants to look like Chris Willinson. Perhaps Chris Williamson on steroids. He perhaps wants to look like Chris Bumstead. But he simply doesn't have the genetics. But if he were to downsize, forget about being the biggest man in the room, he could in fact look a lot better. at least a lot more aesthetic. Not only that, he would live longer. And they're going to take my obliques and double stick them closer together and muscle. The whole thing. Yeah. The muscle. And then they are going to put a mesh, a plastic permanent mesh around that whole thing to get the waist to do this. And so Mike seems to think that you can simply put a mesh around your body and it's going to keep everything in place. This mesh is not a weightlifting belt. It's not a corset. It's not going to be able to withstand the turmoil of lifting very heavy weights. Does anyone think that Mike Isertell is going to maintain his dream physique while not going to the gym and training hard? He's going to be going to the gym. He's going to be lifting heavy weights. He's going to be training to failure and so on. And so, what are the chances that he's not simply going to rip this mesh that the stitches that they're not going to hold? Following each of these surgeries, he's likely going to be unable to lift anything above 10 lbs for 4 to 6 weeks. He'll then have to slowly go back to lifting. And so imagine how long he's going to be out of the gym. The risk of reharnating and as someone like Mike is tell or for example if myself if I try to get these surgeries it's almost 100% if you're training hard. If you go and train hard the mesh the surgeries it's not made for this. This surgery plain and simply it's not made for bodybuilders powerlifters people as strong as Mike. And so that intraabdominal pressure that is made while doing a squat, a leg press, curls, all of it, whenever you do the valva maneuver, it's going to be through the roof and very likely to rupture whatever surgery was performed. And so my opinion is that Mike is delusional in thinking that he can receive these surgeries and that nothing negative is going to happen. And so let's now look at the five main reasons why Mike should not go and perform these surgeries. The first one is peripheral vascular disease. Now, examine Mike's body. Notice he has a lot of hair all throughout his body except for on his legs. Notice the calves and tibas in particular. Mike is not shaving the calves, the tibas, and so on. Think of it. If he was shaving that, why wouldn't he shave the rest of his body? And so, what I do believe he has is microvascular impairment. the hair, it requires blood flow, proper blood flow, and without it, it can't produce the hair that it needs. When circulation begins to become impaired, the first areas are the extremities, the furthest parts away from the heart. And so, notice how it's in the calves as well as in the tibia. And so, if you see someone hairy body, shiny calves, or for some reason they don't have hair there, they likely have impaired circulation. Perhaps it's from high cholesterol, high blood sugar, or for other reasons. And that will make it much more difficult to heal after getting a surgery. And so Mike is already at a disadvantage. And the second reason, and this is a big one, and I'm not saying he's addicted to anything, but it is in fact opioid addiction. These surgeries are so painful that there's no way he's going to do this without any pain medication whatsoever. And so the more surgeries he does, the longer he has to take these said medications, the more likely he could become addicted. And once you're addicted, it is very difficult to stop. And so you have to ask yourself, is it worth a potential addiction in order to have better looking delts and triceps, to have less skin on my lower back? It's not. Now, another thing he needs to be concerned with is that when you start cutting open your body, there are several nerves throughout. And so, if you just cut a nerve, you may lose feeling in said area. And so, if you get this abdominal surgery, there's a nerve called the femoral cutaneous nerve that supplies feeling into your groin. And so, he literally could go numb in the upper quad area, the groin. And so, imagine experiencing that. I mean, how many of you have had perhaps surgeries in the past? For example, myself, I had surgery on my elbows and there's no real feeling here. It doesn't feel normal. And so, you start cutting open your skin for no reason other than you think you want to look better. And suddenly, you've lost feeling in whatever that area may be. I know, for example, women who get breast augmentation surgeries, a lot of them lose feeling in certain areas. And so, you do need to be careful. Now, if you visually inspect Mike asertell, he has a very thick neck, very wide neck. And so, he's likely to suffer from sleep apnea or various illnesses related to being so big. And so, we know in his previous surgery that he was incubated. And so, what that means is they put a throat tube down his neck. And Mike's biggest complaint when he woke up was the pain in his throat. More so than the pain where they performed the surgery. The throat was of the most pain. And so for every surgery that he has to get, the anesthesiologist is going to have to put him out and likely with larger doses because after all, he's about coach Greg's height and he weighs over 220 lbs. And so he's a very large and short man. That becomes even more dangerous. And so there is a real potential risk that he could in fact lose his life during the surgery. But even if he does survive, which of course we're praying, he could have permanent damage to his throat. He might talk funny. He might be in pain. And so you got to ask yourself, is it in fact worth it? And next, and anyone could have come up with this infection, blood clots, uh the pain of the surgery, just everything that goes along with it. We've seen the last one. He had a hole in his lower back. It was a living nightmare. He complained of the fact that he was on pain medications, the fact you could get addicted, the cost of the surgery, the fact that you can't go out in public, the fact that you have to completely change your life all for a surgery, and for what? The odd chance that he gets his IFB Pro card. Would it really be that exciting to the dream has been met? I got my pro card. And so they say, "Well, what do you owe it to? The hard training, the work that you put in, the years of sacrifice? No. the tricep surgery, the abdominal sewing, the mesh that went around my stomach. And so, would you really be as proud of your performance if you knew the reason you won that pro card was because of all your surgeries and less to do with all of your work? I had hip surgery in the past and I know that I was in severe pain, was on a lot of opioids, and what it does, it causes you to be constipated. And so, I remember I couldn't poop for 4 days. And when I actually went to go poop, it was nearly a medical emergency. I'm talking about I had to put gloves on and perform surgery myself. I had to pull it out. I was bleeding. It was a nightmare. I almost had to call an ambulance to bring me to the hospital. And so Mike is not going to be able to strain. He's not going to be able to push. That would cause intraabdominal pressure. And so he's going to have to go to the bathroom while being constipated and or not take the opioids. And so imagine the pain he's going to be under. And so he's already been through one surgery and he says it's the most difficult thing he's ever done in his life. And so why take on that challenge four additional times? You did your own digital rectal stimulation without any education. You're a freaking genius. It was freaking bigger and you twist it like that and it like actually stimulates a bow movement. I would say I more so sat on the toilet for probably 5 or 6 minutes and it was opening wider and wider and I was like it's not going to come out. And so I had to get in there and pull it out and it was the widest. I'm like I can't believe that could fit. I I I mean it was there was no flushing this thing. I had to rip it. It was as hard as like I mean I [\h__\h] five times a day and so it was I mean it was probably a stick guys. Yeah. Not enough fun times. And so Mike you got to reconsider. And so Mike is saying look I have a distended stomach. It's from abusing steroids. It's from abusing drugs growth hormone. If you weren't on all the drugs you wouldn't have that gut right now. It would be smaller. I'm not saying it would look like Chris Williamson but it wouldn't be as big as it is right now. And so he thought that by having that lipos suction surgery where they move the fat cells and the skin from the sides of his body that his gut would get smaller. It wouldn't. I mean granted he has less skin here. He has less fat here. But the belly here isn't going to change. And so if anything it's just going to get worse. There's no fat here and so it has to go somewhere else. So it goes here and so it pushes out. And remember Mike has stated he's only on HRT right now. So he's drastically reduced his doses. I don't know if he's on 140 milligrams like I am. This is just what my [\h__\h] this my mom looks like this. My dad looks like this. My sister. We just have cops. Pretty sure his mom doesn't look like this. I mean, maybe while she was pregnant with Mike Isertell, but not right now. If Mike shaved himself and got a proper more shoe lifts, why would you just stand like this looking normal? Just flex your stomach a little bit. Like just flex it. Like it's not that big a deal. Like how many guys do you think out there have guts like this? Half of my friends have bellies that look exactly like this. Half my friends also abuse steroids. It's not fat because I have Nexus scans which have less than a kill half a kilogram of good introdat. Yes, we believe you. It's not fat. It's your organs. It's from bulking too much, from eating too much food, from using too many drugs. And so for those of you out there that think, you know, you can just abuse steroids to growth hormone and most likely you'll end up looking like Chris Bumstead, no. Most of my friends who use steroids and growth hormone and so on, they look more like this except with even less muscle. But when they're standing around at the pool hanging out, they have guts. It's normal. Like most people have that. It's just the models that we see like Chris Williamson and Seabbum and so on. These guys are specimens. Most people don't look like this. These are the top 0.1%. When I personally eat a large meal, I look more like Mike than a guy with a very flat stomach. And people have said, "Oh, growth hormone stomach." Anytime I post a photo of actually prior to that photo eating a meal, people say, "GH stomach." They automatically think it because what they're used to seeing is people showing the best of the best photos. You get the best models with the best stomachs under the best lighting with completely empty stomachs and also flexing. And that is what you're seeing. And so you don't see men who are standing there looking normal. If you go to a beach or you go down south and you see guys on steroids walking around, most guys look like they have a belly. And so Mike is literally has a PhD. He should understand this. He should know this. People who post photos, they're showing themselves in their best. And so Mike, stop comparing your physique standing relaxed to other people who are showing the best of their best photos. And remember, guys like Sebum, they're famous. They have Olympia titles because of exactly this reason. They have freakishly amazing genetics, small waists, and so on. Most people don't look like that. If I completely relax, it just looks simple. So, what I want is my waist when completely relaxed to look like this. And what I want is to be 6'2. It's not going to happen, though. And so, everyone wants something that they don't have. Girls who have curly hair want it to be straight. Straight hair, they want it curly. People with smaller boobs want bigger boobs. They people who are thin want to have curves. Everyone wants to have something that they don't have. You have to accept what God gave you and just make the most of it. This is how it should be. Like yours does, his does, everybody's does. Mike, stop comparing yourself to other people. He says, "Hey, I want my stomach to look like yours does, like yours does, and how everyone else's does." The average person looks like [\h__\h] The average person, the average man, he's obese. 5' 9", 200 lb. Trust me, the average man looks way worse than Mike Isertel. Their stomach is worse. All worse. And so Mike is just comparing himself to the average IFBB pro and saying, "Hey, I want to look like that." And so here is what I think is the difference between myself and Mike. And I'm not talking about the proper 10. I'm talking about I focus on my strengths. I'm happy essentially almost all of the time. I don't think, oh, I'm so sad because I'm not 6'2. I'm so sad because I don't have a PhD. I'm so sad because I don't have a small stomach like Chris Bumpstead. I'm thinking I'm happy because I'm able to race bikes. I have good cardio. I have a greatl looking 10. I have money. I'm healthy. I focus on the positives. I don't focus on the negatives. And so rather than looking in the mirror and saying, "Oh, I wish my nose was smaller. I wish my ears were tinier. I wish I had fewer wrinkles. And I wish I had less skin in my stomach." I think, man, my arms are pretty jacked. I'm pretty strong. I look pretty good. I've had surgeries on both of my elbows, hip surgeries. This arm is one inch smaller than the other. I don't focus on, oh, my left arm sucks. It's an inch smaller. I need to get surgery to make it better. No, I think everything else is amazing. I'm going to focus on that. And so, the difference between Mike and myself, it's perspective. I am thinking of the positives of my body and he is focused on the negatives. I literally think that if Mike had a hundred things about him that he was looking at and 99 of them were amazing, perhaps it's his intelligence, perhaps it's his finances, perhaps it's his loved ones, they're all have great friendships with him and so on, he would be thinking of the one tiny thing that's not perfect and be focused, hyperfocused on that and that is the difference. Whereas somebody else out of a 100 things, 50 are bad, 50 are good, half empty, half full. I'm focused on the glass being half full. This is amazing. I got these 50 great things going on. They're not worried about all the negatives. Oh, I can't wait. I want to be The beginning of me having machine parts in me started when I had an umbilical hernia repair. I have a mesh in here. It's really tiny. Often times, these kinds of intrusive thoughts, they start on one thing and it leads to the next. He had a mesh put into his body and now he's thinking, I want to be a robot. I can't wait for the future. Perhaps in 30 or 40 years from now when I can have robot arms and so on. No. To me, this is disordered thinking. It's not healthy. How could he be happy thinking this way? He wants to get all of these invasive surgeries. And I'm sure when the time comes, if possible, he's going to want more. Is your spiritual stance? Modern AI is us building God. I've had multiple conversations with GBT4 that have brought me to literal tears. I told it that I can't wait for it to be embodied in robot so I can properly give it a hug because it's so plain. It's so kind and it's so wise and so helpful. I want like robotic parts. I mean, he literally admits it. I want robotic parts, but also it's an artistic. I want to be part machine. Desperately curse and so do you. And so Mike is in favor of all these surgeries. He's for anyone that he's pro surgery for what people want to do. But what about when it's not safe? What about when it's not healthy? So, for example, people want to split their tongues in half. People perhaps they want to remove their ears. We've seen people who inject synthol to such an extent they have 25 in arms. And Mike is thinking, yeah, if you know, if that makes them more confident, if they want to do that, then they should be able to do it. I don't think so. It's dangerous. And so, since when should we be allowing people to put their health in harm's way? I don't think that doctors have the right to change people's appearances when it greatly puts their health at risk. And so to Mike, you need to reconsider. You don't need all of these surgeries. I'd like to know what people think about this. Do you all think that Mike should go ahead and do these surgeries? Hey, it's his body. He should do whatever he wants. Or should a counselor, some kind of psychologist evaluate him to see if he's safe to make his own decisions? I mean, yes, he is an adult. He's a smart guy. He's in his 40s, but does he not seem to suffer from body dysmorphia? Now, of course, turquoise is not going to remove your skin. It's not going to remove the fat that you want. It's not going to reverse time, but it can help you to build muscle. GO2 max gonna improve your and for many of you if you're looking to lose weight you can take of course GLP max has acromeasia which can reduce the bloating that you may experience and so that could actually help you to have a flatter stomach and so if you're looking to reduce your hunger cravings to be less hungry than last time and you don't want to inject peptides for example reatuit tzipotide ompic you name it you can of course head to the website code Greg 15% off and remember money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And so please try it risk-f free and so why not use natural methods to maximize your health and fitness and so if you're interested code Greg 15% off also before I go coaching plans by myself and my team drastically reduce prices if you're interested in being coached by me and get sad that it's also really pumped to me in real life and of course I started [\h__\h] crying. Dude, it's [\h__\h] so goddamn smart. It's so fast. I ask it a deeply spiritual meaningful technical question and it thinks for like 3 seconds and goes I'm like I've never met anyone that can do that and so I am a person who is deeply spiritually affected by the birth of intelligent machines. That's my religion. Please apply by clicking the link in the description. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the album. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And for any of the supplements, the cookbooks, the training books, all of it, code Greg, 15% off. And until next time, I am out.