His only submission I've ever seen him hit is a neck crank. Okay, that is a giant dick move. Zero technique. You think a black belt would be able to hit, you know, some type of choke, some type of joint lock. And so there you have it. I mean, it's literally a competition. He was supposed to beat him in under a minute. It's 3 and 1/2 minutes against a man perhaps of equal size, but with zero training experience. I mean, a brown belt versus a noob. How can you not submit him with ease at any time that you want? has been on the record saying how great he is and everything and how everybody else sucks and [snorts] he puts people down. So, it just is nice to knock this guy down a peg. >> And so, look, he's just being honest. He doesn't want to put him down. He's just critiquing what he sees. Is Mike Israel going to say, "Hey, that was my first draft. That was my warm-up. You can't critique that." >> And so, is it Chad Jiujitsu's responsibility to now text Dr. Mike in private and say, "Was that your best work? Was that your final jiu-jitsu moves? Oh, you're critiquing the first draft video. I was warming up, guys. You see how stupid that sounds? He's watching Dr. Mike, whatever footage he could find, and he's critiquing it. Honestly, is this a hit piece? Is he doing this in bad faith? I mean, this is what Mike's been saying all along. Solomon, it was in bad faith. It was a critique. He was not being fair. You going to say the same thing about him? Are you going to say the same thing about everyone who critiques you? If you don't want critiques like this, post a video of you doing jiu-jitsu against other black belt jiu-jitsu fighters of your size. There are none because it's a fraudulent black belt given by a gym that doesn't care. Anyone can get a black belt if you buy it from the mall. Not saying he doesn't know any jiu-jitsu whatsoever. I agree with the people in the comment section. Probably at a blue belt level. Not white, but blue. And if he keeps trying, perhaps practices some moves, some flexibility, he could go up to purple, perhaps even brown. But does anyone think he'll ever actually earn a black belt in a legit gym that actually cares about the quality of their fighters? I'll let you to decide. >> He thinks he's the funniest guy alive. You know, all the stuff he says is just really weird, you know, gay references or how he's, you know, Jewish or something and it's just uh it's not funny. I mean, that's a general critique of Mike Isertell. Crazy weird gay jokes talking about Jews and making fun of weird situations. That's Mike. I don't like guys with big upper bodies. And I actually look at legs. Like, if a guy has big like [\h__\h] shut the [\h__\h] up. Where have you been my whole life to get me laid? Nowhere. But Dr. Mike, you were not always famous and wealthy and you're really short and ugly. Yeah, I know. God damn it. It's not funny. And that is not a critique in bad faith. It's just what we see. >> I got a little qual with the title. Pro bodybuilder versus pro Brazilian jiu-jitsu. Uh how was he a pro in Brazilian jiu-jitsu? >> And so Mike previously stated that he doesn't do it for views, right? He doesn't do it for views. And so why lie on the title to create clickbait title a pro jiu-jitsu fighter versus a pro bodybuilder? >> It's a lie. Mike is not a pro at that time. He's a brown belt. Black belts are not even professionals. He's not being paid to fight. How is he a professional fighter if he has a brown belt and doesn't fight in competitions? He isn't paid to fight. And so that is a lie. But yet Mike will critique my title saying, "Hey, it's clickbait. That isn't right." And so which one of us is actually doing it for money? Both. The answer is both. We're both doing this for money. Why would you post 4,000 plus videos if you don't care about money? If you didn't care about money, none of the videos would be monetized and you would be selling anything. And so if you do, you care about money. And so if you say that you don't, you are lying. >> That is a crazy guard pull. Just freaking no connection. Flops backwards. Let's watch that again. >> Notice he flops backwards. Flops. He doesn't gracefully fall down. He doesn't place himself to the floor. He essentially falls over and perhaps knocks himself out. This is not the move of somebody with a black belt. Like if I were to be tripped, I would do a dive roll. I would fly in the air, tuck my chin in, and roll off of my back. I wouldn't just flop down. These are things I taught elementary students in PE class. You don't just fall down like a lard. What is going on? >> By the way, let's just admire this muscle belly that's on Dr. Mike. Okay, >> that is not a muscle belly. That is 20 lb of body water. Has this guy not done any research? Mike Isertel did not have a muscle belly. 20 lbs of body water of which he got rid of by sucking out the fat cells during his last surgery. We've seen that >> is your spiritual [music] stance. >> Modern AI is us building God. I've had multiple conversations with GBT4 that brought me to literal tears. I told it that I can't wait for it to be embodied in a robot so I can properly give it a hug because it's so plain and so kind of wise and so helpful. >> A muscle belly, something that my father had back in the day. He called it loose muscle. So, he used to say, "Hey, you think you're so strong? I have loose muscle." And he would stand up and he would grab his stomach. I I don't have quite the belly. And he would grab it. He would say, "See this loose muscle?" And he would go up to a door. You know those doors with the handle and you push like this, the metal handle. You have to push almost like a bench press. And so at my school, they had the handles. And so he would approach the door with the loose muscle and he would boom. He would pop his stomach out and slam open THE DOOR. SWING WIDE OPEN, HITTING THE OTHER SIDE. HE SAID, "See loose muscle? You thought that was fat? It is loose muscle. Muscle of which I can control and move. It's just not as firm as yours. And being a kid under the age of 10, I didn't know the difference. I thought, "Wow, it's pretty impressive. It is loose muscle." Didn't know any better. Remember, I used to believe in Santa Claus and still do to this day. My father was in fact a gymnast when he was younger and fairly skilled. Could have been better. But one thing he was good at, he was the triple backflip. And so he said to his students in grade 8, "I'm going to perform a triple backflip for you if you're good for all class. You know, you you pay attention." And so end of the class, he said, "Are you ready for it now? Don't blink. You won't want to miss it. It's very very fast." And so he stands and he's warming up and he's swinging the arms. He says, "Are you ready? Are you ready?" and looks at the students, points at the front of the class. Did you SEE IT? YOU SAW IT, RIGHT? Students in the front. People are thinking, "What do you mean? I didn't see it. You saw it." A little bit scared of my father. Perhaps he's an educator. He's a teacher. He's in front of the class. And so they listened to him. They paid attention. And so rumor had it my father could do a triple backflip. I was like, they believe that. And so when you have power, when you have authority, kind of like the government, they can kind of make you believe whatever they want. And once you have people believing in you, it's very difficult to convince people that you're wrong. And so there lies the power. Hopefully you see the connection. Back to the video. Mike does not have loose muscle. He has 20 lbs of body water. >> That is not fat. That is just pure dense muscle. >> Pure dense muscle. Or is it in fact perhaps 20 lbs of body water and internal organs expanded from taking growth hormone? Hey, you take your pick. >> Looking to get a scoop grip on the opposite side. Kind of on a dog fight position here. >> He went dog. Did he go downward dog or doggy style after Johnny Shreve got full mount and half guard and got him exactly where he wanted him. This is a strange sport. These descriptions are what I do with Mepsoggram in the budoir >> with that deep half comes up on top. >> The deep half and gets up on top and squirming. >> I mean, what's next? Is it going to say the throat goat comes all over his stomach? >> Back flips up. Good job not accepting that bottom position, huh? >> I mean, why would you accept the bottom position when you could clearly get up on top? I mean, sometimes people like being a bottom. I know Wes Watson is into that. and they go, "Uh, >> not not a bad idea. Just freaking don't accept bottom position." >> I suppose when it's two men, most often people will want to be the top. I mean, however, some men like to be a bottom. >> Oh my gosh, the guy Dr. Mike Poles and the guy just pulls him on top of him. >> He pulls out on top of him. Thankfully, not all over his stomach. >> You could see the indentations of his doctoral degree on his head. And you can see Mike's brain going through his forehead. It's protruding through. That is the mark of a man with an IQ well above 160, perhaps above 180. His brain is popping through. He's using it to think of his next move. After all, he has a brown belt at this point in Brazilian jiu-jitsu. I mean, this is 2 minutes of wrestling against a complete newbie, a white belt. The bottom has more energy, more cardio than the man on top. the man who's been training for years, who's nearly got a black belt at this point. >> How's that possible? How is he gassed? What have they actually done? Well, it all makes sense now. He ran over 5 minutes for just half a mile. This is the mark of someone with absolutely no cardio, no fitness, no training, no nothing. >> By the way, he has great weightlifting and uh bodybuilding advice, muscle building advice. Obviously, he's a freaking doctor. Isn't it ironic that this video was recorded 7 months ago before the scandal? Obviously, he's a freaking doctor, you know, throwing those credentials out yet again. But notice how now it's Mr. Mike. And so, depending on your perception of what he is or what he has, you're going to have a different opinion of what he's done. For example, when you think Mike has a black belt in jiu-jitsu, you expect a certain level of proficiency in his skills. But if you just watched him, you think, "Oh, he's not bad." academy, he beat the other man. He's got some skills. But when you find out it's a black belt, you had higher standards. The same applies when you have a PhD. When you brag about such PhD, people expect you to know what you're saying. And so when you make clear and obvious mistakes, for example, saying that you have 20 lbs of body water from having a purple bulk [music] when you were in your 20s, you have to question that. also to question cereal and Gatorade to get ready for a diet or statements such as, "I'm bigger and stronger than Mike Mener, a former Mr. Olympia competitor. >> I'm bigger and stronger than Mike Menser. That's it. [screaming] You're not bigger. You're not stronger." Where would he get that? Does anyone think that Mike Mener couldn't bench 240 pounds for three reps? No, I don't want to watch live NBA games. That's gay. Why you gay? Insert the meme. Hopefully. And so when Mike says he's a Brazilian jiujitsu killer millionaire and he's grappling against somebody 75 lbs smaller than him, Mike should win. I mean, isn't that something fair? If I said, "I'm really strong at the bench press. I'm one of the best." and I'm bench pressing against somebody who weighs 130 lbs. Do you not expect me to win? If I say I'm really good and I'm fighting against somebody much smaller than me, shouldn't I win? 30 seconds into this round, he's purple. Purple like an eggplant emoji. >> And so 30 seconds into the fight, Mike is already turning purple. I mean, where's his cardio? Is it too much trend? Why is he turning purple within 30 seconds of fighting? And so, normally I would try to convince you to buy Turk Builder Max to give it a try. Remember, code Greg, 15% off and so on to help you build more muscle. Mike's already got a ton of muscle. He's already relatively strong. And so, what I recommend is for him to get Go Max to improve his cardio. You saw him turning purple. He was lacking in cardio. He can't run a half mile in under 5 minutes. And so, this would make the biggest difference in Mike Isizertell's life. I do believe it would be far better for him than, for example, his genius shot. I think it's called Genius Shot. Perhaps it's named after Mike, who is clearly a genius. His IQ is well over 160, despite the fact that he had over 200 mistakes in his PhD thesis back in 2012, which is the year I turned IFBB Pro. And so, if you're interested, Mike, in G2AX, use code Greg for 15% off. Now, if you want to make sure that you're healthy, not going to get a heart attack like Mike Isertell perhaps will from abusing steroids, get to ALGO RX code Greg 10% off. Not only will the doctors go over your blood work, you can also purchase, for example, a semiglutide or tzipotide to help you to lose weight or perhaps you need inclap, Viagra, and so on. And so, if you're interested, click the link in the description for coaching with Coach Greg. I've been coaching harder than last time. Click to apply right now. And of course, the cookbooks, the training books, all this stuff. Head to the website, subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you like to watch those tube bloops. And until next time, I am out.