Regeneron Pharmaceuticals. I mean, 2.2 million people saw this. And if I'm investing in a company and I heard this and I watched his video, the stock's on the rise. And so, is this a sponsorship? What is this? Why would he go out of his way to brag up Regeneron Pharmaceuticals to this extent? Does what benefit does it give him? Why does he go out of his way to mention this specific pharmaceutical company and not the other? And so you just have to think of it like this. If you potentially have this patent or this drug, pharmaceutical companies and so on, it could be worth, I'm going to say potentially trillions of dollars, billions at least. And do you think it's possible that a pharmaceutical company would cover up all the bad stuff? Remember that Netflix documentary where they gave people all these pills and said, "Oh, it's not addictive. Trust us. Trust us." They gave it to people and it became worth billions or maybe even trillions of dollars. Problem is people got addicted. But yet they had proof. They had studies. Look at the studies. No, it's not addictive. Start with 10 milligrams up into 20, 40, 80, 160 and so on. Just keep taking more. People got addicted and they died. This happened. And so you don't think that they would continue to do this? Oh, they just have such great ethics and morals. I mean, the fact that they could make a hundred billion dollars from this, that's not going to stop them from publishing what they should be. And so, let's ignore all of the negatives and let's talk of all the positives. And so, is Mikeel part of this? I mean, how could he not as a scientist explain both the pros and the cause? All I heard was the pros. I didn't hear him talk about anything actually negative. you would lose about 28 lb of fat while gaining 9 lb of muscle. That means while your twin was about 192 lbs at the end of the diet, you would be about 181. Scott, make this make sense. >> It doesn't. >> Exactly. He says, "Scott, make this make sense." It doesn't. And so what he's not talking about is the one twin that took all those drugs probably going to die. What about that? What about the thickening of the heart muscle or those horrendous side effects, you know, ending up in the hospital or having permanent damage or potentially dying? That is a trade-off because all I heard is two twins take the drug and one loses way more fat and is way better and 6% body fat. That's what I heard. I didn't hear that that 6% body fat might lead to dying. >> Told it that I can't wait for it to be embodied in a robot so I can properly give it a hug because it's so planted, it's so kind, and it's so wise and so helpful. You want to burn fat, you want to build muscle, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals has the sword of Athena to the clouds. >> Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, I mean, 2.2 million people saw this. And if I'm investing in a company and I heard this and I watched his video, the stock's on the rise. And so, is this a sponsorship? What is this? Why would he go out of his way to brag up Regeneron Pharmaceuticals to this extent? Does what benefit does it give him? I don't understand why Mike would paint them in such a great picture when he should know better. I mean, isn't Mike smarter than Coach Greg? Isn't he a better researcher? I mean, I only have my masters in kinesiology. He has his PhD. And so, how could I know this information, but yet Mike doesn't? Is there an answer to that? You tell me in the comment section. How is it that Mike doesn't know all the negative side effects and would make this video? And notice, there is no update video. There's no, "Hey guys, I just wanted to point out that the trials are actually in and this happened and this happened and that original video that I posted, well, there's actually a lot of negative. I don't see it." And so I have to make this video. Had to. And you can say, "Oh, it's the beef is back. It's not the beef. It's doing what's right." Let's just talk about really quick some of the implications of when this tidal wave of modern drugs hits the market around 2027 2028 or so. Such drugs are likely going to have very minimal side effects. And so he says, "Hey, it's probably going to be ready in 2027 or 2028 and such drugs have very minimal side effects." Did that look like minimal side effects? And so Mike chose to not report the horrible side effects that were experienced. Perhaps he didn't know about these studies, but they were available at the time. And so with the semiglutide only 2% had negative side effects. 2% that's one out of 50. But while using all these drugs in combination all three it was 10%. A fivefold increase in horrible side effects five times more serious adverse risk than GLP ones. 28% of people dropping out. If he did the research to find out when it could be available 2027 to 2028. How did he not do the same research to understand if there could possibly be negative side effects? I mean, you do the math. I mean, do I sound like I'm a genius here? I'm just sitting here and giving you the data. And so, in the world, this pharmaceutical company, if they could pick one person in the world who's a fitness influencer to provide this information to try to convince you that this is a safe drug that you should look out for. Who would it be in the world? You could have picked Coach Greg, Jesse James West, Will Tennyson, Chris Bumstead, Chris Williamson. Who would they have chosen? I think they would have chosen Mike Isertell of anyone. Almost 4 million followers, a guy who has a PhD. And so if Mike gives it the cart blanch, the golden buzzer says, "This is it. Look out for it." Imagine how much more money that this pharmaceutical company can make in comparison if Mike had made the same video as I made and said, "You know what, guys? There's this drug going to come out in 2027, 2028. But please be careful because they're going to tell you that it's the holy grail. It builds muscle, burns fat. If two twins take it, one's going to look amazing, 6% body fat. The other one, well, they're not going to be so great." But hey, 28% of people dropped out and 10% did this serious adverse effects. you could die, the heart health risks and so on. What would that do to the star? And so I'm reading between the lines and although I don't know if there was any kind of collaboration and so on, I'm very suspect. And so I just want to make this video to say buyer beware. >> The effects will be a huge positive on strength gain. Of course, adding 9 lbs of muscle is going to do something. It's going to be a way better look and a huge boost to overall health because more muscle means better controlled and lower blood sugar. Yeah, I mean he's saying it's going to have a huge benefit to your overall health because more muscle, less fat, it makes you so much healthier. But when we actually looked at the studies, we saw hardly any different. Remember A1c was.76. They dropped over 20% body fat, put over 3% muscle, but yet A1c hardly changed. How is that possible? And so it's not doing what it says. You lose fat, build muscle, you should have more health benefits from that. >> Here's the thing also we have to extrapolate. This won't be the only drug out. Within a few years, there will be numerous other drugs out. >> And so, there are several pharmaceutical companies working on these drugs. Why is he mentioning this specific pharmaceutical company over all the others? It's a little suspicious. Why does he go out of his way to mention this specific pharmaceutical company and not the others? And so, why not mention Bagromab by Eli Lily? Any particular reason? It's the same class of drugs, but yet he goes out of his way to mention the other. Do you know what? And this is slightly off topic, but let's say that this drug did in fact work. It was literally the magic pill. It helps you put on 50 lbs of muscle, lose 50 lbs of fat with no work. Even if that were to occur, if everyone took this drug, do you not realize that the bar would just simply move up? If everyone had their dream physique, it wouldn't be their dream physique anymore. It would change. If you define beauty on a 10point scale, you go from 1 to 10 and everyone essentially is looking for the 8 n and 10. At least most of the women are. They're going for the 8 nines and tens. If everyone from 1 to 8 suddenly took this and became an 8 to 10 as well, all that happens is it would redistribute the bell curve. And so suddenly the 8 nines and tens wouldn't be 8 9 and 10. The eight would now be ones. It would go down. And so even with the drug, it's still going to change the bar. And so there is no winning. All you can do is be the best that you can be. Work your best, do your best in all aspects of your life, the mental, the physical, the social, the spiritual, everything. Be confident, be yourself, and go after your dreams. But don't think that these drugs are suddenly going to be the game changers that are being presented in this video. They come with serious adverse health risks. We talked about infertility. We talked about the enlargement of the heart. We talked about those serious adverse health consequences which can in fact include death. And so if this drug ever comes out, don't jump on it and say, "I'm the first one to experiment." And then go to Tik Tok and say, "Buy this, buy that. Use my discount code." You need to be careful. Remember, if you're looking for something safe with a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card, be sure to check out Turk Builder Max, GLP, Gest Platinum, or Gest Max, and a host of other supplements. I'm sure you're aware of GO2 Max for your cardio, as well as getting Blue Lobster before the gym. So, if you're interested in safe supplements, code Greg 15% off. And of course, I strongly can recommend the cookbook. Nothing has changed. You put the fork down, you eat in a calorie deficit, you're going to lose weight. Combine that with doing cardio, being fit, 150 minutes of cardio a week, and you're going to improve not only your appearance, your aesthetics, but also your health. It's not just the quantity of life, but the quality as well. You want to improve quality quantity of life by doing cardio, exercising, lifting weights, and eating healthy. Try not to drink alcohol to abuse drugs, and live longer than last time. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment the boost alman. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two boops. And of course, anything interested in here, code Greg 15% off. And if you're looking for coaching, apply by clicking the link in description. And until next time, I am out.