This is the nail in the coffin that proves just how effective this really is, Coach Greg. And if there wasn't enough research to support NMN and GO2 max, well, there just got that much more. A brand new study, welldesigned double blind, placebo, you name it, it's done it. Amazing study suggests that NMN increases NAD+ and walking speed. And so what does that mean? A new study suggests that NMN supplementation elevates NAD+ levels and increases walking distance in healthy participants with 600 milligrams a day being the optimal dose. And so what is NMN and what is NAD+ and how does it matter? Well, NAD+ declines with age. And so if you have more NAD+, you simply don't age as quickly. And so NMN, it's a precursor to NAD+. By supplementing with NMN, you're going to have more NAD+. And so you're not going to age as fast. And so consider it to be a mild version of the fountain of youth. If you can live longer, prevent the aging process. Does that not sound like a supplement you might want to enjoy? And before you get too far, I should note that the FDA has ruled to ban this ingredient from being sold as supplements. And so we have our last run of GO2 max of which has been approved by the manufacturer and after that we can no longer manufacture it. And so pharmaceutical companies, they recognize just how effective it is. And so they're saying, "Yeah, you can't sell it anymore." Gee, thanks guys. Finally something works. You got to take it away from us. And in case you're wondering if this is safe, NMN is quite literally found in many foods just like creatine. And so why do we need to supplement with NMN? Why can't we just get it from food? Well, the problem is most of the foods that have it only contain about one milligram per serving. But with a proper dose of around three to 600 milligrams, perhaps 1,200 for serious athletes, 1 milligram per serving is just not enough. It's simply impossible to get enough from food. But it is a natural occurring supplement that occurs in nature. And so the way creatine works is it combines with ADP to form ATP to give you that energy when you're going to the gym. And NMAND works as it's a precursor for NAD+. And you need NAD+ in the body to feel youthful, to have energy, to perform cardio. And as we age, that goes down. And so imagine if you can have more. Same thing as if you could have more ATP. And so you supplement with creatine gives you more ATV. And so you supplement with NMN, you get more NAD+. Make sense? Of course it does. And so that's why when I take GO2 max, I can go harder than last time on the bike, in the gym, have more energy. And is that not what we want? Sure, we want to build muscle, but wouldn't you rather feel better? Wouldn't you rather have more energy? What's more important? Big biceps or having a healthy heart? I'd much prefer to have great cardio than to bench press 500 lb. And so I'm going to summarize the study so that you understand exactly what's going on and you'll understand it works in the real world. The study was based on a randomized multi-enter as in more than one building double blind placebocont controlled clinical trial. And so the primary end point of the study like what was the main goal of the study was to see if NMN can actually increase or elevate NAD+ in the blood. And on top of that, they wanted to do a lot of other things, including if it would improve their walking speed, increase mental health, and an overall sense of well-being. The researchers recruited healthy men and women between the ages of 40 and 65 with a range of BMI scores. Some were thinner, some were fat, some were somewhere in the middle. So, a variety of people 40 to 65. I'm 47. And so, within these people, they were giving three different doses. 300 milligrams, 600 milligrams, 900 milligrams. Remember, they had placebo and so no one knew what was going on. And so, let's see what were the results. What about NAD+? Did in fact go up. NAD+ levels were increased significantly in all study groups compared to placebo and baseline. There was also a significant difference between 300 and 600 milligrams a day, but not between 6 and 900 millig. And so in case you're wondering, each tablet of GO2 max, which contains NMN, that's one of the main ingredients, contains 400 milligrams. And so what it's saying is 3 to 600 milligrams offers great improvements, but that 900 not that much more. And so the great news is if you're looking for anti-aging purposes, you're just looking to generally be healthy, one pill a day most likely enough. You could of course take two pills, but you really don't need it if you're just looking for anti-aging properties. But this to me, this is the nail in the coffin that proves just how effective this really is. Well, I can't say proves, shows just how effective it is. In the six-minute walking test, the improved distance increased by 50%. They give people placebo, they give people pills with MMN. They do the walking test and after a month, two months, the placebo group that didn't get MN, they walked the same speed. There was no improvement whatsoever, but those who took the pill improved by 50%. And so, is it simply taking the supplement that made them 50% faster? Or could it be that it gave them more energy and they therefore walked more? I believe a little bit of both. They were not instructed that they had to exercise. There was a double blind placebo group. No one knew what pills they were getting. I'm sure if they said, "Coach Greg, train all these people. Make them go for walks. Train harder than last time." All the people on the control group not taking MN. I'm sure I could have trained them to get faster than last time. But this is the beauty. You take NMN and based on this study, you simply get faster. Why? Well, perhaps you have more energy and you do more cardio, you walk more. Perhaps it's the NMN increasing NAD+. We don't know. Perhaps it's a combination of both. It is possible that participants on NMN began feeling more invigorated early into the study period and increased their physical activity accordingly, which led to better results measured in the clinic. And if that's not enough, I mean, if you're not convinced already, the participants were also asked to complete a 36 question health and quality of life questionnaire, SF36, golden standard to test our people, improving mood, decreasing depression, getting an overall sense of well-being, just generally. How do you feel? How's it going in life? Are you happy? And guess what? Significant increases in those taken enemmen than the placebo. And so what that means is those who were taking enammen, they felt better. I mean, I go so far as to say this is better than eating liver and following the nine ancestral tenants. I mean, after all, isn't that what the liver king preaches? People are hurting at record rates with depression, autoimmune, anxiety, infertility, low ambition in life. And so perhaps Liver King needs to start adding GO2 max into his diet to go along with the liver and bone marrow. Was I wrong? Did I lie? Was I exaggerating the truth? When I first started promoting this, I was racing on Zift. The first day I took it. I improved and set PRs in Watts. I was like, "What am I on? What is this?" My first comparison was this feels like carterine GW-501516, which many bodybuilders, bikini athletes, athletes around the world have been taking and abusing. Problem is, it's banned by water. Take Geotonax, you're not going to fail. not banned by water. And if you're an athlete looking to get an edge on your opponent, try to get faster than last time. If you win or lose a race by a second like coach Greg does in his whip bike race, GO2 max. And studies have shown that up to,200 milligrams is in three capsules for the elite athletes. Those looking for the maximum performance, three pills a day, you can take that much. And so what do I do on days I race bikes? Like today going to take three. On days I'm lifting weights, not doing cardio is hard, I take two. Accumulating evidence suggests that as we age, our levels of NAD+ decline, increasing our risk of age related diseases. Now you know why why I've been bragging about how great Max really is. One of the problems with NMN is it's not cheap. Hate to break it to you, it's not going to be as cheap as creatine. To be truly effective in slowing down aging, a supplement not only needs to work, it also needs to be affordable. Currently, the price of NMN is beyond the reach of the average person. Well, if you use code Greg, you get 10% off. And I've bundled packages to save you even more. Bundled packages of three, 5, 10, and 25. Some people stock it up getting a hundred. Don't you want to get this supplement before it's gone? And I get it. You don't want to feel pressure to buy it now, but this is not in my control. The FDA is the one banning NMN. My manufacturer said this is the last run. You get it now before it's gone. I'm keeping 500 for myself. I don't care. It's Coach Greg. I want to use this. I don't want to run out. This is something I really believe in that I don't want to lose out on. And so, you can get one, you can get three, 10, 25. get the amount you need, although perhaps it sells out. Newsletter subscribers, you've already known this. You've already made the purchase. Smart thinking. And so, if you believe me, you trust me, make the purchase. If you don't, you don't have to buy it. You can live your life the way you want. You can go out to dinner, to the clubs, buy what you want, buy what makes you happy. For me, health is wealth. Ending it here. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment for the algorithm, like the video if you liked it, watch one of the bloops. Don't forget I have a freaking cookbook, training books, coaching plans by me and my team. Use code Greg 10% off. Click the link in description. Code Greg 10% off. Go right now. Follow me on Instagram, Greg Ducetip Pro. And until next time, I am out.