And so devastating news. The coach was found unal alive in his apartment. Don't know the reasons why, but obviously this makes it very difficult. This is one of his best friends, Coach Greg. And if you were paid $250,000, would you be able to lose 100 pounds? Well, in today's video, we find out. And unfortunately, someone died. Of course, it's dangerous, but Mr. Beast did everything to ensure the safety of the participant. This is my friend Match. And if he loses 100 lb in the next year, I will give him a quarter of a million. And so what's crazy is that they're paying him $250,000 to do this. Now, I would have thought if you paid $250,000, you would get to do this. I mean, essentially, this is a glorified fat camp. He has his own personal gym, house to stay in, unlimited food, eat whatever you want, basketball court. How could you not do this? This is the luckiest man on the planet. This is the longest challenge we've done. This might be one of the longest challenges ever done. And so saying it's the longest challenge ever. Now what I would have done is said you have 100 days. Lose 100 lb in 100 days. I absolutely think he could have done it. I mean, you're literally sitting there alone. Your friends and family aren't with you and so you're bored. And so what else do you have to do? All you have to do is lose weight. And we all know it's calories in, calories out. And so anyone can do this. It will go down as one of the most powerful stories we have ever shared on this channel. And remember, as soon as he loses the weight, he gets to leave. And so would you spend an entire year away from your loved ones when you know that if you work a little bit harder, you walk the extra mile, you put the fork down, you can get out that much sooner. If you're trying to lose weight, perhaps you have 100 lb, perhaps it's only 50 lb, 20 lb. Click the link in description and apply right now. dramatic transformations. They can be made. It's much easier than you think. With Coach Greg at your service, you too can do it. Blood work, weekly check-ins, also unlimited text messages, facetime with Coach Greg. And so, if you want the training plans, the diet, everything. Apply right now. How much do you think your life will change once you lose 100 pounds? I'll just be happier. Longevity of life. I'm going to be real. More important than the $250,000 by far is the fact that he's going to be adding years to his life. We can't predict exactly how many, but trust me, it's several. When you're morbidly obese, 300 lb plus, you likely could be taking 20 years off of your life. Coupled with the fact he's likely not doing 150 minutes of cardio a week, by doing this, it's literally priceless. I mean, everyone in the world should be doing exactly as he's doing. But since we were only weighing him once a month, he didn't even know how much progress he had made. 100 lb is tough. I don't even know if I've lost any weight yet. And so, the only thing tough about losing 100 lb is the consistency. Losing 100 lb in a year, let's say there's 50 weeks in a year roughly, is 52. It's 2 lb a week. 1% of his body weight, it's 3 lb. And so it should be easy to lose 100 lbs in a year. To lose 2 lbs a week, you need a weekly deficit of 7,000 calories. It's 1,000 calories a day. All he has to do is burn off 1,000 calories more than he's used to doing. And a year, he loses 100 lb. And so at his body weight at 300 plus pounds, he only has to walk about 5 miles a day to do this. 5 miles a day. I mean, if he walks slowly, 2 and 1/2 miles an hour, it's about 2 hours. And so if he walks for 2 hours a day, he could do this. Now if he wants to double this, he could walk four hours a day, triple the speed, 6 hours a day. And so if he were to just sit there and walk laps all I mean, what else does he have to do? Walk laps. 6 hours a day, he probably going to do this in 4 months. On top of that, top of doing cardio, if he reduces his calorie intake, because at 300 lb, there's no way this guy's eating under 4,000 calories. It has officially been 30 days since Mash began his weight loss journey. And so he's been taking 18,000 steps a day. That's average of about 7 miles, eating only 2500 calories. Very, very good. This is a dramatic calorie deficit. And so with that kind of a diet at his body weight, he's probably in a 2,000 plus calorie deficit. I would expect he could lose this weight in 6 months or less. How you doing, man? Oh my gosh, he's sweaty. Palm sweaty, knees weak. Greg Ducetti 50 keys of Turk seas at the border already. Holy crap. That ain't no way. You lost 20 lb. What? 20 lbs in the first month. Now remember, a lot of this is water. When you first go on a diet, a lot of it's going to be water weight. And so I wouldn't be surprised if 5 to 10 lbs of that was actually water, muscle, glycogen, and so on. And so with each passing month, expect the weight to become that much slower. 20 lbs the first month, a little bit less each month after that. On day 60, after your second monthly weighin, for every push-up you can do, I will add $1,000 to the prize pool. Jeez. For every push-up he does, he gets an extra $1,000. Every month, they add in a reward challenge. I'm thinking maybe he could just take his time, take all 12 months, and maximize the rewards. But I feel like I would get lonely if it was 6 months without seeing my loved ones. I would just get bored. And the money I don't think it would matter. After all, he's already winning 250,000. And so I would lose the weight as fast as humanly possible. All right. First smoothie ever. Literally first smoothie that I have ever made in my entire life. Protein scoop. And so if he made the appropriate protein ice cream shake, like in my cookbook, Anabolic Protein Shake, he could put it over his head. It wouldn't come out. It would be thick. It would be filling. It would make it that much easier to diet. After all, the number one reason that diets fail is because you're hungry and you eat too many calories. And so, if you're not hungry, by using the foods in my cookbook, dieting, it becomes easy. Don't forget also the circle diet book, Life's Work: How to Lose Weight, Keep It Off for the rest of your life. So, as you might have guessed, what's up, boys? Coach was there day in and day out helping him push the bar. And so, imagine how important this trainer is. is the only one that he's allowed to talk to. He has no friends and family that are in here. And so the trainer, that is his bro. That is somebody who he relies on, not just to help him to lose weight, but to keep him company. Maybe now he had too much confidence. Over the course of the next few days, Match seemed to have lost a lot of interest in keeping up with his goals. Or maybe because he didn't have the blue lobster. I mean, he has everything at his disposal, but he doesn't have HDLT supplements. And so I understand why Mr. Beast chose not to give him the supplements. He didn't want to make it too easy. I mean, if he had have had GO2 max to improve his cardio, he had been walking for days. And Turk Builder Max, the extra muscle, the aggression, the ability to put on muscle and recover faster than last time. It would have been too easy. I mean, he's paying him $250,000. He doesn't want him to make it too easy. He wants to make it hard. Speaking of hard, there's no one in the room with him. And so he didn't need harder than last time. But if you're interested in these supplements, the amazing supplements from HDLT supplements, the supplement company you can trust, unlike several other companies, for example, who are lying to you about Ajuga Turkistanica. They lie. They say it's auga, but it's not. It's likely cyanosis, and no one seems to care. But if you want a money back guarantee, guaranteed that it's going to be exactly what it says it's going to be, HLT supplements, code Greg, 15% off. Remember, it's a money back guarantee. And on top of that, $20 gift card. Oh my gosh. I want to see I want to see 286 lb. And so month number two, he loses 18 lb. 20 the first, 18 the next. It's very impressive. That's hardly dropping off. And so I do believe he's increased his step count. He's walking, doing more cardio, eating less, and so excellent job. $19,000. 20. All right, you're up to 20 grand. Oh, yeah. How many more? I mean, are we really going to let him stick his ass out in the air and rest? Pause. This is not truly a push-up challenge. I would have called it on the spot, but hey, it's Mr. Beast. He's extremely generous. I do have really unfortunate news. He's the person to tell you this. Um, coach ball was found dead in his apartment yesterday. And so devastating news. The coach was found un alive in his apartment. Don't know the reasons why, but obviously this makes it very difficult. This is one of his best friends. While he contemplated the decision of continuing or stopping this video, because ultimately whether or not the video continues was up to him. Now, I'm absolutely certain that the coach would have wanted him to continue. I can't imagine giving up in life. This is bound to happen. At some point, you're going to lose a loved one. Something dramatic is going to happen. Life is always going to throw you curveballs, but it's your job to hit them out of the park. You don't give up. And so, if you decide to throw in the towel, to give up, to eat unhealthy, to stop doing cardio because something bad happened in your life, that's on you. You can't make excuses. Rather than making excuses not to train, make excuses to keep going. Now, let's see what he weighs. You've lost over 50 lb and 15 more pounds lost the next month. 2018 15. Excellent work. For our next challenge, if you can do a mile in under 8 minutes and 30 seconds, half of your 1m time at the start of the challenge, I'll add another $25,000 to your prize pool. Eddie Hall can easily run seven minutee miles, but Eddie Hall, he's one of the fittest, obese men on the planet. I'm being sarcastic. Eddie Howal was literally put to the test, a running test, and he couldn't run that speed. I'm going to [\h__\h] myself down. You're going to [\h__\h] myself. Okay. He literally had to go and take a [\h__\h] Oh, yeah. And so he started the challenge at 17 minutes, but remember he was 325 lbs at that point. And he now runs it in 1250. And so he only has to take 5 minutes off in a month. This is a lot. This is strictly cardio. Something that I only do two times a week. He's literally at what I would call a fat camp with nothing else to do. and he only does cardio 2 days a week. And so here's the thing. Notice how he's losing a [\h__\h] ton of weight. And so he's proving that you don't need to do a ton of cardio in order to lose weight. Calories in, calories out. If you eat less, you don't have to do as much cardio. He admits, "I'm only doing cardio twice a week. He goes for walks. He does a lot of steps. That is the calories out. He's burning more calories. But if you don't eat the things, you don't have to burn the things off. And so now, now that there's money on the line, now that he's being paid to do cardio, he's going to do it. And so, will he be able to take off 5 minutes in a month? I mean, for most people, you would think it would probably take a year. I mean, to go 5 minutes faster for your mile time. But can he do it in a month? 130 days later. You must do it in under 8 minutes and 30 seconds. Obviously, if he had GO2 Max, it wouldn't have been fair. It would have been too easy. They would have had to set the bar a little bit lower. But let's see how he does. Come on. Go. Let's go. Match. You did it in 8 minutes and 4 seconds. 804. I'm shocked. I didn't think he was going to do it. I'm going to be honest. I thought there's no way he's taking off 5 minutes in a month. And so, this is what this tells me. He has excellent genetics. And you're looking at him saying, "No, this is stupid. Coach Greg, you don't know how to assess genetics." He was 324 lbs. If you jog for a month and you're obese and you can run a mile in almost 8 minutes in a month, do you know how much potential you have as a runner? He's still 50 plus pounds overweight. He's essentially still running with a fat suit. I mean, if you don't know how hard it is to run, put someone on your back and start running. If someone's 150 lbs overweight, imagine having somebody 150 lbs, give them a piggyback and go for a run or even go for a walk. That's how hard it is. If he loses all the weight and keeps practicing, let's say Mr. Beast paid him, hey, in a year from now, if you can run a fiveminute mile, I will pay you $1 million. I'm betting that he does it. Now, I used to be a runner. I trained. I did triathlons. But what you don't know is that I have asthma and I have very poor genetics for cardio. I get sick a lot. It happens all the time. And so I have horrible genetics for cardio, but very good for lifting weights. You're thinking, "Yeah, but you race bikes." Yes, but I trained very hard and I've done that for years. I ran a 457 mile at my fastest best. I trained for years. I bet this man could do it in 5 minutes in one year. And so you're thinking, "Oh, he doesn't have great genetics." You never know your genetics until you put it into practice. Reveal his weight. No. And this month he loses 18 lbs. Why do you think that is? Could it be that he practiced for jogging, that he started running, doing cardio every single day? And so, yes, you can lose a lot of weight without doing cardio. But if you add in extra cardio, it's going to be that much easier, that much quicker. If you want to maximize your weight loss potential, lift the weights, do the cardio, and eat in a calorie deficit. It is the smartest fitness influencer I could find, Jeff Nippard. And next up, the smartest influencer that Mr. Beast could find. Jeff Nippard, who's going to teach him how to do a pull-up and increase the length of time he can hang on the bar. Now, the first thing I would have done is said, "Let's lose more weight than last time." Because the lighter you are, the easier it's going to be to hang on the bar, and the easier it's going to be to do chin-ups. I personally think you can do a pull-up. I wanted to do a pull-up my whole entire life. I think Bro could already do a chin-up. He's very, very strong. He's very much overweight. Did 31 push-ups, although with questionable form, and he's run an 804 mile. I believe this guy is actually an athlete. And so, he's continuing to lose weight. He's decreased his calories to only 1,800 calories a day. He's doing the cardio. He's doing the training. And so, he's well on his way. With match now set up for success, Jeff left it up to him to prepare for the next 27 days. Jeff Nippard has set him up for success. Let's weigh in. What do you think that number will say? 246. I like how people always underestimate what they think and know they can accomplish. He was 253 last week. He lost about 18 lbs. He says, "What do you think you weigh?" 246. How many people think he's only now losing 7 lb. He's reduced his calories to 1,800. And oh yeah, I probably lost 7 lbs. reveal the weight. 234 lbs. He lost 19. And so it goes to show that it's in very important to weigh yourself. Now, I don't know if he underg guessed so that he wouldn't look bad or that he didn't want to feel bad if he says, "Yeah, you know, I'm probably 235 and maybe he was 236, but it's important to weigh yourself." Now, they're not doing this in this show because it makes it more interesting. But if you're dieting at home, I suggest you weigh yourself every single day. It gives you immediate feedback. And now, don't panic if it's higher or lower on any given day. Take the median number, the median weight. It's the middle number. You cross off the highs and lows. Those are outliers. They're not really relevant. But what's important is that middle number. That's kind of like your average weight, but it's not. If that's going down each and every week, keep going. If it's going down too much, well, you can eat a little bit more. If it's staying the same, then you're eating at maintenance. And so, by weighing yourself multiple days of the week and calculating that median, you can see if you're on the right path to success. I can't open my eyes. 60 seconds. $1,000 per second. It's too much. It should have been $20,000 for anything over a minute. And $1,000 per second above a minute. I don't know. I just think too deeply. There we go. $71,000 has now been added to the prize pool. Man, it's almost like he should just not lose the weight and stay there for the year. He's making extra 70 grand in a month. I mean, how many of you out there make 70 grand a month? It's actually a lot of money. That's a lot. It's a lot of money. And so, if you're making $2,000 a day, maybe you just stay there. I mean, you're hanging around this house. It's a free room and board, the trainers, everything is cool. You're on a TV show and so on. Man, it's almost tempting to just stay there. That was the final challenge. No, losing 100 lb is the final challenge. Okay. Yes, but that's the final micro challenge. Okay, that's the final challenge. There's no point in sitting around. He's not going to make an extra $70,000 to lose the weight slower than last time. And they're weighing him every single day. And so, he now has 10 lbs to lose. And so, this is what I would do. I would eat or drink nothing till I lose 10 lbs. One or two days and it's over. That's what I would do. M has only 10 lbs left to lose. So, at this point, it had become clear that he was on track to hit his goal weight within the next month. A month. I mean, to lose 10 lbs, very easy to do that in a day. You don't drink water. You don't eat any food. You do a little bit of cardio. You get a sweat going on and you lose the weight. Every single boxer, UFC, fighter, anyone, wrestling, everyone does this to lose 10 lbs in a day. When he does finally leave the circle, it will be up to him to apply what he's learned to his everyday life. And so that 175 days, as I was saying, he should be able to lose this in 6 months, no problem. And if he really pushed it, maybe 100 lbs in 100 days. That is a one:1 replica of MAG on day one. No joke. We scanned your body, saw exactly where you lost fat, and created this. Oh my god, bro. There's no way this is me. You know what they should do? Rather than creating fat suits that make you heavier, they should somehow invent a machine, like some kind of an anti-gravity machine, and show people what it's like to lose the weight. Like, if you're 300 lb, have it set up so that somehow it feels like you're 200 lb. Go for a run, walk, play. Look at yourself in the mirror. Have it digitally change with 3D and have a rendition of what your future self could look like, what it could feel like. Let them live like that for a day. Then take it away. The motivation to now say, "I want that. I think it would be through the roof." Once you've felt the changes, because let's face it, when you gain weight, it's a very slow process. Maybe you're gaining a couple pounds a week. It takes perhaps years to get to that weight and so it slowly creeps up on you. But if you can suddenly like that pretend that you lost all that weight and feel what it's like to be healthy, there's no way you're going back. I believe every person who's 3, four, 500 lb and so on, if they could know what it's like to be fit, to be healthy, there's no way they would do the things that they're doing to get to their obeseelves. That includes eating, not putting the fork down, eating junk food, and so on, as well as not doing the cardio. If you do the cardio, take the steps, don't eat the food, this will be your results guaranteed every single time. Reveal the results. Thank you guys for watching. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Subscribe. Watch one of those two bloops. And of course, get the supplements by entering code Greg for 15% off the cookbook, the circle diet book, the training books, the coaching plans by me and team. If you want to lose weight, click the link in description and apply right now. You get weekly check-ins, facetime with coach Greg, the diet, the training, you get everything. blood work red everything that you're looking for to make a dramatic transformation in your life. And so if you're interested, click the link in the description. And until next time, I am out.