I want to talk to you, Greg, about your hair transplant. Um, because I also I also got a hair transplant as well. I'm not sure if you known or not. Um, I got 600 grafts, so 300 in each corner about 3 years ago. Um, and yeah, I did that as well, just like you just to restore the hairline. And I just wanted to know, um, what products you use to maintain and keep your hair intact at your age now. And are you aware of a product called RU5 RU58841 and what it does for hair and how it helps to regrow hair? Okay. And so full disclosure, I'm using nothing and could care less about my hair. People aren't going to believe it. Not even not even Finastro. Never used that. Never used any products whatsoever. And people aren't going to believe it because it's like, well, dude, you got a hair transplant. You must care. And it's like I 100% honest. I went to get a hair transplant because my girlfriend wanted to get it done. And I was like, I'll get it done with you. It's a couple's thing. And when I got there, they checked out her hair. She was missing 30,000 hairs. She had Crohn's disease. It was very brittle hair. She couldn't get it done. And I'm like, well, I'm here. I may as well get it done anyway. So, if it grows, great, awesome. If it didn't work for me, awesome. I really don't care that much. I'm I'm going to plan on shaving my head bald. It's just starting to grow in a little bit. It's been How many months? 3 and 1/2 months later. So, it's just starting. People are like, "Oh, your hair is horrible. It didn't work." I'm like, "It takes like a year to to to grow back properly." So, I'm just starting to see some of the hairs starting to grow in now. Exactly. So, if you're at the four month point, Yeah. I mean, from personal experience, my hair was at its full density at around 1 year. And if there's anything I can recommend for you to make it look even better, which I did personally myself, um, I want you to look into SMP, scalp micropigmentation. It's a semi-permanent tattoo. last about 2 three years and they um fill in the gaps of the hair transplant because obviously the hairs that they transplant aren't going to be as thick and as dense as the natural part of your hair. So the SMP will thicken that up as well and you can only do that 9 months post hair transplant I believe. And then um I mean me personally to stop further hair loss I've got a cosmetics brand and I use a product from my brand. It's called RU58841. And I just apply that topically to my scalp because I noticed even when I'm comp prepping, dude, like I would be shedding a few more hairs in the shower. I've got a shower catcher so I can kind of gauge how much hair loss I'm having because I don't want to [\h__\h] I love my hair, dude. I don't want to lose my hair. Um, and I would gauge how much hair I lose. And but ever since like I'll use my product, the RU5 AA41, like it's a topical application. I I'll put it on my scalp. And I know Derek from moreplace dates.com uh advocates the use of RU5841 as well. So I was just seeing if you're familiar with it as well and if you use it. I watched his video on it and that's as much as I went. I personally I know that these things can help. I just don't have the commitment or the desire or it's not it's I've never had great hair. I've just had hair and it's never been something that I've really focused on. I got the hair transplant. So, you think I'd be hyperfocused on my hairline and so on, but I kind of just did it for an experience to be honest, but I know a lot of people care about their hair and a lot of people using PDs, it's enhancing how fast they're losing their hair. So, if people want to use these products, I mean, I would highly encourage it cuz I do know that they can work. Well, there you go, guys. So, if you want to restore your head, you know, there's this the doctors prescribed finasteride out there. Um, if you guys don't want to nuke your own body's DHT, there's RU58841 which is more topical DHT uh blocker which you can apply on your scalp. But um I'm finding this very interesting because I thought you might have been a bit more anal about your hair approach seeing as you got a hair transplant. So I thought we might have that in common. So um it's interesting to see that you know different perspective on that because me myself I I understand what you're saying like it's a routine bro. It's kind of like like skincare. Like I have a a extensive skincare routine as well, just like I have an extensive gym routine and an extensive cardio routine. It's just another thing to do and it can be a pain in the ass sometimes. So, I get where you're coming from, dude. I mean, it's not everyone's cup of tea to constantly be looking after their hair, but for those that are out there that do want to restore the hair, like, yeah, there's many options out there, guys. So, don't feel like um hair loss is not something that's curable because it definitely is. And it's it's one of those industries where not many people know what's right and what's wrong. So again, I implore you guys to do your research. Um you know, listen to the likes of Derek more plates more dates. So I kind of got inspired through him to have my own hair products uh including the RU5A F1. It was a big inspiration for me into launching my cosmetic brand. So little shout out to Derek. Love your work, bro. Keep doing your [\h__\h] And um yeah, I mean I might even like eventually if you do decide to change your mind, I'll send you some of my products, dude. You could try it on your scalp, see how you go. I'm not sure if you still compete anymore, but um it'll be a good good thing to do while you're competing to keep keep that hair of yours like locked in. If I do compete, I'll be doing it natural or if they allow HRT. I'm not going to go on what I've done in the past. Are you on HRT at the moment? I'm on 140 milligrams of test a week right now. Every week I do the I Well, I do a 100 milligrams every 5 days. Right now, if I if I forget or do it a bit early, I'll do 80 milligrams every four days. And if I forget, I might do 120 every six, but it works out to 140 every week. I've been consistently doing that. And it is doctor prescribed. It's It's not too different from what I'm doing. I'm doing um so obviously when I'm not on cycle uh prepping, I would do 125 mg a week as well of um you know, pharmaceutical grade test or 125 mg every 10 days. Um not doctors prescribed, but pharmaceutical. Uh either way, so it's good quality. So I I genuinely like leading onto another question, I genuinely believe uh for the older fellas cuz we do have a few of them on our channels uh for the older fellas who feel like um you know they might have low libido or low sex drive like I personally and I would say wholeheartedly I would advocate um going on TRT after the age of like you know mid to late 30s uh if you if you've been on steroids your whole life and you're kind of shut down. If you haven't, there's no need to be honest. But um I feel like every male out there could benefit from TRT 45 plus every male on Earth. Like I wish I could get my own father to believe in this kind of [\h__\h] because you know with with the right um you know with the right controlled environment and with the right you know the right dosage you can live a longer better happier life and have a better sex drive, more libido, more energy and um what's what's your take on that dude? like what would you say on for people for the older gentlemen um on our channels looking to do TRT test uh for longevity reasons I think that people not using HRT it's like it's sad that people view it in such a negative light I think that the social media the news the reporters it's kind of put a negative spin on the use of testosterone and as soon like a commercial they can't even say testosterone they say do you have low tea they can't even say hey guys do you have low testosterone it's just it's a it's a scary word. And so, and then there's and then there's bloody chicks out there that are the dudes out there that are getting on estrogen pills and and posting their like transformations turning from, you know, men to women and they're like, "Oh, one month on estrogen, two months on estrogen." But [\h__\h] let's just kill masculinity or what they call it toxic masculinity. Let's just sweep that under the rug because it's not needed in society. But we have no problem making these soy boy [\h__\h] men out there take estrogen and and then promote it. God, God be damned if you talk about a dude taking testosterone. No, no, no. Can't can't have that happening. It's just so backwards and like one-sided. Like, for those who can see it, it's just it's it's so wrong. You know, they're promoting a culture of [\h__\h] boys out there taking estrogen. It's like, dude, just get on some test. You're going to feel a lot better. My my perfect example is women are given birth control, which is controlling their hormones at 12, 13, 14, and no one bats an eye. No one says anything. And then if a guy is 45 years old, has low testosterones, low libido, problem sleeping, and if they're given HRT, they have to keep it secret cuz they don't want anyone to know because they'll be judged. You're a cheater. Why you need that? It's like, you've been on estrogen for 30 years and I can't take testosterone in my mid-40s or I'm a cheater. It's horrible. Yeah. Honestly, it's just it's just the stigma I think revolved around injecting. like just the the whole injecting and I think that's where the stigma is. People see it as a very um you know they see people that inject testosterone essentially they see us as drug addicts. um they don't see past that because of the stigma that you know the government and just everyone else and the media have made around around uh steroids you know but you know everything in limitation controlled is fine but I mean [\h__\h] even you know like if you abuse aspirin you'll be dead bro like if you abuse anything in life sugar like you you'll [\h__\h] yourself but if you have limitations in anything then you know you're going to be fine so it's just about knowing knowing that and and about going down that path. So, there's a there's a right and a wrong way to do everything, including steroids, including TRT. But, um yeah, it's just a it's just a damn shame because it'd be changing a lot of men's lives if they weren't so scared because a lot of men are influenced by the media and what other people say and the stigma around it all. But, um I don't know, hopefully one day that will change. It'll get normal the more people that speak out about it. Like if me and you, Derek, and many others, imagine once the famous movie stars start admitting that they're taking steroids for their movie roles. Imagine the world how it's going to change. Imagine The Rock came out and he's like, "Yeah, dude. Like, I I cycle this. I do HGH for longevity. That's why I look so young. I do test. The reason I'm lifting this weight is because I'm this, but it's all doctor controlled and doctor prescribed. I do this for such and such and such." you know, there's side effects, but at the same time, these are the health benefits and the differences it's made to my life and this is why I do it. Like, what a time in the world that would be when celebrities, proper celebrities, can be honest about that kind of stuff. That would be incredible. And I think it's not too far off. I I don't think so, too. But the only times we've seen a glimpse of it is like, for example, Sylvester Stallone getting pulled up at the airport with his HGH. And it's like we all know, like the smart ones know. It's like this can't look so young at his age. like that's that's there for a reason. And um I I don't think we're too far off because the culture now is changing and Gen Z, they know what's up. Like they're not stupid. Like I feel like they're a lot more smarter than our generation, my generation, your generation because of the knowledge out there and because of uh technology and the internet. So they they they can spot a fake daddy from a mile away like celebrity or not. So it's going into the culture now of just you know just being honest and being open. And I I feel like I feel like we're not quite there yet, but I feel like we're making progress and we're taking steady steady strides in that direction. Yeah, we're definitely getting close. I think it's just one famous actor away from admitting what they're doing it. And before long, it'll be normalized. I think that in the future, people will see anti-aging and using testosterone or what have you to help them to feel better. I think that's going to be normalized. And 20 years from now, we'll look back and be like, I can't believe people were shy to admit they were in HRT. And then people like you and me would have had to um you know bleed for everyone to have a to have a more honest easier life and um not not get the um repercussions of our judgment that we might get you know. So Hanur Rahman wants to know what are you doing nowadays and what are your long-term ambitions family life and so on. Great question. Um Ron May did I say his name correct? Ramman so Rahman I even gonna try say we're close it's got to be close okay what am I doing now so that's a great question um at the moment um I've got a few online businesses that um I'm a part of that uh provide me streams of income um I have my clothing line here I'm wearing this shirt here it's got the logo of me and Aziz um you guys can see I'm there on the left is there on the right so I've had Sebastian Fitness um clothing line for about seven or eight years. I launched that back in 2014. Um me and my brother, we had a dream actually um when we were on the scene to create a clothing line together and you know he never got a chance to live that out. So I obviously started that you know in in memory of him and God God willing and you know through just sheer hard work and determination that brand has grown and flourished um in the last seven eight years. It's it's actually gotten even better in the last year with all the um with all the Ziz hype around the uh Tik Tok era. So it's it's been crazy man and it's been super humbling as well to be able to be running that business. I've got the clothing line. Um, I've got uh my own cosmetics line. Um, I've got some of my products here. You guys might see aesthetic cosmetics like I said before. Uh, the hair stuff. I've got a skincare line which I use myself. And we had even Michael Hearn working for me not long ago on the skincare line. He was one of our ambassadors. And you see, I've got the aesthetic cosmetics which looks after men. It's essentially it's a it's a male online beauty clinic that looks after everything that's beard, skin, and hair. And it's a everchanging and ever evolving industry for men to look after themselves and not be ashamed to look after themselves. So I thought I would, you know, capture that market. So that's what I've got the aesthetic cosmetics brand there. I've got the clothing brand there as well. And then I'm also an ambassador for a psalms company that I been using as well for my own prep um which I wanted to actually talk to you later about your opinion on psalms because I know we spoke about it, but um just a few of the psalms here that I'm using. I'll go into detail a little bit later from the brand that I'm associated with, exclusive subs. And just on top of that, just a whole bunch of endorsements and brand deals and a little bit of stuff here on YouTube. Combine it all together, it creates a decent income. Um, you know, I'm quite grateful. Um, very happy to be where I'm at. And I've also got a few side projects as well that I'm working on uh of getting a Ziz and Chespron Netflix series. um a documentary on basically Ziz's life and me picking up the afterpieces after his passing and where I've uh led on from there and what's going on after that. So, I'm actually in the midst of talking to producers and I think my guys got in contact with your guys a couple days ago. There you go. Yeah. Um we're in the midst of it all. It's probably going to take a year and the budget's $10 million, but you know what I mean. I I I made a promise to myself after my brother passed that um I would do everything I can in my power for his story to be on the big screens and it's actually happening. You know, we've got the investors on board. Like I'm very happy to see that you can see the vision and you can see uh what we're trying to build here for isiz and it's incredible to even you know get you to be a part of that journey and we're getting a whole bunch of other investors too. So that's going to be something really awesome to launch as well. Um, on top of that, uh, I'm also working on some NFT projects revolving around myself and my brother, and I'm plan on using that money to build a gym, uh, in Sydney in his memory, uh, and his name. And hopefully, fingers crossed, hopefully build a huge, massive off statue inside the gym of him. And that would be, you know, my present to him. So, I've got a few things in the works for me. And I'm I'm doing pretty well. Knock on wood. I don't like to give myself the evil eye, but I'm doing pretty well. And um, you know, I'm I'm living the kind of lifestyle where, like you, I could just get up and do what I want and travel and just record content. And, um, I basically I'm I'm more of an Instagrammer than a YouTuber. I know you're bigger on YouTube. I'm a little bit more bigger on Instagram. So, um, most of my revenue comes from there. But, in saying that, I I would like to get my YouTube pumping because I know I've got the potential. I know I've got the, you know, I've got I've got what it takes to be a great YouTube star, but it's just, it's so hard, dude, to have a camera crew follow you around everywhere and one that's reliable that can always like do the [\h__\h] you need to do. And it's just like, man, so it has to get to a point where I either have to make a decision that listen, I'm going to be blogging myself and putting the videos up myself or I'm going to have to find someone that I could pay on a permanent permanent role, like a salary to do this for me, which I'm sure you probably do. Um, so that's obviously the avenue I'm going. But aside from my business ventures, uh, my family life, I've just recently turned 36. I'm single. Um, you know, enjoying my life. Not really tied down to a woman. You know, if I meet a nice lady, awesome. That'd be great. But, um, in the industry I'm in, and I'm sure you know, Greg, like, it's super hard to meet someone who's very understanding and very supportive of the lifestyle that we live, especially competing, you know, back and forth, back and forth. It can be really draining in a relationship and really taxing. So, I don't like to bring anyone into that life unless they're completely ready for it. So, at the moment, no family, guys. I'm just literally focusing on myself and my goals and focusing on my brother's goals as well. So, I'm I'm literally living for two men. Uh I want to make my dreams come true and I want to make my brother's dreams come true. And aides from that, it's just yeah, just running the online businesses, running the the empire and um yeah, just with the side projects with the NFTts and the Netflix series that I got um coming up in the near future. So, great question, by the way. Um thanks. And that's great. That's great. I mean, it sounds like you have a lot on the go. You're doing really well. And my advice would just be keep following your passion. Whatever is fun for you, and if it's YouTube videos, do that. If not, just keep doing what you're doing. On top of that, I forgot to mention a big passion of mine obviously now is the competitive bodybuilding too which I've dabbled in in the last three years. So essentially I've been a party boy all my life as well and I've kind of just cleaned up my act and I'm like you know what like I want the glory on the stage. I want to be a WBF pro champion. I want to be a fitness world champion. So I'm this close Craig. I'm this close. Like I came second in my last comp. I just missed out. I've just missed out on that pro card. And dude, I was devastated, man. I was I was crying and in tears afterwards. Like, and that's when I realized like how much this sport means to me and how much I love to be on stage and compete. Like, I love it, man. I love it. It makes me feeling alive. It makes me feel Oh, can't even imagine what it makes me feel. And I'm just I'm like I'm surprised I got this much energy four weeks out from my next comp. But another big thing I am doing, guys, is um I'm now dabbling in the competing career. I'm at the peak of my life. I've just turned 36. I feel like as an ectomorph we progress a little bit later than our messomorph and endomorph counterparts. Um Frank pointing pointing example Frank Zayn had his best physique at 39 3940 is when he had his actual best physique I believe and I think in the next three four years I'm really going to use this time before I start going downhill at 40 plus no offense I'm going to use this time to really really um make those goals and dreams come true of becoming a WF pro fitness world champion. And once I get the pro card, it's not just going to end there. Like I want to go and compete in Vegas in the pro shows and and win a pro show because I do believe I got what it takes. So yeah, like aides from the businesses and the Netflix series and the NFTts, I'm also juggling a competitive bodybuilding career which is um I'm very close to achieving that dream of uh the pro cut status four weeks away. Guys, pray for me. Please send me your energy. Like this means so much to me. Um, and for any of you guys that want to watch, Greg, if you want to watch WBF_Australia, it's going to be aired live on their page on April 9th. And honestly, guys, like any support means the world to me, guys. Like, you don't know how important it is for us bodybuilders to have that kind of support system. And my support system, because my parents haven't been too supportive of my lifestyle, and I don't have many friends around me doing the same thing, my whole support system has been the fans. It's always been the fans, and it's going to continue being the fans. And I think it's important to give thanks to the fans. And I know I'm blabbering a little bit and going a little bit off topic, but I just want to say that that support system is what keeps me going. So, thank you guys. And four weeks. I totally get I mean, obviously I got I turned pro on my 50th competition. So, you can imagine how many years it took. I was I think I was 35. That's 17 years of competing. And I kept at it. My last show, I finally made my top five in the pro ranks. That was my goal. I was like, I want top five. I got fourth. And the excitement you get from competing, it's just unbelievable. And I I've stopped bodybuilding since then. I haven't retired. I might compete again. But I've replaced that with competing in bike racing virtually. And it's like for me it's just like find something you absolutely love on this planet and give it your 100% and just enjoy it. And for you right now it's bodybuilding. Perhaps maybe it'll be running down the road or skiing. Who knows? It's just find something. Dude, 10 years ago I never thought I'd be on stage bodybuilding. like everyone knew me and even knew like my brother as just those party boys in the fitness scene like we for a lot of for for a big part we weren't taken as serious bodybuilders but I think now with my transition onto the bodybuilding stage I've been chasing this pro card for the last three years you know my comp two years ago with WF I came fourth and my recent one 10 months ago I came second so now it's like you know I'm I'm the favorite to win this next one so it's it's building up and it just shows that you know like you said hard work passion drive determination and just sheer grit like and and loving what you do. Genuinely loving what you do. And like I think people can see that in my videos when I'm competing. They can they can feel the energy. They can see the smile on my face like man Sade looks alive. Like he looks like he is owning it and he's loving being there on stage. Whereas a lot of people look like they're half dead because I genuinely love it Craig. Like I wish I would have got into competing sooner but you know situation of circumstance. I've had a very interesting life, if you can put it in words, a very interesting life and which has uh distracted me from a lot of the things that I've wanted to do. But those distractions are long gone, brother. And I'm ready to claim that pro card. And I'm I'm hungry, man. So,