It's Coach Greg Ducet and I am now two days away from my Toronto Pro Classic Physique debut. Today's topic is all about peak week. What to do, what to eat, what to drink, everything you want to know. I'm hopefully not going to take too long this video. So, I'm just going to get right into it. But first, I'm not your doctor and don't kill yourself in peak week because it is brutal. So, this is this is my peak week, not yours, not my clients, the one that works for me. Okay, so I made some points. I just want to not forget anything. Okay, I weigh 180 pound 89 lbs right this second. I have to weigh 185 at the weigh-in tomorrow night. Okay, so peak week is for anyone that wants to look their absolute best on show day or photooot day. Okay, because you can look good but and lean, but to stand under those bright lights next to everyone else who's been dieting for 4 months, you have to be shredded beyond belief to do well. Okay, you can't just look okay. You will get embarrassed on stage. You have to be mindblowing shredded. Okay, I am just under 5% body fat. My goal is to be 4 and a half% by the show. Okay, if you've been following my basically in me on on on YouTube, I'm brain dead, you know. Anyway, you'll notice I keep getting leaner. Okay, so my peak week begins 4 days before the show. Until that point, I'm literally doing the same thing. You might have seen my videos on how I eat and shredding and my 2500 calorie diet. That's literally what I eat all the time for this prep. Okay, so 4 days out it completely changes out to window and becomes a boring ass diet that you see typical of people that will do it for 3 to four months. I don't have a clue how these people do this. I can hardly function for those three days. Okay, it's a nightmare. So, for 3 days, you're carb depleting. So, this is what I'm eating. Fats and protein. I have to avoid as much carbs as possible. I do eat sparing carbs. So, in other words, low calorie dense vegetables such as spinach, lettuce, mushrooms, cucumber, and that's about it. Okay? It's brutal. No popcorn, no French toast. uh boring like the typical like broccoli and tilapia type of diet. Okay. What I you what I've been eating has been chicken breasts, some guacamole for fats, and basically salads. I had a a bit of extra lean ground beef and stuff like that. And it's the same 2500 calories. And I'm still doing an hour plus of cardio and all my training, feeling like absolute miserable garbage, wanting to die. Okay, it is not fun. You look great. You feel like The worse you feel, the better you look. All right. Yeah. The goal is to completely deplete your body of glycogen and to get it all out of your system. And we all know that glycogen is water and carbs in the muscle. Okay, you deplete it to nothing. Okay, so right now there are zero carbs and glycogen in my body. None. I'm functioning on ketones. It just Okay, why do we do that? You may ask. I will tell you why. Because when the body is completely deprived of glycogen for a few days, something known as super compensation occurs, which means the body can then store extra glycogen, a lot more. So rather than have a normally fulll looking muscle, the muscle can store extra glycogen and be extra full. So you get on stage and you have that extra like pump. Yes. Look, compared to right now where there's no glycogen, when you add the carbs, you swell out in this like boom. Okay, now see, I'm brain dead. I'm just losing it. I'm not high. No weed is in this body right now. Okay, this is just me trying to get through this. Okay, I fly out at 4 in the morning tomorrow and it's like 7 o'clock right now. The first two days of this, I allow as much sodium as I want. 15 grams a day roughly. Okay? Don't care about sodium. Drinking coffee. Artificial sweeteners are great. Pop the whole thing. All the diets and everything. No big deal. Then the third day, I cut out salt to a low amount, like two grams or something. I mean, I'm still sweating, so I don't need zero salt. I can still have some. Okay. Water intake is very high, 8 liters plus. So, I'm peeing every 30 minutes pretty much. I'm getting up five or seven times a night. So, I'll lose six, seven pounds overnight when I go to bed. So, it's annoying. Your sleep's interrupted. You have horrible sleep. You look like super flat, especially in the morning. You I I barely can get out of bed and put socks on. And then I try to pose and I'm like I just don't want to. It's just miserable. And then 30 minutes after I eat carbs again, I'm gonna feel like Superman. It's so good that feeling. Okay, so tonight I have to cut out my water before bed. That's my last time to drink water. Then I'm just basically minimizing the water intake cuz I do have to weigh 185 and I'm 189 right now and I'm still going to be drinking water. So if I miss my weight class, guess what? I died for four months for nothing because I don't get to compete because for my 5' 6 and a quarter height as a pro, I have to be 185. My last show I weighed 193 and a half. So I've lost eight pounds of muscle to be in this division. How? By taking less drugs. Boom. That's how. Rather than being juiced up like crazy. If you've seen some of my old videos, I'm like say half natty now type thing. Okay. A lot less size, a lot healthier. Now, the day before the show, which is tomorrow, I get to carb up. Finally, I eat dry carbs. Now, normally I could have eaten rice and stuff like that to carb up quickly. Um, but in this case, I can't gain that much weight. So, dry carbs are carbs that have a lot of or sorry, the opposite of a lot, no water. So, think of it this way. cereal, rice, candies, chocolate bars, junk, pure junk food. As much as it sickens me, because I haven't cheated on my diet. The last time I cheated was burger week, which was two week two months ago, I had a burger and it was like less calories in the burger than my normal meal. So, I am not a cheat diet. I don't need to cheat on my diet. Have you seen my diet? It's like popcorn and yummy deliciousness all the time. wrap nacho wrap health wrap protein this and that ice cream homemade yum protein bar. It's so fantastic that I don't need to cheat which is awesome. Tomorrow carbs. So I'm going to eat like a bag of rice cakes and I'm still going low sodium until I start cramping which automatically is going to happen. And then at that point I start eating and salt loading again. And that point I want to make sure that I'm bone dry. Once I'm bone dry and I'm cramping, there's no more I can lose. You can only get so lean and then you'll you won't be able to make it to the show. So, I then add sodium like carb carbs that have a lot of sodium in it. So, like crispy minis, any kind of salty stuff. You could throw salt on the salt shaker. It doesn't matter. You just want a lot of salt to really fill up the muscle and prevent the cramps from occurring. Now, some people think they fat load. OH, I FAT LOAD AND that builds up my muscles cuz it's fat loading. It's not fat loading. Your muscles don't store fat. If all you eat is fat, your muscles are going to be flat. They're like, "Oh, but I had a cheesecake and I had pizza and I had chocolate." Fat loading. It's the carbs in the food that are carbing you up, not the fat. If you eat 20 chocolate bars, yeah, it's full of fat, but there's a freaking ton of sugar in it, too. The sugar is what's working. Okay, protein. Oh, do I have to get in your chicken and your ham? No, it does nothing. Protein does not fill your muscles with glycogen. You need minimal amounts of protein because protein is just going to take longer to digest and it can bloat you. And so, we want hardly any protein. So, I'm gonna eat mostly carbs and then I'm going to have some fats with the carbs as in chocolate bars and stuff because at at first your body is like a dried up sponge that's been in the sun for a month in the summer. That's going to be me right tomorrow. It's a rock hard sponge. The carbs is like water. So, think of pouring a liter of water on this sponge. It's so dry. So, sucks it up and swells out. And then boom, you're superhero, your superhero He-Man again. Okay, that's what's going to happen tomorrow. And I'm drinking hardly any water. So the water that's covering the muscles is dispelled. Okay. Now, if you're natural and the tested event, which I've done 42 times with no diuretics, you can do it. You don't need the diuretics. Diuretics is like extra. And if you screw up and you take a diuretic, it's going to get rid of more water. It can get you extra dehydrated, but it can also make you cramp up. So, there's risks either way. You know, it's obviously up to you, but just make sure you just tell your doctor. And I'm not your doctor, so don't tell me. Okay, perfect. Show day Saturday for me. I compete at noon or so. Show day, I I eat about 3,000 calories and it's mostly carbs and fats again and low protein and salty carbs. So, I'll eat a lot of like chocolate bars and rice cakes and mini crispy minis, stuff like that. The last thing and and when I was younger, like I've learned so much. I've done 55 shows. I thought you have to eat healthy all the time. So, I was like, "Oh, what's healthy?" And I was like, "Oh, cottage cheese and Greek yogurt and like vegetables." No, that ruins you. You don't want to eat asparagus and fish the day of the show. What the heck is that gonna do? It's not a diet anymore. THE DIET IS OVER as soon as the second you take a carb in. Okay? I don't carve up for three days because you can spill over so easy and it just cuts out those extra days of dieting. The last two days I probably lost a half a percent extra body fat. That's two days of extra dieting that I wouldn't have had if I had have tried to carve up too early. People just freaking out and they want to carve up as early as possible and go for the full look when they should go for the shredded look because you everyone looks full on stage. Fullness comes from big muscles. If I put 50 lbs of muscle and didn't eat a carb for a month and went on stage, I would look full as freaking fukk because you're huge. And if I were instead of being 190, if I were 150 and I carved up like crazy and went on stage and felt I'm full and stood next to me at 190 pounds, my old self would get embarrassed by my current self even if I'm flat and depleted because I have bigger muscles. So it's not important to be like over full and no shreds win shows. You need shape too and you need size, but given everything you need to be shred. Okay. Also, a good big man beats a good small man. So, me at 5' 6 and a/4. Yeah, I get it. I see all the comments. I'm not huge. I'm not big. I'm not this and that. Yes, we know that. Somebody who's 6'2 and 240 is going to look more impressive than me even though they're allowed to weigh that and I'm allowed 185. Taller, equal shape, equal shreds, the taller person's going to win. There's nothing I can do about that. It's not my fault. I'm 5'6. I didn't choose my parents. I do the best I can with the genetics I have. I'm 43 year old man. Okay, come on. I'm doing the best I can. I love the sport. I love competing. I love the challenge of seeing how shredded I can get, how much torture I can put myself through, and seeing if I can get as lean as everybody else and all these young guys. This is just my passion, okay? I love this. I wouldn't do this if I didn't like it. I know I'm dying and I'm torturing myself to do it, but I do that because I love to do it. Okay? If you don't love it and you're complaining every day that you're dieting, drop out of the stupid competition because it's not for you. I don't feel like climbing Mount Everest. Three weeks up a mountain in the freezing cold. Interest me. If you're not into dieting, don't freaking diet for the show and just be healthy and maintain 15% body fat and eat healthy and live a long life and don't do steroids and be natty. Good for you. That's so awesome. Now, if you choose to do steroids, that's fine. Do what you need to do. Be healthy, but tell your doctor. If you're natural, stop beating up on the people that aren't. We all have our vices. We all do things that are healthy and not healthy. I always bring up the sun. Some people suntan all the time and it ruins their skin and they get skin cancer. Some people do cocaine. Some people do Molly. Some people are alcoholics. Some people smoke cigarettes. Some people go to Wendy's. Some people go to McDonald's. Some people do intermittent fasting. Some people follow a snake diet. Some people have unprotected sex. Some people are prostitutes. Some people do bad things. Some people drive over the speed limit and text and drive. Call on the phone and drive. Don't wear seat belts. And it's every one of us does things that are sinful and bad. And so let's not judge each other. Let's all get together. It's okay to comment and say you should be natural. That's, you know, better. Yeah, I agree. That's awesome. you should. That's good. But don't be like, you know, offending people, calling them gay, which is not even at all appropriate because there's nothing wrong with being gay. That's perfectly cool. You know, you shouldn't offend people that way. So, anyway, that's a rant on that. Next, shaving occurs tomorrow. Um, the whole body, every hair follicle basically has to be gone. you got the haircut, you know, um shave the face, everything. And then you can't wear deodorant because that's bad. It can make you look green. And then you get a spray tan. So, as dark as you are, you still need a spray tan. Two coats to get this done. Okay. So, my tan's at 4:30. So, I have to get to the hotel, shower, shave everything, go tan, register at 7, keep carving up, try to get some sleep, wake up, tan again, and then compete. Okay. Another thing to worry about is cramping. Okay, if you're cramping, it could be two things. You're either overly dehydrated or your electrolytes are out of whack. Okay, so chances are it's both. We're all on the fine line of trying to be as shredded as possible. The less water you have on your body, the more shredded you're going to be. So, in other words, if I depleted myself down to 180, I would just be sickeningly shredded. just raw ripped, but I would look smaller because I'd be 180. So, I don't want to be too like water deprived and then I can't look good, but I also don't want to be over carb and be like 190. People are like, I can't wait to see what you look like carbed up. Yeah, I look freaking amazing at 195 in a tank top like this because then you can't see my stomach that's bloated from food. Which is the next comment. I posted a video and I'm eating and water loading. I'm eating three pound salads like this full over the top and drinking water. Then I take my shirt off and I do my poses and then I'll do like the ab shot, you know what I mean? And so I'm like way over and they're like, "Oh, but your stomach is so it's it's a what do you call it? A a bubble gut." It's not, guys. It's called a food baby. That's what we call it. There's food in there. You need to have an empty stomach to look like you have a small stomach. I don't care if you're Chris Bumstead, which is the freakiest, smallest waist ever. If he eats a freaking three lb salad and guzzles 2 L of water and his stomach is bloated, you can't expect him to come out and look as good as if he has nothing in his stomach. So, when I get up on stage, I'm not going to have a big meal in my stomach. So, one mistake people tend to do is they'll say to their bikini girls, "Burger and fries. What the freak is what a burger and fries? What is the burger going to do? The hamburger bikini girl? Where is it going in her biceps? In her glutes? What are you guys doing? That's the stupidest thing in the world." Okay, if you want a small waist, you don't eat burgers. You can have fries. You can eat the BUN. You can have a lot of ketchup for salt and stuff, but you don't want a lot of protein. a big stake. No people, no. But that's where good coaching comes in. I have never, and I've done 55 shows, ever showed up not in shape. Never ruined a peak ever. Not once. And I've been competing since I was in grade 12. This is 25 years. This is my 25th anniversary of competing. Okay. My goal is to get top five. There's zero chance for me to win. Just so you know. Okay. People say, "Oh, you're not confident." No. I know people that are competing and I know how to judge and I'm not an idiot and I don't think I'm going to win when I can't win. Top five to me is a win. I am going to the show to place in the top five. If I do, I'm going to be so pumped. It's going to be unreal. Real like unreal. I just really hope I can do it. Okay, that is my big goal. Last every other pro show I've tried to get top 10 and I made it once. Okay, this time I switched to classic. I'm trying to get top five. Trying to move up. Okay, so that's the goal. So that is peak week. I'll end it with do not go on a crazy bulk after the show and don't guzzle water. I will not be 200 lb ever after this show. Well, ever for months I won't be. I'm not going to gain 20 or 30 lbs and rebound and do anyone that does that. It's because you binged too much. You drank too much water and it's not good for you. Don't let your blood pressure. If you're 20 lbs more than you weighed on stage and you're like, "Oh, I'm thirsty. I'm going to drink now." Why the frig are YOU DRINKING? YOU'RE 20 POUNDS over your stage weight. What is it gonna do? You're You've got 20 pounds of water everywhere. What are you trying to do? Oh, and then I'm gonna eat and eat and eat. Stop eating. You need to stop. We People are like, "What are you gonna eat after the show?" Honestly, 5,000 calories on Friday and like 3,000 on the day of the show. And for this show, I have to compete on Sunday again. It's a nightmare. Two days in a row, it's going to be so hard. So, Saturday, I compete and I have to still stay dehydrated and eat and then do it again on Sunday. And so, after Sunday, I'm not going to be starving. I'll just eat something. Whatever. I don't care. It's not going to matter. But anyway, I hope you learn and I know this video is long. Wish me luck and subscribe and click the bell button and follow my journey. And I'll be posting all kinds of videos from the show how I do. It's really exciting for me and uh I worked my freaking ass off for this. And I worked my ass off just as hard for this show as for my clients. Ask anyone. I sat and other than the two hours in a bit. I went to the gym today. I started working at 700 a.m. and I'm work and it's 8 something and I worked all day on client plans. I am a hard worker. Okay. Gregducet.com for coaching. I will not be accepting any more clients until Tuesday. So, if you have a if you hire me full-time, I will not be doing your plan until Tuesday because I have to focus on the show and just give me a break. And so, anyway, best of luck to you. Let's hope that you hire me in the near future.