stuff. Today's topic is intermittent fasting. I have a few friends that are doing it and I got challenged to do some research and to decide for myself whe whether it was good or not because I'd already been been like saying like, well, it doesn't make sense based on what I've studied in the past. So anyway, I went and I did the study as I read. So they said, "Go to Lean Gains. You're going to see it on Lean Gains." I'm like, "Lean Gains with a zed?" Like, "Okay." So already I was like, "Okay, that's cool." So anyway, I looked that up. Guy's name is Martin. He's doing all this stuff, researching this thing. He's he's a nutrition consultant and a personal trainer and something else. So he's basically me. He's like somebody like me that does whatever. So that that's his research. And so he did his like studies and stuff. So, so I'm like, "Okay, cool. I'm going to decide for myself." So, before I even go into that, I'm going to tell you what I discovered. So, I discovered that it's it's It doesn't make sense. It's foolish. It doesn't It's not valid. It's it's just not good. Don't it's it's not something to do. Okay? So, if you want to do it, don't think it's going to make you have all these gains. It's not awesome. It's not the magic formula. It's it's just a fat diet like every other fat diet that's been around for the last 30 years. Everyone looks for something different cuz no one can figure out what works. No one understands that it's hard work, sacrifice, discipline, eating good, eating healthy foods. It's not trying to eat Pop-Tarts or it's just this is what it is. It's you have to actually be healthy and do it the right way. You can't gimmick it. You can't try to cut corners. Now, can it actually work? Yes, it could. If you know all about your nutrients, you're very educated, like say a dietitian or something, I think they could do it. Cuz if you know what you're doing, you could do it. But then you're you're completely not doing it for the reasons that you're actually doing. You could do it if you eat like steaks and fats and fiber and then you you you fast during that time so that you can like I don't know, give your body a break. I'm hearing give your digestive system a break. A break. My digestive system needs a break. It's been doing this for me like almost 40 years. It needs to take a 12-hour rest. Okay, first of all, if I go to a buffet and I eat a ton of food and I don't eat for 16 hours, there's no break. My stomach goes from being out here to here to here to here every 4 hours. It's still digesting food. There's no break. Saying you need a break would be like, I'm going to hold my breath to give my lungs a break. I'm going to not have sex for a week to give my nuts a break. What? What is that? And a break? I have to pee. I'm gonna hold it for another four hours to give my urinary tract a break. We don't need breaks. Your system is made like your heart, it beats. It doesn't need a break from beating. Okay, don't that. So, that makes no sense. The break thing done. Okay, so keep it on going here. Um, okay. So, I do the research and I'm like, "Yep, okay." I'm going on the site Lean Gains. I'm looking at the site. I'm like, "Okay, to do information information. Okay, I read it all. Then I go to some and type in another thing, you know, about intermittent fasting and then I see the the the first thing I read. It's a big summary of everything and they kept quoting Martin. Look at Lean Gains. He's the guru. So I'm like, okay, so here's the thing. It's so there's this one guy basically, this Martin guy from Lan Gains and then everybody else is talking about it. So he has like this big following of people that are that are that are kind of like on the bandwagon with him. So I then say, okay, look, where does the information from lean gains come from? So basically, they were promoting, and I wrote it down, the effects of intermittent fasting function on human and animal health. Okay, sounds great. And then this person's an actual researcher. This is somebody that you can really learn from cuz this is his thesis in for his PhD or something. Okay, so that's cool. I respect that. This is an educated person that's not just saying stuff. So I'm like, "Okay, I'm going to read this guy's stuff and see what happens." So this is where they get the information from. So they don't tell you the parts that they don't want you to know about. So I'm starting it off. The studies on mice show the mice. Mice, rats, mice, mice, mice. Okay, awesome. So if mice don't eat for 16 hours or 24 hours that they recommend, they they lost weight. These mice. Well, that's fantastic cuz, you know, I'm so glad to know that mice lose weight so that I'm going to starve myself like a mice, a mouse, whatever. Okay, first of all, why in the world you want to not eat for 16 hours? How fun is that? Is that really how is that really how you want to live your life? You have to not eat all day instead of just eating a, you know, like your balanced three, four, five, six, seven meals. I'm going to starve myself all day. Well, oh, but then ghrelin will take over and you won't be hungry and oh no, like you're going to be hungry and it's miserable. And guess what? I was told that intermittent fasting, you schedule it so that your meals and then you do your training after. Then I read the research and they're like, "No, you have to do intermittent fasting. Then after the 16 to 24 hours, you then do your workout because then you're going to burn all kinds of fat cuz you're like you're lowering glycogen and all this stuff. And then after you have that refeed meal, which is after the the the workout, so your hormonal response is is amazing. Your insulin jumps up. It spikes and the nutrients come in. Which is true. That part about the hormonal response after you're doing the workout. But guess what? 7 minutes into my workout when I want to go home because I have no energy, it's not going to give you a good workout. So all the benefits of eating after that workout, it's going to be nothing if I don't have the energy to push myself and squat five plates for 10 reps. You know, if I'm in there and I'm warming up and I'm like, "No, I need food. Give me a freaking Quest bar and then let me go train. I need something. Popcorn. I don't care. I need some food." Okay. I'm not fasting for 16 to 24 hours. Okay. So, on to some other stuff. So, we talked about the mice. Ramadan. I've trained people on Ramadan. Two or three people. I think it was one that didn't pay me and two that paid me. It was dependent. So, anyway, so I had experience with people in Ramadan. That's where they fast for religious reasons because they have to for their religion and I respect that. That's awesome and I'm going to help you do your best. I timed their meals and and gave them appropriate foods so that that protein would last throughout the day so that they weren't burning muscle. And guess what? It wasn't that bad. But that's because I know a lot about the foods they're eating. I don't just say eat some Pop-Tarts and uh an ice cream cone and some whey protein and then go to the gym and then don't eat for 16 hours. I mean, we're you're you're not going to have much protein left. Plus, if you're dieting for a show and you don't want to lose muscle, it's hard. If you're eating like crazy all the time, 16- hour fast, not that bad because your glycogen stores are primed. They're top. They're full. So, in 16 hours, it's there's still a little bit left. When you're dieting and you're trying to lose weight, muscle glycogen is always low. And I argued, if you think that it's good because your muscle glycogen is going to be lower and then you're going to, you know, burn more calories, why don't you do a ketogenic diet? I mean, that's already been around. Just follow that. I'm not a believer in that one either. But if you're actually going to do it for that reason, you may as well go with the actual information and just go for the ketogenic diet. If you're trying to say, you know, glycogen levels are low, tap into your fat stores, do it, then go do the the uh ketogenic diet. Just do it. Um, so based on the studies of Ramadan, they said we're going to not be conclusive on the data from Ramadan because they eat during the night and they don't drink a lot of water and they get dehydrated. So the results which were not good, they didn't have good results from these Ramadan individuals who had to fast, they they actually suffered and didn't get very good health benefits. It wasn't like an awesome diet. If it would have been, guess what the research would have said? Oh, we did Ramadan studies and they all lost 20 pounds and they were healthier and their cholesterol was down and they're better and they were never hungry and it was amazing and they were living the best lives ever. They would have said, "Yeah, but because the information was bad," they choose to say, "Yeah, we're not going to believe that data because they were dehydrated and uh they did it at night and it's different." So, we can't draw conclusions about Ramadan. Which is fair enough. I'm okay with that because really it is different. It's it's it's a biased study. I like to say it's like it's bias, you know. So, anyone that reads a study, if you have a degree in in in anything really, you're going to have some kind of like uh course in university where you might have learned research methods or how to do a a study, flaws in study, being nonbiased, things like that. So, you could see how if you just read a study and and take certain sentences here and there, you can make it sound like whatever you want. So, it's important to be able to read and and go through that. So I'm like excited. There's a section human research. Boom. Humans not ram. Okay. Let's see. All right. In this two observational studies with two students and one with eight. I'm like okay. So the study data that they're drawing all these great conclusions are from two people and eight people. Eight. Okay. So is that a big study? I don't think it is. I don't think any of you think it is. So you're going to make conclusions on an observational study. That's a study where you observe and ask questions. An interview, that's basically like somebody comes up to me and says, "Hey, Greg, what's your theory on training?" Oh, yeah, man. I've seen people at the gym. They train this way and they all get good results. That's Yeah. And and they interview someone else. Yeah. I've seen them and they look awesome. That is that scientifically like the best study you could do? Um, no. I'd rather see a study with a 100 people and 50 of them are eating at one hour apart and then the other 50 are eating every four hours and the other 50 are eating at 16 hours intervals and then they design a study blood pressure, heart rate, all these different things and boom boom boom and then you can quantify it and just put your results out. But they don't have that. So really the research is inconclusive and actually at the end of this study it says it's early in its infancy. Intermittent fasting doesn't have enough research to support it. That's the study. That's the conclusions at the end. Early infasy, not enough research to support it. So, anyone that says, "Oh, yeah, man. There's studies that are out there. It's saying it works." No, the studies actually say they don't know if it works. They're saying maybe it works because mice worked in mice and in Ramadan it didn't really work, but we're going to endure that. But in the observational studies with the two people that played soccer, they lost some weight while at soccer camp and they didn't eat for 16 hours. And so, yeah, it works. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Okay. So, you can say, "Oh, well, I have a friend and and they lost 10 pounds intermittent fasting." Was it intermittent fasting or the fact they ate less calories? Because the the research was saying that I read that most people do intermittent fasting because they're not eating for 16 hours are eating less calories, hence the weight loss. Guess what? If you eat 4,000 calories a day and you go and eat 3,000 calories a day, it doesn't matter if you eat it over 8 hours or if you eat six balanced meals during that day. If you're eating less calories, bottom line is energy expenditures down. You're going to lose weight. Doesn't say if it's from muscle or fat, though. You might have lost 10 lbs, but did you keep muscle? So, let's go into muscle loss. Okay, so muscle, if you don't eat for 16 to 24 hours, you're going to lose muscle unless you ate a whole bunch of meals to prepare for that. But if you're doing the preparing for that, what's the whole point of it in the first place? If you have to eat, you know, a 24 ounce steak and some fat and a whole bunch of fiber and plan out your day so you have 2,000 calories at the last meal to plan it out so you don't die for the next 16 hours. Is that really ideal? I don't think so. So, I was told, yeah, the research says 72 hours before you can go uh catabolic. I'm like, really? 72, not 71 or 73? They they said that. Okay, cool. What about if I'm a man or a woman? What about if I just ate a big meal or a small meal? What about if I'm an athlete and I train four hours a day if I ran a marathon? I mean, let's think about it. You can't say 72 hours before you build burn muscle. So, let's just argue it's a random amount of time. At some point, you're going to burn muscle. They said, "Well, no, you can then you can take 15 g of BCAAs and then you won't burn muscle because the BCAAs are going to" and I'm like, "Yeah, cool. The BCAAs are great. They're going to help prevent muscle loss. Are you really fasting then?" No, you're adding BCAS. 15 grams, that's awesome. It might last you 15 minutes in the gym. So, when I'm in the gym training 90 minutes to 2 hours, those 15 g of BCAS that I have on my empty stomach because I'm fasting, because I'm trying to give my digestive system a rest that it doesn't need, it's not going to cut it. It's not doing nothing. I mean, if I'm drinking the whole thing of aminoore or whatever BCAS, you know, whatever one you're using, it's not enough. You need to just go through that all day, but you're not fasting, why not just eat a a steak, some chicken, a tuna, whatever, a protein shake right before you work out. So that's another argument that it's not going to work. You know, when your body runs out of energy, it starts taking energy from the bicep, the delts, the quads, the pecs, they needs it. It it's catabolic breaking down anabolic to build up. If you don't have energy, it breaks it down. It doesn't want your heart to lose energy because you you need it to beat. Your brain needs to think. It doesn't take it from there. It takes it from wasteful muscle like your lats. don't need lats to live. You can have no lats and you're still live. So, it takes amino acids from there and it supplies the heart and feeds other tissues. So, you don't want to fast like that. It's not going to help you at all. Well, I'll just go briefly into your insulin and glucagon. So, when you wake up in the morning and your your energy is down here cuz you haven't eaten cuz you've fasted probably 8 to 10 hours anyway, you need to eat and then you eat and then insulin's released and it brings your energy down and then glucagon is going to be released to prevent you from going too down too far down cuz your body wants to be at a certain level. Your blood sugar, it has to be in a certain level like low and high end. Anywhere in there between there is awesome. Okay? So you eat and it goes up and then you haven't eaten and it goes down. Then you eat and it goes up. So if you intermittently fast, you're eating a ton of food all at once. Boom. And then boom, and it crashes and then the glucon is released to prevent it from messing you up. And then so you're all over the place. If you eat a balanced diet, healthy food, fiber, protein, your fats, your carbs, all mixed into one slow release, none of the spike, not the I had a pop-tart for breakfast. Boom. And then I crashed. Boom. And then glue gone. I'm hungry as hell. Oh my god, I got to eat another Pop-Tart. Up and down. Donut down. You know, white bread, sugar up and down. Chocolate bar up and down.