Are you going to bet that he's 100% natural? A guy who has the movie role of a lifetime? Let's hear it in his own words. >> It's hard. You don't really know how to say it cuz you don't you don't quite believe it's true. Sounds ridiculous to say out loud. Even now, it sounds ridiculous to say out loud. >> Coach Greg and is Superman natural? >> No. Did anyone actually think it? We got this guy and he's 6'4 and he weighs 195 lbs and his dream is to play Superman. I mean, what are the odds of that? It's certainly less than one in a million. It's closer to one in a billion. The odds of being cast as Superman, it's very rare. It's very hard to get. Now, when you're 6'4, that's very imposing. But when you're under 200 lb, well, people say that that's victim weight. And Superman, he can't look like a victim. He has to have a little bit of bulk to him. Even though he's got superpowers from Krypton, he needs to look the part. And so upon casting him, he literally says he weighs 195 lbs. >> They had made it to my proportions when I screen tested where I weighed about 195 pounds. And so when they asked him, did you make this transformation natural? Because after all, he says he started 195 lbs. But once they put his suit on, it wouldn't fit. It was so tight because by that time he weighed between 235 and 240. And so many people are speculating, hey, he didn't put on 40 lb. Yeah, it was 40 to 45 lb. And when I walked in for my first costume fitting, I weighed about a 235 240 lbs. >> He went from 195 to 235 to 240. His words, not mine. Upon asking him if he's 100% natural and having to say, "Yes, I'm 100% natural." I mean, we all know that in Hollywood, you can't simply admit that you're not natty. Like, think of Thor, The Rock. The list goes on and on. say it because you don't you don't quite >> Well put. Yes, it sounds ridiculous. It sounds annoying to hear it out loud. I'm natural. I put on 40 lb natural in 5 months. Well, upon saying 40 lbs of muscle, let's read the article here. David Kornsweet's trainer, Paleo, on how David added 40 lbs of muscle for Superman. David has been working out intensively before I met him, but he's naturally a very lean guy. And so, it's not like he had newbie gains. He'd been working out intensely before I'd even met him. And so, for many years, this guy had been training. He'd been putting in the work. I mean, after all, he's a movie star. He needs to look in shape. He's an attractive guy. He wants to have a great physique. But suddenly upon meeting this trainer, 40 lbs of muscle in 5 months. He probably went from 200 to 240, but some of that mass will be shed as he continues to tone up. And so it was actually 195. We heard it from David himself. And so it's 45 lb. No one is denying that he trained hard. I'm convinced that he trained hard. 2 hours a day eating 4,500 calories a day. I believe all of it. I think his trainer probably put him through a great workout. I think he probably had the proper diet. The only thing is I don't believe that he did it while being natural. If he had just joined the gym, had newbie be gains, and put on 45 lbs in 5 months, I still wouldn't believe it. I would say I don't believe you're natural. But to do it in his older years, the guy isn't a teenager. And having already trained intensely, it makes it that much more difficult to believe. natty or not, Superman star David Cornswe comes clean on whether he used peds to get in shape. It was so obvious that he was a fake natty. Perhaps it's because it's 2025 and people they know better. They actually asked him. When David won the role as the new Superman, he knew he had to make some serious gains and be able to fill out the suit as the man of steel. He knew he was too small. He knew he had to put on muscle. And so what are the odds that having a one ina billion lifetime chance at this role wouldn't put on maybe a little bit of pressure to take a little bit of something? Sprinkle in a little bit of HRT, some peptides, some growth hormone. What are the odds? He just would say no. The actor wanted to be crystal clear about exactly how he made those gains and achieved his superhero physique. They have contracts where it literally would say you can't say anything about using performance-enhancing drugs. You won't be insured. You won't be able to do any future roles. The movie could be cancelled. Think of it. If you're an insurance company and he admits to using testosterone, trend, whatever he's on, and you admit it, do you think they're going to insure him? I mean, what happens if perhaps halfway through the set he gets sick? He develops an infection. he ends up in the hospital. I mean, we've seen this in the past. 17year-olds ending up with sepsis from using dirty needles, steroids, and so on. And so, do you really think they're going to ensure him? And so, if he admits it, would he actually be able to have the part? I don't think so. And so, he needs to be adamant. It's all me. I'm natural. He made a point to clarify misconceptions about his 40 lb weight gain for the role. Do these actors, these movies, hund00 million plus budgets, do they not have a team of people saying what you should or shouldn't say? Like a misconception, you know, hey, when they interview you, don't say you put on 40 lbs of muscle. Say you put on 20. It's more believable. How is that complicated? And so I'm quoting him. I would appreciate anybody who wants to clarify in their writing that nobody is suggesting that I gained 40 pounds of muscle. He was emphatic about his natural i.e. natty approach to his transformation, stating that he achieved his Superman physique without performance-enhancing drugs and without killing himself. >> I mean, he doesn't want anyone to think that he trained all that hard. It was just like he just went to the gym and trained. I mean, it wasn't even all that hard. I mean, anyone could do this. I mean, why then did it take you till you were 31 years of age to figure out the secret? Core and sweat relied on an intense but sustainable training program that pushed him to what he described as the edge of my physical capabilities. And so, it sounds like he trained close to failure. Um, to the edge of my physical capabilities. And so, the secret to putting on 40 lbs, but now we know it's not all muscle, was training close to failure. Nobody knew that. And so all these people around the world want to do the Superman workout because how many of you out there want to gain 40 lbs in 5 months? The natty or not question has become common on social media. Yeah, I know. Experts noting that dramatic physiques achieved quickly and dramatically often spark speculation about performance-enhancing drug use. I mean, that's obvious. Cor and Sweat states it was definitely not 40 lbs of muscle. The 40 lb increase from July to November represented a combination of muscle, water, and some body fat. Over the course of shooting, I added somewhere between 25 and 30 lbs of muscle from where I was initially. And so, he hooked up with a trainer and basically said, "I want to get as big as possible within reason." He didn't want to use trend. Perhaps he didn't want to use insulin just within reason. And you know what? Do you guys know Rampage Jackson, famous UFC fighter? Did you all see the interview with Bradley Martin? >> That clip of you on Ultimate Fighter when you're breaking the door. Were you on roids yet? >> No. >> No. No steroids. I'm natural. >> No, I wasn't. I wasn't. Why would you say rosid mother? I never done roid. >> It is steroids. >> No, it's not. >> Testosterone is steroids. >> No, it's not. It's It's a different molecule. That's why I was told. >> No. No. And so he believed it. In his mind, he was natural. Testosterone. That's not a steroid. I'm natural. He wasn't joking. >> I did steroids. >> Yeah. Yeah. Even though I was on testosterone, I was still natty. >> Yeah. They lied. And so, do you think it's possible that Superman is also on testosterone? And says that is not a steroid. It's testosterone and I'm natural. It's not a performance-enhancing drugs. It's just testosterone. Or let's lower the bar a little bit. Is it possible that he's on inclin? Would he feel that that is a performance-enhancing drugs? It perhaps was prescribed by his doctor. What about peptides? Whole host of peptides. What about those? probably feels no, I'm natural. Those are not performance-enhancing drugs. Many people think that if it's not called a steroid, for example, it's a SARM, RAD-140, LGD, Austerine. Well, those aren't performance-enhancing drugs. I looked to see if he had purchased Turk Builder Max. There were no orders from David. None. I was hoping to be able to say, "Hey everyone, David was on Turk Builder Max that he had purchased a 10 pack." Wasn't true. And so many people of the world, I'm sure speculating, probably just took Turk Builder Max, probably took Turk Builder, probably bought my cookbook, but nope, it didn't happen. And so, what do you think that he put on 25 to 30 lbs of muscle while being natural in 5 months? But Greg, he went on a bulk. Yeah. Okay. So, just eat 4,500 calories a day, go up 40 to 45 lbs. his words, not mine. And then just diet a little bit after and you wind up 25 to 30 lbs of extra muscle from when you started. In five months, I was going to the gym for 2 and 1/2 hours, getting home and passing out and sleeping for 2 hours and then sleeping 9 hours at night. Normally in the past, people would say they ate chicken, broccoli, and rice and they did two a day workouts. Superman, his reason he put on so much muscle is cuz he trained for 2 and 1/2 hours, then slept two hours, and then went to back to bed again and slept nine. And so the secret is you train your ass off close to failure for 2 and 1/2 hours, and then you sleep 11 hours each and every day. That is why he put on so much muscle, and you are all thinking he's a fake natty. The answer is in your sleep. the every hour of sleep added per night, you gain two or three pounds of muscle per week. This is how it works. Did you all know that I was at 201 pounds the other night? And I had slept, get this, 9 and 1/2 hours. I don't usually sleep that long. And so I believe that by sleeping that long versus the seven hours I'm typically sleeping, I was able to put on a ton of extra muscle. It's all in how you sleep. The more you sleep, the more jacked you're going to get. And so I'm certain that Julian probably sleeps 14 hours a night and all the famous IPB pros of the world. Chris Bumstead most certainly he never gets up. He just slept. That's it. The actor admits he tends to be on the skinnier side. Had to increase his calorie intake to hit his daily macros. He did this by mostly drinking shakes. He admits he's on the skinnier side, right? Okay. So he's a skinny guy. He has a hard time putting on muscle. Perhaps he's an ectomorph. It's just it struggles for him. And so what he needed to do was add in extra calories as he was training for this role. I mean, is that not obvious? He went and started training 2 and 1/2 hours a day to failure. Training, it burns calories. And so if you burn calories to gain weight, you need to eat more calories. Does that make sense? For every one pound of muscle that you gain, it takes about 2700 calories. Let's just assume he put on 40 pounds of muscle. Let's not even add the fat. Fat is 3500 calories per pound. Let's lower it to 2,700. He would have had to consume an extra 108,000 calories in order to put on 40 extra pounds of muscle. 108,000 calories. And so clearly he had to eat more. This is not shocking news. Everyone knows this. What do you think? He's going to put on 40 lbs of muscle by going on a cut. >> Was in pieces. The S wasn't even on yet. It was really just about the blue tights. It was It was quite snug because they had made it to my proportions when I screen tested where I weighed about 195 lb. And when I walked in for my first costume fitting, I weighed about a 235 240 lb. A lot of work goes into making those suits. They don't work like regular clothes. going to get hate, but he looks a 100 times more natural than Caval. Now, well, here's the thing. Many people are going to say, "Henry Caval looks bigger than him." Yes, Henry Cavil's starting point was much more impressive. Henry as a natural has more muscle than David. Even with performance-enhancing drugs, David is not going to look as jacked as somebody who might even be natural in comparison. That's just not how it works. Walmart Henry Cavill, I don't believe this one bit. No way. He put on 40 lbs of muscle in a few months. He was definitely enhancing. Why lie? He has to say that sadly. The studios can't have their franchise superstars saying they are on anything. He's playing the game. Hope he makes a great Superman. Totally believe him just like The Rock and Hemsworth. David Kornsweet says he achieved his physique for Superman naturally and without using peeds. Oh, he didn't use performance-enhancing drugs. I can't even tell if it's the same person. and he looks tiny in comparison. And so just because he doesn't end up looking like Chris Bumstead, doesn't mean that he's natural. Most people on the skinnier side, if they use steroids, they don't suddenly blow up. He's 6'4. You think that if you're 6'4 in 5 months, you're just going to put on 45 lbs, of which 25 to 30 is muscle? Really? You're lucky to put on 10. It's five months, guys. If he had great genetics, maybe one in a million could do this. There are people out there with the freakiest genetics in the world. And so it's possible, one in a million. But bro was already training. They said he had already been intensely training before the trainer had met him. If he had never touched a weight in his life, was just playing video games and suddenly he worked out. Maybe he has crazy genetics. We don't know. He's just sitting there. He hadn't used them. But if you're already in the gym working out, you're already trying. You can't suddenly then just try more and put on that much muscle. And so if you're a betting man, are you going to bet that he's 100% natural? A guy who has the movie role of a lifetime? It's his dream come true. Do you know how bad he wanted this role? He couldn't believe it. He couldn't even understand how to tell his wife. And we all know Superman has muscle. Superman is not some skinny bro. And so why wouldn't he take it? I mean, is it even illegal to go to a doctor, get a prescription for HRT, peptides, and so on? And so he's not breaking the law, but he can't admit it to the world. Probably has a contract stating you're not to say this, you're not to do that, you can't do this, you can't get insured, whatever. Why wouldn't he take it so that he can brag to you I'm natural while he weighs 195 lbs and looks like a scrawniest Superman of all time which people then ridicule him? >> Why didn't Bro go to the gym? Why did he train hard? Why is he only 198 lbs? >> Now, one thing Superman, I'm sure, could benefit from is getting blue lobstered before every workout. It's very suiting. It's very colorcoordinated with Superman with the blue. I think it looks great. He should get Blue Lobstered as well as to purchase Turk Builder Max. This combination before the gym, absolutely amazing. You want to have better workouts than last time. And remember, if you don't like it, if you didn't get the gains you were hoping for, there's literally a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And this is actual Auga Turkistanica from Usbekistan. It's not the copycat cyanosis plan that the other companies are selling. This is the cream of the crop. This is the best of the best, far better than our competitors. And so if you take one pill of mine, it's most likely better than their entire bottle. Not saying their bottles don't do anything, just saying this is extremely exponentially better than theirs. There you have it. Code Greg 15% off. If you're interested in being an ambassador or a sponsored athlete of HDLT supplements, the company is growing faster than last time. You would not believe. It's incredible. And so if you are looking to apply, click the link in description. I'm looking for more. Want to grow this company to the moon. What other company has Turk Builder Max, Turk Platinum, GO2 Max, GLP Max, the best supplements in the world? It isn't close. We're the best. And so if you want to be part of the best company in the world, apply by clicking the link in description. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you like it. And of course, you can get cookbooks, training books, coaching plans by me and my team, the Circle Diet book, everything on the website, including the clothing line. And until next time, I am