This is dangerous. He's natural. I've been to his house. I know him very well. He's natural. [music] Really, Coach Greg. In today's video, we got a 17-year-old who benches 560 lbs raw and 100% natural. And we know that he's natural because his friend has been to his house and he he said so. >> He's natural. I've been to his house. I know him very well. Unless he's one in a million or perhaps one in a billion, I for zero seconds believe that this kid or even his friend is natural. I think they're covering for each other. I think they're a bunch of liars. But hey, they're training with Larry Wheels. And so, let's just believe whatever they say. I'm here with Chuck and our special guest, Dan, that is able to bench press over 560 lbs, right? So, he's only 17 years old and when I was 19, I did 565. So, you're 2 years ahead. >> And so, no big deal. He's just as strong as Larry, only two years younger. And we know that Larry admittedly began using steroids at I do believe the age of 15. And so you're going to convince me that this guy at 17 is stronger than Larry Wheels who was 19. Remember, he's only 17 and a half. He's still got 6 months as a 17-year-old. Are there odds for this? I mean, one in a billion perhaps. And so, it's possible is what they're saying. >> And at the time when I did that, I was the strongest teenager in the world. >> The strongest teenager in the world. He's going to do it two years younger than that. No big deal. >> What you're about to do today has never been done before. There's never been a 17-year-old that can bench anywhere over 550 560 raw. >> I mean, it just keeps getting crazier. If you can bench 560 lb natural at 17, you could probably hit 700 lb natural in your 20s. The trajectory is through the roof. He's only 17. Imagine with steroids. Could he perhaps bench 1,000 raw? Maybe 1,500 with a shirt. >> You did bench 500 last night. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Do you even have any like programming right now or anything? >> I just I just do it all myself. Yeah. >> Damn, dude. All right. >> No program. I do it all myself. I I train in my basement and I joined the gym, bulked up, and here I am. Larry, >> we got to talk. We got to talk. We got to talk. But with that said, let's get to work. >> We got to talk off camera about what your cycle is because I want to copy it. >> When did you guys start training to be this strong at 17? >> 2 years ago. >> 12 years old. >> Two years ago for you >> and then >> 12 years old. And so one of them began at 15 while the other began at 12. Well, I started at 10 and I never benched 560. I did 529 with a pause in my 30s and 40s with the use of performance-enhancing drugs, including Tren. He did it natural, folks, at 17. Okay, bro needs to show the blood work for me to remotely believe his natty status. I mean, in this case, I don't even need to see the blood work. It's so obvious that he's a fake natty, but I mean, sure, if you show me the blood work and he can still bench press 560 lbs, I'll make a video saying I was wrong. You all know Coach Greg, if I'm wrong, I'm going to admit it. Now, remember those other natural lifters who showed me the blood work? They proved they were natural and so they're natty. Other guys who showed the blood work, remember Prosper Fitness and others, I forget their names, they failed the blood work, and I called them out. That's how this works. And so if these guys want to send me the blood work and prove that they're natural, I can change the video. >> How did you figure out how to strength train? >> Basically, you know, we're just trying to build up 5 lbs at a time. Rather than taking big leaps, like 20, we're just building up by five. >> And so essentially, their secret to getting this strong is every week or so, just put five more pounds instead of PR. I mean, it isn't really all that complicated. It's known as progressive overload. I think that makes sense. And imagine if you go up five pounds per week. There's 52 weeks in a year. That's 260 pounds that you could improve in a single year. And so if you have ridiculous genetics combined with the use of performance-enhancing drugs, I'm not going to say these guys are natural. You can make incredible gains. I know that when I started using performance-enhancing drugs, my bench press went up about 100 pounds in 3 months. It was incredible. And that is how steroids work. >> I'm happy to give a handoff, by the way. >> I'll probably like 405. >> All right. Too light. Too light for handoff. >> Solid lift. I don't know why he's doing CPR off the bottom. He's doing perhaps five reps off the chest, doing partial long range reps while warming up for a one rep single. I don't know why he's doing this, but hey, it works for him. I mean, who am I to judge? He bench presses more than Coach Greg, more than when I did at my peak. And I have a world record in the bench press, and he does more than me. And so, who am I as A-50-year-old man who's been training bench press since I was 10 to try and help him? Actually, it it sounds like it could help him. I've been doing this since I was 10. I was natural up into my 30s and I avoided injuries for so long that I was able to train and went on into my 40s and so maybe he should listen to me. Get off the steroids. You don't need to continue bench pressing this much. You're already stronger than last time. And so take a break and stop with the partial range of motion reps while warming up. And please don't jump so quickly. There's no need to go and bench press PRs every single day you go to the gym. If you do, you're going to get injured. You're going to get an injury. You're going to tear your pec. I've stated this to people in the past. They never listen. And what happened? They tear their pecs. >> I was big and I was benching 405 for maybe one or two reps. Right. >> Right. But it took me till I was 18 to start putting up some real weight. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. You know, Larry Wheels was benching 405 for a couple reps at 17, but it took until he was, you know, 18 to bench some real weight. 405 is more than I can lift right now. And I used to bench press in the 500s. 405 is some real weight. That is elite level lifting, especially for a teenager. Problem is, you have kids like this who see Larry Wheels, they remember him at 17, saying, "You were Jack." They're basically saying, "You're a behemoth, Larry, and so we wanted to be like you, and so we have become you, and we're even stronger than you while being younger." Problem is, they're likely abusing even more steroids than Larry Wheels. Come on, Dan. Let's go. That >> Oh, yeah. No problem. >> Again, I'm not sure what's with the partial range of motion off the chest, the CPR rep, sinking into the chest. I believe that he should just do either one clean full rep, or perhaps do two or three clean full reps. I don't think it makes sense to do the partials off the bottom while warming up. When you're warming up for a lift, it should resemble that lift as much as possible. And so, if you're a powerlifter going for a one rep max, you should during every repetition of your warm-ups, try to imitate your competition max as much as possible. Principle of specificity. If you want to specifically get better at the one rep max, you should be warming up the one rep max. If you do half reps or five or six reps, it's not as specific as doing one rep. And so if I were coaching him, I would have said four plates. Let's do it for one or perhaps two complete reps exactly in the same manner as you're going to do for your one repetition. >> Yep. Beautiful. >> Not going to lie, it is very impressive. That was 397 lbs. But remember, but but his butt wasn't on the bench and so it doesn't count. Now you can hate me. You can get mad at me. But when you cheat and you arch and your ass comes off the bench, it's not an official lift. It would be like bench pressing the weight, only going halfway down, lifting up, and saying, "I just bench pressed 197 pounds." You didn't. You did a partial rep. And so, it wasn't an official bench press. Now, here's the other problem. When you eagle lift in the gym, you're more likely to get injured. By getting his ass off the bench, it's allowing him to lift even more weight. And the heavier the weight that he's lifting, the more likely he's going to get injured. These guys are 17 and they're clearly gifted and I don't want to see them get injured. When you're watching these guys, you're probably going to get motivated. I also want to be a bencher. I love setting PRs. You don't think I love setting PRs as well. I did exactly as these kids were doing. I in fact injured my chest at 17. My best bench at 17 was 293 pounds. A lot less than these guys. But remember, I was in fact natural and I was able to enjoy bench pressing for decades to come. You don't need to peak and bench press 500 plus pounds when you're 17 in order to enjoy lifting. And so what would I rather see? Keep the ass on the bench, pause the weight, and lift the weight up. Perhaps you're not going to be as strong. Maybe you can only bench press 375 lb only. That's still redonkulous. 375 lbs done properly, ass on the bench, paused. Way less chance of getting injured and you can continue to improve exactly how you did. You guys know what you're doing. progressive overload, you add five pounds. And so, for example, two or three weeks from now, you increase by five pounds. And so, imagine every month you go up by five pounds, that's 60 lbs in a year. You start at 375, now you're going to be in the 400s. In a year, you'll be at 500 lb in 2 years. 19 years old, pausing 500 lb and probably close to a world record. And so, why not take your time? You don't need to go up by 5 lbs every other workout. And so you don't need to start cheating the weight ass off the bench and bouncing the weight off your chest in order to set those PRs. Every time you do that, you're forcing yourself to cheat that much more to get the weight up. >> Speed rep two. [screaming] >> Now 485 lbs, five plates on each side in kilog. Very, very impressive. Now mind you, he has elbow sleeves on, which is essentially like having knee wraps. It's going to reduce your injuries in your elbows. And so I see nothing wrong with that. But remember, he's bouncing the weight off of his chest. The stretch reflex is going to take place. And he's at a significantly increased rate of injury by tearing his pecs. This is dangerous, especially with one rep going for PRs. Remember, >> he did bench 500 last night. >> He bench pressed the night before and he bench pressed very heavy earlier in the week. His central nervous system is overtrained. His body is overtrained. He shouldn't be lifting, but he's trying to set a PR. This is a picture perfect scenario, the perfect storm for having an injury. I would rather see him pause that weight on the chest knowing it's going to take a significant amount of weight off the bar. He's not going to be able to lift as much, but it's going to prevent him from getting injured. And does he really need to bench press 565 lbs today? Was it not impressive enough if he had said, "Hey, guess what? I bench press 485 pounds. Paused at 17 years of age with Larry Wheels. And you watch him bench the weight. Ass on the bench. Pause. Lifts it up uninjured. Bravo. Why are we doing this? Your egos are getting in the way. At 17, this is what happens. Especially when you're on test and even more so when you're on trend. It alters your mind. You can't think clearly. All you're thinking of is making the gains. You don't know what you're saying. you don't know what you're doing. Your risk tolerance assessment, your ability to push yourself harder than you should, it's clearly higher than last time. Larry Wheels, we've seen him, he said, "I'm not bench pressing all this weight. I'm taking my time. I don't want to get injured. I need to progressive overload to get to that point." Larry, when he was younger, he wasn't so intelligent and he risked injury every single time. And so what we're going to see in the future is eventually they're going to get injured or once they come off the performance enhancing drugs, the PRs are going to never happen again. You really think he's going to keep bench pressing more and more weight while going off of the steroids? And so imagine how hurtful that's going to be to his ego when every day he goes to bench press and he gets weaker. It's not fun. But if you stay natural every month or two, you're probably going to end up adding five pounds to that bar, which is always going to be fun. And so, why not stay natural at least until you're 25, at least until you're hitting a plateau. And if you want to break through that plateau, Turk Builder Max, 100% natural, water approved. Remember, it's on the watch list, but it's not banned. And so, you can use it in drug tested sporting competition. It won't affect your blood work. And so if you take this, I don't even care if you take three pills a day like Coach Greg. You won't have negative blood work. And so what are you waiting for? Code Greg, 15% off. And remember, if it doesn't work, if it doesn't improve your PRs, you don't get stronger, don't put on more muscle, money back guarantee with a $20 gift card. >> I swear to God, I've known him every day. He's natural. I've been to his house. I know him very well. He's natural. >> Full stop. I mean, did you need me to add anything to that? He's been to his house. You know, if he was on steroids, I would have found them. I mean, there's no hiding places that he would have had in his house that his parents couldn't find. I would have found him because I'm his friend. I would have known that. He would have told me. Do you really think friends tell each other everything? News flash, they don't. What's next? My friend is married and I've been to his house and so I guaranteed he's never cheated on his wife. I guarantee it. It's not possible because I've been to his house. >> Really? >> He's natural. >> We been best friends for like two years. >> And so his friend, rather than saying, "You're right. I am natural. I tell him every day I'm natural. I know it seems crazy. It's hard to believe." I mean, it's less likely that I'm natural than even Julian. But Julian is natural. You've seen his blood work. I'm telling you, Larry, I'm natural. And if anyone doubts me, I will take the blood work test at any time. I challenge anyone. and if I fail, I I'll pay them $10,000. Has he done any of that? Has he actually stated his natural here? Or was his response to being told that he's natural? Was his response not, "We've been friends for 2 years." >> He's natural. >> We've been best friends for like 2 years. >> He didn't say, "Yes, he's not lying." He didn't say, "It's true. I'm natural." He said, "We've been best friends for 2 years." Okay, that part I believe I believe him. But he didn't address being a fake natty. That's what people do. I'm telling you, I'm very good at reading people. They do not want to lie. And so when they scrimmage around the truth, they avoid answering the question. If you say, "Are you natural?" and they say, "Yes, I'm natural." It's a lot more believable than, "Are you natural?" Why would you think I'm not natural? I'm not that big. Look at my arm. It's not that huge. Larry Wheels was stronger than me. Or you said that my friend wasn't natural. Or why would I answer that question? If you're natural, you say you're natural. It's not that deep. >> No, it wasn't even close. And it's too much weight and he could have been injured. Larry was able to help him up. And you see the safety rack is too low. >> Yep. >> And so ass off the bench bouncing. We can see his lats full of stretch marks and so on, which is from building so much muscle so quickly, which steroids could do. But hey, he's natural, right? Because his friend was at his house and they've been best friends for 2 years. >> It's pretty incredible. Even with the cheating and so on, I know my best 405 bench was for 15 reps with the pause. 405 for 15. I'm very good at endurance. The fact that he did, I think it's 398 lbs for 14 reps with no pause means he could probably bench roughly nine or 10 with a pause. I can normally get 2/3 as many reps with a pause that I can by getting touch and go. Obviously, with a pause, it's hard. You have to hold a weight and so on. If he's getting about 400 lb for 10 paused reps, that is insane. It means he could bench press over 500 lb for a single, which we've seen him be able to do. It's so much weight that it's like, why would you even use steroids? Like, when you're that good without it, why would you use it? Most people see it the opposite way. They'll say, "Oh, you don't have a great physique. Why would you bother taking steroids? You know, your physique is mid. Why would you take steroids?" This guy's physique, "Wow, it's so amazing. You should take steroids because you could be a Mr. Olympia." I see it as the opposite. If you can get an amazing physique, natural or you're very strong natural, which is what I was doing when I was 17, 18, 19, 27, and so on. Why would I want to use steroids? I was already winning. I was already setting PRs. I was already doing amazing. I already developed an amazing physique without it. And so, if you're doing good without it, and you have this kind of genetics, don't use steroids. Why would you bother? You're already winning. Like, when you're already winning, don't need to cheat. You win without cheating. I understand you're cheating cuz you're losing. I mean, you're going to fail your test and so you're going to cheat and then you pass the test. Say it's your grade 12 English project and you're using chat GBT, write your project and so on. I kind of get it. You're going to fail without cheating. If you already have a 100 average, you're already the best at it in the world without cheating. Why would you cheat? You were going to win anyway. And so that is what I don't understand. If you have amazing genetics, you already look superb. You're already very strong. continue to go natural. When you turn 19 or you hit a plateau, perhaps then you can use Turk Builder Max. But that isn't cheating. It's just going to take you to the next level. Remember, money back guarantee, $20 gift card. Code Greg, 15% off. And so, please wait. You don't need to compare yourself to these 17-year-olds. Pretend you never even saw it. It doesn't count. Objection, your honor. Sustained. The jury disregard those comments. And so, disregard this video. Pretend you've never seen a 17-year-old bench press over 500 lb cuz I don't want you to have to compare you to them. It's not normal for 17-year-olds to bench press even 400 lb. And so remember, I eventually had a world record in the bench press and at 17 I benched 293. Compare yourself to that or don't even compare yourself to that. If you're in the 200s and you're 17, you're already winning. Don't use steroids. You're already amazing. Just save it. Does that make sense to you? We've seen all these young kids go on to using performance and drugs. Eric English is bench pressing almost 400 pounds already. What is he 15? This is ridiculous. Wait to use steroids until you're older or don't use them at all. Go to the gym. Train harder than freaking last time and make your gains. >> So, you turn 18 in April? >> Yeah. >> Oh, dude. So, you might hit 600 before you turn 18. >> That's my goal. >> And so, his goal is 600 lb by the time he turns 18. This is stupid. I'm sorry. Forget the goal. Try to do whatever you've done now, but do it properly with no bounce. Perhaps pause the weight. Keep the ass on the bench. You don't need to have a goal of bench pressing 600 by 18. If you bench press 600 by 18, let's say he actually does it. Blah. Oh, he did it. Then what? He has to do 700 by 19. It's too much. It's like my bike drafting example. Once you've cheated to set a PR, you're then going to have to continue to cheat to continue setting PRs. And lifting weights, it's all about the PRs. And so please don't cheat from the beginning. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two boops. Seco bars to seco. You get them for half price. Uh coaching plans by me and my team. And also if you want to become an affiliate or a sponsored athlete, please apply. Click the link in description. We're looking for more affiliates, more athletes. We're growing. The channel's growing. The supplements are going around the world. And so if you want to become part of the fastest growing supplement company out there, click the link in description.