Women that train super hard, they generally have about the same relative amount of muscle mass for their total body weight as men do. >> I mean, why is he full of nonsense? Like, why is this guy lying? Why is this guy on the show? And so, he's wrong. He's on Men's Health. What do they How do they get these guys? Who is this guy? Is this guy's Frank's trainer? Who is he? A 46-y old guy who's morbidly obese? Why is he on the show? Can you imagine why I'm upset with the Canadian government and the health care system right now? Like why am I unable to get testosterone? I mean I used to sell it underground performance-enhancing drugs and so do I now have to buy underground testosterone because the pharmacies have simply run out. >> I mean what would you do if you were me? And so when I look at these three guys it almost looks like Natty half Natty as in he's on HRT and so on and then fullon blasting steroids. That's how I see it. natty. Kind of not natty and definitely not natty. >> The way I look is more of a byproduct of the way I train and of my lifestyle. So I eat once a day and I'm constantly at a calorie deficit. >> And so Frank Gerillo, he's not quite Coach Greg. He said he eats once a day and he's constantly in a calorie deficit. Nope. He's constantly mean gaining. Big difference. Let me tell you why. If you're constantly in a calorie deficit, you're going to lose weight. You're eventually going to lose all your body fat and all your muscle and wither away. That's what it's known as that word that rhymes with rexic. You can't for years straight be in a calorie deficit. When you maintain a shredded looking physique year round, you are maintaining. You're maintaining. You're at your maintenance weight. You're not in a calorie deficit. You're eating at maintenance. >> You know, aging to me, it's not about the number. Although it it is a little offputting to say, "Wow, I'm 60." It's about my lifestyle. My lifestyle creates me, not my age. >> And so, I'm sorry to say, but it's a combination of your lifestyle as well as your age. I'm 50 and I'm certain that at 60 I won't be as fast on a bicycle. I won't be able to lift as much weight as I can right now. It's inevitable. Father time eventually is going to catch up. If you're trying to maintain your health and perhaps you're getting a little bit older, of course, you can click on the link and contact Algo RX. They can prescribe you various peptides, inclines, seialis, telmosartin, the list goes on and on. And so if you're trying to optimize your health and you don't want gatekeeping from, for example, your doctor, their doctors will prescribe prescription medications right to you, whether it be Ozepic or Turzipide, you can get them from Algo RX. And so, code Greg, 10% off. And so, the older you get, the more you're going to lose. Frank Gerillo was approximately 53 years of age and he went to the doctor he was losing his energy. He was saying why is it that after 1 and 1/2 minutes during 3 minute sparring I don't have any energy I just feel tired I don't have the energy I once had his testosterone levels were checked 250 nanogs per deciliter that is not very high and so he was given a prescription for HRT made a world of difference he waited until he was in his 50s perhaps you need this when you're younger perhaps you might only be 40 you might need this some people they need it even younger especially if their body fat fat percentages are too low, they're not eating a healthy diet, perhaps you're too stressed, you're not getting enough sleep, they may in fact need a prescription from their doctor, whether it be inclapene or HRT. And so, please consider Algo RX. Click the link in the description. Now, if you're younger and you don't need HRT, of course, you can start with something like Gest Platinum to increase your testosterone levels by 1 to 200 NOGS per deciliter. Code Greg, 15%. It was based on a video game and the video game character was big and strong much much like your build. I went up to 188 lbs at one point and I was shredded. >> And so at 5' 10 188 lb shredded that is a lot of muscle. Remember Hussein far hat 5'11 184 lb right now. And so bigger than Hussein >> you know I just eat my grass-fed meat you know my organic avocados my organic eggs my organic raw cheese and that's it. I eat the same thing every day. man like a dog. >> And so he loves to train. He eats the same thing every day. He does the same training. He doesn't miss a workout. His trainer goes with him when he's on the road. And so he is about this lifestyle. And so if you want to look like this when you get older, you have to make it a priority. >> Uh I box 6 days a week. It used to be jiu-jitsu and boxing, but jiu-jitsu got to be a little tough on the rest of my face and stuff for work. And so, you know, I had to give up jiujitsu because, you know, my face had to be pretty. I had to cover up my face with makeup from, you know, all the wrestling and so on. And so, I gave that up and focus solely on boxing. Okay. And so, I had to try to put on more muscle on my legs. You know, all that running around playing basketball, it was so hard in the legs. I was having a hard time building muscle. And so, I focused just on soccer. So, none of that makes sense to me, but hey, I digress. >> And then what I'll do is about 5:00 I'll eat. And then about 7 I'll go to the gym again and I'll do uh strength and conditioning stuff. And I do that four or five times a week. >> And so he says, you know, I like to feel light. I like to go to the gym and I feel light. I like being light all the time. Okay, I get it. >> But he then says he eats one meal a day and he eats that meal at 5:00 and he's training at 7. And so if you're eating one meal a day and unlike what he said, he says he's constantly in a calorie deficit. He's clearly eating at surplus. And so with the amount of activity he's doing, he remember he's going to the gym twice a day. He's 5'10", over 180 lbs, singledigit body fat. I'm guessing his calories is probably around 3,000, maybe a little bit more. Why would you eat 3,000 calories in one single meal when it doesn't optimize muscle protein synthesis? I'm not saying you can't build muscle eating one meal a day, but if you like going to the gym empty and you eat 3,000 calories at 5:00, how are you empty at 7? You're not. So, would it not make more sense to eat after your training? If you want to feel empty and light while you're training, eat immediately following your workout. And if you're working out twice a day, eat following each and every workout. Does that not make more sense? Or why not just eat five meals a day? 600 calories five times a day. Spread it out and you'll constantly feel a little bit more empty. When you only eat one, maybe two meals a day, you're eating massive portions. Very hard to feel empty. >> I eat once a day. I eat only real food. Uh I'm really strict about what I put in my body. Specifically things that are just uh not whole foods. I just don't I just don't do it. >> So he only eats real food. He doesn't eat things that are not whole foods. This is fine. But here's the thing for the average person, you watching this at home. And so here's the thing. There's hardly any difference if you're an athlete and you're doing your cardio and so on. So for example, myself, for example, I've raced 90 minutes on the bicycle every day for the last almost week here. And so I can eat 4,000 plus calories a day. If I eat 1,000 calories of licorice, jelly beans, jujubs, and so on versus 1,000 calories of chicken, broccoli, and rice, there's almost no difference in terms of my ability to build muscle, my health, and so on. And so, as long as you're getting in your one gram of protein per pound of body weight, you're eating a few fruits and vegetables, the rest, it doesn't make that much difference. Now, sure, a little bit of difference, but not that much. In comparison, if you don't exercise versus you do exercise, there is a world of difference. And so, if you line me up with two identical twins, one goes to the gym, does cardio, and so on, eats a [\h__\h] diet. The other twin chicken, broccoli, and rice, but doesn't lift weights, and doesn't do any cardio. The person on the [\h__\h] diet who trains and does cardio is way healthier than the person who's eating perfectly. And so on the lowhanging fruit of the scale, it's way more important that you exercise doing cardio and lifting weights than eating healthy. Eating healthy is icing on the cake. Literally. I don't drink. Right. When people say they don't drink, I often wonder, is that code for they sniff creatine? Like I don't drink. Okay, that would be like a fake natty saying, "I don't take steroids." Oh, well, do you take RAD-140, Austrian growth hormone peptides? I don't drink, guys. You know, I don't drink. Cool. Is that code for you do drugs? I just want to know. Why not say, you know, I don't drink or do drugs? I'm just sober. And so, if you only say I don't drink, I think that's code for you do drugs. It's my opinion. Maybe I'm wrong. I just love feeling great. >> He just said he loves feeling great. Last I checked, when people visit their friend Molly, you know, she's such a sweet gal. I feel like she makes people feel great. You know, she has home-cooked meals prepared, soups and cakes, pastries, and so on. And so, does Frank Gerilla go and visit his friend Molly for desserts and candies, home-cooked meals, which allows him to feel great? Maybe. But does it really matter? The Rock knows it doesn't matter cuz The Rock is on hella freaking gear. >> There's no like high technology shortcut secret, you know? It's it's kind of old school. >> So, there's no real secret. He only lifts weights for about 40 minutes, but he's only resting 30 seconds to a minute between sets. And so, my opinion, if you're trying to get in and get out, you go from one machine to the next. You work on agonist antagonistic muscles. So, for example, you do a set of biceps and a set of triceps. You can do a set of chest and do a set of back. You mix it up. upper body, then lower body, back and forth. And while you're training your upper body, you can rest your legs. And while you're training your legs, you can rest your upper body. I only go to the gym twice a week. I train my full body. And the remaining days, as well as the days where I go to the gym, I'm doing cardio. Now, on days I'm training weights, cardio is going to be easy. It's going to be like zone 2. Heart rate preps 125 beats a minute, maybe an hour. But on other days, perhaps I'm racing an hour. Perhaps I might go an hour and a half, higher heart rate intervals, and so on. And so if you're trying to live longer than last time, it's important to work on your V2 max. Many people argue what's more important, strength or cardio. It's cardio. Cardio builds strength. If you take the average person who doesn't lift weights and you put them on a bike and say start sprinting, start riding up this hill. Try and win a Zift bike race, they are going to develop a lot of muscle. Their quads are going to get bigger, their hamstrings, their glutes, even their upper body. You're sprinting. You're pulling back and forth. And so if you had one option, one thing that you could do, you do cardio and you do it harder than last time, progressive overload, add in some hit intervals and so on, you're going to improve your V2 max and you are going to live a long and healthy life. The weights, that is a bonus. >> Sexually, I was fine. I mean, I didn't, you know, I didn't uh I didn't feel like it that was kind of my sex drive or anything was diminished. Once I did take the testosterone, uh things got a little back to when I was a little bit younger. And so at 54 when he was prescribed testosterone before he took the testosterone, he thought, you know, I have a normal sex drive. I feel normal. I feel like I should. But once he got on the testosterone, that's when he realized, hey, I wasn't feeling what I was feeling. He felt then significantly younger. When you get that surge of testosterone, if you're at 260 and all of a sudden you're at 1,000, you're going to feel like you're 18 years old again. It's an incredible difference. And so, can you imagine why I'm upset with the Canadian government and the health care system right now? Like, why am I unable to get testosterone? I mean, I used to sell it underground performance-enhancing drugs and so do I now have to buy underground testosterone because theies have simply run out. >> I mean, what would you do if you were me? 2 weeks, you have a prescription, it says you need testosterone. Imagine if it was insulin. You're type 2 diabetic and you need it. What do you do? But yet I have free healthcare. I spend millions, multiple M's a year for taxes. And guess what those taxes do? They pay for everyone's healthare. But why can't I get what I need? Testosterone costs what? $65 a bottle from the pharmacy. And they can't even give it to me despite the fact I paid millions multiple M in taxes. It is ridiculous. I mean, I'm not afraid of bodybuilding of bodybuilders. like I've never been because they can't move. >> And so he says, "Look, I'm not afraid of bodybuilders. They can't move. I mean, let's look at Mike Isertel. He can't hop, skip, jump. He can't run." And so he may have a lot of muscle, but he's not afraid of him. He's like, "He can't even move. How is he going to catch me?" Now, if he grabs a hold of me, sure, he could probably do things, but he's not concerned with the Mike Isertel. Like, what could he actually do if he can't catch you? I mean, if you can't move quickly, how can you actually fight? And so, Frank is saying, all these guys with so much muscle, they can't really move. But if you actually train to move, your body can do amazing things. And so, bodybuilders typically the problem is all they do is they go and lift weights. They don't do any cardio. They don't run around. They don't move. And their body's functions, well, they slowly wither away. >> And then I went gotten tested and my testosterone was 260. And my doctor had said to me, I'm amazed that you can still train the way you're training at those levels. >> And so at 54, his testosterone levels were 260 NOGS per deciliter. His cardio was going down. Now, of course, he could have added in G2 max. This is exactly what would have helped him. Anyone who does cardio, this is exactly what you're looking for. Go max as in get your oxygen up to the maximum, your V2 max. And so if he had continued to take this and even if you are on HRT, which a doctor prescribed to him, he should still add this. He's a guy who likes to do a lot of cardio, a lot of exercise, boxing, and so on. And so this 100% the supplement he should be adding. Cold Greg 15%