At 19, I can't guarantee if he's lifted weights. He has his shirt on. He rolls up the sleeves. And not going to lie, it does suck. In comparison to lifting in hands, natural lifting sucks. And to an extent, I have to agree with this guy. It does suck in comparison to lifting enhance. When you lift and hands, you make way more gains. But lifting hands has way more side effects. Now, let's hear him out. >> All right, bro. Look at thising bro. I've been working out for three years, bro. >> And so, he says, "This is lame. Give me some tests. First thing you need to know is he's 19. Nine freaking teen. He's a teenager." And so, when you're a teenager, you're automatically a Now, you might be thinking that I'm saying something rude. I'm insulting. I was once a teenager. I was also once a and I'm still a to this day. And so understand that when you're 19, you don't see the world the same way as when you're 49 like Coach Greg. >> What the is this? You can't evening tell that I've picked up a weight. >> Now, frankly, he's right. At 19, I can't guarantee if he's lifted weights. He has his shirt on, and I can't tell for sure that he's lifted weights. When I was 19, I'd been lifting for nine years. nine, not three. And I do believe that I have amazing genetics. And you're going to say, "No, you don't. You're a 5'6" man. Yes, you got me. You know, it sucks being short, but hey, I had to deal with it. And so, not everyone has amazing genetics for bodybuildings, and you have to deal with it. You have to deal with you can't put on muscle quickly, and I have to deal with all the girls are looking down at me, and so, hey, we're even. He rolls up the sleeves, and I'm not going to lie, that ain't bad. Are you trying to say he doesn't look like he works out? Ro looks like Popeye. I don't even look like I work out. That's what he considers horrible genetics. Why even lift weights? 39 years. And so, yeah, I got him. 39 years of training, not three, 39. >> I should be just a little bit bigger. I am 190 lb and I'm not even lean. >> And so, you're going to sit there and say that natural lifting sucks. weighing 190 lb. When I was 19, I was 150 lbs. I'd been training for 9 years. And my goal was for people to tell that I worked out with my shirt on. Now, with my shirt off, I was a champion bodybuilder. I'd already competed at nationals. I was very good. With the t-shirt on, you couldn't tell I worked out. And certainly, if I were working a sweater or jacket, you had no idea. I also competed in triathlons. I was very fit. >> What is that? What the is that? You should be able to see all this dude. >> And so, yeah, you can't see crossstrided triceps. You're not at 5% body fat, but it ain't bad. >> I don't give a if I'm a natural lifter. I should be bigger than what I am right now. >> No, this is horseshit. You should be bigger. I should be taller. Hey, I don't care if I wasn't on growth hormone. I shouldn't be a 5'6 manlet. And other people who have white skin, well, I don't care. I shouldn't be white. I want to be born black. No, it doesn't work like that. And so, you've trained for 3 years. You're 190 lbs. Deal with it. >> This is It's horseshit. It's stupid as hell. >> I should be just a little bit bigger. >> Well, if you want to be a little bit bigger, why not take some Turk Builder Max, some Turk Platinum, perhaps some creatine? Or why don't you eat in a calorie surplus, put on a little bit more size, go from 190 to 191, little bit bigger, one pound, perhaps you could gain five. Brandon Williams in 90 days after 5 years of training, he put on 10 lbs of muscle. Shocked Mike Isizertell. And that was while being 100% natural. At least I think. I did not see the blood work, but I feel like he did it natty. 10 pounds in 90 days. And what did he do? He locked in and he traded harder than last time. He was training to failure and he was eating more calories and for him it worked. He never put on any fat. In fact, he actually lost a little bit and so he main gained and so why not main gain? Oh, by the way, for these supplements, code Greg, 15% off. >> I am 190 lb and I'm not even lean. >> What is his definition of lean? He looks to be around 15% body fat. I see no abdomen protruding. I don't see love handles. His arm looked relatively lean. Did he look fat to you? I don't see a beer belly. >> I turn 20 tomorrow. I haven't even attempted a 315 bench. >> He hasn't even attempted a 315 bench. Well, granted, I had by the age of 20. I was bench pressing over 315, but most 19year-olds don't bench 315. >> I attempted a 500 squat one time in a box and I failed. >> He attempted a 500 lb squat. Didn't get it. But the fact that he could almost squat 519, does that sound subpar, below average? I'm a champion powerlifter. World champion. I made that. When I was 22 in my first powerlifting competition, I squatted 275. 275. Not 475, 275. And yeah, everyone thinks I was a fake natty on steroids. I bench pressed 341. I deadlifted 355. And I squatted 275 at 22 years of age. And I weighed in at 148 lbs. Yeah, you can believe I was natural or you can believe I was hands. Whatever. I don't care. But I'm telling you, this guy is strong. Perhaps he was stronger than Coach Greg. He clearly squats more than me. And so, how is this bad? I can't even squat 500 lb right now. And I'm not even natural. I'm on HRT. I can squat a little bit over 400 lb. Bro thinks he's weak because he can't squat 500. And how much can I bench? About 330. I used to bench 530 with a pause. 3:30 right now. And bro thinks he's weak because he can't bench 315. >> Yo, this is horseshit. I'm going to be the smallest 20-year-old on this app. It's >> The smallest 20-year-old in this app who weighs 190. Wait till he finds out that 190 is more than the average human actually weighs. 190 is above average. And that's for an adult man. For a teenager, it's way above average. You're a child man. Be patient. You'll look better when you're 39. Take it from me. They don't listen to people who are older. You can tell them till you're blue in the face, but until they're ready for that belief, they're not going to change your mind. When you have your mind made up, I'm going to use steroids. I don't think I've made a lot of gains. You can tell them everything that you need to tell them, but they're not going to change their opinion. Skill issue. To be honest, 4 years of lifting here, 350 bench, 200 lean. Maybe it's that extra year after three. Maybe. I mean, in one more year from now, I certainly believe it's possible goes from 190 to 200 lb. And although he can't bench press 315 right now, it is possible that he could move it up to 350, but it's still very unlikely and it's still very impressive. Just because you don't lift as much or you don't have as much muscle as your peers doesn't mean you're doing anything wrong. It's so quick for the people who have excellent gains to say, "Oh, it's a skill issue." Or, "I trained harder than you. I trained smarter than you. I use said supplements and you didn't. I trained to failure. I trained science-based." Or it could be just genetics. Just because you don't have as much muscle and or look as good as someone else doesn't mean you did anything wrong. What's your diet over the past few years? I mean, it's possible that he doesn't eat enough protein, that he's not in a calorie surplus, all those things. But look at this guy. Does it really look like he doesn't eat enough protein? Or that he's simply not eating enough calories? and that if he suddenly ate 5,000 calories a day, he would have all that extra muscle. Guys, you just have to accept that not everyone has elite level genetics. This guy's genetics are perhaps average or above average, but they're certainly not elite level. He's certainly not a one in a million, but it doesn't mean he's doing anything wrong. And he responds, "Chicken, rice, beef, rice, eggs, rice, protein shakes. Obviously, I've missed a few meals here and there, but for the past year, I've been pretty consistent with my diet. Where are the comments saying, "Bro, it's your genetics. You don't have one ina million genetics." Some people just have it. Some people they just don't. The number one comment, which finally people know what they're saying. Bro, just step under some down lighting. I don't think if he had the proper down lighting, got a proper tan and pose and filtered the photo a little bit, added some sharpness, some contrast that he would have an amazing physique. If you don't flex under proper lighting without a pump, you're going to look significantly smaller than those who do. Bro, you're three times bigger than me. And so, imagine the true hard gainers. You know who you are. You're perhaps 6 feet tall and you weigh 130 lbs. You've been training for 4 years and you're thinking, "I can't put on any muscle." Here's the thing. Some people are born predominantly slow twitch muscle fibers, which are good for cardio. Other people are born with predominantly fast twitch muscle fibers, very easy to put on muscle. And so, if you're a hard gainer full of slow twitch muscle fibers, perhaps you start running for two or three years and you're winning marathons, but in comparison, you lift weights every single day and it's very hard to put on muscle. It depends what your genetics are. And so if you're not good at bodybuilding, you don't seem to put on muscle very quickly. Listen, it might just be your genetics. You might have untapped potential in a sport you haven't even tried. Perhaps you've been lifting weights for three, five, maybe even 10 years and you're not very good at it. Then you hop on a bike or you start running and a year later you're beating Coach Greg in a sprint. You never know. And so why not just try various sports and find what you're good at, bro? Sad story. I've been at it for over 10 years and still I weigh 220. I look good, but not like someone who hits the gym 5 days a week. Comparison is the teeth. You all know that by now, I hope, because if you compare yourself to other people, you're going to think, "Hey, you don't have all that muscle. I was watching a video the other day. A guy said, you know, I just discovered I have body dysmorphia." That's when you think that you have less muscle than you have or that you're fatter than you think you are. You're just not happy with your body. He posted a photo and was thinking, "I don't look very good. I don't have hardly any muscle." And he looked in the back of the picture in the back and there was a guy standing there and he was like, "Man, I wish I had as muscle as that guy. He looks amazing. It was his reflection in the mirror. He was the one in the mirror that he thought had an amazing and very impressive physique. It was him. He had body dysmorphia." He called it. He said, "Wow, he's looking at himself and he's judging it critically, but when he sees somebody else looking exactly like him because it was in fact him, he thinks, "Wow, bro has an amazing and jack physique." And so comparison is the teeth. Stop comparing yourself to other people. Guys, have you seen the new protein bars? Milky Crisp. Essentially, it tastes like a quicks bar, a caramel chocolate yummy gooey bar. Look, watch this. You see that bend? You see how it bent just like that? You see how soft that is? I mean, I should open it. It's very, very soft. Some people complaining bars are hard. We made the bars softer than ever before. It's absolutely ridiculous. And so, you can see, I'm not making this up. And so, here's the finger test. You can see I'm bending it like this with my fingers. Now, you might think I'm the strongest man in the world, but listen, they're still very soft. And so, if you bite into it, you see how soft that is. It's so freaking good. I had four bars yesterday. Really, it doesn't make any sense. It's 70 grams and it's got only 230 calories and so it's a very big bar for the amount of calories and it's got 21 gram of protein. If you use code SEC, capital CO, and you have anything else in your cart, it's going to be 50% off. That's half price. It's very, very cheap. And so, you might think, oh, the Anabar is better. The only way you're saying that is because you haven't actually tried it. And so we do have a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And so if you try this bar and the Anna bar you think is better despite the fact that the Annabar is 290 calories and it says 230 calories and this gram is 5 g bigger. It's your money back and a $20 gift card. You might be thinking, "Yeah, but the David bar is better. Is it really? It doesn't taste better." Yeah, it has less calories. 154. I do believe it's got EPG, but it doesn't taste better than this. And so, if taste matters at all, and you want the best tasting bar, I do believe in the world, this is it. And so, for only 20 bucks, you can buy an entire box and or more than one box, but you do need to have another item in your cart. And so, here's the thing. We sold out so quickly that we can't keep enough in store. And so, unless we have this, we're going to run out again. We can't make them fast enough. Perhaps in the future we'll be able to make bars faster than last time, but as of right now, we're selling so many that we had to limit it so that you have to have something in your cart. I'm not sure if the limit is three boxes or whatever, but some people buying, for example, 10 boxes at half price and then selling them in stores for double the money. And so, we simply couldn't do it. We were selling out too fast. And so if you're interested in the SECO bars for half price, of course, enter code seco. Just buy anything else. For example, add in the creatine or Turk builder max into your cart. Enter code seco for 50% off or get several of these boxes. I think the limit is three. And so if you're interested, head to the website code Greg 15% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you like it. Don't forget if you need your blood work done or if you need inclapene or tadalaphil or telmartin or various medications click on algo RX and doctors will prescribe it to you it's very very cheap that's the key I'm a part owner cheaper than last time very good deals and so please consider Algo RX and of course you can get momentous clothing by clicking the link in description subscribe click the bell button comment to boost the album like one of those two videos. If you're interested, get the cookbooks, the circle diet book, the training books, all this on the website. And until next time, I am out.