When you gain that much weight, I'm talking about doubling your body weight and you're morbidly obese and you lose that weight, there's going to be something left over. It's your skin. If your skin couldn't stretch and you gained all this weight, you know what would happen? Coach Greg, in today's video, we're going over the aftermath of the whole Nicocado, two steps ahead, three steps behind, 200 lb up, 200 lb down fiasco. And so you all know the backstory. Nikocado Avocado got to 400 lb and tricked the stall. [snorts] He did it on purpose and then lost the weight in secret only to reveal that he was back to his former self. Or was he? You can say that he tricked us and that he got us, but he tricked himself. He wasted several years by being morbidly obese and took years, if not decades, off of his life. >> But Greg, he's skinny again. And so he wins. There's no damage. >> First of all, let's talk about how he got skinny. Most likely he used ompic or turzipide and or retatuitride. And I'm betting on ompic. Do these medications work? Absolutely. Either of them, any of the three, the first two, ompic and tzipotide, they can significantly decrease your appetite. And so essentially, with the proper dose, you're really not going to be hungry. And so if the reason that you're overweight right now is because you have an insatiable appetite and no matter how many diets you've tried, you've gotten my cookbook, you've done 150 minutes of cardio a week and or more, hopefully more, and you still can't lose the weight, then you may want to try ozipic and or tzipide and in the future in the future and in the future rat try. If you want to know how to get these medications, including uh HRT or Inclomophine, Seialis, the list goes on and on, click the link in description and you can get it from Algo RX. Their doctors will prescribe it for you. There are pharmaceutical medications and they prescribe it legally to you. It's not from some SARM's website. This is legit doctors prescribing you legit medications. Code Greg, 10% off. most likely Nikocado Avocado. He used these drugs, at least one of them, and that allowed him to be in a calorie deficit. And by eating in a deficit, he clearly lost all of the weight. When you gain that much weight, I'm talking about doubling your body weight and you're morbidly obese and you lose that weight, there's going to be something left over. It's not your soul, it's not your health, it's your skin. Your skin as you get fatter. It's amazing that our bodies can do this. Think of it. If your skin couldn't stretch and you gained all this weight, you know what would happen? Your skin would tear. It would rip open and you would die. Many of you are thinking, "I lost all this weight and I hate my body because my skin is loose and hangy and it's left over." If it wasn't for that, you would be dead. And so, you should be thankful for those stretch marks. You should be thankful for that loose skin. But unfortunately, we live in a society where looks matter. It really does. I mean, I can't just say it's what's on the inside that count. Hey, I'm proud of you all for losing 200 lb. And so, just don't care about the loose skin that you have. Because in the reality of the world is even if you don't care, others probably will. If you strip down naked and you have skin hanging down to your knees, it's not really all that attractive. Like, you're not hot. Like on a scale of 1 to 10, you're probably a one. I'm sorry. I'm just telling you the truth. And so even though you're skinny now, if your skin is hanging down to your knees, you're probably not attractive. The truth hurts. I'm telling you what you need to hear, not what you want to hear. What do you think Nikocata Avocado did? >> I am two steps ahead. >> He paid to remove all of his ex skin. I mean, he's got scars from up here all the way down his body to the front of his stomach as well as on the back. I mean, essentially, he's pulled a Mike Hzertell with the exception that Mike didn't have to suck out any of the fat from up here. And so, we see that the scars on the bikini line up to the sides, scars in the back, and lots of scarring, but significantly smaller. Is that a thong? I can't wait to see the work once it's all healed up. You look so good. No joke. Thought he was wearing a thong. Honestly, it does kind of look like a thong, but remember, this would be better than having tremendous amounts of skin. And so if you can afford it and it's bothering you, then by all means get rid of the skin. Generally curious, was gaining all the weight part of the social experiment, too, or did that just happen on its own over time? Honestly, we don't know the answer to that. People are saying it was planned. He's going to say it was planned. I don't think you can plan such a thing. Like if you said, "Coach Greg, I will pay you $100 million. All you have to do is do like Nicocado Avocado and go up to 400 lb. And then after you get to 400 lb, you can just take Ozmpic and lose all of that weight and get back down to a spelt 191 pounds that you were this morning and it'll all be for and you'll be up 100 million. I couldn't do it. And you'll say, "Oh, it wasn't worth it. The money wasn't worth it." Well, that's one thing. It wasn't worth it. Okay, well, let's make it a hundred billion. It's still not worth it. The money isn't worth it. And here's the true facts. I couldn't do it if I had to. They would say, "Hey, if you don't get to 400 lb, you and all your loved ones will die." I couldn't do it still. And it's not because I don't want to live. It's because physically I couldn't eat that much food and keep it down and gain that much weight. I would get sick. And remember, I've tried to get fat on purpose in my past. I was trying to break the world record in powerlifting in the 220 lb division. My goal is to get up to 240 to cut 20 lbs and break the record. I got to 232 lbs and that's it. That's it. I couldn't gain anymore. I was trying. I was waking up in the middle of the night and I had to throw up. Think of it. I couldn't keep the food down. I was trying to yet couldn't. That is how hard it is for some people to gain weight. Other people, you say you need to get down to 200 lb or you're going to die and they don't do it. That is how strong the food noise can actually be. People who are super fat, I'm talking about morbidly obese, 400 lb, 500 lb, 6 7 6 7 6 >> 800 lb. Their life does depend on it and they still cannot lose weight. And so imagine not taking ompic like what is the alternative? Is ompic trozipide without any side effects whatsoever? No. They can have negative side effects. For example, you could have some nausea. You might have diarrhea, upset stomach. There's a host of different problems. But are those worse than dying? Like, if you're knocking on death's door because you're significantly overweight, your BMI is over 50. Don't you think you need to lose the weight at all costs? No matter what you have to do, you basically should be doing it because if you don't, you're going to die. Think of how many people are overweight on this earth. And what is the one thing that we all can do? All of us can lose weight. If you don't eat, we lose weight. It's not that hard. It's not that deep. If you're in a calorie deficit, you're going to lose weight. But here's the kicker. Here's the hard part. Staying in that calorie deficit because it's uncomfortable. It's annoying. It's frustrating. It's like torture. And we don't like torture. And so, we start to avoid it. We must avoid it. And every time you eat that candy, the cake, the ice cream, the burgers, the fries, you name it. The torture, it goes down and you feel good. And it's actually a reward. You release dopamine. Eating is literally pleasureful. And so essentially, starving is torture and eating is pleasurable. It's the opposite of the torture. And so what do you think most people do? Most people opt to avoid pain. And so what they do, they eat. Now, they will have pain later. Type 2 diabetes, heart attacks, strokes, but that's later. We're all about right now. What can for you for me right now? Nicocado has lost the weight. It's not guaranteed that he usic, but it certainly can make your life a lot easier. And so, if you're asking me, should you take this medication? My answer is if you can't lose the weight without it and you keep trying and you can't, then I believe that you should. I'm just coach Greg. That's my opinion. If your doctor says that you should use it in consultation with your doctor, then do what your doctor says. Don't listen to me. Now, if you don't need it, I don't think you should take it. I think you should try to do cardio. I think you should try to eat healthy. I think you should try to manage it by being natural first. At least try to do it first. Same applies to using HRT. You should try to be natural first. Eat well, sleep well, do your cardio, lift your weights, do all the proper things. If that doesn't work, you can of course add in G test platinum. If that doesn't work, well, get your blood work taken. What's going on? Do you need inclapene? If inclapene doesn't work or if the doctor thinks that you need HRT instead, then use HRT at that point, but only with the advice and consent from your doctor. And so, again, if you need to get your blood work done, if you need prescription medications prescribed by doctors legally, click the link in description. Algo RX code Greg, 10% off. And so Nicocado is now back to his former size, his former self, former weight, with the battle scars to prove it. Does that mean he's as healthy as he was before? Absolutely not. I don't want to make it look like you can just gain all of that weight and lose it and there's no difference whatsoever. This would be analogist to saying, you know what, I smoked a pack of cigarettes a day for 10 years. I got drunk every single weekend for 10 years. I abused test and trend every single week for 10 years, but then I stopped and now I'm healthy and so I win. That is a lie. I'm not innocent of this. I abused for 10 years. And so just because I stopped abusing it right now doesn't mean the damage had already not been done. If you've been smoking or drinking for 10 years doesn't mean the damages haven't already been done. But obviously stopping those damages, stopping quitting is going to make you a lot healthier than if you keep going. And so if right now you have in fact gained that weight, you are overweight. You're obese, morbidly obese. And you're looking at Nicocado Avocado and thinking, well, well, he did it, but he had to get surgery. It's way better to lose the weight and have the loose skin than to not. Even though the loose skin, if you can't afford to get rid of it, even though it's still not going to be appealing, it's better than being 500 lb. For sure, cosmetically, it's not going to be that nice to see the loose skin, but you'll be able to move better. You'll feel better, and you will live longer. Your quantity and quality of life will go up. Now, if you can get surgery after and tighten everything up like Nikocado, well, by all means. But what you need to do is decide now. Is your life not worth it? And if it isn't, find someone that it is worth it to stay for. Is it your dog, your mom, your cat? I don't care. In that order, whatever reason it is for you to want to survive, to live your best life. Find that reason. Find that purpose. 150 minutes of zone 2 cardio a week. Start with that. Whether it's just walking, biking, trail walking, going for walks in the woods, just move. And over time, move harder than last time. Start lifting weights twice a week, full body. Like Coach Greg, I'm riding bikes every single day. Try to like doing what you're doing. Like, if you don't like it, then you're not going to keep going. And so, if going for walks for you is boring, then do something different. Maybe you like going and playing sports. But find a sport that you like that gets you physically active. And whatever training program you enjoy that you want to go to the gym and do, then by all means do that. I don't even care if it's science-based lifting. If you want to train like Jeff Nippah, the science-based lifter, the drop deadista, the comment deletita, you can go and do that. I don't care as long as it's something that goes and makes you happy. And so get out there, live your life, have fun, and live longer and harder than last time. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. Of course, if you need a coach, you can apply by clicking the link in the description. And remember, HDLT supplements go into the mood. If you own a store or a gym and you want to carrier supplements, you can apply by clicking the link right now. And if you want to get sponsored or if you want to be a brand ambassador, we're looking for more. Click the link in description. And until next time, I am out.