Sometimes you're going to get news, there's nothing you can do about it. This is not great news, but there's nothing I can do. And so, I'm just going to keep going on. Coach Greg, in today's video, we're going over my blood work in order to help you know what to do in order to be healthy. Now, remember, everyone should be getting their blood work. And of course, if you want to get your blood work, you can go to Algo RX. And depending on your needs, you might for example need inclenine. You might need testosterone or HRT. You might need peptides. You perhaps you need a GLP to help you lose weight or maybe even sealis. Has all my years of abusing steroids. Remember, I've admittedly abused steroids crazy doses for approximately 10 years. And we're going to see what is the aftermath of this. Have I actually been abusing tr in secret? Have I been using secret doses very high? or have I actually been honest? Stay with me. We're going to go over the blood work, explain to you what you could take, how to mitigate your damages. And so, if you're into blood work, being fit, being healthy, and you want to be around this earth for a very long time, this the video for you. In case you're wondering, I got my blood work in Miami. I was visiting, I had rented some rich guy's house, had a nice pool and everything. And during this day, I had severe diarrhea. And I was actually sick [snorts] and I got my blood work done right after training for three hours. I trained with weights for about an hour and a half followed by about an hour and a half of cardio. And so this was taken immediately following INTENSE TRAINING. I wasn't fasted. It wasn't first thing in the morning. And I had done my previous shot of testosterone 100 milligrams approximately 36 hours before the test. And how I do it is for every day that's been since my last shot, I do 20 milligrams. And so I had forgotten the day before. And so I had to do one dose more. And so it was 100 milligrams. Typically, I'm doing 80 millig every 4 days. Believe me or believe me not. First thing you'll see is when something's out of range, it's in blue. This is not what we like to see. And feritin, which is a measure of iron storage, it's only at 27. Remember diarrhea. [\h__\h] everywhere >> going to the bathroom perhaps 10 or 12 times a day. And so that explains it. It's not something that I've had previously this low. And so what you can do is you can compare one set of blood work to the next. If you get your blood work done twice a year, for example, and you do it for a very long time, you get to see a picture. Won't [music] take a picture. Just like how Jeff Nippa, he won't take a picture. If you don't get your blood work, you won't know what is normal for your body. Some people, they're always going to be low. Some people they might always be high. It's important to have several different blood works in order to see a true picture of your health. Next, you can see my URA BUN. It's a 32. It's high as well as the BUN creatinine ratio also high. Essentially, this is a useless test for anyone who's having a high protein diet. There's no benefit to knowing about this. It's almost always consistently high. And I don't have an acute kidney injury. And so this test, although high for me, it's actually normal. And so nothing to worry about. Moving on. Next, let's look at my lipids. And by lipids, I'm talking about cholesterol, both the HDL, the LDL, the APOB, all of this, all normal. And this was done without fasting. And so clearly being physically active, the diet that I'm on, I'm not having any problems whatsoever. When you're on testosterone, oftentimes it lowers your HDL. This is the good cholesterol, but for me, it's actually in the normal range. And so, surprisingly, nothing to worry about whatsoever. If you're prescribed testosterone or you're on testosterone or you're perhaps just doing a cycle and you see that your cholesterol is off, your HDL is in the toilet, your LDL is too high, that's a sign that you're taking too much. Regardless if you're preparing for a bodybuilding competition or if your doctor prescribed it, if my 140 milligs came back and my HDL was tanked, LDL is too high, then even though I want to be on 140 milligs and I might feel good, it's not good for my body and I should in fact lower the dose. And so, as you can see, this dose for me it's perfectly okay. Oftent times, many of you, especially in Canada, you're only going to get your HDL and your LDL cholesterol taken. What they should be doing is looking at your Apo B. That should be the standard. And so just because your HDL and LDL is okay, it doesn't necessarily mean that you are. You have to get Apo B. And please see that it's within range. And the main reason you're getting your triglycerides test is because if it's high, you may in fact have insulin resistance or fatty liver disease, which over the years could lead to type 2 diabetes. This would not be good. And so it's important to get these tests done. You never know what you may be doing to your body. So many of you are perhaps young. You're using steroids. You're perhaps thinking you need to be on HRT. But if you're not getting the tests done, how will you know if you're healthy? As you can see, ALT, I'm at 31 and 33. Back when I was using steroids, it was in the hundreds. That's right. It was over 100. And so if you're abusing steroids or perhaps you're even on SARMMS, you need to check your A and ALT in order to see if your liver is actually healthy. If it's high, you probably have to come off. You have to go off cycle. You have to recover. Make sure that you're healthy. And so please get this tested. Next, homosyine. I'm not talking about a joke from Mike Isertel. This for me 6.3 and I'm on GO2 max. This can in fact improve it. That's a very healthy number. And so, in case you're wondering, a high homocyine is correlated with higher incidences of strokes and or clots. And so, please be healthy. And of course, interested in GO2AX code rag 15% off. Next, hemoglobin A1c, a test to see if you're pre-diabetic. I come out at 5.2. Remember, you want to be under 5.7%. And so, it's a very important test. If you are in fact pre-diabetic, well, you better change up your diet. You better be doing cardio. And so one of the things about blood work is this. If something comes out bad, likely they're going to say one of two things, or in fact both. You need to eat a healthier diet and you need to exercise. And so why not do it right now? Do you really need a blood work test to tell you that you should do cardio and you should eat a healthy diet, that you shouldn't be obese? And so why not just save yourself from trouble? Like I'm all about you going to Algarx, making me some money, getting the blood work, going and buying the things, but rather than even doing that, the first thing you should do is diet healthy and do some cardio. And so regardless of your blood work, regardless of how healthy or unhealthy it is, go out there, exercise 150 minutes of cardio a week minimum, as well as eat healthy. Does that not make some sense? Next, lipoprotein. A, you can see it's in blue. It's not the color that I would want. It's 103. Optimal is under 75. Now, unfortunately, there's no known medication that you can just take to magically make this go lower. If there was, of course, I would be on it. But there isn't. It's primarily genetic. And so, essentially, there's nothing that I could do about it. And even if there was, let's say they said, "You know what? The cure to making this go lower, it's it's doing moderately intense cardio every day of the week, and it's eating a healthy diet." I would say, "Yep, check. Check." There's nothing I can do. I'm already racing bikes 7 to 10 hours a week, and I'm lifting weights twice a week, and you know, I'm eating a healthy diet. And so, even if this number were through the roof, it was 200, nothing I can do. And so sometimes there's tests that really doesn't matter. >> It doesn't matter. >> And so there's an increased chance that I could develop atherosclerosis, which is deposits of plaque in my arteries. But unfortunately, nothing I can do about it. But imagine this. Imagine I stopped eating healthy. Imagine I stopped doing cardio. Do you not think that that number would be even higher? And so thankfully I'm doing the things to help me to live a long and healthy life. Certainly my years of abusing steroids 10 years perhaps that made it worse. And so the important thing is the earlier or sooner that you live a healthy lifestyle the better. Sometimes you're going to get news there's nothing you can do about it. This is not great news but there's nothing I can do and so I'm just going to keep going on. IGF-1 levels my score comes in at 154 reference range of 50 to 317. A zed score of 0.2. It means I'm almost exactly at the 50th percentile. And so half the men out there have higher IGF-1 levels than me and half have lower than me. Now, if I were taking peptides, IGF-1 as a prime example, my levels would be much higher. I'm average right in the middle. And so if I were using all the various peptides to boost IGF-1 levels, do you really think that my IGF levels would come back at the 50th percentile? And so again, it's proof. I'm not taking MK-677. I'm not injecting IGF-1, IGF-2, the host of those drugs. Now, if you do want to get peptides, you can of course go to ALGO RX. Perhaps you have low levels of IGF-1. If my levels came back at 50, I'd be thinking, I want to make them get higher. But because I'm in the normal reference range, I feel happy about this. I feel good. I feel I look good. And my advice to anyone is this. Use the lowest dose that makes you happy. If your IGF-1 levels come back and they're 100 points lower than mine, then I could understand why you would want to take it. Now, perhaps you are at 150. Perhaps you're just like me and you're not happy. Perhaps you're a bodybuilder. You could in fact raise it. Now, I don't think that I would want to raise it, but if you want to raise it, that's your prerogative. That's your choice. But my advice, the lowest dose that makes you happy, don't just take something to raise it just because you want to be the next Mr. Olympia. When I decide to do something to myself, I think would I do that for somebody else. So for example, maybe my sister or my brother and so on. If I think that IGF-1 levels, perhaps doubling it has absolutely no risk whatsoever. None. I have a lot of money, I can afford it, then why wouldn't I do it? But I personally feel like if I raise my IGF-1 level super high that it might take years off of my life. And to the same extent, I want to take 200 milligrams. I've been okay to do it, but the reason that I don't is the lowest dose that makes me happy. And I'm thinking, if I was to prescribe this to my dad or my brother, my sister, whatever, somebody that I really care about, would I prescribe him this? And the answer is no. Because I feel like if I raised the dose any higher, then it might put in some amount of risk. And to me, that's not worth it. And so, rather than thinking about am I willing to take that risk, well, when you're young, you don't care about risk. And that's so that's not smart. You need to be able to look into the future and say, "Would my future 50-year-old self think that this is a good idea?" And if they say no, then you probably shouldn't do it. And so when I decide what supplements to take, testosterone, various peptides, and so on, I'm thinking, is it worth it to my future self? Would I prescribe this if I were a doctor to a member of my family, somebody that I love? And if the answer is no, then you shouldn't do it. Because when you're young, trust me, you're not developed enough intellectually. You can't see the future. You think, "Oh, when I'm 50, I'll be old." Trust me, you won't be old. And so, please, the lowest possible dose that makes you happy. That is the dose to do. I'm old enough for you. So, just pretend that I'm you in your future. I'm your future self. And I'm telling you now to be careful. Next up, you can see my red blood cell count and my hemoglobin. Those are normal. They're within the reference range. When you use too high a dose of testosterone, steroids and so on, it causes your red blood cell count, your hemoglobin to be higher, your blood gets thicker, and this is not good. You most likely would be told, "Hey, go and donate some blood or bloodlet, if you will." But the better thing to do, the smarter thing, it's not to go and donate blood. It's to lower the dose in the first place. If you're taking so much testosterone, so much HRT that your red blood cell count is too high, maybe stop doing the thing that caused it to be high in the first place. I mean, does that make sense? But if you're on, let's say, 250 milligs of testosterone, and all of this is normal. It looks just like mine. Well, your body clearly is able to tolerate that. But remember, lowest dose that makes you happy. If I raise my dose to 200 millig and my hemoglobin is now too high, well, that dose isn't good. I should lower dose and keep it there. It's all about the blood work. And so remember again, Al Goreex. Click the link code Greg 10% off. Get your blood work. Go over it. Make sure that you're healthy and thank me later. Absolute lymphosytes. You can see I'm in the blue. I'm below the reference range at 850. I'm only at 574. Remember, I was sick during this event and I'm almost always low. My whole life I've been low. Perhaps it's an autoimmune condition in my body reducing my lymphosytes. Remember, I do in fact wearing a hearing aid. I do have an autoimmune disease that's caused me to lose a lot of my hearing. And so perhaps this has been the cause. I've been sick my entire life, ever since I was a little kid. I get sick more often than the majority of my friends. And so perhaps this is just a normal thing for me. There's nothing really that I can do. I just need to continue continuing on and try to be healthy. And so the urinalysis as you can see negative negative negative negative all negative and none seen. And so guys unlike toi no chlamyia. Next FSH and LH you can see both are in the blue below the reference range abnormally low. The reason for that is because I'm not natty. And so, do you all understand it's very easy to see if somebody's natural or not? Clearly, I'm not natural. This proves that there's something that's causing my FSH and LH to be low. It's the 140 milligs of test. If I were 100% natural, those numbers would be much, much higher. And so, if somebody gets their blood work done and shows FSH and LH this low, let it be known they're most likely taking testosterone or something else to reduce those values. Next, testosterone. As you can see, 830 nanogs per deciliter. The reference range here, it says 250 to,00. And so, I'm clearly in the high normal range. My SHBG, it's at 18. And so, what that does, it binds up some of the total testosterone and results in my free testosterone being super physiological. And what does that mean? You can see it's at 235 and the top of the reference range 155. And so although I only have 830 NOGS per deciliter of testosterone, clearly my body is benefiting from HRT that or above what a normal person would experience. And so although I'm on replacement doses, the actual effect on my body is in fact super physiological. And so if I were not on HRT and my testosterone levels were at 8:30, I wouldn't have this much muscle. And so clearly testosterone, even though it's at replacement doses, it's still at a super physiological benefit. And so one of the reasons that I look this good, have this much muscle at the age of 50, remember, I'm only lifting weights two days a week, and I'm training on the bike six or seven days a week, is because the advantages that I'm getting from injecting my testosterone from an exogenous source from outside of my body. If my body produced it internally on its own, I wouldn't have this much muscle. And so, let it be known, I'm not lying, I'm not exaggerating. I have more benefit from being on TRT than if you were not on TRT and you had the exact same levels of testosterone as me. If you want to get HRT, perhaps you don't need it. Perhaps it would give you inclin. But how would you know if you do in fact need it? And as you get older, especially if you're dieting, you have very low body fat levels, you may in fact be a candidate. And so, click the link, get your blood work taken from Algarx. Remember, there's no gatekeepers. Doctors can legally prescribe this to you. It's pharmaceutical. It's not made in some guy's apartment building. This is pharmaceutical medications prescribed by doctors. And so, if you're interested, code Greg, 10% off, by the way, just as important or more important than blood work, and this one is going to be free, it's your blood pressure. If your blood pressure is high, and I'm talking about even if it's just 130 over 85, this is too high. 120 over 80 and no higher. If you're taking testosterone and your blood pressure is, let's say, 115 over 75, you're most likely fine. But if you're taking higher levels of testosterone and it's increasing your blood pressure, it's likely taking years off of your life. And so, let your blood pressure be your guide. That is a great way to determine if what you're doing is abusive or if it's at a therapeutic level in case you're getting your blood pressure done first thing in the morning is ideal. If you get your blood pressure done in the afternoon, perhaps you've been doing some cardio, you're training, exercising, and it might come back higher, 130 over 85, for example, you're going to want to then redo it in the morning to see, did it actually go down and is it back to normal? And if it's still elevated, you need to do something about it. And so of course if you do have higher blood pressure you can go to algorex and you can purchase telmartin. Uh obviously this is going to make it improve. But one thing I would suggest even more than the telmartin is obviously to stop doing the things that caused it to go high in the first place. And if you're not doing cardio and if you're obese well stop being obese and start doing cardio. And one last point if your goal is to looks max your most important thing is you just care about the looks. I don't care about being healthy. You don't care. steroids, pharmarmacology, extreme protocols. >> If you had to decide between using testosterone or a GLP-1, for example, ompic tzipotide, reatrite, it's much more effective to use the GLP1s than the testosterone. The testosterone, sure, it's going to make you bigger, but bigger in fat isn't necessarily better. But if you take a telmardinompic whatever and you reduce the food noise and you go on a diet and you lower your body fat percentage, you're automatically going to look better. The other solution, we can't afford to give everyone, you know, GLP1s. Perhaps we can't afford it. It's the frigin cookbook. This is the savior of all. And so whether or not you're using the our own GLP Max from HLT supplements, you should of course be using this. And if you're saying, "Well, I can't afford it." Did you know that I offer a free diet and training program free? We've given away over 110,000 of these. And so, if you click the link in description, you can get that as well. Remember to get to my website, remember to use code Greg. Ending it here. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like this video if you liked it, watch any of those two bloops. Don't forget about Algo RX. And remember, we're looking for more sponsored athletes with HLT. And so if you're interested, apply by clicking the link. And until next time, I am out.