I guess technically I submitted the wrong draft to the graduate school. >> Oopsie. >> I don't experience the emotion of pride much. >> I have so much evidence, so many shocking details. You have to stay tuned for this. And so I suggest you get your popcorn, you spray it with some Pam, sprinkle in a little bit of sugar sweetener, add in some popcorn spice, and sit back and enjoy. It's going to be a good one. Coach Greg in chapter two of the Israel files and boy did this just get interesting. I'm talking about lawsuits, talking about the cover up AND WAS THAT IN FACT THE FINAL DRAFT or was that just him getting started his first draft only? And so Mike's friend, it's a boy. He goes by the name of Dr. Milo Wolf. Also has a PhD. you know, he's just like Mike. And so, Millow Wolf is going to go on a tangent about how it doesn't matter the prestige of the university, how that's not a big deal. Perhaps maybe easier for you to graduate from. And so, remember, in this video, they're going to try to bedazzle you, bamboozle you, >> play bamboozle, >> and say that Solomon, well, he's clearly biased. I mean, he couldn't do a fair representation. The man doesn't like Mike and so he's clearly biased. Does anyone know how Millow Wolf got a YouTube channel with over a 100,000 followers? Do you think maybe it's because of Mike and so Mike gave him this platform? Mike made him a person that some people listen to. And so is Wolf maybe slightly biased in his own right? The video has gone viral, pulling in over 700,000 views in just a few days. >> And so that video now has over 1 million views in 4 days. It's gone viral. The university is now threatening to potentially sue him. And someone I know contacted the professor, wrote him, and said, "Can I get the final draft? I I want to see what's going on." How could anyone believe that a university would pass such a thesis that this would actually be the final draft? I mean, it's so bad. How would anyone think that we would have allowed this to pass? Well, because it's presented on the university's website and it says this is his final thesis. Well, because that's the paper that's presented. Are we supposed to think, "Oh, there's no way that they would have accepted this." The average person doesn't know. How many people have read this? I know of two. My friend's wife and Solomon. and they both read the exact same draft and she read it months ago. And so they're saying that Solomon somehow cherrypicked the problems in his thesis that they're considering legal action. How's that going to work? And so and so why do you think they're considering legal action? Because that university looks bad. Why would you want to go to that university? I mean, if they could make such an egregious error to show the wrong paper, what else could they be doing wrong? And so, apparently, they're doing an investigation to find out how the wrong draft could have been published. Yeah. How's that going to end? Does anyone trust that they're going to do the right thing or that perhaps there's a cover up? >> For context, Mike hasn't even watched Solomon's video. He doesn't respond to this kind of content as a matter of principle. >> What does that tell you about Mike? He hasn't even watched the video. He won't even give it any acknowledgement. If I didn't read it, it didn't happen. I'm going to live in my own bubble. Solomon can say all these points, which I mean, if you read the paper, they're valid. He doesn't want to address it. Wouldn't you want to know what people are saying? I mean, if you have the wrong draft, if you made those many errors, wouldn't you want to know what's going on so that you can address it? And why is this video on Dr. Milow Wolf's channel and not on Dr. Mike's channel? Is it because he knows it'll get fewer views on this low-level YouTuber than Dr. Mike's channel? Are they trying to downplay it? Perhaps in a week it will go away. Mr. Mike Isertell, I don't experience the emotion of pride much. >> I don't experience the emotion of pride much. I'm both on a raw IQ scale smarter than almost every coach, maybe every coach. >> Uh, all the stuff I do and accomplish, I'm kind of like, that's a thing that happened. I guess what's next? Or something like that. >> And I know more about physiology, body responses, etc. than they do. >> You are presuming you know more than me about the thing I'm one of the top experts in the world in >> pride much. There's a very high probability that I'm much better at making fun of people than you are. >> But here's the kicker. The version Solomon reviewed wasn't even the final dissitation. It was an earlier draft, the kind of draft examiners send back with corrections, which means half of his biggest gotchas don't even appear in the version Mike actually graduated with. >> And so, let's talk about this. I do believe that Milo Wolf's main critique is that Solomon got the wrong copy. He got the first draft, not the final. And so all those mistakes, the 200 plus spelling mistakes, grammar mistakes, and so on, the wrong graphs, the wrong this, the wrong that, plus instead of minus, the incorrect presentation of information graphs, and so on, that it's it's just a wrong draft. Now, even if that's true, who would make such an incredibly poor first draft? I mean, do you not read that draft? like did not a single person look through it? Did he not write those words? A simple spell check would have corrected perhaps a 100 plus mistakes. And so it's not even worth your time to do the basics on the first draft. And if it was the first draft, you know, perhaps you guys aren't very educated. When you have a first draft and then a second draft and a third draft, why are you saving the first draft once you've made all the corrections and changes? Are you not going to move on to the second and the third? And so, why keep the beginner round of information? And then imagine this, Mikeell then submits the wrong paper to the university to post. If you spent eight years in university to get a PhD, do you really think that you're going to be so careless to send the wrong copy to the university? Something that's ingrained on the internet that anyone can read since 2012? What are the odds of this? I mean, one in a million. I mean, did I not make a shirt for this? And so, what do you think is more likely? Now he's saying he got the wrong draft. Solomon went on the university, same as my friend's wife, and they got what was presented. It's not their fault. Now you're saying that wasn't the final draft. Okay. Why? At 8 minutes and 51 time stamp, it says you can see that the revision by ETSU was done on the 3rd of October, 2025. Do you all know the meme from Mean Girls from October 3rd? >> On October 3rd, he asked me what day it was. It's October 3rd. >> Is this a coincidence? Is Mike in fact a mean girl or is it Milo? And so the people writing wonder if this is going to get edited out. Good catch. OMG. Haha. Revision was done today. And so on that final draft that was finished in 2012, IS IT POSSIBLE, YOU KNOW, PERHAPS more than a one ina million chance that they took some form of a first draft, call it what you will, and they changed some of the mistakes today. I mean, it's been doctorred, it's been changed, it's been altered. October 3rd, 2025. >> I had many conversations with Stephen Hawking himself when him and I were in the waiting room at Epstein's Island. Now, I know that sounds crazy, but he was really excited to be there. He just wanted to talk physics. >> And so, rather than address the question in a serious manner, I do believe this requires a serious response. I literally wore a suit for my response. Let's joke about Stephen Hawkings and being on Epstein Island. Did Hawkings deserve that? Like really, we're talking about Solomon going too hard on Mike. When they're referencing bad things, they'll just say it like that about Stephen Hawking. >> This is the document Mike himself saved, defended, and sent to me, and he corrects many of the typos and inconsistencies that Solomon highlighted in his video. Somewhere along the line, an older version ended up in the repository. And when my friend wrote the professor saying, "Hey, I want to get a copy of the final draft," they were told, "No, we're considering legal action." How did he get it? >> To avoid any confusion, we've made the most up-to-date version we were able to find publicly available in the description for everyone to read. >> And so Mike saved it and sent it to him, but Mike couldn't save it and send it to the university to post the correct one. Instead of posting, instead of sending his final draft that he perhaps worked an entire year on, he sent them to first draft that he didn't even run through spellch check. >> Somewhere along the line, an older version ended up in the repository through no one's fault in particular, and that appears to be the version Solomon accessed. >> Somehow, an older version ended in there. You know, it's just by mistake. Did y'all buy this? >> Given the PhD is now over 12 years old, the paper trail isn't perfect. But one thing is certain, the document saw and reacted to was not the latest version that was actually examined and passed. >> And so why did you edit it then? If it was already done by Dr. Mike back in 2012, why has the finished copy been edited today? Why did you work on this draft today? I guess this is the final final draft. >> We now know Solomon was looking at an accidentally uploaded incorrect rough draft. >> An accidentally uploaded incorrect rough draft. draft. What are the odds of this? Has this ever happened again? Has this ever happened in the history of university that this has ever happened? Is that the university that you would want to go to? Were they accidentally upload the wrong draft? I don't blame him for going hard on it cuz he has every reasonable idea to think this was the final draft. It wasn't. We have the final draft now now uh in the link. >> I gotta give credit to Mike. He's taking this like a man. He's saying Solomon had every right to go hard on it. That's the draft that he was presented and so he reacted to it accordingly. He's not saying I'm mad at him. He's not saying I'm going to sue him. He's saying, "Hey, that was the draft that he saw and based on what he saw, well, he's kind of right." But they're saying this is not his final draft. But yet we have evidence that this draft was edited today. And so where is the truth? Is it somewhere in the middle? And so this my opinion on lawsuits if anyone should be sued, is it not the university being sued by Mike for them posting the incorrect thesis for his PhD? Isn't that the problem? How could you sue Solomon for reacting to what he was presented? That's the research that he saw. That is the thesis. How did he do anything wrong? I mean, imagine if I went to the theaters and I watched a movie and it sucked. It was horrible. And then I went and made a review. later come to find out that that was the first draft for the movie that it didn't have in all the edits that it was incorrect and the actor's lines were incorrect and you going to sue the person who reviewed the movie? Hey, YOU POSTED IT? DOES THAT MAKE SENSE? ARE WE NOW ON THE SAME PAGE? Greg Ducet might actually reach billionaire status with this drama. You must be talking about Greg Douche. And look who chimes in. Good old Jeff Nippard. And what does Jeff write? Perhaps he's going to be on Mike Isertell's side. I mean, wouldn't you expect that? Let's see. Brawl was out here adding semicolons to Mike's rough draft from 13 years ago, thinking he did something. Do you really think that Jeff Nippard should be throwing stones while living in a glass house? Jeff, you didn't see the first draft. You certainly didn't read it. You didn't watch Solomon's video cuz you were too busy doing Janicequa. I went to Google Scholar. It says, "At the request of the author, the PhD is removed." Hm. So, it's not actually uploaded. Other than that, this video looks exactly as I expected. downplaying the critiques, pushing the blame on the system, and minor lying, waiting for him to throw personal insults at Solomon. Now, >> that's not a neutral review. In my view, it comes across more like a hit piece than an unbiased critique. And when you look at the broader context, the pattern becomes clear. To date, Solomon has made more than 10 videos about Mike. That's over 13 hours of content. And so you're saying that Salman can't critique the thesis that he read because he's biased because he gets more views on Mike Israel videos than other videos, but that you can Why do you have a YouTube channel? If it wasn't for Mike, would anyone know your name? And so just because he has a reason to critique Mike doesn't mean his critique is wrong. Just because myself, Johnny Strie, Solomon, and Lyall all have made disparaging videos about Mike Hizertell, calling him out on his Does he really have an RAW IQ scale, a higher IQ than almost every coach? >> Pride much. >> Insert rear lat fart noise. >> Then you look at his collaborators. In many of his takedowns, Salman features or aligns with people like Greg Ducet, Johnny Shriev, and La. Macdonald, all of whom have long-standing personal or professional grudges against Mike. Greg has built a reputation on endless reaction content, often at Mike's expense. >> You really think I needed Johnny Shre or Lyall or Solomon in order to make videos critiquing Mike? He did it to himself. Guys, >> I have a 10-in dick. If it's Jesse James West that's working out with me, I'm touching him as much as I possibly can. M thank you, Greg. >> Man, it'd be cool to like like fight a dog with just your hands and HEY, GREG. DETTE, MIKE, WHAT'S GOING ON? OKAY, THANKS, GREG. THANK YOU, GREG. One of the knock-on effects of Solomon's video has been a wave of influencers and commentators declaring that the entire discipline is a joke. >> Is it a joke? How many of you think that most people who go for their PhDs do so with a sound conscience that they don't or would never cheat? >> If this is what passes for a PhD, they say, "How can we trust any of it?" Well, my brother has been paid by people doing their research what they were told specifically, you have to do this yourself. How many of you people think that people just do their research papers all by their lonesome? PhD is actually surprisingly more collaborative than people think. Doc Stone himself put a lot of work into this document, especially into the um literature review. And so this is really more of a collaborative work very much guided and directed by him to kind of thread the research that we were doing at the lab at the time. >> Mike Israel says this was a collaborative effort. I mean a lot of people helped me on this. It's not just my work. And so when you see a study, do you think that maybe it's possible that somebody paid off the statistician that maybe they fudged some of the numbers to make that supplement pass to make it seem ooh just a little bit better than last time? This is about whether the public sees exercise science as a serious discipline or something to discredit every few months. >> And so if Milo Wolf were doing what he wishes Solomon did, which he's stating is not a fair review, wouldn't Milo Wolf be saying, you know what, Solomon did his 70minute video based on the draft that he was given? It's not his fault. Can't blame him. That is the PhD thesis that was presented to him. It's of no fault of his own. And so I can't blame him for going hard on him. If I read a PhD thesis such as this, I too would think it deserves a fail. And so thank you Solomon for pointing this out. We are now going to rectify it and find out why and or how was this even possible? How is it possible that they posted the first draft and not the final? Thank you, Solomon. >> Thank you, Greg. There is no actual controversy about it. But is it some kind of grandiose thing? No. Did I ever claim that it was grandiose? Absolutely not. Said I have a PhD and I almost never talk about it because I'm not even so interested in talking about it. >> And so Mike says, "I have a PhD and I almost never talk about it." Have you ever seen him make a video where he doesn't mention that he's a doctor, which is what you get when you have a PhD? >> It's Dr. Mike. >> Hey folks, Dr. Mike here. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. Dr. Mike here. Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. >> Don't experience the emotion of pride. >> Dr. Mike here. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here and I'm here with Dr. Milo Wolf, the inventor. I guess technically I submitted the wrong draft to the graduate school. Oopsie. It's a big oops. And so I'm certain that Mike is and even Milo Wolf should appreciate that many people are going to be skeptical of this. I mean, y'all are skeptical when I do natty or knots on certain individuals. If I say they're natural or they're not, you're saying, "Where's the burden of proof? Do you have his blood work? Do you have him failing a drug test?" How are you saying, "Bro, is natural. Look at that amazing transformation." I'm say, "Well, I saw the blood work. You know, the lie detector test." I'm going with the evidence that's presented. And so based on the evidence, based on the fact that this first draft, final draft, I don't know, BASED ON THE FACT THAT that's what people saw when they went to download it, I've got to say it's still looking bad for Mike. Now, if it comes down the road that there was a flaw, can Mike sue the university? Can the university sue Solomon? I don't think anyone's suing anyone. This is ridiculous. you're suing people for having an opinion on whether or not your paper deserved to get a PhD or not. This is ridiculous. >> Uh and so that's been, you know, being rectified now. But yeah, my PhD was one, as as Jared Feather likes to say, 100% fine, which is a euphemism for it happened. >> And so I do believe the main problem was that Mike Isertell was not on Gfocus Limitless when he submitted that first draft. I mean, if he had have taken this, not only would there have been zero mistakes, he would have been more razor sharp, honed in, he would have been able to think better than last time, he would have had more cognitive awareness. He wouldn't have made these errors. And so, if you're interested in G Focus Limitless, click the link in description, code Greg, 15% off. And you guys know this is where you get Ajuga Turkiststanica from Beckistan. It's legit. and use code seco for 50% off of the protein bars, the most delicious ones to date. You got to try them. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Be sure to tune in for episode three in the series Netflix documentary. We're going to cover everything harder than last time. And of course, you can get cookbook 3.1. I promise to you that it's not the first draft, it's the final draft. I wouldn't sell you the first draft. That would be a huge mistake. Who would do that? And for coaching, if you want to be coached by Coach Greg, click the link and apply right now. And until next time, I am out. and not follow and yes visible even these things each multip members of St. Paul those 1342 methods or do you think those critiques sort of miss the point of what we now know was looking at an accidentally uploaded incorrect rough draft. So I'll say that some an accidentally uploaded incorrect rough draft. Accidentally uploaded incorrect rough draft. What are the odds of this?