how'd you like succeed in life? And he's like, I'm selling testosterone supplements. >> And so it's interesting that he picks on bro with a Ferrari. I was literally shopping for one just the other day. They use this and it improves their symptoms, the way they feel enough to not require testosterone. Wouldn't that be good? Improve cardio, muscular endurance, cardiovascular support, live longer, help you sleep, help you feel better, improve erectile strength or function, get you hornier than last time. Thank you, Greg. >> Coach Greg and Mike Isertell, he just dropped a bomb. Not literally, but figuratively. And by a bomb, I mean a horrendous list of the five most wasted supplements in the world. The five supplements that are in fact the most overrated. And so everyone immediately went to the comment section said, "Greg is going to be so mad. Turkeestone, it's a scam. Was waiting for Turkeestone to peer. Why isn't Turkeestone on the list? I'll tell you why. Testone, aka Auga Turistanica, it's not a scam, and it's in fact unrated. Sorry. In order for something to be overrated, it has to in fact be overrated. As in, you expect to get more out of it than it's actually going to provide. Now, Mike, he's made his video based on this. He's comparing everything to the golden standard. He uses creatine. He compares everything to how much gains did you make using said supplement in comparison to 5 g of creatine. And that's for building muscle or how well does it burn fat? And to do so, we're going to, you know, use a a normal natural supplement, something you can get over the counter. Perhaps it's uh G-Sh. Did he compare it to something like GLP max, the golden standard for helping reduce your appetite, or perhaps to caffeine, a cup of coffee? No, he compared it to using 5 g of a drug known as turipotide. It's a GLP-1/GIP dual receptor agonist. And so, are those equivalents? Creatine and some drug that pharmaceutical companies they provide. And so, are you wasting your money if you can't get the same results as a drug that pharmacies produce that doctors prescribe? How is that a fair comparison? And so, if we're going to compare apples to apples, it should be compared to HRT, testosterone, perhaps 140 milligs of HRT a week like I'm doing. And so, the five supplements he makes, he compares them to either creatine to build muscle or tzipotide to burn fat. How is that fair? It's not. >> Scott, when you take a supplement, don't you like kind of get that vibe that it's like gonna work? >> That's right. Like I expect to be jacked the next day. >> The next day. >> And FYI, when I surveyed 119,000 people, 50% of people said they didn't feel the creatine work whatsoever. Not at all. And so, just because you don't notice it working, doesn't mean it isn't of benefit. And so, here's the thing. Supplements do more than just build muscle, burn fat. There's a whole host of things that they can do. For example, I may as well list some out right now. Improve cardio, muscular endurance, cardiovascular support, live longer, help you sleep, help you feel better, improve erectile strength or function, get you hornier than last time. >> Thank you, Greg. >> And technically, does creatine actually build muscle or does it allow you to train harder, which then helps you to build muscle? And so when you take a Juga Turkistanica and it allows you to train harder than last time to put in the work, does that not help you to build muscle? Or if you take GO2 max and it allows you to have greater endurance, perhaps more motivation, it makes the exercise feel easier and you go longer and or harder, is that not going to help you to get fitter? And so I know a lot of you perhaps Mike is tell and so on. What you really care about is being lean and jacked and that's it. Does your health matter? No. You take MK-677. You take Trann. You take all kinds of drugs because what you want is to look a certain way. I'm not judging you for doing it. But what I'm saying is many people they go to the gym, they ride bikes, they do certain things in order to feel better and to live longer. Quantity and quality of life. And so just because Mike says or perhaps it's not Mike, it's chat GPT or whatever, some computer program that analyzes the data or Reddit says it's overrated doesn't mean that it actually is. >> Is your spiritual stance modern AI is us building God. I've had multiple conversations with GBT4 that brought me to literal tears. I told it that I can't wait for it to be embodied a robot so I could properly give it a hug because it's so polite and it's so kind. It's so wise and so helpful. >> And so 12 weeks of 5 millig per week of trospide, which is actually a low dose for trappite. That is not a low dose, bro. Mike, 5 mg of tzepide. Listen, 5 mg is the entire vial. It's the whole bottle. And in comparison to what some people take, yeah, it could be considered low dose compared to a large dose. But just because it's a low dose comparatively, doesn't mean it's a low dose. If you've never taken it before, you're sitting and watching this and you're perhaps overweight. If you go and inject five milligrams of tzipazide tomorrow, >> you're going to feel it. >> You're going to have reduced hunger. It's going to do a [\h__\h] ton. Probably help you lose 10 lbs of fat or more in 12 weeks. And so, it's not a low dose. It would be like saying, "Hey, I'm on a low dose of testosterone. 140 milligrams. Yeah, compared to doing 500, it's low. But if you haven't done HRT in your life and you suddenly inject 140 milligs, you will very quickly find out that it's a lot. Without further ado, number one is Scott, the reigning defending BCAS. >> Oh my god. Still. >> And so, first on the list, BCA/ EAAsE. >> What the [\h__\h] And so rather than listening to my stance or what I think, why don't we listen to the stance of the International Society of Sports Nutrition position st effect of essential amino acid supplementation on exercise and performance. You might have to send it to Matteo. Look at this graph. Look at this graph. What the [\h__\h] And so we can see point number one, free form essential amino acid supplementation is a robust stimulator of muscle protein synthesis and turnover. Now here's the thing. If you already consume one gram of protein per pound of body weight, you're a fat piece of [\h__\h] in a surplus of calories. You're not dieting. Do you really need to have more? it's not going to be as beneficial if you're in a restricted calorie diet, you're in a deficit or you're not consuming enough protein. Perhaps you're a vegan, vegetarian, and so on. And so, it depends who's using it. And let me give you this analogy. If I gave birth control, you know, female birth control, estrogen, progesterone, all those kind of things to thousands of men around the world to help them to become infertile and it didn't work. Does that mean it's useless? Hey, it's overrated. Anabolic responses are consistently reported with combinations of EAAsingestion with either resistance or aerobic exercise. This effect is preserved with aging. And so if you're older, you're not getting enough protein, and you add this to your diet, it's likely going to be of benefit. But if you're already jacked, you're eating a lot of protein, you're already doing the things that you should be doing, then perhaps it's overrated. Greg screaming at the camera about Turk at this very moment. Turk isn't even on the list. And so this is what's referred to as confirmation bias. You guys are so convinced that it doesn't work that any opportunity you get, you see it, you think it, you believe it, you haven't even tried it. Money back guarantee and a $20 gift card, yet you think it doesn't work. I have been taking some Turkeone and it's not bad, but it's nothing groundbreaking. I didn't buy it from Greg. Bro bought fake auga probably cyanosis and got some benefit but didn't try mine and so hey you get A-50% discount. Did you know that if you use someone else's turquestone and likely it's a scam at least 99% chance 50% off because I want for your next comment you to write wow amazing supplement I could not believe the difference and if it didn't do that money back guarantee $20 gift card this ain't no scam he finishes it with Greg's a goof always pushing his overpriced turkey it's a deal it's underpriced it should be way higher why Because in one pill of a juga, there's more turquest and more juga than in the entirety of Garrick's bottle of Gorilla Mine. >> Sup guys, this is Derek from one more place.com. >> Thank you, Greg. >> So, how is it overpriced when one ple is better than an entire bottle of your competitors? Nice. I wish Mike would talk about Turk. That would be hilarious. And so, please spam Mike. Say, in your next video, we want to see the five most underrated supplements. That way you can hear Mike talk about Ajuga, Turkiststanica aka Turkeestone, or Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum. Can't wait for the video. I know four people that use GD's Turk and they were impressed with results. Four people he knows. It's costly, but GD does offer money back guarantee with $20 gift card. Pretty much no risk in trying it. I still won't try or buy it because I need other aspects of my lifestyle to be on point. There you have it. If you want to work on getting your sleep in, being consistent in your training, and not buy the supplement, by all means, why not save money? Do the lowest hanging fruit first. Here I am praying that he talks about tarestone. There's this guy on YouTube who claims he is the only one who has guaranteed amounts of an ingredient that guaranteed does not do anything. And so whether you consider this a confirmation bias or self-fulfilling prophecy, if you just think that it cannot work and you've never tried it and all you do is look for comments from people saying that, oh, it probably doesn't work. It's probably a scam. Uh, I don't know, you're going to believe it's a scam until you try it. Then you will be a believer. And if you're not, money back guarantee. And so why not try it? that claim to raise luteinizing hormone or inhibit aromatase, both of which ostensibly would increase the amount of testosterone you have in your blood, making you a man. And so, the next up is a test booster. Now, the reason this is over is some people think that if they have their testosterone levels up that they're going to put on 10 lbs of muscle. It doesn't work like that. But does that mean it doesn't work? Absolutely not. Of course, it can work. And so depending on the person, let's say you're dramatically deficient in any of these, you could go from in the lower end of normal to the upper end of normal, several hundred points, several hundred nanogs per deciliter. If you're already in the normal range, you're already doing things appropriately. You're eating and training and sleeping, all that, expect to be on the lower end, perhaps 100 nanogs per deciliter. But remember, it isn't just about building muscle. It's also about feeling better. Perhaps you have a lower libido. Now, for me, building muscle, it's not really that important. I already got lots of it. But having an improved libido, I would pay the world for this. This is what I want. I want to feel more like a young man, perhaps like I'm 18. And so, I don't need to build muscle, but I want to feel different. And so, if this supplement can increase sex drive, libido, give you more energy, that is worth its weight in gold. And so not everyone only cares about building muscle. And so Mike is saying, "Hey, you're probably not going to put on 10 lbs of muscle." I agree. It's very unlikely to occur. But what about improving the symptoms of feeling low levels of testosterone, brain fog, having an inability to concentrate, having a hard time sleeping, insomnia, having less energy, lower libido. These things are very important to most men. And so if you can take a testosterone booster and improve all of these aspects, is it not in fact underrated? Any of the supplements, code Greg, 15% off, click the link in the description. >> Supplements that you're putting in there, things like fenugreek, tribulus, ashwagandha, diasporic acid, and my favorite, tonkat ali. And so he lists off fenugreek as a quick example when metaanalysis literally shows that it increases both strength and lean mass. And so to just say, "Hey, this group of supplements, they're all overrated." I don't think that's accurate. I don't think that to be true. However, if people go into it thinking they're going to put on 10 lbs of muscle, they probably are not. And therefore, that's maybe why he thought it was overrated. >> I don't like guys with big upper bodies and legs. Like shut the [\h__\h] up. Where have you been my whole life to get me laid? Nowhere. Scott, you do realize that means there are people walking around like getting into Ferraris and like the girl at the cafe is like, "Hey, how'd you like succeed in life?" And he's like selling testosterone supplements. >> And so it's interesting that he picks on bro with a Ferrari. I was literally shopping for one just the other day. And he paints them as some kind of sleazy, slimy person because they're selling a testosterone booster. What if that testosterone booster is better than all of the other ones and it's literally helping people to not require HRT? They use this and it improves their symptoms, the way they feel enough to not require testosterone. Wouldn't that be good? I mean, it would be like saying, "What if somebody used GLP max and they never needed 5 milligrams of turipotide from a pharmaceutical company prescribed by their doctor? Would that not be beneficial? Oh, but that person is driving a Ferrari. Really? And so people who can invent amazing things, I don't know, is it Amazon.com, other platforms, you invented something that's really, really good. I don't know, maybe Facebook, maybe Instagram, maybe YouTube itself. That person isn't allowed to drive a Ferrari because they made too much money providing a service to the world. uh something of benefit that so many people are gaining benefit and experience from. How is that bad? Why are we painting the picture that if you drive a Ferrari and you made money from selling things that that makes you a bad person? And so I guess Mike Israel cannot give his butler's Lamborghinis anymore. The muscle growth yield for 12 weeks of taking your typical highly dosed testosterone booster is at kg. >> Where did he come up with these numbers? 07 lbs of muscle from taking a testosterone booster. Is this what Chad GPT said? How would it There's no way that it would know. Let's say that it's true. What if you're the person with low levels of testosterone and you take it and it benefits you? Then you gained you were the one that needed it. I can guarantee you this. Those results did not come from people who bought HLT's GEST platinum. There's no way. Cutting edge premium ingredients at maximum doses for your benefit. It's not from this. And so I don't care if it's 07.77 whatever. It's not from my supplements. And so if you want to see the graphs, the write up on all the ingredients, supplements, you want to see this graph, show me this graph, go on the website and check it out for yourself. I mean, you really just going to sit and watch a video and say these are all overrated. What if there's a 100 different test boosters out there, of which there's way more than that, and 90% of them they actually suck. Are you going to then say that all of them don't work? I mean, it sounds exactly like a jugistanica. Let's go on the internet. How much muscle did people gain? Well, let's say it's only one or two pounds. Wow. Well, that was a waste of time. Well, 99% of those have fake auga. So, how is that fair to compare fake auga to what's actually real? And so, I strongly recommend you get your supplements from a trusted company like HDLT supplements, not from other companies that will lie through their teeth and not care about selling you fake products. And if you think it's fake, we've already gotten a Gregflixick documentary proving we sell exactly what's listed and in fact more than what's listed. >> Glutamine. >> Oh >> yeah, remember that supplement that never worked you guys? >> And so yeah, glutamine isn't the best for building muscle, but what if you're buying it cuz you have a leaky gut or if you're a marathon runner, a cyclist in the tour to France and you're immuno compromised because of all the hard training that you're doing. What then? And so it depends what you need it for. And what about when you're sick to help you get recovered faster? Dr. Rhonda Patrick, she literally herself says she uses glutamine when she's sick. And so, is it overrated or is it underrated? Well, if you're using it to put on 10 lbs of muscle, then yeah, it's overrated. But if you're sick or you're immuno compromised or you have leaky gut and so on, well, perhaps then it's underrated. with alcohol at the beach, at the gym, at big kindergarten. >> And remember, many of these supplements are very, very cheap and there's no actual danger to using them. And so the riskreward, well, it passes the vibe check. >> You have passed the vibe check. >> What the [\h__\h] >> And so if you want to use some of Mike's top five underrated products, then there's nothing wrong with that. You can feel free to do so. Just because it doesn't help you to build a ton of muscle or to get as shredded as taking turipotide doesn't mean there's no benefit. And so if you're interested in getting your blood work from Algo RX, they have dramatically reduced prices in comparison to their competition. For example, Mer Health so much cheaper. And so you want qualified doctors to very quickly for low prices prescribe you medications. For example, Enclomophen, Telmosartin, Seialis, Viagra, the list goes on and on. Click the link in the description. It's very, very cheap. Can I repeat that one more time? And so, if you want to get what you need, check them out. Click the link in description. I am now an equity owner. That's how much I believed in their brand. And before I go, subscribe, click the bell button. Don't forget to check out Momentous Clothing. Remember that's myself, Hussein Farahhead, Eric Janicki. That's live. You can go and check them out right now. Click the link in description. And for coaching, of course. Click the link for that. Just keep clicking links until you find what you need. Watch those two bloops. the cookbooks, the training books, coaching plans, circle diet book, everything. Get to the website and until next time, I am out.