I like I don't like I don't regret doing it, but if I could change and go back, I would definitely not. Yeah, that's the same thing as regret. I would definitely not. Is it regret? If I could go back in time, I wouldn't have done it. My genetics are great. Like my grandparents lived into their 90s and stuff. So technically, I should probably live to be like, say 95. If I die at 80, people are going to be like, "Oh, you you you lived a good long life." And I'm like thinking at 79 I won't be thinking that one year is all I want. and I want 10 more, right? Yeah, 100%. But I also do appreciate everything that came with the pursuit. Like I only did steroids so I could cuz I going into bodybuilding I was like you got to do steroids. Like you I did steroids because I wanted to be pro. Right. Right. I was 100% steroids until I got to the point where my I couldn't get any bigger and I still didn't have a pro card. I'm winning the drug tested Canadian Nationals and I'm like, "Well, where's my pro card?" "Well, you don't get a pro card. You just won drug tested." I'm like, "Well, how do you get a pro card? You win the other show. The one that's not say Oh, okay. So, you stare at Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Like, what are you supposed to do? I wanted to have sponsors. I wanted to be a professional. I wanted to make bodybuilding my career. I'm in my 30s. I'm like, what else am I supposed to do? And what happened? It worked, right? Yeah. Same. So, truth is, it worked. Like, I did get the sponsors. Now, it came with a bunch of other [\h__\h] but you know, like, am I supposed to say I shouldn't have done it? Well, of course I shouldn't have done it, but at the time, I want to do it. I think the difference between my mindset and most people is I'm literally in my 30s. Like Chris Bumstead was 18. Like if Chris Bumstead decided at 30, I'm going to use steroids a year from now. I'd be like, well, you're you're a grown man with a finished brain developing you're old enough to decide what you should do. Yeah. But if I hear of a 17, 18, 19year-old, these kids, teenagers using steroids, it's like you're way too young to know what you're about to do, right? Yeah. I mean, I started when I was 28, so yeah, you're old. Like to me, like 25, your brain is done developing. So, anything under that, it's like, h, you should wait longer. Now, if you started training at 10, that's different than if you started training at 22 and you're on stairs at 23, right? Well, yeah. It's waiting longer like you don't think like you don't think about like when I was 28 starting, I didn't I didn't think at all about what I'd be like in 40. No. Then you see the guy the the people who are older who are in amazing shape like, "Oh my god, that person looks amazing for 70." It's like that's how you should look at 70. Was there anything we asked about dura? The dura 500 mg. The dad cycle. He was funny. More testosterone than last time. Jesus Christ. He's like where we're from, we got the dad cycle. I'm like what's that? It's like you know just 500 tests like nothing really and some antivir. So when you're older just take more tests to make things worse for you. He's convinced that if you die at 80 you've that you've done plenty of life that you wouldn't want to live longer. My dad's 77 there. And so when I'm when I'm talking to my dad, I don't talk to a man that's like, you know, I I can't wait to become my mom's 82 this year. My dad is 86. They're they don't feel the urge of like I'm man, take me now, dude. My dad has my dad has dementia and he's, you know, and and it's it's actually funny now this by at this point. It's actually pretty funny the stuff he says. But either way, he's he's gotten bigger. Like he's he he's like he's like quote unquote healthier in terms of physical. He's not like, you know, withering away. Yeah. It's like I don't see him being like thinking another couple years I'm done. Like he's probably going to go like my grandmother died at 87. So like you know he's probably got like he's got years left. Yeah. So like am I going to get to 80? I don't know. We hope but you know I don't know. I would love probably going to take time away that could have been as a young like when you're 25 and you're like you're looking jacked and you're whatever. You're not thinking like oh when I'm 80 I won't care. But when you're 80 then you'll care and you'll be like oh wow in 40 years my kids you know like you know she's in her 50s. Yeah. You know what I mean? So I got grandid I want you want to see you want to see the like you want to see this you want to keep you want to see as much as you can and you only see as much as you can live as long as you can. I think people look at older people and think that they're way older than they are. I think that when I was 25 I probably thought like 50. like 30. My remember my coaches I thought were so old and they were like 30 at the time cuz I'm 49 years old. I'm pushing 50 50 keys of this [\h__\h] freaking maxed amazing supplement. But anyway, I feel 25ish in my brain and when I talk to people like I don't feel different. Like I don't feel like the I'm lucky that I kind of look young and I feel fit but like I feel like the young person. I don't feel 42. But here's the thing, like when people are like, "Hey, you look good for your age." I'm like, "I this is what this age should look like." Yeah. It's not good for your age. It's you should look like this. So when people see like the majority of people who are 50, 60, 70, and 80, like the majority of people are 80 unfortunately just are not. They are at that place where it's like I don't know how much time they have left type thing, right? Then you see the guy the the people who are older, who are in amazing shape, you're like, "Oh my god, that person looks amazing for 70." It's like that's how you should look at 70. Like you shouldn't be withering away and dying just because you got into your 70 or you know like you're good the half your life is done now because you're over 40. I think the the solution to the fountain of youth. I think it's exercise. Some people are going to say it's diet. Do I look like I had the well maybe I do. I had the shittiest diet growing up. I ate crap all the time. And then I abused steroids for more than 10 years which should have made me look older. And some people are going to joke say yeah you look old. But like really for 49 I don't look that bad. I look pretty young. And so what is the thing I've done my whole life? Exercise. Exercise. I did triathlons. I'm racing bikes. I'm trying to undo some of the damages from the steroids. And so whether you're sniffing creatine or doing recreational drugs or or just taking steroids and whatnot. Cardio is one thing that you can do that's net positive can undo some of the dam. Not all of it, but it's so important. I think more important than diet. Like there's Yes. I I like you eat perfect diet and don't exercise versus I'll eat crumple but I race bikes. I'm going to be peeled training 100%. I work with people already that have changed like have not done anything in their life at all had had you know some serious health conditions and in 3 months seen a massive turn on just like I have a few clients just training three times a week but they're doing you know resistance training they're doing um you know cardio and they're working on it. So when I coach people, it's like if we can get you training in your cardio and get cuz that's easy to kind of make into a habit because you're doing maybe 100 reps a day. Like when you're trying to change your diet, your lifestyle nutrition. You're prepping meals like once to, you know, twice a week. You're eating, you know, that's a rep. So you're not really, you know, you're not really enforcing those habits as fast as you would if you were training. And training has a almost immediate effect than diet does. Training 100% and then when your diet gets in, you know, gets aligned. I find that a lot a lot of times when people are get their training and their cardio down, they're like, I want my nutrition better now because I'm I want to see this actually hard work and you know, they want to see the actual hard work. So, it's I 100% agree. It's like training cardio and resistance training is like that's what's going to really, you know, push your life longer. And then once you can get your nutrition, like you could have like you don't be perfect in nutrition, like you could be like, you know, no, 50% on, you know, like figure it out. Like it takes time, but just go to the gym, do your cardio, you know, have something to, you know, fight for or, you know, just to, you know, to strive for. Have a goal, and that's it, man. I think it's the key ingredients. I eat 4,000 calories a day. I eat more now than I was on gear, blasting steroids, and I'm leaner now than when I was on steroids. It's the cardio. And I can eat, if I wanted to eat 1,000 calories a day of junk food, I can do it. And I'll keep the same body fat. Why? Because I burn every calorie off on the bike. How much cardio are you doing now? Like in a week? like probably 30 minutes a day just uh Oh yeah, that's sweet. 30 minutes a day is good. Just keep it easy. I got a stepper in the basement. I got a stepper assault bike. I do more functional stuff. So I'll do like a bunch of sandbag stuff now. Like so I I get AI get a good amount of resistance and cardio in. And my cardio stuff is a mix of either, you know, um list or um or hit. And it actually is hit cuz I'm freaking throwing sandbag and stuff. That stuff sucks. I mix it up too. I do half my cardio is just zone two, just easy 130 heart rate. And then the other half it's like the bike races where it's like the sprint up the hill and then the it's like it's hard stuff. So it's a mix. You watch Peter Tilla stuff? I love him. He's the best. Yeah, I learned a lot from him. Yeah. Yeah. He's Yeah, we that's something we got to chat about. He's awesome. Yeah. In case you don't know, Johnny Shrieve offers coaching. I also offer coaching, both of us. And so if you're interested in getting some coaching from Johnny, be sure to hit him up. If you want to get it from me, hit me up. You can get that by clicking the link in description. Johnny Shre everywhere. Johnny Shre. J O N I Shreve. Johnny Shre Fitness, Johnn want to get coaching. Um, fill the application. Go to johnfitness.com. And, uh, yeah, that's it, man. We get on a video call 50 minutes. It's me. We talk. Go over your goals and see what we can achieve together. And of course, I got to add GO2 Max, Turk Builder Max, the Tplug Stack, money back guarantee. The stuff's legit. Have you not seen Will Tennyson? What more do I need to say? Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, watch one of those two bloops, of course, cookbooks, training books, coaching plans by me and my team, as well as coaching plans from Johnny. Go and check him out as well. And until next time, we are out.