 show Sam flexing, I mean, look at this guy, he's likely not going to be as good as he could be. He'll be lucky to beat anyone if I'm going to be Frank and so who cares. Coach Greg in today's video, Sam Sulik is five and a half weeks out, about 40 days, and he writes, Donuts pre-workout. Sam is way ahead of schedule. He's so fast. He's so far ahead of schedule that it's actually concerning me and he's so far ahead of schedule that it's actually concerning me and remember he's opted not to have a coach, he's coaching himself. I see nothing wrong with that. However, he's likely not going to be as good as he could be. Who cares? Like, he has no chance of winning this contest and so why not just have fun with it and having fun with it and having fun is what he's doing. Is it a rest day if you still did an hour of cardio and then ran around outside for probably like a half weeks? And so for Sam, doing an hour of cardio and 45 minutes of shoveling, that for him is a rest day. For you, that's a workout. Well, for most of you. No, when you do an hour of cardio, that's not a rest day. A rest day is when you rest and if you're doing an hour of cardio, you're not resting. For most people, that is in fact a workout. But for Sam, who's training harder than last time, you know, main gaining, doing all of the correct things, when he only does cardio, that is an easy day. Imagine an hour of cardio on the bike, kind of like Coach Greg, and then on top of that, shoveling the snow. Have you seen all the storms as of late? I'm really glad that I'm ahead of schedule for this show or for these competitions compared to last year because I don't think any of the guys who are coming to do the Arnold are off plan. Sam is showing up as an underdog. As an amateur, he was perhaps the favorite. He was expected to win. But as an IFBB pro at the Arnold's, which is for the best bodybuilders in the world, he'll be lucky to beat anyone, if I'm going to be frank. And so even if he makes the last call out, even if he only beats one competitor, that is a win. And the competitor that I'm referring to, it is in fact himself. So long as he looks better than he did at his last competition, that's winning. Remember, you can't control how other people show up. If every person that shows up is a top Olympia competitor and they're all at their all-time best, what chance does Sam have? And so it's not about him beating other people. It's about him beating himself at 2.30, shredded, looking the way he does. Show the video. Show Sam flexing. I mean, look at this guy. This is 40 days out. He looks four days out. For many people, this would be peak week. And so if you're asking me, he's at least two weeks ahead of schedule. He could go into relaxation mode. He could up his calories by 500. He could reduce his cardio. He could just simply go through the motions. If you're shredded for too long, it actually hinders your ability to come in at your best. I mean, think of it. Is it better to peak early? To be ahead of schedule? To be more ready than you need to be far sooner? Well, let's analyze that. Is it better to be at 5% body fat 10 weeks out when your plan is to compete at 4? I think everyone would understand that the longer you're at 5% body fat, the harder it is to put on muscle, the more you're going to suffer, and the less quality muscle you're going to bring on stage. And so if we consider that he's 40 days out, but he's two weeks ahead of schedule, that's two extra weeks that he's going to suffer and have a very hard time putting on muscle. Remember, the longer you're in a deficit, the lower your calorie intake, the more cardio that you're doing, the harder it is to retain muscle. If it wasn't for that, why would people go on bulks? Why wouldn't they just maintain contest shredded condition year-round? I mean, think of it. If you just compete and you keep going and you stay at 4% body fat, you're ready way out. 16 weeks out, you're contest ready, you're shredded. You have to just cruise into the competition. That is not ideal. And so Sam is in fact making a mistake by being this far ahead of schedule. Now, it does in fact make your mind set at ease. Oh, I can just coast in. I'm ahead of schedule. Look how good I look. But you don't want to be ahead of schedule. You don't want to be behind schedule. You just want to be on schedule. When you're on, you're on. Ahead? It's not good. You might be thinking, hey, ahead is always good. You're running a mile and you're in the Olympics and you run out the first 400 meters and you're five seconds ahead of the competition. You're way ahead. Is that good? Of course not. You wasted your energy. You tapped into your anaerobic lactic energy system way too much and you're not relying on your aerobic power. And so you're ending up with a slower time. And so Sam will in fact be losing some quality hard-earned muscle tissue by being ahead of schedule. When I got hit with a Jay Cutler, like your shape's decent, that was a real take. As you know, last year he was behind schedule. Jay Cutler had to give him a wake-up call saying your condition is decent. Your condition's decent. Decent. Okay, good. He then had to up the ante. And so this year, he wanted to do the opposite. And perhaps a year from now, he'll figure it out. Remember, he's his own coach. He doesn't have an expert who's done this for years to tell him exactly what to be doing. And so the first year of his competition, he was behind schedule. The second year, he's ahead of schedule. And perhaps in the next year, he'll be bang on. I'm feeling beastly. I'm feeling beastly after that one. But no, I... Holy shit. Holy shit. I mean, does it not put a smile on your face to watch Sam look at himself in the mirror and be in awe? He's looking at his biceps, his shoulders, and he's thinking, this is me, this is Sam. I remember that feeling. Thinking, I can't believe that people on this planet look like this and that I'm one of them. You're literally looking at your reflection in the mirror and you can't believe what you see. You see so many striations, the size, the definition. And so it's exciting. He's giddy. He's happy. And this is why he does it. It's not for the plastic trophy of which he has zero chance of earning. It's for the moments that you experience on the journey towards that destination. Oh, this is crazy for me. I don't know if it translates on camera sometimes. Yeah, trust me, it's translating. It looks redonkulous. Me just looking in the mirror right now? I just feel like a total freak. So, that's what I want to see. Like, not even... Holy crap. I mean, the holy craps, the smiles, the laughs, the looking in the mirror. This is the most impressive I've ever been. Okay, let's run through a few. Sam is recording himself. He's recording himself every single day, every moment. His training, his philosophy, his drive to the gym, everything. And in reality, people don't generally do this. And so, what he's doing is he's vocalizing what you would experience if you did the exact same thing. Anyone who diets, anyone who competes, feels this way. You may not be as good as Sam Sulik. You may not have his genetics. You may not even be on steroids. You might be 100% natural. But when you watch, you witness the transformation of your physique because of the hard work that you put into it. Remember, you're the one that did it. You put the fork down. You did the cardio. You lifted the weight. You trained harder than last time. When you see it come to fruition, the work that you put in, you're going to feel exactly like this. I mean, one pose after the next, each more impressive than the last. This looks amazing. Now, when I say he looks about 20 days out, for most people, this is show ready. But I'm talking about at the professional level. He's 40 days out, but he only needs about half. Oh my gosh. No, that is crazy. And you can see how hard this is. I mean, just flexing, holding it, breathing. It's hard. And speaking of hard, you know what this is for. Harder than freaking last time for the downstairs. Increased blood flow, circulation. You're going to look and feel that much better. Also, pre-pump. If you want to get a pump like this, this is what I consume intra-workout. Many people take this before the gym. I take the Blue Lobster. You get Blue Lobster before the gym. And then while I'm training, I get the extra enhanced pump. The flavor is amazing. It's going to help me get hydrated. Increased blood flow. And so you get to be harder than last time all over wherever it's supposed to count. So of course, I'm kind of cheating. Really fancy lighting. Cool camera. It's not cheating to have fancy lighting. You're cheating yourself if you don't. You ever think of that? I got amazing lighting right here. If you don't have amazing lighting, you're only cheating yourself. And so when you send your photos to your coach, your trainer, or when you judge your own physique, don't judge it in shitty lighting. Because if you do that, you're going to remember Sam Sulik from right now. You're going to remember that photo, that physique. And you're going to be comparing yourself to that. You might not think you're comparing. You might not want to compare. But subconsciously, indirectly, you're comparing yourself to Sam. If you've seen Sam, you're flexing the mirror and you're doing your thing. And you're thinking, I'm not as big as Sam. I'm not as lean as Sam. I'm not as good as Sam. But don't make it any worse. Don't pose under horrible lighting and say, I feel fat. I must have 15%. I thought I had 12. Don't say these things. Give yourself the best chance to feel like you look good. Trust me. Almost every social media influencer on Instagram, YouTube, they're posting their best photos. Many are editing their photos. They're even using AI. They're using the best downlining, the best angles. And so when you compare yourself to anyone that you swiped out on the internet, understand that you're comparing them to their best. And so why not look at yourself when you're at your best? I mean, I can see all my freaking lat inserts all the way at the bottom. I mean, he's almost, I mean, dare I say, is he almost as lean as Mike Isertel? Thank you, Greg. With the proper tan, would Mike Isertel be leaner than Sam Sulik? Look, I don't know if it translates. Yeah, buddy. It translates. Trust me. You could have had Coach Greg translating for you. I've been practicing my Duolingo. But I am a happy freaking lifter. And so we're all happy to see how good it feels. And what we're referring to is how good it feels to get a discount by using code Greg at HCLT Supplements. That is a better feeling that I cannot describe. Does it get any better than this? Yeah, it gets even better. If you go to Algorx, you get 10% off by entering code Greg because not everyone can do it natty. Algorx have doctor-prescribed prescription medications, pharmaceutical, and it's all legal. And clomiphene, testosterone, like HRT, peptides, all the things. And so if you need to lose weight or you need telmosertin because your blood pressure is too high, you need Cialis or Viagra because, well, harder than last time, it ain't quite enough. Code Greg 10% off. It just keeps getting better. Does it get any better than this in terms of overall satisfaction? Man, the satisfaction. Bruh. I mean, I'm seeing all these crazy jokes into my mind, but I don't want to say them. I don't want to become the next Mr. Mike, except not gay. I can definitely feel a little bit of extra, a little extra juice, a little extra gas in the tank that lift. Gay to see he's got extra gas in the tank. You don't want to be running on fumes, especially during the winter season when there's snow everywhere. You run out of gas. It's not the time to do this. I think I want to make some of my meals a little bit less enjoyable because it actually makes it easier to sit and eat it for longer and take my time with it and not scarf it down like super quickly. Noted. Sam, do not order or purchase the anabolic cookbook. You want boring, bland recipes that you don't want to eat. Apparently for Sam, enjoying his diet, it's not a thing. It's not something that he wants. It's too hard to resist a food. If he doesn't like the food that is played, he eats it slower and it helps him to be more satiated. Hey, whatever works for you. Sam is a specimen. He's an IBB pro, but for the rest of us, you know, for 95% of the people out there, I strongly recommend you get the cookbook because of the high protein, the delicious, massive recipes that make you actually full. But if you want to have boring shit food, chicken, broccoli, rice with no condiments, no sweeteners, no Diet Coke and Pepsi, by all means, you can hate your life. I don't care. Hate your life. But I make sure to drink at least a liter of water before a meal because that kind of already hits me with like an instant fullness feeling. And so the next strategy that we can learn from Sam is before any meal, drink one liter of water. That way your stomach is slightly distended. It's going to send a signal to the brain saying, you know, you're kind of full. It tricks the brain. It doesn't know the difference between water and food to an extent. And so it is actually a good tip. If you consume more water before you eat, every time you eat, imagine you have to drink a water. Imagine every single time you have to eat, you drink a liter of water. That's five liters. If you eat five times a day, that is a lot of liquids. And more liquids can make you more satiated. It's healthy to drink water. And so I think this is a great idea. Why not incorporate it? And even if a liter is too much, why not just try a half a liter? A lot of these guys, they've got to come in from Europe. They're going to show up early. I'll be going early. I'm flying up on the 5th. They're going to be there to attend and meet the fans and do all the comments. All kinds of stuff Coach Greg could be doing at the Arnold's. And so make sure you get your tickets. Show up to the Arnold's. You can meet perhaps Sam Sulik, Jay Cutler. The list goes on and on. Subscribe. Click the stinking bell button. Comment and boost the algorithm. Get up off your feet and start screaming for it. Boy, we're getting a little excited here. Buy supplements from Al Gorex and HTLT supplements and apply to be sponsored. If you've got a great following and you want to be on the HTLT team to promote the supplements, apply by clicking the link. And if you've got a store or a gym and you want the supplements to be sold there, apply and click by linking the link in the description. And until next time, out.