But every time I kind of, you know, eat a bunch of trash like that, it almost gets it out of my system a little bit. >> I have heard this get it out of your system a hundred times. It doesn't work. It doesn't work with anything. Coach Craig in today's video, Sam Sulic 59 days out has a 5400 calorie cheat day of which he consumes everything and anything he wants, mostly sugar, sweets, and so on. Upon waking up, he has gained 5 lb. Was this a mistake? Does he know what he's doing? And what does his coach say? Let's get right into it. Somebody in this uh in this vehicle may have slammed a cheeky little 5,400 calorie refeed last night. >> And so he's not calling it a cheat. He's calling it a refeed. His typical diet is about 2500 calories. He upped it to 5,400 calories, which is a 2900 calorie surplus. That is not a refeed. That is a full-blown cheat. That's binging, if you will. A nine serving bag of Mikey may or may not have been eaten. You know, a uh a Christmas edition Reese's cup. >> Nine bags of mices, uh Christmas carol, chocolate bar, the list goes on and on. >> There is a legitimate purpose of a refeed. You're dieting down very well, very consistently. You get to a point where you've been flat for a little while, you've reached a new low weight. >> And so, he says this was actually for a reason. He was starting to get flat. He had reached a new low in body weight. His training wasn't going that well and so he needed to up his calories. I agree with every single thing that he said except for the part about adding 2900 calories in a single day. When you have a refeed, it doesn't have to be an all you can eat buffet. To the same extent, when you go on a diet, you don't have to eat absolutely nothing. I mean, I was watching the Biggest Loser 4day documentary, and I couldn't believe the amount of dieting that these guys were doing, losing over 200 lb in 6 months, over a pound every single day. And so, it's all about balance. You want to slowly lose the weight. Maximum, you want to lose 1 to two pounds of fat a week so that you don't lose any muscle. And so, when you go on a refeed, you don't want to add in 2900 calories. That's almost one pound of fat, 3,500 calories surplus a pound of fat. And so rather than having one refeed, of which I'm calling it a cheat, why not have three? Hear me out. What makes more sense? You're dieting really strictly. You're suffering. You're eating nothing but chicken breast, lettuce, and so on. And then for the next 3 days, because well, you've you've really earned it. You've dieted so well, you add a 1,000 calorie surplus to each of three days. Imagine how fun those three days are going to be. An extra,000 calories. Are you kidding me? That is a lot of food in comparison. You have all three of those thousand calories in one sitting. A bunch of mica dikes and so on. When in doubt, spread it out. Remember that. >> But within reason, you can throw some stuff in there like that. And I would not call that cheating on the diet in at least a long-term progress. >> Well, he did use the word within reason. And when you more than double your calories, that is not within reason. And so if you're dieting, please don't try this. Sam is a different breed. He's an IFBB bro. And last I checked, he's not 100% natural. And so he has ways to lose his body fat, but perhaps for you, you do not. And so do not copy this >> because the diet's still being stuck to, right? And the goals are still being achieved. And so what I would ask you to do is to have a 500 to a 1,000 calorie refeed and see was it enough? If it was, you go back to the diet and you continue on. If it wasn't, you add it in for a second day or maybe even a third. But what you don't do is binge your face off in one single meal having a bunch of micica dikes as you really don't need it. >> That last prep, every time I had a freaky day like that, I had a couple. I just didn't even talk about it. What I'm going to promise you is that 95% of people who go on diets, they're going to do exactly what Sam is doing. They're not going to tell you about it. How many IB pros you think are going to post about the massive cheats, the cookies, the ice cream, the candies, that moment of weakness of which they couldn't stick to your diets? They don't want you to know about that. They want you to think all they eat is chicken, broccoli, and rice, and that somehow they're better than you, they're tougher than you, that they're stronger than you, have more willpower than almost anybody. They want to act like they're Mike Israel. >> You've never met anyone with as much willpower as me. >> The truth is this is And people, they actually know it. And so what I'm trying to convince you to do is to exercise balanced throughout. If you diet too hard, of which Sam has been doing, his 2500 calorie diet, it's too low. What is my proof of that? The fact that he had a 2900 calorie cheat. If he wasn't dieting too hard, perhaps eating 2,800 calories, he wouldn't have needed to do that. He would have had more food each and every day and he would have kept more muscle while on his diet. He's already under 230 lbs and he's got 59 days left to go. His weight class is 228. And so, frankly, he's already down to his weight class, but yet he has 59 more days to diet. And so, what do you think's going to happen come show day? He's going to be far below the weight cap and he's not going to be big enough to compete at the Arnolds and do any damage against really good competition. But every time I kind of, you know, eat a bunch of trash like that, it almost gets it out of my system a little bit. >> I have heard this get it out of your system a 100 times. It doesn't work. It doesn't work with anything. Oh, my New Year's resolution, I'm not going to drink at all. And so New Year's Eve, I'm going to drink like a fish. I'm going to get hammered. I'm going to have 15 drinks of alcohol. It doesn't get it out of your system. You're hung over the next day. You don't want to drink. And the next weekend, you're going to want to do it again. These get it out of your system plans, they don't work. What does work is exercising balance, moderation, and doing something that you can maintain for the rest of your life. This is why I would recommend you get my freaking cookbook, cookbook 3.1, all the delicious and amazing recipes. You eat them year round. You don't have to go on a diet for 3 months and then go off the diet. You just eat from the book for life. It's that simple. It really couldn't be any easier. Well, I guess it could be easier. There's things like GLP1s. Now, I don't know if Sam is taking this for example, ompic, tzipotide, rea. These things can make your appetite almost non-existent. It completely gets rid of the food noise. Sam also most likely taking testosterone. And so if you're someone out there and you're trying to lose weight or put on muscle, remember you might want to go and check out Algo RX to go and get your blood work done. Perhaps you need HRT. You might need Enclomaine, Seialis, Talmicartin, and the listing goes on and on. Various peptides to help you to lose weight and control your appetite with no gatekeeping, pharmaceutical prescribed by doctors, all legal. If that sounds good to you, code Greg, 10% off. But remember, you don't need to go to Al Gore X. You can do whatever you want. You can go on a diet. You can get the cookbook. You can get GLP max 28% reduction in appetite. Or why not just Turk Builder Max, GO2 Max. There's so many supplements that can help you. But of course, the number one thing you can do is to put the freaking fork down and do some cardio, lift some weights, and please be healthy. But the main change now is I woke up like 5 lbs heavier than yesterday morning. Just carbs and water. Like it's not any kind of body fat change. >> I mean, and so you might be thinking, how is it possible that he's not gaining any body fat? He just consumed 5,400 calories in a day. 2900 calories more than he's used to. Now, here's the thing, and this is what happens when you overeat. When you're on a diet, your glycogen levels are here. They're practically nothing. They're not existent. You wake up in the morning, you're as flat as a pancake. That's why people keep saying, "I'm flat. Look at me. My muscles are stringy. I'm flat." It means that your muscles don't have glycogen. And glycogen is the preferred fuel when you're lifting weights, riding bikes, and so on. Now, the more in shape you get, the more fat you use for fuel while riding bikes, walking, doing cardio, and so on. But for the average person, you get up and your body's going to want to use some carbs for energy to walk around, lift weights, go to work, all those things. Now, if you consume 2,900 calories extra food from carbs, and so that amounts to about 725 extra gram of carbs, and so what's happened is all of his muscles are full, over full with glycogen. Each gram of carbs stored with three grams of water. And so in his biceps, in his chest, shoulders, everything, they're ready to explode. And so rather than converting those calories, that sugar into body fat, it's storing it as muscle glycogen. And he's on his way to the gym, he does his cardio, and he lifts weights. And so rather than that fuel being stored to excess body fat, he's going to use it to burn those calories off. And so in the end, because he's consistently sticking to his diet, he's yet again back on a calorie deficit. He's not going to store any of those extra carbs as body fat. He's simply going to be burning them off. And so the net result is once he diets off those 2900 extra calories, probably going to take him about 3 days, he's going to get rid of the 5 lbs of extra food and water and be back to square one. And so what did this 2900 calorie deficit do? Well, it allowed his body fat, let's call it at 8%. and 3 days later to remain at 8% with the fluctuation being extra glycogen and carbs for increased energy, greater pumps, and a better workout in the gym. Sam is right, he's not going to be storing any of this as stored body fat. But if the cheat continues, he falls off the wagon. He can't get back on it again, and he has another cheat for the second day. Now the glycogen stores are full and because he's eating surplus calories, there's no place for those extra calories to go and so the body then converts it to stored atapost tissue or body fat. And that is how you become obese. It's not from one single cheat. It's from multiples backto back over a period of time. Those surplus calories that you consumed have no choice but to be stored as body fat. And so unless you're going back on a diet, you're reducing your calories, you're doing a ton of cardio, the extra calories that you consume can and will be stored as excess body fat. Look at the condition of Sam Sulick's back, the Christmas tree, the striations. Sam is peeled now. He's not quite where he needs to be for Showtime, but he's still got two months in order to get shredded. And so my personal opinion is Sam is actually ahead of schedule. He's leaner at this far out than he needs to be. And so that justifies him adding in those extra calories as it's going to allow him to maintain his body fat for approximately three more days. And trust me, he's more than 3 days ahead of schedule. And so I most likely believe Sam is going to cheat on his diet in the future yet again. >> That is the freakiest pump I can't say of my life because this this is only cool because I'm lean. >> And so Sam is ecstatic. He's saying it's perhaps one of the freakiest pumps of his life. He cannot believe it and it's coming from those extra sugars. Sam cannot believe how good he looks right now. The carbs are working exceedingly well. Everything is as he wants. >> If I'm going to eat anything as like a refeed, it is going to be in your best interest to lean on the uh on the carb side of things. >> Sam brings up a good point. If you are going to have a refeed meal, a cheat if you will, it's better to rely on carbohydrates versus fats. And the reason for that is if you consume, let's say, 200 extra grams of fat, 1,800 calories, 300 gram of fat, 2,700 calories, the fat is not going to store glycogen in your muscle. And so what would be the point? Yeah, you're eating extra calories, but you're not getting the carbs to give you that prime condition. >> It's every once in a while. Don't be fooled. A lot of guys will talk about a refeed and then really the guy's just having a cheat day and he he doesn't give a crap about his diet. >> And so Sam is warning you, don't do this very often. Perhaps every two weeks at most. That refeed day once you get the taste of those sugars, the candies, the treats, sometimes it's very hard to go back to your diet. You really don't miss what you haven't had sometimes. And so by adding in the crispy cream donuts, the candies, all the desserts, you might not be able to go back to your diet. And so please, please be careful. >> 5% incline, 3 m an hour. So I'm not really speed walking too much, just, you know, regular briskish. And then I'm really get I got my heart rate like consistently track. >> He likes exercise in zone 2. It's slow, steady, consistent calorie burn. And his heart rate is somewhere between 133 and 135. Now, remember, it takes a few minutes to build up to that. There's something known as cardiac drift. When you first start exercising, perhaps you're walking at 3 m an hour at 5% incline, as he is, it might take you a while to get to 133, and then eventually it's slowly going to drift a little bit higher. He notices if he takes his hands off of the treadmill, he's going to go up to 140, but with hands on, it might only be 120. And so, remember, you can track your intensity by your heart rate. And that ensures that you're not going too hard, too easy. And whether you go on a bicycle or a treadmill or whatever choice that you do, you can look at your heart rate and determine how hard is this really. My suggestion when walking on a treadmill is rather than walking on the flat, put it up to 15° as it burns double the calories on 15° as it does on zero. Now, obviously 5% is going to be more than at zero, but it's not doubled. 154 lb person walking at 3 m an hour burn 300 calories per hour walking flat 600 going up an incline and so it can make a very significant difference and remember you don't have to walk as fast walking 1 and a half miles an hour which is an extremely slow Grandma Josephine walking pace burns the same amount of calories as 3% on the flat less wear and tear on the joints knees and so on and so if you are in fact running walking briskly my recommendation walk uphill >> 135 for that 45 minutes. That's about it. Enough that I'm doing something, but not so much that I'm sitting here, you know, like huffing and puffing level cardio. >> And so, remember, steady state zone 2, not high intensity. He's not trying to fatigue his legs. And this is a rule that I like to go by. If you're riding your bike or doing your cardio at such a high intensity that the next day you're sore from that, it most likely is going to hinder your progress in the gym in terms of being able to lift weights. By going at zone 2 and not doing too much, you can mitigate the damages perhaps lost muscle from going too hard in the gym. Always remember progressive overload. And so perhaps your first day you're going to go 15 or 30 minutes and you're going to go at a very low intensity. And if it's not making you sore the next day, you can of course repeat the process. Go a little bit faster, perhaps incline it one degree more incline or walk.1% faster or go for five more minutes. It's very easy to progressive overload. And by doing so, in a year from now, you're going to look back and you're not going to believe how much fitter you actually are. You might perhaps burn 50% more or even double the calories in the same length of time because you have become a better butter burner. You're better able to burn fat while doing cardio. You're more efficient. You're more fit. And so that three mile an hour walk that you're doing right now, perhaps in a year from now, you'll be walking up at 15% burning double those calories and it'll feel the same to you. You'll have the same 133 heart rate. And so that is the way to do it. Now, of course, if you add in Go2 Max, your cardio is going to be that much easier. Studies have shown the benefits of using the ingredients in GO2 Max. And so if you're interested, code Greg, 15% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch any of those two bloops. Don't forget HDLT is looking to sponsor athletes. So if you have a large following, you're looking to be part of the HLT family. Of course, click the link and apply right now. As well, if you own a gym or you have a supplement shop and you want to sell these amazing supplements in your store or gym, click the link, apply right now. And until next time, I am out.