So for those curious, yeah, you already knew it. Yeah, Gym Shark. >> And so with David Laid and Seabbum in his car, we have three in a billion, the rarest of the rare. Coach Greg, and the moment you've been waiting for Sam Sulick's latest announcement. another lift but different from the others, right? And they will continue to be kind of a kind of, let's just say, in a in a slightly different era. >> And so, I know many of you are speculating that Sam Sulic was going to announce to the world that he was using Turk Builder Max and that was why he made all his gains or that he was going to join Momentous Clothing, the clothing line that was began by Hussein Farhat, Eric Janicki, and Coach Greg Ducet. And so Momentous drops on August 1st. Mark your calendars. It's coming up faster than last time. Hey, it can't always be Shark Week. I know, bros. You like Shark Week. Enjoy it. It's a good time. Especially when you have your favorite throat goat, but sometimes you got to make a change. Move on over to Momentous. Let the momentum pull you over. But it was none of those things. He's finally hopping on gear. And no, it wasn't that. Gregging my Sam BUN to this. Of course you are. I can feel the coach Greg video being filmed this very second. All of those were amazing guesses. You were close, but one person, they got it right. He's joining Gym Shark. It's over. And so that's exactly what's going on. He's joining Gym Shark. Many people thought he was joining Raw. It's Gym Shark. And so Jim Shark now welcomes Sam Sulick. >> So for those curious, >> Yeah. you already knew it. >> Yeah. Gym Shark. his car, we have three in a billion. The rarest of the rare. Seabbum, a six-time Olympia champion, and Sam Sulik, the heir to his throne. And I'm not talking about the heir to the Olympia throne. I'm talking about being the most popular bodybuilder in the world. With Seabbum retiring and Sam Sulik as an IPB pro, he is the most popular. You're thinking, hey, what about Raone Dino? What about Derek Lunsford or Samson Dota? None of those guys even come close to Sam Sulic. And so Sam Sulic, he has the power just like He-Man. David Laid in the background. He's in the background. Notice the seat that they put him in. He's in the back seat. He ain't no front seat driver. And so David Laid, who was one of the most popular guys in the world back in the day, he still has some popularity, but the Bros in the front seat, they they have the power. >> Six time Olympia champion. At least you remember this time. >> And then six plate deadlifter. >> I'm a seven plate deadlifter. >> And so David Laid when he was on performance-enhancing drugs was a seven plate deadlifter. He isn't that right now. Sebum was a seven plate deadlifter. And Sam Sulick, well, he doesn't do the deadlifts. Perhaps the return of the deadlift so Sam Sulick can join David Le and Sebum as seven plate deadlifters. >> Yes. He's like, "Well, you know, when my legs, they really blew up once I started squatting and, you know, in legs three days in a row." >> I said, "I had done it a couple times." >> And so, if you really want to get your legs to blow up, why don't you try bike racing against Coach Greg, especially Sebum? Sebum, you're retired now. I've seen you go out on a bike ride. Why don't you race up on Zift? Trust me, that's going to get your quads blown up. >> My only subtext is we just need to get some arm wrestling after and then I'm good. >> I mean, I'm a Devon Larret fan. >> I'm a Deon prodigy. >> Devin Lorat, one of the best arm wrestlers in the world. Also from Canada. We've also got Seab Bomb in Canada. We've got the power back up in Canada. >> I benched 390, but I invented the unethical G-code of doing it with a deadlift bar. >> And so, David Laid, one of my most popular nattier knots of all time. Remember, it wasn't how much size that he had. It wasn't even how much muscle he put on. It wasn't even the aesthetics. It was the fact that years after he'd been lifting, he suddenly exploded in strength. He went from around 315 lbs to 390 after having trained for years. Slowly, year after year, was making progress when suddenly his strength went through the roof. Incredible deadlift, incredible bench press. He went up to 390 and that's what was suspicious. And notice, has he ever bench pressed that again? Has he ever deadlifted that again? Can he in fact still squat 465? Where is that strength? Now, last I checked, when you're 18, 19, 20 years of age compared to in your late 20s, your strength doesn't go down. Your size doesn't go down. It actually goes up. Just like Jeff Seed, he put on all that size when he was younger, but he got smaller when he got older. And so if 5 years from now we look at Hussein Far Hat and he's weaker and smaller than he is right now, then I'm going to have to redo a video and say, "You know what, everyone? I think you might have been right. For some reason, he was able to put on all that muscle. Then he got off the steroids long before he met me and was able to continuously pass the blood work. But if in 5 years from now he's bigger and stronger than he is right now and he continues to pass the blood work, he still offers the $100,000. And if he passes it, well then I'm right. Whether or not you think I've lost all credibility, does that really matter? I don't need to be credible. I just need to make videos that you guys are watching. I don't give a [\h__\h] if you think I'm credible. Why would that matter? I just care that there's more views than last time. And so if I'm getting 100,000 plus views on my videos, then I've done my job. And if you're buying a Jugga Turkistanica from either Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum, I've also done my job. Here's the beauty of if I get what I want. If I get what I want, you also get what you want. You want gains, you want to build muscle, you want to remain natural, this is what you use. Code Greg, 15% off. Do you know how confident I am about this stuff? If you've been ripped off in the past, lied to by guys like Derek from Guerilla Mode and others, remember, I don't care. Bring the lawsuits on. I dare you. We have chain of custody proving that you're a lying piece of [\h__\h] scammer. We can prove it. And so, if you want to try actual Ajuga or Cistanica and if you have receipts showing you've been lied to, if you send us proof of purchase, we're going to give you it at 50% off. You have to be a new customer. I want you to try it because once you try it, I know I'm going to get repeat customers. You're going to keep buying it. And so once you've bought one, you're probably going to buy 10. And so all I need to do is get you in the door to try it. To try the number one natural supplement in the world. It's so much better than creatine. It's almost an embarrassment that we're getting compared to creatine. It's creatine on steroids. That is a much more fair comparison. And so if you try it and you don't like it, you didn't get the gains that you were hoping for. You didn't get more jacked, you didn't have more energy, you didn't have better recovery, you just didn't feel it. Money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. How many companies are doing that? You can get it for half price. Try it. If you don't like it, you get your money back. What more can I do? What more can I offer? And so in 10 years from now when you look back and see HLT supplements is worth between a hundred million and a billion dollars because of this you'll know why you want to try it. Get on it right now. >> You drop it on your chest turns into a rainbow. It acts as a slingshot and then you launch it back up. >> And so I used to use a slingshot bench pressing all the time. It basically is like wearing knee wraps. And so I used to put on five plates could bang out 10 to 15 reps with ease. you're going to lift at least 100 lbs more. And so just because somebody says they can lift a certain amount, is that raw? And that doesn't apply just to bench press squat. How low did they go? Was it halfway down? Were they wearing knee wraps? Were they wearing a squat suit? And so just because someone says they can lift a certain weight, it doesn't mean it to be true. >> How do you feel about the two cables connecting to one versus one? >> Doesn't change anything. >> I like one. >> And so whether or not you have one pulley connected together or two separate ones, it's up to you. They're both beneficial. One is not better than the other. I oftent times will warm up with two separate cables doing my lat pull downs. And later on I'll use the same on a one singular pulley. The point is just do it. I don't care if you're using one pulley, two pulleys, no pulleys, you're just doing chins, just get out and lift. >> David, if you're going a little more strength specific, shouldn't you get limb shortening so you can have proper leverages? Everyone knows that when you're a 5'6 manlet like Coach Greg, you're at a huge disadvantage in an arm wrestle. Why do you think Devin LVat is so good? He's 6'6 in tall. And what about Brian Shaw? Bro's almost 6'8. These guys have huge advantages because their limbs are longer. It's like the wheelbarrow effect. The longer the limb, the more power you're going to have. And so if you have short little T-Rex arms, it puts you at a disadvantage. 4 second negative medium grip am wrap underhand grip am wrap. So it's as many reps as possible, not as many reps as pleasurable. >> And honestly, the AM wrap as many reps is pleasurable. I think that that's actually how most people train. Most people train till mild discomfort or if you tell them to go AM wrap, they go, "Okay, as many sets as feels good." You know, those reps were pleasurable. When I'm training, it's to failure. I can't remember the last time I didn't do a set to failure and or beyond. And so, unless you're a beginner or early intermediate, if you're holding back, and I'm not talking about every single set done to failure, but at least some of your sets should be done to failure every single workout. And if you're not, you're leaving some gains at the table. >> I've seen fake failure before cuz I I know what the guy lifts normally. >> And so, here's another thing. Anyone that says 4 second negative, what they actually mean is two. Most people, they don't know how to count. Now, when I was a school teacher, I used to do this game. You would all close your eyes and I would say, "We're going to count to 20 seconds. We're going to see who's the closest." Sometimes people were looking up at 5 seconds, sometimes for a minute. And what I learned is it doesn't improve when you get older. People have no clue. And so a 4-se secondond eccentric, especially when you're training legs, especially when you're getting tired, it feels like an eternity. And so 4 second eccentrics, unless your name is Eric Janicki, it generally doesn't happen. People might say, "Oh yeah, it's 2 second concentric and 4 seconds down with the pause." No one's doing that. And so what I tell people is to simply go slower on the eccentric than on the concentric. 4 seconds plus two, that's probably 6 seconds with a pause. Seven times eight reps. It's almost a minute. People, they're not training close to a minute for eight repetitions. And so perhaps two seconds down, 1 second on the way up. That's all you need. I mean, this is Sebum, a six-time Olympia champion. There's no way that'S4 seconds. And that's from him. And so if Seabbum can't do it, what makes you think you can? That was 4 seconds in total. And so if he's doing a 4se secondond eccentric, 2 seconds on the way up, it would have been significantly longer. And so guys, no one's doing 4 second eccentrics. You don't need to do it. I don't recommend that you do it. 2 seconds on the way down, 1 second on the way up. [\h__\h] This is going to cook me. This [\h__\h] is going to cook me. I've been want this hard since I was like 18. >> If you're going eight reps to failure with a specific grip and you don't rest and you change your grip, you're not getting eight reps more. It doesn't happen. It's not possible unless you're from Krypton or you're have some form of a disability of some sort. There's no way you can just keep getting eight reps every single time. And so when doing sets like this, you have to reduce the load approximately 20 to 30% if you should have a chance. >> Two more. >> And so as you can see, Sam Sulick, also an IB Pro, those are not 4second eccentrics. One thing that I noticed in this video that perhaps you do as well, none of them have a proper tan. Where's the tan, guys? If you don't have the proper tan, what are you even doing? And so, notice Sam did a set of eight, drops the weight, does two or three reps more, and Sebum has to come and help him. It's too heavy. And so for doing a set, why not reduce the load? You drop the weight and move the peg. It takes all of 4 seconds. You'll get the reps. >> Just rip it. Come on. Get in the flow. >> Yeah, like that. Come on. >> And so notice David laid is absolutely having no control on the eentric. There's none. It's as if the weight is twice as heavy as he should be lifting. And I wonder why. He's trying to keep up with Seabbum and Sam Sulic. And so his form is really bad. He's not controlling eccentric. And these are all your heroes, the guys that know more than almost anyone. And so if they can't do it, what hope do we have? And so when I say train harder than last time, go slower on the eccentric than the concentric, I'm trying to keep it simple because people, they don't get it. And so I try to speak at your level. Now, most people are not geniuses. They don't have IQ's of 160 like Mike Isertell. And so, I'm trying to make it so that it's simple. Slower on the way up, faster on the way down. And next time you go and train, you train harder than last time. You keep it simple. And how do you lose weight? You put the fork down. You eat in a calorie deficit. You eat less. Do you have to track all your foods every single day and all that? No, you don't. You weigh yourself in the morning. And if it's going down week after week, keep doing it. If you're gaining weight, eat less. It really is that simple. >> Oh yeah. Quick. Stretch it up. Come on. Keep going. >> Horrendous. Horrible technique. Horrible. Three guys together and show you exactly what not to do. Horrible. I mean, these guys are so locked in that it's shark week that their minds are in the gutter. Oh my god. Shark week. I can't wait to get home. I'm feeling a tingling session down below. >> [\h__\h] I'm retired. Yeah, >> you're retired. >> What the hell are you talking about? >> Only I can tell. >> He's retired. >> David Laid retired. He didn't even get started. You can't retire before you even start. Literally, David Laid's 27 years of age. He could literally say, "Hey, you know what? I'm going to start competing. I'm going to get involved." Rather than just posting these photos for years to come. That's all he's done. I mean, let's be honest. David Laid is a good-looking 27y old man. He's famous for being young, hot, and attractive, but he hasn't had a career. I don't want to be overly critical here, but I like David Laid's shirt. Like, I feel like that's aesthetic for weightlifting when you're attractive and so on, but Seabbum and Sam Sulic, like how is that the look that you want in the gym? Like, when you have a Mr. Olympia winning physique. Are you really going to cover yourself in lose clothing or are you going to wear something more like momentous clothing to highlight the physique, especially when you have that proper tan? If I didn't know any better, I would say that 50-year-old coach Greg almost has a better physique than Sam Sulick and Sebum. It's the clothing. Now, clearly I do not. Clearly, they're far superior, but it's being hidden. The clothes are taking away from their physiques. Two more. Come on. Come on. Come on. >> I mean, if the goal of this was to have two people work out at the same time, the weight is so heavy. I'm not sure which person is pulling harder. Is it Sam Sulic training or is it Seabbum? He's having to help him so much cuz the weight is too high. You remove the weight 20 to 30%, you take off the peg, you pull out the peg, and you peg it a little bit higher. And so, if they had been pegging properly, this workout would be a lot better. D. >> Two more. >> I mean, this could have been retitled eagle lifting threesome in the gym. >> Seated cable is different. Like I don't get so much erector. >> And so if you're experienced trouble with your erectors, you can of course get harder than last time. Cold Greg 15% off. >> Every set for like a year and a half was a drop set. Because like in my mind the logic was if I could curl the 50s for 10, I could still do the 30s for six. Why would I leave that in the tank? >> If you're an advanced level trainer, I don't think every single set should be beyond failure. But 20% beyond failure doing any advanced training technique, I think that's on point all the way back. I want to make one point is that I've been criticizing their form and their technique and all this quite a bit, but what they are doing correctly is they're actually pushing themselves. And I do believe that going hard is more important than having proper lifting technique. If you push yourself hard consistently for years, of which all of these guys clearly are, you're going to get some gains. People have been saying, "Hey, if you don't do science-based training with the cables, properly, perfect technique, then you're not going to make the gains." Training hard beats training scientifically, unless scientifically involves training hard every single time. >> Why haven't you just got like a regular AC in here? >> Why? >> Because makes you tougher. >> The key is you don't want to sweat so much. Many people put on the pump covers and they start sweating. They think, "Oh, this is amazing. The more I sweat, the more calories I burn. The more this, the more that. The amount of you sweat isn't an indicator of how hard your workout was. How hard you worked out is the indicator. And so, what do I have? Well, if you look at my bike downstairs, four fans, large fans at that. And that allows me to stay cool, which allows me to train harder than last time. Many people, I'm sure, look at me like I'm some kind of an idiot [\h__\h] walking around with a fan at the gym. I have two fans while I warm up on the bike. carry a fan with me from machine to machine while I'm training, but I know it allows me to go harder. If I'm sweating too much, if the air temperature is too high, I can't push as hard. I can't push as long. And so, who doesn't want to go long and hard? And so, you got to get a fan. The fan is going to help you. And so, if there's one piece of advice to go into the gym and you're not sure what to do, stay cool. >> Why did he make it so big? The gym? >> Yeah. >> It's not that big. >> You don't How much bigger than this? Why are they talking about how big it is? Remember guys, it's not the size of the ocean. It's the motion of the whale that's going through the water and that decides how much splash it's going to create. And so, speaking of the ocean, that is where you can find the blue lobster. And as you know, there's the blue lobster pre-workout. We got Eric Janickkey's juice and I've got Hustin's mode. And if so, if you're interested in any kind of pre-workout, get the best tasting one. the one with the cylinder side that's going to get you amped up and like a chatter box. You're going to be in a better mood. It's amazing. Interested in the pre-workout? Click the link in description. Code Greg 15% off. And so notice Sam Sulic when he's training his back. He's doing his CD rows. He doesn't do full range of motion. There's a whole lot of partials going on. And the studies as of late, they're showing primarily that the long range lengthen part of the lift is actually more important than the end portion or the squeezing portion. And so you stretch out, you get the full squeeze. And even if you don't go all the way in, it's still good. He's training hard. Does this form look like he knows what he's doing? If it wasn't Sam Sulick and it was just some bro you'd never met, you'd be making fun of me saying he doesn't know how to train. Look at this guy. Every said it looks stupid. Brol is just eagle lifting, but yet look at his physique and the fact he has millions of followers. He's wellliked. You're thinking, "Oh, he must know what he's doing." And so, guys, just freaking train hard >> right now. We'll both go like on the hook on the inside. This is where I would literally get smoked. There's nothing I can do. >> No amount of cheque drops will save me here. >> Didn't David say that he's a lifetime natural? And did he just drop checks? And so, cheque drops are actually known as my bolarone. I used to use this back in the day when I couldn't get a hold of halo testin. It's very very harsh. It's strong. It kicks in immediately. Some guys that I were helping coach who were fighters, you know, MMA fighters and so on would get them to use these things and it makes you an animal. And so for him to drop that, no amount of cheque drops would save me. Has he been experimenting with this? And for him to know this designer stare, not many people are referring to these things. He knows more than you think. >> Ready, set, go. >> Are we actually going? Are we taking a picture? >> Yeah, we're just taking a picture. >> And so Chris is thinking, there's no way I want to wrestle right now. Remember Ian Valair was his coach? Ian Valair had that massive scar up on his arm from arm wrestling. And so he knows the danger. He's not going to put his arm at risk. He's only going to go 50%. >> Definitely want to have more muscle tissue. I want to have less pain in my shoulders, which I'm already doing really good at. And I just want to get like stronger. You just described exactly what this will do. David wants David 2.0. To become David 2.0, he wants to have more muscle and more strength. Take your pick, David. You're 27 years of age. Your newbie gains have long been surpassed. And so, if you don't want to again use performance-enhancing drugs, Sarum, steroids, whatever, you want to go the natural route. Turk Builder Max, Turk Platinum, I would suggest. And if you previously were scanned by, for example, Derek from Gorilla Mind or other companies in the past, you know what you have to do? You send your proof of purchase and you get 50% off for first time customers only. >> When you're like sub 20s, like around like 20 years old, like you're just invincible to where it's arguably almost better to train like semi like dangerously cuz like you're getting like some like crazy like intensity. >> I mean, that sounded like the dumbest logic I've ever heard. David Le is saying, you know, when you're younger and you recover so much easier, you may as well risk it because like even if you get hurt, you get recovered. Well, oh, except for me. You know, I got hurt and I'm a mess and I've been a mess since my teenage years. And so, don't listen to David Laid. You know what happened to him? He got injured. He's now hoping he can squat 315 for 10, even though he could lift that as a teenager. He's now 27. He wants to deadlift 405 for reps. Bro used to do seven plates. Stop lifting. so heavy. Try to use proper technique to avoid getting injured. >> Red, red, red. And look here, you have all the blacks. >> All right. So, that was that was actually good. >> And so, just like David was able to perform some mind-blowing magic, I'd like you to do the same thing on your physique while being 100% natural. And so, guys, if you haven't tried it, you need to try it. Better than creatine. Sorry, way better than creatine. And so be one of the tens of thousands of people that have been using Turk Builder Max, Turk Platinum, and you will be a believer. Years from now, the world would look back and realize just how amazing this really is. And so, if you'd like to try it, remember, at no risk to you, there's a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And those of you who were scammed from other companies and you're not a believer, you get to try it at 50% off. We're not scamming you. We have third-party lab testing proving all of this. I've shown you exactly what's happening with the other companies. We've shown you the Greg Flicks documentary of where we get this product from, that it's actually a Jugga, that it's not Cyanosis. It's the best of the best, the best natural supplement in the world. And so, if you're interested, code Greg, 15% off, subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Congratulations to Sam Sulic for joining Gym Shark. I was wondering how long it would take him. And if you'd like to get your blood work done or order various medications without doctors preventing you for the cheapest prices yet. And with Algor RX, there's no commissionbased sales. At Mer Health, when they try to sell you a product, they're going to say things like, "Hey, you need this and you need that." And the more things you buy, the more commission they make. With Algorx, no commission paid. And so they're not incentivized to try to convince you to buy everything. And so if you want to get way cheaper prices from a company you can trust, Algo RX is it. And so if you're interested, click the link in description, subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost algorithm, like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And until next time, I am out.