Sam is on a starvation diet, two 1-hour cardio sessions, plus the hour of lifting weights. And let me further add in that he's on performance-enhancing drugs. It's tempting him. Eating in secret, >> a multiple pound bag of gummy bears. I would have no issue doing it. >> All right, the final home stretch for Sam Sulic. And he puts out a banger. A full day of eating. the strictest diet he's going to be on. And so, let's get right into what exactly is Sam eating. >> Just about 2500 calories, 250 g of protein, 250 g of carbs, 50 g of fat. >> I think that it is far too low. Sam is on a starvation diet and you're thinking, "No, it's not. 2500, that's actually a lot." It might be a lot for you, but you're lazy and you probably don't have 230 lbs of muscle. Sam is jacked. He trains hard. And in case you don't know this, he does not one but two 1-hour cardio sessions. >> And in combination with my regular training plus two 1-hour cardio sessions per day, I expect I will get just a touch leaner. He's riding his bike at zone 2. But if you count the 1 hour he's cycling, plus the second hour of cardio plus the hour of lifting weights, he's burning off approximately 1,500 calories through exercise. You take the 2500 calories that he's eating and you subtract 1,500 he's burning off through cardio, that leaves him with 1,000 calories in order to build muscle and to go about his day. Does anyone think that a thousand calories is enough in order to Sam to maintain his muscles? And let me further add in that he's on performance-enhancing drugs almost for certain. Yeah, his body is going to be using some of his body fat in order to build muscle, nutrient partitioning, and so on. But with that low of a calorie intake, it is not enough to maintain or perhaps grow further muscles. What happens is your body, it gets smaller. your metabolism. It slows down his neat nonex exercise activity thermogenesis. It's going to be slowing down. Now, he does make up for the calorie shortcomings by adding in sporadic cheat meals, perhaps 5,600 calories you've seen. But overall, this is a crash diet. >> You're going to need a few components. You're going to need a kitchen scale. You're going to need a relatively large bowl. You're going to need three cans of chicken. If you're trying to track your calories accurately, which I do suggest everyone tries for at least one day or even a week at least at some point in their life, you got to have an accurate gram scale. And you have to weigh everything. You can't just eyeball things until you get used to it because you are not going to be able to guess. You don't have coach Greg's laser eyes. You can't tell how many calories are in a food just by looking at it. half a sleeve of rice cakes, some sugar-free or at least low sugar barbecue sauce, and that's all there is to it. >> If Sam were to add in some cucumbers, some lettuce, perhaps some spinach like Popey, he would have way more volume. And spinach does have a lot of protein. And there are other vegetables excel. For example, mushrooms. You have no idea how much protein is actually in these vegetables. It adds volume to your meals. There are antioxidants, vitamins, and it's actually healthy. I'm going to crush up the rice cakes completely inside the sleeve and then put the whole setup on the kitchen scale, zero it out, and then weigh out two servings of the sugar-free barbecue sauce. I really like the idea of weighing out the sauces because if you don't weigh them out and you just keep squirting the ketchup on there, I had breakfast this morning. I squirted on the zero sugar ketchup probably four times. And so I might be thinking, "Oh, I'll only use two tablespoon." But before you know it, four gone. And so the calories, they really do add up. Now imagine if you're not using the low sugar sauces, regular barbecue sauce or mayonnaise or salad dressing, those calories add up quicker than last time. >> This bowl is very filling the rice cakes because they just have a lot of volume. It feels like you're eating much more than you are because the rice has been puffed up to, you know, be very like low density. Imagine if that already existed. A class of foods like a category where the foods are all low calorie dense foods. You know it does. It's called vegetables. You can do what Sam's doing and or in addition to you can eat vegetables. I'm going to recommend you try both. >> 54 g of protein, 57 g of carbs, and 5 g of fats. Carbs and protein wise, a little bit heavier than that 50 per meal goal. Just a quick reference point, approximately one pound of vegetables is going to have about 100 calories. And that's a pound. That's about 25 gram of carbs. And so Sam is eating approximately 50 g of carbs per meal. He could have approximately 2 lb of vegetables. And how much liquid do you think is it? 2 lbs of vegetables. Well, vegetables are mostly water. And so if you're eating a lot of vegetables, you're getting a lot of water. It's going to help with hydration. It's going to help you feel full, to feel more satiated. It's going to take you longer to finish that meal and it's going to allow that signal to go to your brain saying you're full. If you eat down too quickly, the food is just going down like a burger. It takes 2 minutes, the burger's gone, you haven't even realized they were full that yet, you've just consumed 1,200 calories. >> So, if you're going to bed hungry, your stomach's growling. That guy's going to kind of convince himself he should eat a little more and have like a refeed. >> And so, what Sam is saying is that people cheat on their diets at night. No one's cheating or breaking their diet in the morning. I don't think it's ever happened where somebody a client has called me and said, you know, it's 2:00 in the afternoon. I screwed up. I couldn't stop myself at the buffet. What do I do? But often times it's the next morning where they say before bed or even during the night, I couldn't stop eating. I had an extra 1500 calories. What do I do? And so, let me answer that. What you do is you do cardio and you eat less. If you cheated on your diet, why not use those carbs to fuel your workout? cardio. It's good for your health and it burns fat. Why do you think Sam is doing two hours of cardio a day? And so many people say that is bad advice. You should just let them eat and move on. What is wrong with doing cardio? How is that seen as punishment? It's a reward. I love doing cardio. I did 2 hours yesterday. Race pace, not slow cardio like Sam Suic talking zone 3, zone 4. It's hard. You're burning off so many calories and so you can eat more. And so if you are eating too much, you're overeating. you're beyond your calories. Why not just do some more cardio the next day? Considering you just had an extra,000 calories before bed, do you really need a 600 700 calorie breakfast for morning? Probably not. And so perhaps reduce the calories, only consume the protein. This is about managing your diet and making adjustments that you need. You don't need a coach if you know how to track calories, you know how to weigh your foods, and you understand that it's calories in, calories out, and that so long as you're not consistently eating a surplus, that you are in fact going to lose weight, then make it happen. You overeat, you do the cardio, you eat less, you're back on track. >> So, meal number two, lean protein source, some type of low sugar, low carb, low-fat condiment, rice cakes on the side. So, I'm going a little crazy. These are white cheddar rice cakes. >> You know, he's splurging here. There's an extra 2 g of carbs in these non-plain rice cakes. >> And I'm being sarcastic. Thanks for watching. >> I mean, there's nothing wrong with this, but like I'm picturing imagine if he had added in some vegetables. If he had had some blueberries or some strawberries, kiwi, perhaps some asparagus. Would you think that that makes his diet worse or makes it better? And so, we're all about discussing what diet should look like. And I really think it's important to not forget about the sleeper vegetables and fruits that can significantly improve your diet. >> My calorie per hour rate is actually good. I'm kind of behind schedule. >> And so you can see Sam is on a very strict diet at this point because he's calculated the calorie per hour rate. He has to eat one meal and he can't eat his next meal until a certain set time. And so even if he's hungry at 11:00, he has to wait and push it off until 1:00. And that is what it's like to be a professional bodybuilder. For you, I would suggest no, eat. Don't wait. If you push off eating, what happens is grein, the hunger hormone that's signaling making you want to eat that that is going to be higher than last time and it's going to be even harder to eventually put the fork down. Now, to make it easier, eat foods that are filling, like vegetables. If you eat foods that are filling, you're going to eat more of them. It's going to take you longer. That's going to keep you full, satiated, and prevent you from overeating. >> Three plain salted rice cakes, 10 ounces of ground beef, 30 g worth of sugar-free barbecue sauce. >> Wait till Sam discovers this. Perhaps he hasn't watched too many of Coach Greg videos. I know he's the younger generation, but where was Sam when I was consistently promoting smart popcorn? Sam, you're taking rice cakes and squishing them up to add more volume. Wait till you see what a bag of popcorn for just over 200 calories looked like into a bigger bowl than last time. If Sam discovered what it would be like to have a big bowl of popcorn next to his ground beef and sauce and add to that some vegetables, for example, spinach or cucumbers or tomatoes, mushrooms, Sam would have no idea how he dieted previously without listening to Coach Greg. I'm telling you guys, if you copy Sam's diet and you do all his cardio and lift weights, you're absolutely going to lose weight. But only 1% of you could actually have the discipline and the willpower to push yourself to this point to make it happen. In comparison, if you get my cookbook and you listen to my suggestions, remember I've dieted 59 times. Sam has dieted two or three times now. Three times compared to 59. I know what I'm doing and I've coached thousands of athletes to lose weight and keep it off for the rest of their life. You want to have low calorie dense foods. The popcorn is going to change your life. the protein ice cream. You've seen these things. You've seen this in my cookbook. Almost a 100,000 of you have bought the cookbook and continue to buy. And so, if you haven't gotten the cookbook already, please click the link code Greg 15% off. And remember, for coaching plans from myself and or myself and my team, click the link and apply >> as a carb. I mean, rice cakes are kind of like freaking top tier. >> It's not even close to top tier. I'm gonna say that Smart Pop pop popcorn is S tier. Like, do you understand how many people I've coached for bodybuilding competitions and they all wanted to eat chicken, broccoli, and rice? They all beg for it. And I'm like, "Yeah, yeah, you want it now. You're 12 weeks out, buddy. Wait till you get down to 6% body fat or less. You're not going to want to eat rice." You look at that schmuck serving of rice in comparison to the popcorn, and trust me, by two weeks out, bros are eating popcorn left and right. Oh, that's weird. you're eating popcorn in a bowl along with your chicken and so on. Don't knock it till you try it. >> They they've just got so much volume. Like, I can't overstate the benefit of the fact that for 21 g of carbs, like this is physically a lot of food. >> Yeah, you can overstate it. I'm looking at those 21 g of carbs and I'm comparing it to popcorn and it ain't even close. It ain't. Sam, try a bowl of popcorn and thank me later. Between carbs and protein, 100 g of protein is going to be much more filling and satiating and leave me feel fuller for longer than 100 g of carbs. >> Sam, if you eat 200 calories from vegetables and or fruits compared to 200 calories from protein, which you think is more satiating, you'll be full eating 200 calories of a salad, but you're not going to be full eating 200 calories from chicken breast. And so, I'm stressing to you yet again to try adding more fruit and vegetables to your diet. Even if you're not cutting for a show, you're just trying to main gain and so on. By adding the fruits and vegetables, not only is it healthy for you, the antioxidants, fiber, and so on, but it's also going to lower the calories in your diet, making you more full, making it much easier to stick to your diet. If you are having trouble sticking to your diet, GLP Max, are you aware of this? The GLP 28% reduction in appetite. If you're an 8 out of 10 hunger and you take this, you are now a 6 out of 10. how much easier it is to put the fork down and not eat in the evening when you're starving when you go from being 8 out of 10 hungry, you're fighting the cravings to six. It's now more manageable. And so, if you're interested, code Greg for 15% off. Now, if it isn't enough, you can of course go and hit up algo RX and you can order various peptides, the GLPs to reduce your cravings as well as Seialis, Viagra, Inclapene, Testosterone, HRT. Remember, these are all doctor prescribed. It's pharmaceutical. It's not a shady website. There's no sarms and so on. And you can get your blood work done and the doctors can literally talk to you and explain exactly what you need. And so if you're interested, code Greg, 10% off. >> It's the guys where they only kind of they want to halfass it. They want to say they're dieting. Oh, I was really good today. You know, I got a salad instead of a burger. And then he goes home and he eats, you know, big ass scoops of Ben & Jerry's that he's got in the fridge. I like Sam for keeping it real and saying, "Look, a lot of people present as dieting." We see this from obese people all the time. I try. You see them in public. They're eating a salad. They're skipping meals. They're hardly eating. And they're saying, "Well, I try. My metabolism, it's all messed up. I'm per menopausal. You know, I'm just big boned." They're coping. They're eating in secret. They're eating behind closed doors. You don't see them. They're not tracking their calories. And so if you really care, like you want to live a long and healthy life, you want to be not made fun of for being obese, you want to look good, you'll put in the work both in the kitchen eating effectively as well as doing your cardio. And if you do both of those things, I guarantee you're going to lose weight. There's no ifands or buts. There's no maybe. There's no, oh, depends on the person's metabolism. If you do enough cardio and you eat healthy enough, you're losing the weight. I don't care. >> I I have a sweet tooth like no other. You know, I could sit here and slam a multiple pound bag of gummy bears. It wouldn't be like nothing, but I could I would have no issue doing it. >> I'm glad he brought this example up. He says, "I could eat multiple pounds of gummy bear gummy worms and so on." And so, let's use 3 lb as the goal. If he had 3 lb, that's about 1.35 kg. That's going to be over 5,000 calories. Easily over 5,000 calories. If he had the same 3 lb from cucumbers, it wouldn't even be 300 calories. The same 3 lb cucumbers versus gummy worm berries. 300 calories versus 5,000. And so, do you see why it's important to eat the vegetables? And so, let's say you want balance. This isn't balance. Balance is eating a little bit of this and a little bit of that. It's having balance. It's coach Greg. What you would do is you would have some of the gummy worms for dessert after eating a meal that contained the cucumbers. You would have had the chicken and or steak along with perhaps the rice, popcorn, rice cakes, whatever, as well as some vegetables and or fruit. And so you would have had that pound of cucumbers, the asparagus, a salad, whatever. And that would have filled you up a little bit. And now it's room for dessert. This is what I do when I go to a restaurant. I almost always order dessert. I usually order a big salad, sometimes two salads. that comes out first. I'm eating a lot of salads and filling myself up. Then the entree comes out, the steak or chicken, whatever. Now I'm getting pretty damn full, but there's always room for dessert. And so I'm getting my cake, preferably with some ice cream, do I not love me some hel? And I'm full. But if I skip the salads and just had the entree, the steak, I'm probably eating four desserts. Do you see the difference? It's about making smart and healthy choices and having the vegetables and or the fruits to fill yourself up. >> Every time that I walk past the cupboard and I might see a treat or something, every time that I say, "I'm not going to do it. Shut the cupboard door." >> Every time he sees those candies in that drawer, he has to say no. It's tempting him. My advice, don't keep trigger foods in your house. I'm not saying you can't eat it. For example, if ice cream you love, you can eat it. Just don't keep ice cream in your house. Don't have it in the freezer. When you go to a restaurant, perhaps you go once or twice a week, I don't know. You have the ice cream. Then you're going to a party. You're at the party. It's the Super Bowl. You're eating some chips. Chips don't exist in your house, however, because if you have chips in your pantry every single night, you're going to have to say no. And so, you save eating chips for when you go out to parties, fiestas, and so on. Does that make sense? That is having balance. I don't have to say, "Oh, I can't go out with my friends because I can't go to a restaurant because no buffet is safe." No, I know how to eat when I go out. I'm going to fill myself up. I'm going to have some vegetables, but I'm going to have a dessert. I'm not going to say, "I can't eat that. I'm on MY PLAN. I'M LOCKED IN." YEAH, you're locked in for how long? For 3 months. And then you're going to crash out and gain 50 lbs. And then you're locked in again. Every year you're locked in and locked out. Guys, get a freaking key and open the freaking door and do it year round. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost the algorithm. Like the video if you liked it. Watch the top bloops. Get the bottom. If you want to be sponsored, click the link. We're looking for more athletes to sponsor right now. And if you want to sell the supplements in your stores on our gym, click the link. You want me to coach you or myself as well as my team to coach, you can click the link as well. Don't forget about Al Goreex. It's code Greg and HDLT supplements. The whole host of different things. Let me remind you of the Kaiko Secoar CICO for 50% off. It's only $20. And until next time, I am out.