Coach Greg and I am going to be explaining everything you ever wanted to know about S4, also known as and today. Before I get into that, I am definitely not a doctor and I do not suggest or recommend that you take S4. It is for research purposes only, not to be used by humans. All right? So, let me make that clear. It is legal for purchase but it is only as a research chemical. It is not supposed to be ingested in any form. Okay. So having said that let's get right into it. S4 is a SARM a selective androgen receptor modulator. So what it does is it binds to the Anderson receptor in muscles for example and then it causes that to grow grow more muscle tissue as in get bigger faster similar to how steroids would work only with less side effects arguably less side effects and so it's supposed to be a safer supposed to be but I mean that is debatable and we'll get into that in a bit I like to refer to this psalm as weak Winnie. So we can call it weak Winnie. So if you're taking S4, are you natty? No, you're taking weak Winnie. It's not Winstrol. It's not that. But it is going to do the same thing as what that would do to your muscles. Okay? So let's be clear. It is not legal for use in performance tested sports. For example, the Olympics. You can't use this. Does it work? Yes. Estrogenic side effects. Do they h Does it have any? No. So in other words, you will not get gyno. Zero chance of getting gyno. No water retention, no bloating, no puffy face, no moon face, none of that. You will look lean, hard, ripped. you know, assuming that you're already lean, it's not going to make you burn off 100 pounds of fat magically, but it's going to make you have an athletic ripped type of look. It's not something that would be known as, say, a bulker to make you blow up and be all poofy. Okay, so that's definitely a cutting type of steroid, if there is such a thing. Um, there isn't really such a thing, and it's not a steroid, it's a SARM, but you get the point. androgenic effects. These are more like does it give you any aggression and things like that? And yes, it does. It does make you more aggressive. It makes you want to attack the weights more. It gives you more of a pop when you're lifting, so to speak. So, it's going to have an androgenic effect. It's going to make your muscles appear harder, leaner, and more ripped. Okay? Obviously, you still have to be lean. You're not going to be a fat, you know, big stomach and all of a sudden you have a six-pack. What kind of anabolic effect does it have? Okay, it's going to build muscle at a significant rate quicker than you would if you were not taking it. What rate? Well, it really depends on the dose. The higher the dose to a point, the more the results are going to happen, the faster you're going to build muscle. Just as a rough estimate, I would say you're going to build muscle five to 10 times faster than if you were training natural. Okay? So, by that I mean in a week you would gain 5 to 10 weeks worth of muscle. So, in a month you could gain 5 to 10 months worth of muscle. So, that's obviously a huge advantage than if you were training natural. And this varies based on the dosage, your experience level, and what you've taken in the past and so on. And honestly, if if you were on steroids and you stopped and you switched to this, you're not going to add muscle. You're going to lose it because it's weaker than most of the steroids that you would have been taking. So remember that it's you can't just pinpoint and say, "I'm going to gain 5 lbs of muscle if I take this x amount of dose for x amount of weeks." It does not work like that at all. How strong is it in comparison to other SARMs? So, there's a lot of different SARMs out there. There's RAD-140, there's LGD4033, there's Austerine, and that's just to name a few. It is not one of the stronger ones. I don't care. I've read a bunch of [\h__\h] things about it on the internet. I'm sure that most of you have done some research and read about it. Do you know a little bit about it? It's not a strong sarm. I don't care what it says on some stupid site that somebody wrote trying to sell you this stuff because they just want to brag it up and then you're more likely to buy it. Okay, this is no [\h__\h] It is a weak SAR. It is not as strong as RAD-140 or LGD. Not even close. Okay, it's more similar to say ostene if you want to give it a comparison. And Austrian to me is the weakest of the bunch. So it's not crazy. It's not like, "Oh my god, I'm on S4. I'm going to become Superman." Some of the side effects, balding. Yes, some people will affect their hair. It'll cause some balding issues. For people that are already prone to having it, male pattern baldness, they're already prone to getting it. Some people do get this, although it's not an extremely common side effect. Some people will get that F side effect from it. Not unlike basically all steroids. Almost all they're going to do the same thing. Is it suppressive? Okay. Suppressive. Suppression. This is what that means. When your body stops making testosterone. So your body should be producing testosterone. If it's not, you make less of it and you feel less energy. You have less sex drive. So, a decrease in libido, poor sleep, and just not feeling good. Okay, S4, even though you read it's not going to suppress you, blah blah blah, it is. If you use any kind of a dose that most people are going to use for an extended period of time, you're going to be suppressed. How will you know if you're suppressed? Well, one of the biggest sides or signs that people will report is when they have a lower libido. So, they just don't want to have sex as much. Maybe you crave sex every day and now you only crave sex once a week. You're definitely getting suppressed and will need a PCT. This is very common, especially in the higher dose range. Okay, so be careful. Do not believe that SARMMs are just some holy grail magic pill that you can take with no side effects. That seems to be what most people will think. I get thousands, not even hundreds now. I actually get thousands now of messages of people that have taken ser and so I can read what were their side effects what did they experience how did they feel and so even more now than before I can see that many people experience negative side effects okay so be careful don't take it obviously so if you do expect [\h__\h] can go down likely going to affect your liver you will get a blood test and find out you will test your ASL AS if you had a certain number. Let's make up a number. You were 50 for both. And you take it and you get blood work done again later. It's not going to be 50. It's going to be a higher number. How high? We don't know. It might be 100. It might be 51. It might be 300. We don't know. Obviously, dose dependent and based on your genetic predisposition to be able to handle this. Some people can take a shitload of SARMMS in high doses and have very little to no side effects. Some people take a small dose and have horrible side effects. You don't know which one you are. It's like any drug. Some people can handle it and some people can't. It's just the nature of the beast. If you're in that 1% that have shitty makeup and you're just affected by it, you're going to be pissed off. And I get messages from these people. Think of it. There's probably a 100,000 people that have taken this stuff and the people that are writing are going to be the worst of the worst are going to be like, "I took THIS AND OH MY GOD, I almost died." Because those are the people that are going to come out. You're not going to hear a comment from, "I took it. I had so so results. I had so so this so so." No one cares about that. You get comments from, "Oh my god, it was amazing." Or, "Oh my god, I almost died." That's what you get. You get the higher extremes, the extremes of good, extremes of bad. the middle is just not reported. So when somebody writes and says, "Oh, it it it added 20 pounds of muscle." Well, that's rare and it's not for most people. Or if somebody says, "IT DID NOTHING AT ALL." WELL, that's rare, too. There's that 1% of people that are just poor responders, don't feel anything, and don't get it. They might think their product's fake. It might be, or it might be real, and they just suck and have shitty ass genetics, and they're not going to grow on it. and they might grow on something else. It's just the way the crookie cookie crumbles. Okay? So, just be aware of that. Cardiovascular, it's not the safest thing in the world. It's not supposed to be dangerous, but it's not going to be good for your HDL LDL. HDL, good cholesterol. Okay? You want a lot of that. It's going to lower it. LDL, bad cholesterol. It's going to raise it. That makes the ratio of the two, the good stuff less, the bad stuff more. the ratio gets out of whack and so it's not good for your heart overall. It's not the safest thing in the world. Just think this was developed to try to be in a medical setting used for wasting disorders. So, AIDS or whatever, osteoporosis or something, they wouldn't say, "Well, if we can create this drug that will help people build muscle with no side effects at all." Well, what could be better than that? It would be the best thing since sliced bread or French toast. It would be the best. Amazing. It's not approved for human consumption yet. Why do you think that is? Because it hasn't been proven to be safe enough yet. If it was, they would eventually approve it because it would be the holy grail. It would be amazing and everyone would use it and hospitals would use it. The doctors would be prescribing it and they could charge 10 times the amount that it costs and and pharmaceutical companies could become billionaires on it. They want it to work and be approved. It's not yet. It's not safe yet. So, don't take it. Blood pressure. It's not going to increase your blood pressure. Really, it shouldn't. I mean, maybe that 1% you never know. I mean, really, I could say everything is like 1%. You never know. But it shouldn't increase your blood pressure. You're not gaining a lot of weight. It's not gaining you a lot of water. And so, usually blood pressure goes up when you gain a lot of water weight. And so, this one doesn't do that. So, you shouldn't have blood pressure problems, but I'm not saying you won't. Most people will not. Of course, there's going to be 1% or 0.1 and they're going to write and say, "Hey, you lied. I got blood pressure problem." Blah. It might have been from something else you took. Maybe it's from the French fries you ate. Who knows, right? Kidneys. Okay, we don't really know for sure. It shouldn't be an issue. I haven't really seen it as being an issue yet. Doesn't mean that there's that small percentage of people that aren't going to have problems with it. It should be relatively safe, but I don't want to just sit here and say it's perfectly safe, but relatively speaking, it's quite safe on that regard. How does it make you feel? Well, overall it should make you feel pretty damn good. Not as good as maybe LGD or RAD-140, but not bad. It shouldn't make you feel like [\h__\h] It's not trend. It shouldn't make you like in a mess. But if you have suppression and you have a lower libido, well, that could piss you off. Um, it depends. Higher doses more likely to not feel good. Um, there's other side effects we're going to get into in a bit, so I won't go right here. But overall, you should be in a good mood. It should make you positive, happy. It shouldn't screw you up and be like miserable like some of the steroids will do. Okay. Okay. What goals would you have to use this? I would say it's not a bulker at all. Although I've read and you would probably read, oh, it's good to add in a bulking cycle. No. Like if you're bulking literally, it means that you want to get a lot bigger. It's not something to help you get a lot bigger. Although it does of course add muscle. It's just there's so many other choices. If it was the only choice that you could take, yeah, you would add it for bulking. It's the only supplement in the world. You would take it for everything. But there's other choices that are better. So why would you take this one and spend more money and take higher doses when lower doses of other products that will cost you less and maybe even have less side effects are going to do even better. So it's not for bulking. It is purely for cutting. This is a cutter cutting sarm for photooots, dieting, looking ripped on the beach, athletic looking, and so forth. Okay? So, do not take it for bulking. If you do, I mean, it's not serving as it purpose. I'd rather see somebody take something else. Not that you should take anything. Dossages. Let's get right into the dosage for the girls first. Typically, 10 to 20 milligrams a day. Okay. 10 to 20. Do people do more? Of course, they do more. Is that stupid? depends on your idea of stupid. It's probably smarter than doing a shitload of testosterone that's going to cause viralization more. So, so the intelligence of the person, it just means like if you're trying to have less side effects and you take LGD, then that seems like a smart choice to me. Okay, it seems smart. But if you're taking it and you're just abusing it and you're some like bikini girl and you think that there's no chance you're going to get any negative side effects and you don't read anything about it, well, that's kind of just being dumb and you're just like taking a chance with your health. So, I wouldn't recommend that. But if you're taking LGD, uh, sorry, if you're taking S4 instead of something else that is more dangerous, well, that seems like a good choice. Okay, 10 to 20 millig. Remember the halflife of this is maybe four, five, maybe as long as 6 hours. You can't take it once a day. Cannot take it once a day. You can, but then you're an idiot for sure. You're stupid because it would be like eating once a day. You just don't eat once and then have a huge amount of calories and then diet the rest of the day. If you take this drug once, a huge rise in blood values of it and then it falls. When you get a huge rise, that's when these side effects occur. Just think of it. Maybe this is the level of no side effects. You take a SARM three times a day in low amounts, you get a little rise and down, rise and down below. You take it once, boop, too high, and comes down. When you get past here, bad side effects. Keep it down there, no side effects. You don't want to take a lot all at once. Spread the dose out. When in doubt, spread it out. Okay? When in doubt, spread it out. Do not ask me how often to take it. If you don't know how often, spread the dose out more. The more you spread it out, the less chance of a problem there is. This is not a one dose a day. This is a two to three dose a day. So if you're taking 20 milligs a day, you need to take 10 milligs twice a day, 5 milligs four times a day. You know, you got to spread it out. Twice a day dosing is the minimum for this one. Okay, for men, 25 to 75 milligrams a day. And you're think, "Oh my god, 75. This guy is crazy. Oh, he's so high in the dosage. He's No, it's not that strong. And trust me, people are using a [\h__\h] ton of drugs, whether it's SARM, steroids, or whatever, 75 milligrams, although it's on the high end if you read some stupid article on the internet, it's not higher than most people are taking SARMs at, and it's not more dangerous than a lot of the other things that people are taking. So, don't be like, "Oh, it's crazy to take that high." Most people taking peeds are looking for really big results. You're not going to get big results from 25 milligrams. You might if you're a girl or if you're a guy, you've never taken anything in your life and you just want to add a couple pounds of muscle, you know, then that low dose is for you. It's safer, better, blah blah blah. But for most people, they want jacked results. They want to be noticeable. They want to make a big difference once they leap from all natural supplements like creatine or BCAS or something. Then they want something that's more hardcore. And as soon as you take a sarm, you're no longer natty. So if you're no longer natty, you're probably going to want to take something stronger. Okay, just putting that out there. 25 to 75. So if you take 75, 25 milligs three times a day, for example. If you take 60 milligs, 30 milligs twice a day. If you take 50, maybe you did 30 and then 20 milligs. Maybe you did 25 twice a day. It's up to you, you know. I dose it twice a day, but that's just me. You don't have to. You could dose it three times a day, five times a day. It doesn't matter. The It doesn't matter. Yeah, that's my Anyway, The Rock says that. Um, yeah. So, it doesn't really matter. You can do what you want, but you need to not take it once a day if you want the best results. Now, don't be a freaking stupid ass idiot like these people that write me and they literally injected this [\h__\h] Are you freaking insane? Are you stupid? They literally buy a freaking SRM and it's a liquid and so they think it's injectable and so they picture it. They unscrew the like my freaking popcorn shaker. They unscrew it and they stick their needle in it and they suck it out and then they inject it in their body. How in the world did they think that that was sterile? Are you stupid? Oh, I better swab my shoulder up before I inject this juice that's in a bottle. It's not sterile. Are you kidding? Sterile needs air seal. It can't be just open and closed. Open it up and inject it. Stop being an idiot. These are what I call morons. Stupid. If you do that, I mean, there's no way you should be using a SARM if you're that stupid in the first place. But really, just think of it. People have literally done this. I'm not making this [\h__\h] up. It's not a lie. They actually have done this. Okay? Don't do something stupid like that. All right, let's get into some of the positive results. We talked about some stupid people. The positive results. What are you GOING TO GET? WHY? WHY am I taking this [\h__\h] Well, A, I'm getting more muscle. That's the main thing that you want. B, more strength. Stronger. Yes, lift heavier weight. Stronger. Who doesn't want to be stronger? No water retention. So, the muscle that you do build, you can see it. So you do the little flex and it's there. It's not covered in a layer of water and you're not puffy. So dry, hard, lean look. More vascular, more ripped looking, more of a dry appearance of a stage ready, contest ready, photo shoot ready type of physique. It will make you look leaner than you are if you're already, you know, lean. If you're at 8% body fat, you might look 7% because you're leaner. So, it's awesome if you're trying to dry out and look good. And if you're on a cycle and it's summer and you're always with your shirt off and you want to look good every day and not just at the end of the cycle of 12 weeks like bodybuilders, they might bulk up in the offseason. They look like [\h__\h] They're big bags of milk. Then they diet for 4 months and they look good for one day of that year on that one hour on stage. Yeah. One hour. For 3 minutes on stage, they look the best. Amazing. And the rest of the year they look like [\h__\h] It's not for that. This is to look good all the time. It's kind of an all the time good-looking type of physique from this type supplement. Okay, I hope that makes sense. Okay. It also it gives you that bigger pump in the gym. And it's also going to help you train harder like bit more aggression, more anger in the gym, like more like yes, I'm going to lift this weight as opposed to I don't want to go to the gym. It'll be able to help you go to the gym a bit more. Kind of like my pre-workout that I took 30 minutes ago. I can feel it. I want to go and work out and and you know just get going. Okay, expected negative results. Okay, here's the bad stuff. Okay, number one to me this is the worst one really is the suppression that it can cause. I know it says it's not supposed to be suppressive, but suppression is one of the expected things. A lot of people write me and taking this arm and others and they get suppressed and they didn't think that it would happen and they didn't plan a PCT. So, you need to have a PCT plan. You need to be ready for this. Okay. So, by that you might have a lower sex drive. You might just feel run down in that sense, especially when you come off. While you're on it, you're not going to really suffer that big of a deal. Even though your test is levels are lower, this is kind of replacing the test. So, you have that aggression and stuff and it's good, but then when you take the S4 away and your test is also away now. Before you took this the SAR, you felt decent because your body made tests. You added in the SARM and now you feel like Superman because you're on the SARM. Then the SARM goes away, but your test is away. Both gone. Now you're feeling like [\h__\h] That's when it sucks. And I do a lot of phone consults. And almost half of them are, I [\h__\h] up my PCT and I didn't do this properly and I didn't do that and my sex drive is ruined and what do I do now? And if you're watching the video, you probably think it's you, but trust me, I've done like 50 of these. So, it's you and 50 other people that have done these calls. And so, trust me, be ready for a PCT. I have a video on PCTs. Just copy it. Do the PCT in the video. Have it ready. Okay, do it. Also, the eyesight one was the scariest one for me before I ever did it. I was like, "Okay, it can cause a yellow tint to your vision." Well, anytime you see the word vision, it's scary. I had laser eye surgery. You know, I I like being able to see. Sight is important to me. Blindness scares me. But really, there's a yellow tint, which I didn't experience. Blurred vision at the night time, which I didn't experience. I started in low dose and went up and I didn't get any vision issues once at all. zero for me. Doesn't mean you won't. So, what I would say is to be cautious. Start at low dose. So, maybe you're only going to start at say it's 30 millig. You do 10 milligrams three times a day. And then if your vision is fine, well then maybe up the dose to 40. Then up the dose to 50 and 60 and 70. Do it slowly over say a few weeks. And then you can become comfortable and know. And then if you get that side effect and you don't want to have that side effect, then you can just stop. It goes away after you you stop. So it's something that although it's very scary and and you know why risk it, it's not permanent. So at least that's good news. Start on a low dose. Work your way up. You know, maybe you do one week at 30, one week at 40, one week at 50, whatever. I'm not going to tell you what to do or not do. Just remember that is a possible side effect. It will not cause blindness. Somebody wrote on my wall and I was like, "You idiot." It was on my Instagram and they're like, "Oh, so you're not getting any of the vision blindness that it causes?" "Oh, you're making it up. It doesn't actually cause blindness." They see somebody say that it can cause like some visual disturbances and then they exaggerate it and say it makes you blind and then they post about it and people read it and then there's a myth. That's how myths are spread. People make they turn one thing you say into another and then they have a myth. It's like happens with my videos all the time. They stretch what I say, change it around, ask somebody else, and then all of a sudden it makes me look like I'm an idiot when I'm not because I'm not saying what they said in the first place. They just change the words around anyway. So, be careful with your vision. It's not going to make you go blind, but it can cause yellow tint and some blurred vision in the nighttime especially of which I had none of that. My experiences because I find that well I didn't make this video earlier cuz I'd never used it and although I'd read about it I'm like well I can only say so much if I haven't used it. So this is what I did. So I went from LGD 20 milligrams a day split into two doses 10 milligrams twice a day. I did that for 5 days and then I switched to S4 and I started at 30 millig in the morning and then I went to 20 millig about 8 hours later like afternoon type thing late afternoon. So what did I notice? I noticed that it wasn't as powerful as LGD. I noticed I wasn't as strong as LGD. I noticed it wasn't making me as awesome in the gym. I noticed I wasn't as massive. I did notice I was probably getting a little bit leaner, but I was also not eating in a surplus. So, I mean, you know, take that for what it's worth. Now, I upped the dose and I upped it to 60. So, I did 30 and 30. Then, I upped it to 40 and 30 as my max dose of which I did my last amount yesterday. Okay. So, what did I notice? I noticed that within an hour, 1 hour after taking it, I definitely for sure knew I took it. Okay, so I don't care. You can believe me or not. I am making it up. No. Why would I make this [\h__\h] up? I take 40 milligs of S4 and when I took 30, I noticed it that it was in my body. I could feel it working in my body. What do I mean I feel it? It's like if I tense my arm, I could feel that my arm tensed differently. I just can't explain it to people. It's the same feeling I would take when I took Winnie or Annavar. Like a more powerful feeling in my arm when I clenched my fist. It's just stronger. Steering wheel driving a car. Just the turns. It just feels more power. Not that I'm turning the steering wheel at 100 pounds of pressure, but it just feels like you're just stronger in your own skin. Notice it right away. Workout intensity. Able to push a bit harder. Stronger feeling. It's got a short halflife. Okay, so that's what I noticed. Then when I take my next dose and like later in the afternoon, I could again feel that same feeling. So it's definitely going to give you a pre-workout boost. And if you don't feel it, don't think that it's just fake. Doesn't mean it's fake. It might be. Maybe. I don't know. I don't know what you're taking. It might be fake or it might be you don't notice things. I notice everything. I drink a cup of coffee and I notice it. I take pre-workout and I go on a rant on a video and I can feel it the whole time. So anyway, I am sensitive and I feel this way. This is unique to me. Some people maybe feel the same way, maybe they don't. Okay, it definitely makes you stronger, but it's not to the point of like my favorite sarm. Okay, LGD I rate better. Just think 20 mg to me of LGD is more powerful to me than 70 of S4. Okay. So, if I was given the choice and I only had one SRM to take, LGD or S4, 20 of that or 70 of that, I would take the 20 of LGD before the 70 of S4. Think of that. So, to me, it's three times stronger at least. So, costwise, effective wise, I can get a lot more from a lot less from it. Anyway, the camera just stopped recording. SD card's full, whatever. So, I'm gonna continue because I'm ready to get going. I like RAD-140 more. I've stopped the S4 and I'm on RAD-140 now. I'm giving that a go and I'm going to see how that works. Check out my website, gregducet.com for coaching. Check out my IG, gregdetbro. I post tons of pictures. We have good discussions and comments and we get through everything. And that wraps it up. I'm going to bloop up some videos, some other stuff you can watch for me. I'm not going to talk about what is video over here. Video over there. Watch some more of my stuff. Like, subscribe to the channel.