 XR 하나付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付 I owe you all an apology. The virtue signaling, the pretending to be a good guy, and the fake apology, and most recently, the lie about his call to the police, he's been exposed. Now, you can see all of this on Garrett Walker's IG page, Run V Us Coaching, and essentially, it's just like watching John Bravo without him calling him a piece of shit. I caught you, you piece of shit. In case you don't know what's going on, this all started because somebody wrote in Scotty's comment section that he looked like a guy who was gay, who's on Ozark, an actor, a famous actor. And so, he actually does look like the guy. And so, perhaps Scotty, who has pronouns in his name, he, him, he's all tatted up, and he's got the huge mustache, he doesn't like it when people say that he looks like a gay guy. I don't give a shit. Small, medium, large, big, bad pile of shit. I don't care. Gay, straight, trans, none of that matters. Yeah, f***ing political. That was murder. And I see you, nurse, who worked at the VA, who was legally carrying a firearm that was f***ing holstered while he was filming. You're clearly very amped up about what you deem an excessive response to something that was not that problematic. But if that's the case, shouldn't you be consistent with that across everything? And so, Scotty, he always wanted you to think he was a great guy. Swell guy, you know, Percival, funny, has a great physique, sponsored by Rise. Oh, sorry, used to be sponsored by Rise. Two million followers on Instagram, almost 10 million worldwide, as we'll see in that police phone call, of which has been revealed. He wants you to think that he's just a swell guy. And so, what people do is they find things that are going wrong in this world and they speak about it. Did you see what that person did? Did you see what that person did? And they say, if I were in that situation, I would never do that. They call out the bad, negative things in this world. And people say, oh, wow, bravo, you said exactly what we want you to say. And so, does he actually mean it? And so, the problem is, no. So, say somebody said you looked like a gay guy, and then you doxed him, his job, his address, and his entire family. Would that be something that was too excessive? Because you did do that. Rather than just seeing the comment, you know, bro from Bangladesh, rather than just letting it slide and saying, oh, you got me. I kind of do like him. Or, I don't know, ignoring the comment. Just keep it on going. Instead of that, he makes a video and says, I used to be a bounty hunter, and I did some research, and he doxes that person. Gives his address. This is his phone number. This is where he lives. These are the names of his family. Why would he do that? He's hoping that somebody goes and terrorizes that person. Perhaps harms them. Perhaps goes to the house. And horrible things could happen. And so, is he not enticing violence? Last I checked, is it legal to actually encourage other people to do bad things? I don't think it is. And so, in my opinion, this was a huge red flag showing his true, actual character. And when somebody went to dox him on his own account, his own thread, Reddit, whatever, they then deleted that comment. And the person who wrote that comment said, why would you do that? Why is it deleted? Is it not allowed to dox someone? They said, of course not. That's never okay. Funny. It was okay for him to do it about somebody that said he looked like the guy from Ozark. But it wasn't okay when somebody did it on his own account. Of course. He then makes an apology. He brings out the tears. For days now, I have been lying to myself. Saying things like, I'm a good person. I've done a lot of good for the world. It's all bullshit deflection to keep me from taking responsibility for my own actions. I'm so sorry. Sorry that, you know, you're offended. Sorry that these things happen. Sorry if you don't want to follow me. I've built this entire platform on inclusivity and kindness. And I lost sight of that in my own ego. I lashed out at people. Never apologize to the individual that was being doxed. Never apologize to the person he made fun of. But for right now, I have to focus on the safety of my family. So I'll be back. I'll see you guys soon. I'm sorry and I love you all. Hope you'll come back and follow me deep down. I'm a good guy. And, you know, because of all this, some people showed up to my house and endangered my family. And so appeal to sympathy. Because of what I said, my family is in grave danger. People came to my house. I saw that and I was like, you know, he did do a wrong thing, but in no way do I think it's okay for somebody to go and go up to his house and endanger him and his family. Bad enough to endanger him, but his wife, kids, they did nothing wrong. And so imagine to my surprise, when I find out that he made up the entire thing in order to gain sympathy from his millions of fans. Scotty announced to his Discord, which would be full of his closest fans, that he is in fear for his family's lives because people have showed up to his house due to his information being leaked online. Well, unfortunately for Scotty, when you call the police, that becomes public record. And those records can actually be requested. And my friend Slacker Blue has actually gotten a hold of the police call. And what you'll find is he has zero mention of somebody actually showing up to his house and that he's just worried about it maybe happening. I'm calling to request a increased patrol at my home address. I'm heading out of town and I'm a social media content creator with almost like 10 million followers. I'm receiving death threats. And so let me get this straight. He received death threats. And so because of that, he's going to leave and leave his family behind. And so he calls up the police and says, you know what? I'm going to head out of town. I got this thing, you know, this event. I'm going to be attended, but my wife and kids, they're going to be staying at home. And so would you mind sending over some police cars, you know, surveillance, surveillance, make sure that they're okay while I go and do the things that I feel like doing? Is there a single person watching this that would do that? Think about it. You're threatening the lives of you and your family and you leave and you leave your family behind. If you're actually in fear for your life and your family's life, do you not bring your family with you? Do you not go in hiding? Or do you just leave and go do your volunteer work or attend your event and act like nothing's happening? And if you're actually in fear from your life, should you really be showing up in public where everyone can see you? Does that make sense? But remember, he said they had already showed up to his house. If they had already showed up to his house, would he not have said to the police while on the phone, they've came to my house. I'm scared. This is not some idle death threat, you know, on Instagram. Do you know how many death threats I've gotten on Instagram? Do you think every time somebody sends me a DM, I'm calling the police and saying, send all the backup to my house. Loser. And to leave your family behind, what does that say about your character? And so all these people say, he's such a good person. Couldn't believe it. Are you kidding me? People show you the tip of the iceberg. I'm telling you, everyone has a certain personality from within. Not many people show you the real them. Their true authentic self. Some people do. Most people are too afraid to be their true authentic selves. And so they navigate through this world by saying and acting in a certain way to get certain reactions from other people. They'll pretend to be a good guy. They'll say the right things. They'll pretend that they care about this and care about that. But in reality, they don't care. They just say whatever they say so that you will like them. Do you think that I don't know that some of the things that I say are going to be insulting? That some people are not going to like me for it. But I say it anyway. In comparison, other people who are way worse than Coach Greg, they'll say anything that you want to hear in order for you to like them. They may think and feel horrendous, horrific things. They don't let you know about that. Oh, I think this and I think that because I know that they're going to click like. They're going to say you're a good person. And then when you prove that you're not, they still think you're a good person. How many times does this guy have to do something wrong before you think he's probably not that great? Think about it. If somebody showed up to your house and you were worried about them threatening you and your family, you would mention that in the call to the police. You wouldn't have one call out to the police saying that people are saying they're going to show up to your house and saying that they're threatening you. You would actually have to, you know, tell the police that somebody showed up to your house. Much like you told your followers. Why are you lying to your followers? And so he lied about being a bounty hunter, not actually registered, lied about people showing up to his house to harm his family. What is he not willing to do? Do you really think that his apology is heartfelt? Or do you think he regrets getting caught? He, I'm sure, regrets the fact that Rise is no longer going to sponsor him. And you think HTLT is going to sponsor him? Of course not. Is any company touching this man? Of course none are. And so he's thinking, geez, you know, I just lost millions of dollars. My millions of followers no longer respect me. And so what do I now say? What do I now do to undo all the damage? Well, if I say that my family is in danger, that people showed up to my house, people are going to have sympathy for me. They're going to say, well, I don't deserve that. My family doesn't deserve that. Definitely. And so I'll try that. I'll cry on camera. I'll say I did a bad thing. And then sooner or later, my fans will forget. They'll say, hey, why would we cancel this guy? He only did one thing wrong. And to add to this, later on in the call with the police, he mentions that he has to go out of town for a charitable event. If you're getting death threats and your family's life is actually in danger, what kind of man, what kind of father and husband are you? Okay. And so he's a husband with kids. You don't leave your family behind. You're just a bad person. And what kind of man, like a macho real man, is he? You're clearly fatherless. Like we can tell now. And you're not a good husband because I mean, you let your wife other men because you guys are swingers. I don't know if that's true or not. Frankly, I don't care. He can do whatever the frick that he wants. I don't care if he's banging other dudes. I don't care if he is banging the guy from Ozark. None of that matters. What matters is how do you treat other people? And he may have thought he was being a nice man. He may have been pretending to do all the nice things. But when push came to shove, when it was his time to be judged by other people, did he pass or did he fail? You know, it's very easy to be a good person when life doesn't throw any obstacles at you. But when it's time to be tested, what are you then going to do? Well, in his case, he lied and lied again. One thing I know for certain is that if he had been on Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum, none of this would have happened. These supplements are so good that it makes you become a good person. It changes your brain chemistry and it doesn't allow you to be evil. And so if you want to be the best person in the world with great morals, Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum. All of that was a lie, but it does in fact build more muscle than creatine. That is the truth. And so if you're interested, Code Greg, 15% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost your rhythm. Please like the video if you liked it. Watch one of these two boops. I'm surprised it took me this long to make a video on this. One thing that really pisses me off is these fake virtue signaling pieces of shit. And so I was actually triggered by this, but I said, I'm not going to weigh in. But once I saw that he lied, lied about people coming to his house, I said, the video, it's going to happen. Hopefully John Bravo does the video. Hopefully Garrett Walker continues to expose this man. And until next time, subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost your rhythm. Like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two boops. Of course, you can get the cookbooks. You can go to Al Gorex, use Code Greg for 10% off. And until next time, I am out.