You're trying to make bank. And throughout this video, you're selling your app, your programming, training. You have an infomercial just like me. We are no different. The only difference between me and you is my supplements are infinitely better than yours. I'm better at advertising. My videos are better. I get more views than you. I have more followers than you. Everything is just a step up from you. I'm even older than you, Coach Greg. And I got a good one for you. It's on Sean Nalajui. And this guy, I think he wants the beef. I really think it I mean, I've seen him mention my name in previous videos about Testone and so on, but this time he's asking for it. And so he's standing like this with his little bicep vein because he reduced his body fat. He he went on a cut. Maybe he got my cookbook. He's looking better than ever. And so he's saying, "Don't buy anyone's supplements except for mine because I'm the only one with supplements that work." And so the purpose of his video is to sell his supplements. He wants to sell supplements perhaps as bad as I do. And so the way he does that is to bamboozle you, to fuel you, to say all these people who sell supplements are bad. They're bad people. Me, I'm good people. I'm good. >> You first you strip out. You show them your butthole. You show them everything. >> And so, do you know how many comments say Greg in them? Almost all of them. And so, let's read a few. Greg's reacting and making his response right now. Don't tell Greg Ducet about this video. Greg knew about this video before it even came out. Greg went back in time to release his reaction before your video came out. I can smell Greg creating a diabolical beef. Greg foaming on the mouth, not from anger, but he can get content for over six different videos. Greg definitely had post notice for this video. Was this a shot at Coach Greg? I love it. Good to Sean back on YouTube. Greg is getting his ducet as we speak after hearing the first supplement on the list. Coach Greg just saw this and said it's gregging time. Can we all collectively agree to talk [\h__\h] on Greg's Turk scam? That man has making money off that for way too long. And so here's the thing. I've been vindicated. You all know it. A few people commenting Sean Halix fans, they don't know this, but it's Gorilla Mind, Derek, and the rest who have been outed. They have the scam. And I've proven it. I literally just released this video yesterday. And so I'm not scamming you. My supplements, they work. It's actually a Jugga Turkiststanica. I don't know how many videos I have to make saying, "Look, my company sells Ajuga. It's from Isbekiststan. The other companies are selling a copycat plant known as Cyanosis." Listen, I hope at this point you all realize that this isn't a scam, that we're selling exactly what's in the bottle, and that other peoples are scamming you. Now, if you've been scammed by Derek and or others, we're literally giving you 50% off. It's a favor to you. And remember, if it doesn't work for you, like if Shawn Nalick tried it, which he didn't, if he tried it and it didn't work, he would get his money back. And so, is that actually a scam? Money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And so, Sean, who hasn't tried this supplement, is saying that it doesn't work. We're going to look into the science. We're going to go over the video, but let me just say this. Just had a client hired me, was on the phone with him, paid $10,000, coached him for a year. He says, "Look, at least 10,000. >> I'm on a juganica. I just got the platinum and I can't believe how strong it is. I was taking three pills a day. I had to lower to two. Couldn't handle it. It's powerful. And this person right here, natural athlete here, and I would love to be one of your models for your Turk builder before and after photos. This is what I went from before. Thanks to you for your wonderful Turk builder. He went from being obese to having an amazing chiseled physique. And he sent me a DM. These are not paid actors. These are not paid people to do so. And so Sean's going to say, "No one takes Turk unless they're paid to do so." Last I checked, Will Tennyson doesn't accept bribes. Do you really think that Will lied in a video that he was taking Turkeestone? That he wasn't actually doing so? That he lied on purpose? Are you telling me that Sean Nalawick that Will Tennyson is a liar? >> They're overhyped, overpriced. A lot of the times the labels don't even match what's actually in the bottle. And in some cases, they can even be straight up dangerous. >> And so here's the thing. He lists a bunch of things that I 100% agree with him. He's listing things like underdosed, overpriced, mislabeled, sometimes dangerous. These things that he's listing are exactly what's happening in other companies, but not in Turk Miller Max and not in Turk Platinum. We have exactly what's labeled inside. Other companies who say, "Hey, I'm selling you a Jugga, but it's not. It's Cyanosis." They're lying to you. That is not safe. Would you want to pay for something and not get what you're supposed to? To me, that is not fair. And so, when Shawn says these things, he's not talking about harder than last time. I would have to expect, I hope, I pray that Shawn knows that we are not lying and scamming other people. He's likely referring to Gorilla Mind, Derek, and so on. And if he's not, I don't know where he's been. I mean, he stopped posting YouTube long form content for a year or two. But is it possible that he didn't know that I was vindicated? That it was proven that my supplements every single time greatly exceed label claim? >> Really don't care about your results. They just want your cash. Now, full disclosure, I do own a supplement company, as many of you know, Real Science Athletics. And there it is early on. Before he even talks about these supplements, he pushes his own. >> But keep in mind that we could formulate and sell any product we want. If I was just trying to make more money, then I'd be selling everything on this list. >> If I only cared about making money, I would be selling more products on this list. If you could get a Jugga Turkistanica, you would be selling it, but you can't. Sean, you cannot get it. You can try, but you can't get it. Do you see the difference? You don't think Gorilla Mind andor other companies have tried to get what I'm selling? Have the receipts? You don't think that they've tried? No one's tried. They can't get it. And so what happens is they get it from China. And so when you say that you could make more money but that you don't, it's not actually the truth. You can't sell this. Now, if it's all about making money and being a scam, I turned down $5.85 per bottle. $5.85. I said, "Nope, I'm not going to sell. I'm not going to scam my consumer." And so we pay way more money for what we have. sourced it from Usbekiststan. Unlike the competition who gets it cheap from China for $5.85, I'm paying way more. And so, Sean, if I wanted to make way more money, I would be selling, for example, the same thing as Gorilla Mine. I would buy it for cheaper and I would be able to sell it for cheaper, just like your supplements. Oh, preworkouts aren't good because they use all these crazy ingredients. And I kept it minimalistic. You kept it minimalistic so you could get your bottle for about $6 or $7 per. That's why you really think you can compare your preworkout to my Blue Lobster or pre-workout 3.0. You don't even have nitrates in it. One of the most proven ingredients to help with your performance. You put in 200 millig of caffeine, couple hundred ingredients, got it for dirt cheap, and are selling it for $35 for 20 servings. That's what you're doing. Claiming, "Oh, I'm such a great guy. I don't want to make money. I'm just helping you all out. I don't see you selling it at cost. You're trying to make bank. And throughout this video, you're selling your app, your programming training. You have an infomercial just like me. We are no different. The only difference between me and you is my supplements are infinitely better than yours. I'm better at advertising. My videos are better. I get more views than you. I have more followers than you. Everything is just a step up from you. I'm even older than you. And so Sean, you disguise that you're just trying to help everybody and that you're greater than life. You're such a good guy, such a swell guy, but you too are trying to make money. And your sleep aid, I think 20 servings for $35, whatever. Don't quote me. It had 0.5 millig of melatonin.5. Melatonin is a great ingredient. How many of you out there in the world, raise your hand, know anyone who takes only 0.5 milligrams? And your glycine, it's way too low. Anyone can get that from a normal diet. And so, how is that beneficial? Oh, I'm going to put micro doses of ingredients and bamboozle you into thinking that it's the best supplement on the planet. Meanwhile, in comparison, your sleep product can't even hold a candle to mine. It's not even close. One of my pills likely better than your entire bottle. It's not comparable. And so if you want to say, "Oh, you have the best prices on product." Yeah, cuz you have hardly any ingredients in them and it does next to nothing. Is it really that impressive? And I had once recorded a video on your supplements, so I remember them and I deleted. I thought, "No, I don't just need to insult this guy's supplement company. Why would I do that?" But bro, come on. Give it a rest. So, I'm not trashing the following supplements because I don't sell them. I don't sell them because they're trash. How many of these have you tried, Sean? How many of these? How many did you use? One box or two? Did you try one of each? Did you buy the package deal? The T-plug stack. Did you buy that money back guarantee and a $20 gift card, Sean? And so, how is that bad? If you, Shawn, started selling a supplement and said, "You know what? I don't know if everyone will benefit from this. Maybe they won't benefit from my creatine. I mean, I surveyed 119,000 people, Sean, 50% said they didn't have any benefits from creatine. And so, does that mean the creatine didn't work? Maybe it didn't. Were you scamming them? Were 50% being scammed? Well, if you gave them a money back guarantee, if they didn't notice anything, would that be a scam? And so, Sean, if people want to buy my Auga Turkiststanica and they don't make any gains, they get their money back and a $20 gift card. How is that a scam? If it doesn't work, they get their money back. those who are benefiting the tens of thousands who are and rebying it. Oh, it can't work. It has to be a placebo. But me, Sean, I don't dare try it. Why not, Sean? Is it too dangerous? Is there something in it that scares you? Is it going to cause anonia like in ashro, which many people are reporting? Oh, that's right. You sell ashwagandha in your products. Oh, well, I thought you could do no harm. I thought all your supplements were perfect. You only sold the minimalistic ingredients, but yet you're selling ashroandha. Now, am I against ashroa? No. But many people saying they're experiencing anidonia. Do you even know what that is? >> Let's start with the poster child of trash supplements from the last couple years, which is ectosteroids and more specifically testerone. >> Turquestone is an ectostereroid in auga turkistanica. The reason this works is not because of turquestone. It's because of a juga turistanica. Turkesterone is an indicator that it is a juga turistanica. And so if you purchase Gorilla Modes Turpplex, you're going to see it had 36 mg of turquestone, meaning it's not a Jugga. And so when you don't get the gains from it that you were hoping for, it's because it wasn't a juga, not because it wasn't turquo. Does that help you to understand? And so when you say, "Oh, the product testerone," it's actually the product of Juga with turquesterone in it. >> But the sad reality, at least for the people who have spent their money on it, is that there's literally zero human evidence showing that testerone does anything for muscle growth. >> And so he just said there's zero human evidence that it actually works. Bringing in Marwan, who you remember, he went to Isbekistan. We're going to go over the human evidence because Sean, you are wrong. I feel like Sean Nalawick is being a dick. Well, uh, dear Sean, I will quickly enlighten you in less than five minutes of the current most recent evidence on ectosteroid extracts. >> So, he's a lot nicer than me. He's going to say in a calm, relaxed voice. And so, let's learn. Sean, >> in a recent trial by Denben Etal, they administered an ectosteroid extract to healthy athletes. They trained them for 12 weeks with weights. And they found in the ectosterone group, if you could put up the chart here, editor, if you put up the table, those stars indicate a statistical significant improvement in fat- free mass. So the ectosterone group experienced a statistically significant improvement in fat-ree mass during the 12 weeks of training. >> Oh, and tell them how long ago the study was cuz he was quoting studies from like six years ago. >> This is the around 2023. So let's uh >> newer studies. Sean, you have to keep researching. >> Let's continue very quickly. This will uh this won't take long. So, the um ectosterone group experienced an increase in fat-free mass over the 12week training period. And this is where it gets crazy. They stopped the training for all the groups for the placebo group for the ecsterone group. And they found that the ectosterone group maintained most of their strength and lean mass gains while the placebo group actually um declined significantly. And in that study, one of the secondary outcomes, they found that cortisol decreased by 23% in the experimental ectosterone group. And a few months ago, a brand new study by Pat Cow at all, they >> tie, >> they were trying to uh determine the effect of ectosterone on pulmonary function in obese people. Obesity can be considered a restrictive lung disease. Um although the restriction is uh imposed by the body habitus you have uh decreased inspiratory capacity and uh obstructive disorders while you lay down and whatnot. So what they found is the ectosterone group experienced a significant increase in their pulmonary function measures by just administering ectosterone without training. >> So their lungs got better when they used the product human studies placeboc controlled. Sean, the [\h__\h] works. Sorry you haven't read up all the studies, but it's cooler to [\h__\h] on testerone and promote your own supplements and that's what you're doing. >> And in addition to this, one of the secondary outcomes was the um waist circumference to hip ratio. This is an indicator of metabolic health and also an indicator of uh your fat distribution. So the epicenterone group experienced significant improvements in their waist circumference to hip ratio while the placebo group that were also training with highintensity interval training did not. And another study, this is a phase 2 clinical trial trying to see its effect on elderly patients who are sarcopenic uh muscle wasting disorder. They found that it increased their walking speed. their 400 meter uh walking test scores were improved with the ectoone group. >> We talked about this and we're like will the viewer understand? Oh, it's just old people. It's not going to help the young. Do you know what they do when they study people? It's all on old people. What do you think Austrian was for? Anavar was created for burn victims. And so if an old person can walk faster by taking the steroid, why do you think that is? And so don't you think you could take 10 times those doses, give them to younger people, and then you get the results like coach Greg and Will Tennyson. >> And let me just drop a few more. So you could do your own research, Sean. Um Eisen Eisen man at all did a study a while ago that put it on the Wada watch list on um humans athletes. >> That's for banning drugs. Wada watch list in case they are too effective that it's not fair. It's an unfair advantage. It's so effective. >> So they found that administration of an ectoerone extract led to around a 4.7 kg increase in their one rep max in the bench press. >> It's about 10 pounds. Yeah. And that's that's quite a lot for the duration of the study. And a secondary outcome, they found their IGF-1 levels compared to placebo was significantly greater. And overall for >> I mean guys are taking MK-677 to increase their IGF-1. But that's hurting the beta cells from the pancreas. We don't want that. And so this is a healthy way to get better >> natural for now. >> And we already discussed how it decreases cortisol. It does have effects on IGF-1 based on the current evidence. That's what the evidence suggests. So cortisol is a very important hormone our body creates when we are in an energy deficit or under many stressors. It um promotes uh the burning of glucose and the synthesis of glucose in the liver. So too much of cortisol can cause a cushingoid fat distribution and increase your fasting blood sugar and cause obesity. So by decreasing cortisol you decrease muscle breakdown and change body fat distribution to be less of a visceral type of distribution and more of a subcutaneous distribution. That being said, phase one clinical trial using ectosterone as a pharmaceutical compound found that it decreased creatine kinase in healthy uh volunteers which means it decreased muscle breakdown. So we know it decreases muscle breakdown based on large sample size trials and the smaller randomized double blind control trials show that it has significant ergoenic effects when it comes to pulmonary function when it comes to power output and also a positive endocrine effect and they found that it does not influence the hypothalamic pituitary axis which means does not shut you down and I think that uh you would stand to benefit from researching more in the realm of natural ingredients that complete your performance. My advice is to update your products because they have remained the same for the last 10 years. As the science changes, of course, we learn more about ingredients. And we learned that there are certain things that um are considered now uh standard proven although technically proven in science ingredients that can boost your performance. Like we talked about sodium nitrate that ingredient has undergone many different trials showing it has a very positive effect on different markers of performance. So I urge you to update your products and include what is most clinically relevant in your products going moving forward. And this is constructive feedback. >> Acts Sean is a minimalist approach. He wants his supplements to have the least amount of ingredients at lower doses so that the price point is low and he can sell it cheaper but still keep very in comparison. For example, our Gest Platinum with the premium ingredients. The list goes on and on. Can boost testosterone levels by 1 to 200 NOGS per deciliter. Now, Sean is going to say test boosters, they don't work. Maybe goes up 50 to 100 NOGS per deciliter, but that doesn't really do anything. And it only helps you build 10% more muscle. And so, what's that? You wouldn't even notice it. And so, rather than him saying, you know, these can work. It improves it by 10%. He says, oh, it's only 10%. It's only this. It's only that. Yeah, we get it. It's not going to increase your gains 10fold the way the trend does, but it's safe. And so, if you want to purchase harder than last time supplements, click the link in description, code Greg, 15% off. If you want to buy Sean's cheaper yet less effective supplements, I mean, the price is what it is. If you pay less money, you get less results. More money, you get more results. And so, if you want to support Shawn, by all means, he has less ingredients, less effective, lower doses. And so, that's what he does. And I will say the difference between Turk builder this extract this auga and raonticum extracts is they are very pure very fresh they don't have oxidized derivatives of ectosterone that can actually antagonize the positive effect of ectosterone containing extracts. It's very rare to find an extract like this in the market. This is why we believe that you should purchase this over other extracts unless the company can show uh that their product does not contain oxidized derivatives that they do not use harsh chemical solvents and high heat which impacts the quality of the product. If you sell fish oil, so you know this better than anyone else, fish oil, >> have it go rancid and see how you feel on it. Rancid fish oil can actually do the opposite. it can cause more oxidative stress in the body and can have the opposite effect that you are intending to have. Which is why we think that uh fresha turkistanica made with minimal harsh solvents, minimal high heat components, we feel like that is the best option in the supplement industry right now. >> And so the problem is for me to speak about turkestron and say all the sciency stuff like this, >> not many people are watching it. Ed, editors put the picture that we did an investigation on the Chinese ectosterone. So this is how the processing goes. They actually lay the raw material cyanotus on the ground >> in the pavement and just leave it there before it's processed. >> They're sitting out in the sun. >> Yeah. And it's we we measured the peaks for these extracts and we found all kinds of non-naturally occurring peaks of ectosterones which uh we think is u an indicator of poor quality. And so how many views do you think Shawn gets if he spends five minutes talking about the pros of Ajuga and says you know this company actually they source it from Isbekiststan so it's different than societyosis from girl mine if he talks about the science says this says that you're all tuning out at exactly 3 minutes and so by saying turkeestone it sucks bad shame on you bad >> you watch the video because you like beef who knows better than me about people liking beef if I make fun of someone you don't have a proper hand, whatever. Y'all love it. Oh, he's a fake nie. And so Sean is doing the videos that he knows you're going to watch. And by saying Turkeestone right at the start, he's saying it. You're going to think, "Oh, this is a great video." And you can tell by how many comments are about me, even though mine is legit. I don't see anyone saying, "Derek, you're outed. It's all Greg, even though mine has been vindicated." And so I don't know what to say. His entire video is to sell his supplement line. I can see that. There's nothing wrong with that. Why shouldn't he promote his brand? It's for lowd dose, lower ingredient supplements at cheaper prices. My company is for the best possible supplements at higher doses, but of course it's more expensive. If you can't afford this, you can just buy this. It's cheaper. Creatine. Yeah, it works little bit. Way less than a Jugga, but it still works. But you don't even need any supplements. And so Sean's kind of like, h, don't waste your thousands of dollars on supplements. just buy mine and waste hundreds of dollars. Well, is it a waste? I don't think anything's a waste. If it has even a 1% benefit, like he says, "Hey, maybe you shouldn't get beta-alanine. Oh, it doesn't help you build muscle unless your sets take you up to a minute." Well, what if you're me? I'm racing bikes. My sets always take a minute. I'm training hard and long drop sets to fail your four reps and everything. And so, it helps me. Oh, but it tingles my [\h__\h] I don't care. Whatever. You can drink it throughout the day. And so, he lists every single ingredient. Says, "Oh, it's not that good." Bro is even selling vitamins. Did you look at his vitamins? Were they uh amazing ingredients? Was it every vitamin you'll ever meet? >> There is something slightly concerning about claiming uh with 100% absolute certainty that something is a scam. And even ourselves to claim that something 100% absolute certainty that something works. We will never do that. We'll say there's a chance it'll work. The study suggests that it'll work. We know in science you can't prove something. you can only reject the null hypothesis >> or fail to reject the null hypothesis. So, I'd like to see more nuance from Sean as a science-based lifter instead of speaking in absolutes to implement more nuance. >> And that's why we have the money back guarantee cuz like I don't want you to lose out on a hundred bucks if it didn't work for you. It's a lot of money. I agree. And so, if it doesn't work, you get your full money back and a $20 gift card saying, you know, I'm sorry it didn't work. Hopefully next product will work because 50% of people don't notice creatine working even though it works according to science and so not everyone's going to feel testone as much as me or my brother his wife and Will Tennyson my sister the list goes on and on but hey if you do amazing but if you don't money back and so what do you have to lose >> also the last thing I will say our brand we we sell supplements but we also provide lifestyle interventions on the channel for the supplements that we sell. So yeah, we do sell supplements, but we also offer free actionable advice that can lead to all the benefits that someone's would be looking for in terms of dietary supplementation for free. We advocate for lifestyle interventions before supplementation, and these are a bonus for those who would like to optimize every single vector. All right, we're not going to go over the rest of the video. It's long enough. I'm doing a bike race. I'm sweating like a crazy buffoon. I've drank my freaking Blue Lobster pre-workout. I'm going to race harder than last time. And so, if you're interested in getting coached by me, of course, click the link in description. If you're interested in getting your blood work done if you want to get uh Sealis, Viagra, Telma, the list goes on and on. Of course, click the link in description. Cheaper prices than you've ever seen before. Dirt cheap in comparison to, for example, Mer Health or Transcendence. So, if you're interested, click the link. Of course, Momentous drops on August 1st. If you're interested in that, the clothing line, of course, click the link there. Coaching plans by myself. I talked about it earlier. Getting more clients than last time. You have FaceTime with Coach Greg, text messages, everything. If you're interested, click the link code Greg for all the supplements, the cookbooks, the training books, all that. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the album, like this video, watch those tube bloops, and until next time, we're both out.