minimal side effects. You can't use the word steroid and minimal side effects in the same sentence. This is absolute [\h__\h] Coach Greg, in today's video, you're not going to believe it. We got a young girl, good-looking, attractive, decides, you know what? >> I want to get into the gym. Right from the start, the husband and the trainer put her on steroids. And not just any steroid, Primobolan, of which they were injecting into her delts each and every week. They convinced her that there were zero side effects. Nothing bad will happen. None. That you're just going to build more muscle. Where did she meet this coach? Well, of course, she met him online. Imagine if she would have just hired Coach Greg. None of these problems would have happened. And so, here's the problem. They're trying to blame the coach. I'm blaming the husband and I'm blaming the wife. When you decide to put something into your body, it's on you. The buck stops here. As in, you're the final person that's going to decide what you do or don't do. Does this look jacked? Does she look jacked to you? And so, are steroids worth it? This is what steroids did to her. You were expecting to have the delts, some biceps to have an incredible physique. It didn't happen. Is it possible that she had more muscle while she was taking it? I do believe this is following stopping the steroids. But do you see that the muscles were not permanent? A lot of people think I'll just go on cycle for like 3 or 4 months. I'll put on 10 pounds of muscle and then I'll stop and I'll keep all those gains. You don't keep the gains. This is the lie that many people have been telling you. This woman, obviously she's delusional, but a lot of people are delusional about bodybuilding. They don't know just how hard it really is. She thought that bodybuilding was healthy. Now, don't get me wrong, going to the gym and working out, lifting weights, doing cardio, eating healthy, all of that is healthy, but getting up on stage, getting peeled, [clears throat] shredded, very low levels of body fat, none of that is healthy. Most women are losing their periods. Most men have no energy, brain fog, and so on. I could make an entire video on just the negative side effects of competing. And so, bodybuilding isn't healthy, especially if you add using performance-enhancing drugs. What many of you don't perhaps know, especially if you're not from China, is that bodybuilding translated into Chinese means fit and beauty. In China, when they think bodybuilding, they're reading fit and beauty. Imagine if you were in United States, Canada, and you thought, "Hey, I'm going to go in that fit and beauty event." Well, that sounds healthy. Somebody who's fit and beautiful. I believe that they're healthy. But in bodybuilding, we know that as bodybuilding, the sport where you use copious amounts of steroids, you diet down, you starve yourself, and you step up on stage with a proper tan. We know it isn't healthy, but China, they're late to the party. Soon they will realize that when you diet to the extent, it doesn't mean that you're healthy. Healthy for me would be 15% body fat for men, perhaps 20% body fat for women. Men carry less body fat than women do. Once you approach single digits, for example, below 10% body fat for men. And for women, anything under 18% body fat, it starts to get dangerous. It can affect your blood work. It can affect your periods, your hormones. And so you need some body fat in order to be healthy. But to win shows, it's almost as if it's the less body fat the better. Bodybuilding is not synonymous with being fit. Being fit is fit. >> She has really good genetics as in the structure to be good at women's bikini. She has a small waist. She has wider shoulders. And she is very attractive. And so all she's missing is the muscle part, the part where you have to work out. And so you can't just go to the gym and expect to have those muscles overnight. And so she decided to take a shortcut. And that shortcut was steroids. She injected it. Forget this. Six months. Half a year. Half a year. She was doing one shot on the left and one shot on the right, one week apart. A even if she were a man, even if she were a bodybuilder, remember this steroid is for bodybuilders, is more so for men. It's not safe for females. You wouldn't shoot it once a week. That causes huge spikes in that hormone and it doesn't give you stable blood levels. And so every single week she does a shot, it goes really high and goes really low, up and down, back and forth. you would need to do at least two shots a week. And so, a she's doing it wrong. The coach should at least know that. And so, those are going to cause even worse side effects. When you don't offer stable blood levels by doing more frequent injections, you're going to get even worse side effects than last time. And so, no wonder she got the horrible acne. No wonder she experienced these side effects. And six months of primo, are you kidding? And so if you hired a doctor and said, "You know what? I don't want to be a woman anymore. I want to be a man." And the doctor said, "I'm going to put you on steroids for 6 months." That's a great start. And so what she essentially did is she slowly started to become a man. Your Adam's apple, it starts to form. It gets bigger. You get a deeper voice. You grow facial hair. You can perhaps even go balding. You're going to have thinner hair. A lot of side effects. and the downstairs. Yeah, it's going to grow. It's going to start getting bigger. And so, is that what you want? I'm certain she did not. And so, why would she use steroids? I'll tell you why. It's for competing. She wanted to have that amazing body, the incredible muscles, but she wasn't willing to be patient. She should have spent years developing that physique, but instead she wanted in months, six months to be exact. Before this time, she used to have a very delicate, very female voice, very soft. Since that time, it's definitely changed. And so, you know, she's getting some of these side effects. She's calls up the coach and sends him a message, you know, getting a lot of acne on the chest. You know, the voice is getting a little coarse. And so, does the coach say, "You know what? you need to come off or to perhaps lower the doses or we're going to swap you over from doing primo to perhaps Adeavar Austrian or does the coach offer any suggestion? Absolutely. He says add in some bitter melon juice. What's bitter melon juice? Bitter melon fruit also bitter ground. It's a bumpy skin. It's extremely bitter. claim benefits blood sugar regulation, digestive health, immune support, and weight management. None of this says it reverses the side effects of steroids. None of it. It doesn't say it gets rid of pimples. It doesn't make your Adam's apple go away. It doesn't make your voice change to that of a woman. This would be like you using steroids and the coach saying, "You know what? Just add in a glass of milk. Just drink milk before bed. You're good." her blood work comes back in. And what you want you to take note is women's testosterone should be between 10 and 56. Hers is 65. And so it's above the top of the reference range. And so obviously that's going to come with negative side effects. For example, the deeper voice, the acne, her estradiol levels. This is a female hormone. She doesn't have enough of that. It's below the bottom of the reference range. So, she has too much testosterone and not enough estrogen. And so, no wonder she's getting side effects. Her FSH and LH, of course, are down. They're being suppressed from the exogenous hormone, the primobolan that she's injecting. And her prolactin, it's also right at the bottom of normal, at the base. And so, she doesn't have enough estrogen and prolactin. It's her female hormones, but she has too much testosterone. And so you give somebody too much testosterone, not enough of the female hormones, and she slowly transitioned to that of a man. No wonder this was happening to her. Oh, and let's not forget that primo. Was it actually primo? Perhaps it was testosterone mixed with primo mixed with god knows what. We don't know what's in there. It's not like it's a prescription from your doctor. And so, please be careful. If you're in the United States, you can get your blood work taken from Algo RX. They can prescribe to you prescription medications. That's right. Prescriptions from a doctor legal. If you wanted to lose weight, for example, semiglutide or tzipotide and if you're looking for inclenine or perhaps telmaartin if you have high blood pressure or maybe you need seialis or viagra, there's a ton of various medications that you can get prescribed. So if you're interested, code rag 10% off, click the link in the description. And so her doctor essentially looked at her hormones and said, "Wow, funny. You're in menopause. She's only in her 20s. She's perhaps 30 years old at best." And so there's something going wrong. The doctor should have said, "Um, are you on steroids?" But hey, perhaps in China they don't assume that people would ever dare to use performance antin drugs. Do you really think that people in China don't use steroids? Or are they just better at keeping it quiet as in keeping it a secret? This is what I don't agree with. She used this coach. She listened to this coach. Her husband agreed to it as well. And the husband is already into steroids. The husband is not natural. He uses steroids. Do you don't think that he wanted his wife to use steroids? Like think of it. If the husband was against it, she would have said, "Hey, husband, should I use this primo thing? This is what my coach wants me to do." And as a couple, they would talk together and he'd say, "No, I don't think I want my wife to be a man. I'm not into that. I don't want you to grow a beard. I don't want you to have to shave. I don't want you to have a div." And so the husband would say, "No, but they listen to him." And then after the fact, 6 months later, oh, let's get our money back. Let's blame the coach. It's too late. You made your bed and you can lie in it. >> And so imagine ratting yourself out. You bought steroids, which I think are illegal in China. You bought them and then you're reporting this to the police. What are you doing? HEY, I JUST BOUGHT illegal drugs. Everybody, let's make a video about me. And so, if I was her, ought to have kept my mouth shut, put the primo in the garbage, and went about my day, and perhaps hard coach Greg to teach her what to not to do next time. Lo and behold, she reports no disinfection measures. You're supposed to use an alcohol swab because there are bacteria on your skin. And when you poke a hole in your body, essentially, you're jabbing yourself, you're putting a hole that's giving the environment a way to get in. And so any germs and bacteria, they can go directly inside of you. And so by not using an alcohol swab, that just shows that you're an idiot. It doesn't mean anything but that. How hard would it be to go on deep sea and say, "I'm going to inject. Should I clean my skin?" Guys, girls, are you starting to understand why it's important to use Turk Builder Max, Turk Platinum instead of Primobolan, and other performance-enhancing drugs? Some of you are going to use the steroids, but you know it comes with negative side effects. But if you're a beginner, if you're not a professional bodybuilder, if you're looking for something safe that you can do longterm, it's the number one selling supplement by far. And so if you're interested, code Greg 15% off. And remember, money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And so what do you have to lose if you're interested? Click the link right now. The part that he lies, and I do mean lie as in doesn't tell the truth, is when he says minimal side effects. You can't use the word steroid and minimal side effects in the same sentence. This is absolute [\h__\h] When a coach tells you or anyone tells you that it's minimal side effects, you know that they're lying. Are they in fact the people trying to sell you these drugs? Because obviously they're motivated to sell you because they're going to make money and so they're going to say, you know, if you buy this, there's hardly any side effects. It's minimal. It it probably won't happen. Even in small doses, there are side effects. And they're actually direct effects. These steroids, they're androgenic. They cause viralization for women. And for men, they do a whole host of different things. Cardiac remodeling. You're going to have left ventricular hypertrophy. [snorts] You can get a heart attack, a stroke. You can have liver failure, kidney disease, cancer, make you aggressive, lose your hair, gynecomastia, acne, irritability, brain fog, your private member won't work. These are some of the negative side effects. And I've even listed them all. And so to say small or limited or almost no side effects, that is a complete lie. If you're new to the gym, rather than hopping on steroids, perhaps consider getting a proper diet, proper training program. And remember, I do in fact do this. Very good at this. I have a fitter than last time program. And so if you're interested in that or perhaps the cookbook in Mandarin, it's been translated so that you can understand it, the top recipes. If you're interested in that, click the link in the comments section. And until next time, I am out.