Is your collar bone deep enough that a fish could swim inside? If so, then you're a big freaking deal in China. >> China, you gots to be thin, you gots to be small, and under 110 lbs or 50 kg. If you can see behind it, you're fat. >> Coach Greg, in today's video, unrealistic beauty standards around the world. >> In China, this girl is too fat. >> She's too fat. everywhere. What are we even talking about? Just because you're too fat doesn't mean that you're not hot. As I'm looking at this woman, and you know, Coach Greg, he likes a lean girl. I can still appreciate the fact. I can What a Freudian slip that was. I can still appreciate the fact I have meant to say the fact that she still is extremely attractive, far above average. Perhaps not according to clvicular, but to the rest of the world, people are going to say, "This is an attractive woman." But his comment is, "She is too fat." The answer is, "She is too fat. She's obese." And you're thinking, "Well, no, she's not." Yes, she is. Her body fat is over 33%. She simply has amazing genetics. And why do I say that? Her waist is minuscule. It's tiny. Her bone structure stupendous. But you could see a lot of fat around her body. Let's begin with her arms. Do those look like lean arms to you? Her arms look almost the size of mine. They're massive. And why is that? Do you think it's from doing a bunch of push-ups, bench presses, and so on? No. It's because she has a high amount of body fat. In females, most women, they carry a lot of fat in their arms and around their hips. And so, if you look at her, you can clearly see she has more fat in her quads, in her hamstrings, glutes, in all of those areas. And typically when you see that on a female, she's going to have a lot of fat in her arms. Now, before y'all begin to hate, I never said she isn't attractive, and I never said she doesn't have a nice shape. And I never said she doesn't deserve love, affection, and all of those amazing things, but she's still fat. Sorry, it's a definition. If she were 3'7, I would say she's short. Doesn't mean that just because you're 3'7 that you're not attractive that no one should date you. >> In China, this girl is too fat. This girl too dark. >> Uh, immediately no, she's not too dark. Lots of people around the world wear makeup. They get extra tans. And remember, Mike Israel lost because he never had a proper tan. Now, in China, perhaps they like lighter skin girls, and so they're saying that she's too dark, but that is personal preference. For myself, I see no difference. I don't care if she's too dark, too. Does not matter. But some people have that preference. And so if you like somebody who's lighter and you're darker, well, you can just accept it and go about your day and be too dark. Or you can avoid the sun. You can wear makeup. You can do whatever. It's up to you. >> And this girl is too short. >> She's probably taller than Coach Greg. I'm a 5'6 manlet. And so, do we really care if she's too short? Yeah. Do you know how many videos I'm bombarded with about how men need to be tall? 6'2 and above. And if you're not at least 6 feet tall, you're a short king. Who cares? So what? She's too short. She's too dark. You're too fat. Why do we care? Just because you're not perfect, you're not ideal, doesn't mean you're not still pretty good. And so there's no way I wouldn't date someone simply because they're too short. Nobody actually cares. And if she is too short, go on to the next one. Oh, you're under five feet tall. I don't like you. So what? You're going to find somebody else. Not everyone has to like you. Once you understand that you need to stop giving a about what other people think, your life is going to get significantly better. And so you can't have every person in the world want to be with you. That would be ridiculous. All you need is one one person. One person is going to think, "Wow, you're so short. I love that. I want to be with someone short because perhaps I'm only 5'2 and I want a shorter woman. >> How unhinged are the beauty standards here in China? Shua breaks it down. Chinese people love their standardized tests and for better or worse, beauty is also a test. Yes, there are literally beauty tests that are going viral all over social media. >> If you think we have it bad in North America, in Canada, United States, wait till you go to China. If you're over 50 kg, 110 lb, you're fat. In North America, girls be posting photos of themselves weighing 180 lbs and thinking that they're small. I'm like, you almost weigh more than me. You're fat. Forget about it. Unless you're over 6 feet tall. If you're a female and you weigh over 180 lbs, you're not thin. Sorry. Sorry to break it to you, but again, does it matter? Just because you're bigger, just because you're not lean, it doesn't make you a bad person. China, you got to be thin, you got to be small, and under 110 lbs or 50 kg. And so imagine those standards. You think that it's bad in North America, the average woman is 39% body fat. The average man about 28. Those are obese. The average person in our countries are obese. THEY'RE FAT. THEY'RE OUT OF SHAPE. AND SO THE BEAUTY standard in the United States essentially is if you're not fat, you're hot. That's how hard it is to be attractive. In the United States and Canada, if you are not overweight, you're already ABOVE AVERAGE. THAT'S HOW HARD IT IS. AND SO WHY don't you put the fork down? Perhaps once in a while, go for a walk. Heavens forbid. Bring up your heart rate. pass the test and you're an S tier baddy. >> All right. And so let's see what an S tier baddy is. Perhaps it's the glute test where you roll a 45 lb barbell with 45 plates attached and if it can't get over your bum, then you're attractive. Your bum is big enough. Let's see what it is in China. >> What are the four most insane beauty tests that Chinese girls swear by? First is the A4 paper test. Hold a piece of A4 paper in front of your waist. If you can no longer see your waist, you pass. And so you have to cover your waist with a paper. Oh, FYI, it's like this. If you can see behind it, you're fat. And so the next time you get mad at me for saying somebody's obese for having above 33% body fat, be thankful I didn't get out a piece of paper. >> Similar to the A4 test is the belly button test. Can you wrap your arm all the way behind your back and touch your belly button? >> I can't even wrap my arm. Are you kidding me? Are you really for real right now? What's next? You're fat if you can't touch your hands behind your shoulders. Kind of ridiculous because not only do you have to have an extremely small waist, you also have to have very flexible shoulders. And what if you have gorilla monkey arms? If your arms are extra long to be able to go around your waist and touch your belly button and so in order to be hot in China, you have to be a contortionist. Really? Then there is the fish and collarbone test or so yangu. How does it work? Basically, is your collar bone deep enough that a fish could swim inside? If so, then you're a big freaking deal in China. >> Next, this one, it threw me off guard. The collarbone test. You got to see if a fish can swim in your collar bone because in China, they want the collar bone to poke out and be straight, not angled, poke out. And so you have to add a bunch of water and you put a little fish and goes for a swim and if they can do that you're hot. Well, here in Canada in the United States, we got the chest test. You have to be able to put a freaking bottle on your pecs and have it sit there and if you don't, you're not big enough. And so Coach Greg, he has to go to the gym. >> The hashtaga literally means your collarbone is so sexy it kills. Are you a fan? And so of all the things that could be sexy on a person's body, I mean, I've heard of people having a foot fetish, liking the derriè, perhaps these, a small waist. I've even heard Mike Isertel say he likes a girl with big traps and biceps. [groaning] Perhaps he's a vampire. But I've never heard of requiring a collar bone that a fish could swim inside, and that somehow gets you off. >> Finally, we've got the lumbip, or cool skin test. Is your skin a warm tan tone or is it a cool pale almost blue tone? If you're cool toned, then congratulations, you'll be glazed. >> And so, apparently to be attractive in China, you have to have blue face. Remember blue face in the Olympics, the athletes who are using performance-enhancing drugs. Upon swimming, their oxygen levels were down and they had blue faces. They were pale. That somehow is attractive. And so personally, I like nonblueface women, but I don't discriminate. Hey, if you want to date Smurf Fett, there's nothing wrong with that. She was one of the Smurfs. There was Papa Smurf, Hefty Smurf, Brainy Smurf, and Smurfett. It was a freaking crazy time back then. There was one Smurfett and a hundred fellas fighting for her. It's almost as bad as it is right now when you're dating on social media. Yeah, bonus points if you have visible veins through your pale skin. >> And all about the veins. This the same applies in Canada, United States. If you have some vascularity, some veins going through, whether you're a male or a female, if you have veins popping through, it's a sign that you're very, very lean and most likely go to the gym. I don't think that most men care if a woman has some vascularity. But if you're into the gym, you like working out, you may in fact appreciate that. Chinese beauty standards are next level and honestly doing way too much in my opinion because everyone's beautiful in their own way, right? >> No, no, no. Why are we lying to people? Not everyone is beautiful. No. The problem is people think it's healthy at every size. No matter what you look like, you're beautiful. We need to change the def of beautiful to be worthy. If you want it to be like that, we need to change the definition of beautiful to something else. Beautiful is something that most people are going to find attractive. Most people are going to want to look at. It can't be hideous, disgusting, and vile. And just because you want it to be beautiful, that it's beautiful. It isn't. When you see a 700 lb person who's disfigured, they smell, they're gross, they can't even go for a walk, they're diseased, they're infected. It's not beautiful, it's gross. I'm sorry. And just because it's not nice to say, it doesn't mean that it's true. And so what's next? I want to change the beauty standards of height. Everybody is tall. I mean, after all, compared to a little child to a baby, I'm a giant. Compared to most animals around the world, I'm rather tall. I've never seen a cat taller than me. And so I'm tall. I identify as tall. Do you KNOW HOW STUPID THAT SOUNDS? I'M A SHORT man lit, 5 foot6, 168 cm tall. No matter what country you have, there's some moronic beauty standard. I remember the first time I realized this. I was perhaps 10 years of age. I've got the Guinness Book of World Records. I'm obsessed with numbers. Perhaps you didn't know that. I'm opening up the book and I turn to a page and it's for the longest necks in the world. And there was a country where people are putting rings around their neck. One woman's neck was 12 in long. It was stretched out completely. And I'm thinking, why? Well, in that country, a long neck is considered beautiful. If they were to ever take their neck braces off, they most likely would break their neck and die. But that was attractive. And in other cultures, they had these stupid earrings and they make the hole in the ring bigger and bigger. It's hanging on to their chest. That's attractive. Or what about those giant horns in their noses and in their lips? Or in my own country, do you know how stupid this is? Women want to have hot dog lips. I kid you not, I'm not making this up. They put so much filler in their lips that it looks like they're wearing two hot dogs. And don't get me started on the BBLs. They have skinny legs and fat gross cellulite hanging all over the place. They'll suck the fat out of their backs and put it into their derriès. And so if you don't think there's crazy ridiculous beauty standards everywhere, well, I got news for you. And in the United States viral right now, clavicular looks maxing. He's literally taking a hammer and banging his face to grow his bones. Ah, that's starting to hurt, man. Let's do a little bit more. He's injecting things into his eyes so his eyes can droop over like this so that he can have hunter eyes. He's wearing shoulder pads glued onto his shoulders so that he can look like a bodybuilder. They're injecting melanotto in order to get a proper tan. And not only that, this area they're trying to make it bigger than last time. T-Maxing, tying grocery bags to it, pulling on it, yanking it all day long, hoping to get that coveted extra half inch. Women wear high heels. Why? So that they're taller, their legs look longer and slimmer. Do you think that that's actually comfortable? Or what about the corsets to make their waist look smaller? Or the implants putting things inside of our bodies in order to look bigger up top? and men using performance-enhancing drugs, including steroids, WHICH I'VE DONE for literally 10 years, in order to have bigger biceps in order to look better. And so, no matter where you are, the standards are ridiculous. And so, what I'm telling you is love your body no matter what. Regardless of what people say, love your body for you. Stop giving a about what other people think and find the right person for you. There's nothing wrong with trying to look better, but please don't take it too far. Interested in Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum, of course, help you go to the gym. Go Max. Get it at HLT supplements code Greg for 15% off. If you have low levels of testosterone, of course, you can get inclapene or testosterone prescribed by a doctor at algo RX. Click the link in description, enter code Greg to save you 10%. You can get the cookbooks, the training books, coaching plans by me and my team. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And until next time, I am out.