the audacity woman. She lies about everything. All her posts are lies to clickbait people into looking at it and then she gets mad at them if they think that she's actually taking the drugs that she says she's taking. You're a freaking girl. You're 22. Wake the perk up. Coach, Greg. And in case you didn't already realize this, many teenagers, and this includes women, are using steroids. And not only that, they're actually glorifying it. Case in point, Olivia Buzzale, I don't know if this is a coincidence, but she's friends with Togei. And so, the Togei effect, it's running wild. And so, essentially, here's the thing. She's posted videos of herself on Instagram for several years and none of them went viral. No one cared. She was in the gym. She was training and she'd been doing so for 3 years. Then suddenly she had enough. And so it says from a little town in the middle of nowhere to the Hollywood Hills. Gearheads, gamblers, and gens. All right. And so we can see here we've got photos of Togei. And so she's hanging out with Togei. And in case you have never knew this, Togei, he promotes and use steroids. And so you never know who it's going to affect. You might think it's innocent and that no one's going to follow in your footsteps. But we now even have teenage women doing the same thing. One thing you better not do is do anything with her raw or you're getting the R. Raw. Don't go raw in this woman. End up with chlamydia. Is this where Togei got chlamydia? Toi say it isn't. So, was this the two you were talking about that nobody knows about? Toi, run gear, get jacked, and drink tequila. I mean, does this not sound like toi? So, run gear, take poison, and drink poison. 174 likes. So, almost none from a woman to get that few simps. I mean, if you're a woman and you can only get 174 likes, you're blew it. You blew it in life. You look happier. Thanks. I quit dating white monsters and started drinking them instead. This is her channel. This is what you watch. And thankfully, she only has 2,000 followers. I stopped dating white Caucasian monsters and I just started drinking white monsters instead. I mean, it's somewhat funny, but like, hey, if you don't want to date white monsters, why don't you drag black men or perhaps Asians or whatever? Try again. You're a young woman. Is this all because of a man? A man dating what? They cheated on you and then you had to resort to taking steroids. Ew. I couldn't get a man to love me and so I resorted to steroids and I now go to the gym. You're a freaking girl. You're 22. Wake the perk up. I started this journey at 108 lbs. I've been consistently in the gym for 3 years before making the decision to begin a cycle. Wow. You know, she's been in the gym for 3 years. She started training at 16. She's now 19. And so, oh my goodness. I mean, I waited. I put in the work. You know, I've been grinding for years. I don't know what happened, but in 2025, people seem to think that they've been through life. They've done the whole thing, that they've experienced everything, but they've barely had time to work out. Like, training from 16 to 19. I started training at 10. And I can't imagine already starting steroids at only 19. And I started when I was 10. She started at 16. She's a woman. She's 19 years of age. And if you look at her physique at 108 pounds, all I see is a girl that's not eating enough. I mean, let's watch this again. >> Steroids are amazing. And here's how I know. know why. By showing a photo of yourself when you're overly lean. I mean, look at the condition of her legs. Women aren't meant to have legs that look like that unless they're on a very serious diet. These are not normallooking quads. And so, frankly, she has a way above average looking physique. Her starting point after only training for a couple years is way above average. However, I do think she's probably underfed. She looks very lean and so she says steroids are amazing. Why did they convince her to eat? Did the steroids make her have a burger to be in a calorie surplus? Because when I look at the before and after, I don't see a girl that put on a [\h__\h] ton of muscle. I see a girl that ate and gained some fat. Of course, some muscle went with that. >> I think I weighed like 108 lbs here. This is uh my most recent like physique. >> And so she put on 50 lb. 50, not 15, but 50. Did she need to gain 50 lb? I don't think so. Uh clearly it wasn't 50 lb of muscle. A lot of this was fat. And of course the steroids did in fact help her. But eating in a surplus would have helped her. Turk builder Max would have helped her. There's a whole bunch of natural things she could have done that would have helped her. I would say eating the main one. >> A lot of people tell me, "Oh, you could had the same physique like naturally." >> No, she couldn't have had the same physique naturally. Just because a physique is attainable naturally doesn't mean that she could have done it naturally. Her first cycle was 5 mg of anavar for 8 weeks and her second cycle was 10 milligs of anavar for 8 weeks. You really think she could just not take anavar and get the exact same amount of gains by being natural versus enhanced? Of course not. Now, is it possible that eventually she could have gotten that physique perhaps 5 years later? Yes. But she wanted it right now. >> Sure, I could have. However, I didn't want to wait the amount of time it would have taken. And also, I just wanted a fat ass. >> And also, I just want a fat ass. Okay, so you don't need steroids. You don't need Turk. You need food. To get a fat ass, you need to eat in a surplus. It's really that simple. What was your cycle? First cycle 5 mg out of R. 8 weeks on 20 weeks off. Second is 10 milligs out of R. One IU of HGH and Clen. Same time frame. See, I don't understand why people are all using Clen. All you have to do is not eat the burgers in the first place, and you don't need the Clen to burn that fat off. It makes way more sense to use GLP max than Clen. Clen is bad for your heart. It's bad for your health. It's not something I would recommend. It doesn't make you feel good. It makes it harder to sleep. And so, isn't the problem that you're hungry? Like the people that are gaining all this weight, isn't that you're hungry and you can't curb your cravings? Well, if you take GLP Max, you'll be less hungry. It'll be easier to put the fork down. Code Greg, 15% off. Envious of how little doses women need. Lol. 5 and 10 millig in comparison to men is a little dose, but for a woman it is not. You may be thinking it's a very small dose, but remember this, it's 10 to 12 times stronger in a woman as compared to that of a man. So, a woman taking 10 milligs of anavar could expect to put on the same amount of muscle as if you were taking 120 milligs of anavar. And so, it is legit. And by the way, if you're a man, don't take 120 milligrams of Anavar. That's actually the smartest cycle for a girl I've seen a girl do. I would do 5 milligrams of Anavar instead and five IUs of GH. Please don't read comments from morons in the comment section and copy what they're saying. Oh, it's the smartest cycle I've ever seen a girl do. Really? 5 millig of Adavar for the first cycle. That's the smartest cycle you've ever seen. No one has ever done that. How about 2 and 12 milligs of Anavar? Is that smarter? What about 5 millig of Austrian? Is that smarter? What about What about doing Turk Builder Max? What about I could list a thousand things that's smarter and your suggestion is to use 5 milligs of anavar and five IUs of growth hormone next. How on earth do you think that's healthy? You want women to start injecting five IUs of growth plus 5 milligs of anavar daily as a cycle? What's wrong with you? Sorry, I missed your 20 calls, 15 texts, and voicemail of you begging for me back. I was busy smoking a joint at a mansion in West Hollywood. Oh, I hate men, you know. I hate dating white monsters. Now I drink the white monsters. I'm just smoking a joint in some mansion in Hollywood. See, women, this is the problem. You have a man who maybe he's a good man and he's trying to get you back. And instead you find some rich guy that doesn't give a [\h__\h] about you, doesn't want to be with you. You really think this multi-millionaire in a mansion that's giving you a joint or whatever actually likes you. He doesn't like you. Perhaps you'll let him hit once or twice and then he's going to move on. He doesn't care. You are doing this to yourself. Why don't you start dating somebody in your own league? Then you go out and hang out with Togei and post about how men are horrible creatures and that everyone should just use steroids and get jacked and not date anyone. Just what? They shouldn't date anyone. is to just sit at home and yank to watching your stupid off account. That's what you want people to do while promoting performance-enhancing drugs. This is the image that you want to decide. You woke up and said, "You know what I want to do in my life? I want to inspire people to not date other people, to pay for my OAF account, and to abuse steroids, drink, and gamble." That's what you decided to do. Well, excellent job. 2,000 followers. Yay. Good for you. Wild. Do a lot of women in the gym take steroids? Her response, more than you think. Without question, she is correct. Many people think it's only the jack girls, the ones with the huge biceps and acne and the foreheads that don't have any hair. Or perhaps they have crazy massive jaw lines and they're shaving and they have a very deep voice and an Adam's apple and there's some growth in the downstairs. It's just bigger than normal. You're thinking those are the only girls that take steroids. No, those are the girls that take the largest doses. But those who take smaller doses, many are experiencing some of these side effects. You just don't know it yet. To each their own, but starting a cycle after 3 years is wild. Maybe start with your diet and training first. If you aren't gaining, you aren't eating enough. And her response, not for someone whose goal is an IFBB pro card. I'm I don't even know what to say to that. And so your goal is stupid. You just have a long-term goal that you know the only way you can get it is by abusing the [\h__\h] out of performance-enhancing drugs. And for what? What is this pro card going to give you? Oh, my goal is a pro card. Yeah, I wanted to be a professional baseball player when I was five, but I wasn't about to travel to Dominican, leave Canada, and play baseball my entire life. Some things just don't make sense. And the person's response, thank goodness a few people make sense here. I think anyone with a pro card would tell you to figure out training and diet first before jumping on any sort of PD. I like the response to say, "But sure, whatever, man." Because that's what she's slowly doing. She's slowly going to turn into a man. I mean, the comments essentially, I want to summarize the comments. Most people are saying, "This is what steroids did. That's it." Like, look at you. like this isn't impressive. I would have thought 100% you're natural. But yet she even shows her before 108 lb and her after 158 lb. And so people are delusional. She's delusional thinking that an IFPB pro card is going to mean anything at all. What would that do? You get to put IFBB Pro on your biography. Let's see what you put right now. It says athlete MT-atx code live. I'm not real. You get to then say IFBB pro at what bodybuilder. What are you going to then do? Let's see. She's probably a freaking OAF person. Olivia Martin, Venmo, Livy Jewel, Livy Jewel. And then what's this like? Peppermint heart. Black heart. What is that? Oh, hey friends. I'm 22 and I love the gym. My favorite food is sushi. Okay. As if anyone cares about her favorite food or that she loves coffee or that she loves being a little weird girl. All copyright content, $10 per month, 38 posts. And so there it is. She's trying to be famous so that she can make money by showing you her naked ass. That's why she wants a fat ass. Okay. She's got 2,000 followers. And so remember Togei said, you know, I wanted to get famous, so I use steroids. And then I bragged about it. And so she's copying the Togei model. She's the female Togei. Maybe she'll start gambling more often. And I mean, I'm sorry. Like, she's showing herself injecting. How is this even allowed on Instagram? Half the time I show anything, they shadowban me. How is she allowed to do this? And let's like just analyze the look of her physique. Does this look like she's a future IFBB pro? She's admittedly done two cycles var twice growth hormone. And these are the results. She's not lean. She doesn't seem to have a crazy amount of muscle. She looks normal. She doesn't look like she's blasting like she has crazy genetics. Like she's a future IPB pro. And so why not just clean up your diet? Stop the permabul 2,800 calories. Why are you eating 2,800 calories? And then she puts the little blue pill. Is this freaking anar? Is she allowed to show herself using illegal performance-enhancing drugs on camera, film it, post it on Instagram, and she gets away with it? I told the world I was using HRT and showed the vial I was using prescribed by my doctor, which is legal, and I got shadowbanned, but yet she can do this. 500 mg as a female is insane. And her response, it's called being facitious. I'm not actually running 500 mg of test as a female. I haven't pinned test a day in my life. Little bottle is HGH. Big bottle is injectable LC carnitine. How many people do you think read that versus how many people see the actual post? Most people see the post and they keep going. Some people see the post and they write a comment and then some people see the post, write a comment and read your response to the comment to see what's actually going on. And so when you say, "Oh, it's just facitious." So do you think people give a [\h__\h] It's not called being facitious. It's called you're lying on purpose for a specific purpose to rage bait people into believing you're taking 500 milligrams of steroids. You think people just are like, "Oh, well, she isn't actually taking that. I know that she's exaggerating, that it's probably lcarnitine. There's no way she's actually injecting." Most people have no idea what a steroid look like or what a milligram would look like or how much it would be. And so when you post 500 milligrams of steroids, 500 milligrams of testosterone, that is what they believe. You can't then say in the comment section the next day, type a bit below and say, "Oh, it wasn't actually steroids. It was actually growth hormone and Lcarnitine." It doesn't cut it. I mean, why write this? Like, who are you trying to impress? Like, it's one thing if a man says it, you know, hey, you're always at the gym. Yeah. You know, rather than chasing women at the bars all the time, I just go to the gym. I mean, I can respect that. But as a woman, no, I have an o account. I I don't chase men. I post photos myself where they have to pay to see me. The audacity woman, she lies about everything. All her posts are lies to clickbait people into looking at it. And then she gets mad at them if they think that she's actually taking the drugs that she says she's taking. And it says, "Oh, I don't chase men." Yeah, you're trying to chase you. You're trying to get them to pay to look at you. And who would do that? Like, let's be honest. Like, we're going to have to pay to see this. Since when do I have to pay to see a five? >> Y'all will literally believe anything on the internet. And running 500 tests as a female is ridiculous and stupid and I would never do that. But apparently, I'll don't have brain cells and can't figure out the fact that I'm actually what I was pinning in my shoulder is injectable elcarnitine. I have not actually touched test yet as a cycle. >> Notice how she says yet. And so people are concerned. They're trying to help her out. They're like, "Look, you look very young. You probably made a mistake. 500 milligrams of test is too much. I don't know what coach you have or boyfriend, but we're trying to help you." And so a lot of men and women in the comments section trying to help this woman, and she just laughs at them. You couldn't figure it out that I was being facicious, that it was actually Anavar and Lcarnitine. I haven't even touched test yet. But in every third post, it says to abuse trend, to take Trend, to do test, to take dbol, that your life will get better if you use steroids. And she has an OAF, but yet she hates men. Who do you think is paying for this OAF [\h__\h] that you're posting? Men. And so you hate the men who are paying to support you. Make it make sense. And so try to stay natural for as long as possible. 3 years is not enough time to have a base of training. Try to eat a proper diet. Put the fork down. Be healthy. Do 150 minutes of cardio a week. And if you want to use supplements, consider HDLT supplements. We have the best supplement line in the world, bar none. Better than anyone else. If you're interested in Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum, you can of course get those trying to diet and lose weight, GLP Max. And if you want to get your blood work done and have a doctor prescribe you proper medications, pharmagrade at extremely low prices. I'm talking about lower than anywhere else I've seen. I've partnered with and I'm a part owner of Algo RX. And so if you're interested, click the link in description, enter code Greg. You can get 10% off. And remember, you shouldn't abuse steroids. But if you are going to use performance-enhancing drugs of any kind, you need to do it as safely as possible. You need to have a doctor tell you and explain to you the dangers what you're doing and so on. Don't look on the internet and follow these morons that don't know what they're doing and are just saying and throwing things out there hoping to get famous. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops, the cookbooks, the training books, the circle diet book, everything on the website. code Greg 15% off. And until next time, I am out.