GG's. >> Wow. Shocking finish, guys. >> I love it. >> Coach Greg and the most exciting classic physique championship I've ever seen. And so this one go down in history. When the winner was of mounts, we all went crazy. were screaming and rooting for the champion. And for this monumentous occasion, Chris Bumstead was on hand to pass the torch. And so in fifth place, Nile Darwin, the One Punch Man. What an amazing physique. This man truly embraces what it is to have a classic physique. The smallest of waist, the wide shoulders, and the flaring thighs. And so he came moved up about five positions from last year and next year I'm certain he's going to be fighting for the top three. Niles just needs a little bit more conditioning and more muscle on his back and he is going to be a favorite. And in fourth place, you guys know who got fourth. It had to be Jose. Jose around 25 years of age. He brought the conditioning more than any man in this competition. A greatl looking guy had the bros bricked up as he began to pose in this competition. Now, personally, he doesn't quite have the classic looking physique. And by that, I mean the really tiny looking waist, but he makes up for it with a ton of muscle. I'm talking about Dorian S looking back and peeled from head to toe. And frankly, he has no weaknesses on his physique. And so in placing fourth, well, it's all about the bones. Insert bones, meat, >> based on the bones, we could tell they were waking up at 7:00 a.m. >> And so it then came down to the top three. And on my predictions, I had Terrence Ruffin in third. And many people said, "What is wrong with you? What show were you watching? Terrence is by far the best." Now, in watching him go through his poses, I thought, "This guy looks like a champion." If Terren Ruffin were the champion, I'm sure everyone would say, "Yes, this is classic physique. He has the small waist. He has the wide shoulders. He has crazy looking definition. However, he's just a little bit shorter." Frankly, my opinion is he's losing because of his height. If he were 6'1 like Sebum, how could you overlook this guy? he would be perhaps 240 lbs. But because he's around 5'4 and a half, he simply doesn't take as much space. And watching him pose, I do believe he possibly might be the world's best poser in classic physique. From one pose to the next, he does it with artistic beauty, with grace. He has a very pretty slash beautiful looking physique. However, I still would want to see more striations. like when you go through your poses, I still want to see the crossstrations on the quads. I want to see the striations everywhere. And so, in my opinion, he's slightly lacking a little bit in comparison to the top two. And so, I feel like he had a very deserving third place finish. I do believe that the majority of the judges are going to have him squarely in third place both in prejudging and at finals. And then there were two two amazing competitors. Mike Somerfeld, who in my opinion, he came back looking better at night. In comparison in the morning, to see him at night, I was thinking, I don't know if Raone Dino can hold him off. As good as Raone Dino was in the morning, of which I had him squarely in first place. I knew it was close. The way that Mike Somerfell looked in the evening, I thought he might have done enough to defeat Raone Dino. He went through his poses. He had the crispy looking glutes. He was peeled. He had significant amounts of size. And in comparison to the other competitors, I do believe that pound-for-pound, inch for inch, he had more muscle than anyone. And so if this was a bodybuilding competition, if it was the 212, if it was men's open, I'm giving it to Mike Somerfeld. And I don't even think it's close. I think that squarely based on bodybuilding, the way that bodybuilding is being judged, Mike deserves to win the competition. But remember, Chris Bumstead had to pass the torch to someone to carry the throne. And so, do we want to reward the champion to be the best bodybuilder or the best classic physique? Chris Bumstead doesn't have the typical bodybuilding physique. He looks classic. He looks a little bit different, a little bit more desirable to mainstream population. After all, he did have over 25 million followers. And he did that for a reason. And one of the reasons is because people love his physique that much. If you asked a thousand people, would you rather look like Seabbum or look like the open champion? They're picking Seabbum. And so, who should they pass the torches? Should it be to Mike Somerfeld or Raone Dino? I'm certain that the majority of people who are watching this right now are thinking, if I had to pick a physique, if I could look like one of those competitors, if I could look like one of those men, I prick Raone Dino. Mike Somerfeld's amazing, and if I wanted to win a bodybuilding competition, I'm picking Mike. But if I just want to have an amazing look physique, one of which men and women would find desirable, I'm going with Raone Dino. And so, personally, I'm hoping that Raone Dino wins it. In the past, Raone Dino posing was a weakness. I kept saying, Raone, elbows up. He seemed to have a great weakness in learning how to display his pose. Previously, he had faded in his tan. His tan was melting off him. This year I felt he had the best hand, the best skin, the best look, and he really knew how to pose. He had a spin move. He was showing everything off. And so he outdid himself going into it. Most of the world, including myself, predicted Mike Somerfeld had to be the favorite, that he would be the heir to the throne. Raone Dino said, "No, I am going to work. I don't care if it's the posing, the dieting, adding more muscle. I am going to be my all-time best. This is my year. If I can't win it this year, I'm never going to win it. And so, every athlete, they came in at their best. And so, let the best man win. And so, when these two men were standing there awaiting the $100,000 first prize trophy, they were holding their breath, waiting in anticipation. You could see it in their faces. which one of us is going to win. And so in first place, the announcement, the new Mr. Olympia Classic Physique Champion, the announcement was Ramon Dino. And Ramon Dino exploded with joy and so did the rest of the world. And so very excited to see Raone Dino accepting the award and getting hugged, embraced by Chris Bumstead. And so, what a moment, what an end, what a finale, what a great direction of the sport. People now know that classic physique, it's different than open bodybuilding. It's not just the best bodybuilder with the biggest biceps and the biggest back that's going to take home the title. They have to have a classic physique. It's different from open bodybuilding. And Mike Somerfeld, gracious in his defeat. He wasn't mad. He wasn't throwing a tantrum. He wasn't upset. He was happy for Raone. And so Mike Somerfeld an excellent second place finish and most certainly he's going to be thinking I can beat him next year. Raone Dino it took every ounce of his soul to get the first place finish. And Mike Somerfeld he's just getting started. Raone Dino been trying for five straight years to defeat Seabbum. And once Sebum retired, Raone Dino was able to be the heir to his throne. And so next year, look for a rematch between Raone Dino and Mike Somerfeld. Sometimes it's an easier journey to the top than to remain on the top. And so Mike is going to be fighting harder than last time. And so perhaps all the athletes got on the Turk. They looked absolutely amazing. And so whichever athlete in my view gets on the Turk for next year is going to be the 2026 Olympia Classic Physique Champion. And remember, if you're interested, you don't have to be a competitor. If you've hit a plateau, if you can't seem to make any improvements, code Greg, 15% off, click the link in description. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost them, like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two blues. And if you're interested in algo, click the link. Of course, you get inclapene, seialis, tadalapil, you name it. If you're trying to diet, of course, the semiglutide, zompic, or tzipotide for any of the cookbooks, the harder than last time supplements. All of this code Greg 15% off. What a show. And until next time, I am out.