Men's Health finally talking about steroids in Hollywood. Huge respect for Mr. Gerillo. Finally, someone tells us what the famous superhero actors lie about. They get to look that outsized way because they take PDs. Big respect, Frank. We all know already, but it's good to finally have someone say it. Finally, some honesty from an insider in Hollywood. I gain new respect for this guy. Steroids or not, the main thing people need to recognize that none of these guys look like that all the time. They peak for roles. Finally, someone in the industry who can say it openly. Finally, a Marvel character, not Marveling bull crap. Respect for Frank. And so, these are my exact sentiments to this. Finally, we have an actor coming clean about what Hollywood actors are using to gain all that muscle for the roles in Hollywood movies. Coach Greg and finally somebody in Hollywood is calling everyone out and he go by the name of Frank Gorilla. And so Gorilla's 60 years of age and he comes clean and states exactly what he's been taking. He outs himself as being on performance-enhancing drugs. mainly testosterone has taken anavar as well as peptides and he says look I don't give a [\h__\h] I'm going to admit exactly what I'm on and he says almost everyone doing those transformations are on performance-enhancing drugs and mostly testosterone deca and anavar and they are in fact prescribed by doctors they just don't admit it like I'm not like any of these guys and so he finally comes clean which is a very very refreshing and so we're going to watch the video see what he says, "Let's get right into it." >> Yeah. And how do they do that though? Let's talk about that for a second. Yes. >> Because none of them talk about it. And uh they do it by, you know, taking Annavar and Deca and all the things that now are prescribable by doctors. >> And so he doesn't even have to get asked. As soon as they bring it up, you know, there's a lot of Hollywood actors putting on a lot of muscle. He's like, "We need to talk about this. They're being prescribed steroids, anavar, testosterone, deca, peptides, and they're being monitored by doctors." And so I think it's a good idea. Like I'm not competing in the Olympics. I'm not getting drug tested. Why do I have any moral dilemma against using steroids? It improves my health. And so he is prescribed by a doctor and monitored. And so he is doing it right. >> All of a sudden they have 35 lbs of muscle on them. We all know what they're doing. They might not want to say it, but they all do. Everybody. >> And so he says they all do it. Not some, not a few, not maybe, maybe not all of them. Now, personally, I think it's probably not all of them. There are probably some Hollywood actors out there playing Marvel characters and so on who are actually 100% natural. I mean, we had the guy that played Batman who literally refused to do it. I did a video on this about 3 or four years ago. And so, there are some guys that say, "No, I'm not doing it. I don't care." But for the most part, if you're playing a character that needs to have muscle or have to have a lean physique, why wouldn't they be taking ompic or tzipetide, why wouldn't they be doing HRT or taking peptides to heal and recover more quickly? Now remember, if you're interested in these types of things, optimizing your health with a doctor prescribing you prescription medications, click the link in description, code Greg, 10% off. I'm talking and referring to Algo RX. And so if anyone still to this day thinks that the rock is natural, that his doctor didn't prescribe him anavar, deca, testosterone, peptides, growth hormone, the list goes on and off, then I don't know what to tell you. Perhaps you believe in the Easter Bunny and Santa Claus and all of the things. And what am I going to say? And so of course they don't want to say it, but you don't just put on 35 lbs of muscle out of nowhere in a matter of 6 months. This is ridiculous. It's not because of a special kind of training. It's not because they hired the right guy. It's not because they hired the right chef. Even Coach Greg cannot get you 35 lbs of muscle in 6 months. Now, if you're interested in getting coached by me, I'm offering the service right now. I have some clients. We're having great times. You can talk to Coach Greg on the phone. I answer your questions. And so, if you're interested, click the link in description and apply right now. Now, if you can't work with Coach Greg, you can of course use Coach Greg's supplements, Turk Builder Max, Turk Platinum, as well as GLP Max and G Test Platinum. And so, if you're interested in these things, code Greg, 15% off. >> And and you've seen it, right? >> 100%. >> And so, they're saying, "Hey, have you seen that? Do you know this for a fact?" Yes, I've seen it. Think of it. This is an A-list actor. He's very, very famous. He knows what other people are doing. And I've put on somewhere around 65 lb of muscle tissue >> or he's put 65 lb of tissue. I mean, why are these guys so delusional? He's 46 years of age. He's 5 years older than Mike Isertel. He's recently got into using performance-enhancing drugs to help him compete in bodybuilding. I mean, at this age, this is when you're supposed to stop. Like, notice I'm 50. I'm not going to be like, "Hey guys, I'm just start about to start my cycle of steroids." Aren't you 50, Coach Greg? Maybe you shouldn't do steroids. Perhaps trend's not the best idea. Does this look like a guy who's added 65 lbs of muscle or a guy who's added 65 lbs? I mean, I don't want to body shame him, but does he look healthy to you? Like Frank Garillo's 60s, 14 years older than him. Which physique is better by a mile? And so perhaps he needs to lose 30 lb and then say, "Hey, I added 35 lbs of muscle. He didn't add 65. >> I don't really like walking downstairs much anymore. >> Oh, look how big he is. Of course, he doesn't like walking downstairs. And I would bet walking up them is even worse. >> A lot of things that are just difficult. And like I kind of bump into things. I'm like, "Oh, I'm I'm over there." >> Yeah. Difficult like wiping your ass, having sexy time walking up a flight of stairs. He's too big. He's 46. >> I try to run and like it just it doesn't feel great. >> Notice he said the word try. Very glad to say that. He doesn't actually run. Have you seen Mike Isertell run? Have you seen Mike hop? Have you seen him try to bench press his body weight? Two reps. He might have had a third. And so he hops a nipper. He runs a 5 1/2 800 meter. It's literally 5 1/2 m an hour. It's embarrassing. And that it takes him out his shins, his calf muscles. And this is a man who's fit and athletic. Mike Isertell, a black belt in jiu-jitsu. He's doing cardio all the time. And he can't even run a 5minute mile. I mean, it is embarrassing. Grade primary kids can run faster than this. >> People will say, "Cuz I take testosterone, right?" People say, "You're a cheater." I'm like, "Wait, wait a minute. I'm 60." >> Yeah. >> And I train every day. >> Exactly. He's not cheating. I mean, there's no drug testing. He's an actor. He's playing a role. It's prescribed by his doctor. How is that cheating? That would be like a porn star using Seialis. Is he cheating? Oh, how dare you use Viagra or Seialis? Well, I went to Algor RX and I bought some. What's wrong with that? Oh, you're on Inclophine. You're taking testosterone. Oh, you're on peptides. How is that bad if you're not cheating at your sport? There's no drug testing. There's no rules saying you can't do that. And so, how is it bad? I mean, what's next? Oh, you're not allowed to draft in the Tour to France racing bikes. Hey, what are you doing behind me? You're sucking my wheel. It's too easy for you. Stop cheating. It's not cheating if it's allowed. >> I'm not cheating at anything except aging. >> I'm not cheating anything except aging, except perhaps father time. And I wouldn't say he's cheating father time. I would say he's slowing things down. Remember, he started taking performance-enhancing drugs, namely testosterone. And for certain movie roles, he says he takes Anavar, but aside from that, he's only taking peptides, BPC57, and so on to try to recover his injuries and heal a little bit faster. It's slowing down Father Time. He's not stronger than when he was 30. He's simply not losing things as quickly. And so, by taking these substances, testosterone, and so on, he feels better. He looks better. He feels younger. And so why not improve his quality of life? Now, taking testosterone, perhaps it doesn't increase how long you'll be on this earth. There's no proof to that. But if you enjoy your time here that much more, is that not in fact worth it? And remember, he's doing his blood work, of which you can of course get from Alorx. They monitor your blood work to make sure you're doing it safely and effectively. Code Greg, 10% off. A lot of people don't want to admit that for some reason as if you're going to put 60 lbs of muscle on by yourself eating chicken and rice. >> I mean, obviously, you're not putting on 60 lb of muscle eating chicken, broccoli, and rice. It's ridiculous. You're not even going to put on 20. >> I'm not embarrassed about anything I do. Yeah, I take some I take one shot of testosterone a week. >> And so, essentially, he's shooting 1 ml of testosterone per week, which is 200 milligrams. Remember, my dose is 140. And so it's a very high dose of prescription HRT. Most likely puts his testosterone outside of the reference range. And so it is in fact super physiological. But does that really matter? I mean, we've listened to him. He trains every single day. He's eating one meal a day. He says he's not even motivated. It's just a habit. He puts in the work. And so my opinion is him on 200 milligrams of testosterone is healthier than those of you out there not exercising who are 100% natural. And bro's 60. His body was only producing 250 milligrams of test. And so his doctor said, "You need this. You need to be healthy. Would you rather him take nothing and sit back and stop exercising?" Remember, it's use it or lose it. If you're not using your body, you're slowly going to lose it. You're going to wither away. And so by taking testosterone allows him to do what he always has been able to do. And what's wrong with that? Now, if he wants to improve his results, he should take a half of a mill twice a week. That will allow for more stable blood levels. When you shoot testosterone once a week, it's going to go up and it's going to go down. And so, you're going to have super physiological testosterone levels, perhaps 1,500 or more. But then by the end of the week, it's probably going to be 500 or less. And so by doing more frequent injections twice a week, you're going to stay closer within where you want it. And so my suggestion, do two shots a week. >> Do we kind of overrate that testosterone is the is the main driver of muscle? It's really training. >> And so they start arguing on the main driver of building muscle. Is it testosterone or is it training? I mean, you're just getting pedantic here. I mean, we all know that you need to lift weights in order to build muscle. What is the main driver? You have to lift weights. You have to eat protein. And you need energy. If you don't have these things, and of course, you need water, then you're not going to build muscle. And so, it's everything. What does the testosterone do? Well, consider it's like building your muscles in your body is like building a house. If you hire one guy to come and build your house, it's going to take a long time to build that house. Maybe two years, let's say. Now, if you're on testosterone and in high doses, it's like having an entire crew of 50 workers coming over every day to build your health, it's going to be significantly faster. Now, if you're on HRT, it's like perhaps you have two or three workers. It's better than one. It's obviously going to make a significant difference, but not as much as if you're blasting everything under the sun, including Trent. When you're on everything, you've got an entire construction crew. When you're on testosterone at HRT doses, you have a few extra workers and you're building faster than last time. >> If we look at women versus men, for instance, like we women that train super hard, they generally have about the same relative amount of muscle mass for their total body weight as men do. >> I mean, why is he full of nonsense? Like, why is this guy lying? Why is this guy on the show? He just said that women have as a percentage about the same amount of muscle per square inch as men. No. Like if you take a 6' tall woman and a 6' tall men and you compare the amount of muscle they have on their body, the man is going to have more on average. Of course they are. >> Relative amount of muscle mass for their total body weight as men do. They're just smaller. >> Relatively the same amount of muscle. No. Relatively speaking, women have a higher body fat percentage than men. Women on average carry 6 to9% more body fat than men. This is of course true in every instance. If you take two athletes of the same size, a 150lb man and 150 lb woman, and you look at all the powerlifting records, they're not going to have the same amount of muscle, the same amount of strength. The man is going to be faster, jump higher, do everything better. And that's because men have more testosterone. And so you're saying, "Oh, there's no difference. Women have less testosterone than men. They have the same amount of relative muscle." No, they don't. If they train hard and they diet appropriately, there's not that much difference in terms of relative amounts of muscle tissue per unit body size for them. >> So, he's wrong. He's on Men's Health. What do they How do they get these guys? Who is this guy? This guy's Frank's trainer. Who is he? A 46y old guy who's morbidly obese. Why is he on the show? >> But it's it's not like it's going to You're not going to change from 165 lbs to 190 lb. >> He might. You're not going to change from 165 lbs to 190 lbs by adding in pharmarmacology. >> Well, you might. I mean, you might. You could go in and you have very low levels of testosterone, 165. The doctor prescribes you 200 milligrams of test a week and you train for 5 years. You might be 190. You might put on 25 lbs of muscle. Why downplay it? Frank is like, "Look, I do this and I do that." You're trying to make it look, no, testosterone is not the primary driver of muscle growth because women relatively, they have the same amount of muscle as men. No, they don't. Men have more muscle than women. And if you do have very low levels of testosterone and you take HRT, you might very well put on 25 lbs of muscle. It's possible. >> And I've gone off it a couple times. I, you know, for no, I ran out of it and I was in Europe and, you know, I wasn't going to buy it from anybody else. >> And so he says, look, there's been times when I've been off testosterone when I went to Europe and I couldn't buy any over there. I wasn't going to buy it underground and so I had to wait. Now me, same thing. I've been through times over the last several years when I've been prescribed testosterone. I've been off. But it's because the government keeps running out. Pharmacies, they don't have what I need. And this makes me question what is wrong with our country. I mean, what is going on? I mean, I could go buy it from every second guy at the gym, but yet I can't get it from the pharmacy. What is wrong with what's going on? I mean, this is ridiculous. And so for the people out there thinking, "Oh, Canada's the best healthcare and so on." Is it the best healthare in the world if you can't even get what you need? >> Um, and for me, I never I never gained really any weight when I did boss level. I did because I did something else which was the Anabar. >> And so he's saying when I did the testosterone, I didn't really gain any weight. No, what happens is you lower your body fat and you replace it with muscle. And so you can do what's known as main gain. You stay 185 lbs. Perhaps you're at 15% body fat and eventually you're 7% body fat and you're still 185 lbs. You put on muscle and you lost fat at the same time. Now, when he wants to bulk up for rolls, he'll go on 8week cycles of Anavar. And so, that is going to make the testosterone even more effective. You're adding in an extra steroid, which is going to also lower SHVG, which is going to free up more testosterone. And so the testosterone that you're using, more of your body can actually use that testosterone, which makes it even better. And so coupled with the extra testosterone is going to make you stronger, get better pumps, more vascularity. Remember, Anavar was my favorite steroid. I haven't been using it. It's been multiple years, perhaps 5 years since I've used it, but I do remember how it made me feel. And so he's saying the testosterone anavvar had improved his ability to sleep, to recover faster, to work out harder in the gym. And he is in fact getting older. And so when you're on HRT, you're not going to put on muscle forever. I mean, he started at 54, he's 60. He weighs the same. But imagine you can take a drug, steroids for example, testosterone, and you maintain your muscle and get leaner, and it's 6 years later. That is a win. Most people from the age of 54 to 60 are going to lose on average 1% of their muscle a year. And so that's 6%. So if you're 200 lb, 6%, that's 12. That is a significant amount of weight loss. And so it's clearly working. >> So when I come in and he says, "We're deadlifting today." It's, you know, he just puts it on until I can't do it. Like he'll do he'll put it on until I can't do one. And then he does it and he makes it look really silly for me. >> And so his trainer has him maxing out doing for reps that he can't do. He's like, "I can't even get one." And then he'll go and train and lift it with ease for multiple reps. He's a powerlifter, former powerlifter. I don't understand why that's a thing. Like if you're a strength and conditioning coach, why are you flexing on your clients and lifting the same weight as them but doing multiple reps? Like if you're doing 10 reps with a weight and they're doing one, shouldn't you lighten the load for them so that they can also do 10 reps? Like why are they training different than you? I mean, I I don't understand that. If I'm training with somebody who's perhaps 50 lbs smaller than me, I'm not going to make them lift the same weight as me. I mean, what is this diamond gym with and he puts on the same weight for you as it does for him? For example, Will Tennyson. If you're a 100 pounds bigger than Will and you're likely not natural and Will is, why are you forcing him to lift the same weights as you? Makes no sense. >> Quite frankly, I don't find that funny. Now, please put me back into the water. I need to go back to my family. >> Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. Of course, for coaching, you can apply by clicking the link in description. If you're interested in getting any of the supplements or the cookbook, the circle dive book, training books, all of this stuff. Code Greg 15% off as well as Algo RX code Greg 10% off. And if you're interested in Mmentis clothing, click the link in the description. And until next time, I am out.