Which do you think is better? The jacked up steroiden enhanced stage photos or how he looks right now? Which do you think is more desirable? Clearly the old physique would embarrass this one on a bodybuilding stage. Coach Greg in today's video, Ben Bray, the truth about my steroid use and going back natural. What happened is he went on performance-enhancing drugs, gained about 45 lbs of muscle in about a year and a quarter, and then lost all of it when he decided to go back natural. There's no such thing as going back to natural. Yes, we get it. It's a pedantic argument. We know he's not lifetime natural. Once you've done steroids, you can never go back. You can't rewind the clock. You can't say, "I haven't done it." But often times people think that if you've done steroids that somehow you're going to keep all those gains and I'm telling you that you're not. I know you don't believe me. I've lost all credibility after all. But I've still coached thousands of people to use steroids and have stopped and so on. And so I know what's going on. Just because you use steroids once, twice, 100 times, doesn't mean you're going to keep all those gains. And for most people, many of those people, it's far worse when you come off. I know you're thinking that one time cycle that's all you're going to need and you're going to be able to keep all those gains or at least most of them. But the truth is you're probably not. And once you've been on steroids and felt like Superman, once you go off, it's very hard to stay natural. And yeah, pedantic again. You're not natural. Who cares? You use steroids and you stop. You're no longer on gear. You're going to feel much worse than if you had never done it in the first place. Greg Ducet video incoming. And so his response, hopefully you like the transparency of the video, bud. Love the content you put out because of this reason. Keep it up. You're going to learn so much from this video about using steroids, what it's like to be on them, as well as what it does to your body. And to conclude, you're going to find out what it's like to go back natural. This guy is extremely good-looking, just like Vshred. Remember that he's on the good-looking RTOR scale. He's perhaps approaching a 10. But while he was on steroids, and I did in fact ask me like, does he look hot here or hot here? Like hot there? No. Right there. While on steroids, he lost his hotness. >> You can say I'm gay or you can say, I'm just calling it like I see it. When he used steroids, his attraction level, it went down and down drastically. Sorry. He was much better looking off gear. And so often times when you take steroids thinking you're going to be much more attractive to women, it actually does the opposite. >> So the reason we opted for 150 milligram of testosterone is because I was on the higher end of the natural ranges. I was able to stay on 150 milligram of testosterone for 11 weeks. And in that time frame, I went from weighing 78 kg upwards to 85 kg. >> And so he started his journey on only 150 mg of testosterone a week. He went from 78 kg to 85. It's about 15 lbs. Now, some of it's water, a little bit was fat, but it is in fact a lot of muscle. Very similar to the gains that Alex Eubank had made. Remember, he only started at roughly 200 or 250 milligrams. And so, if you think that you need really high doses to put on a lot of muscle, it is not true. Often times, even HRT doses can have you putting on more muscle than last time. And so he says his testosterone levels were at 26. That's basically on the Canadian scale. We use the same one. It's about 750 NOGS per deciliter. And so if your testosterone is already high and you go on HRT, it could screw up your long-term levels of test. You may in fact by using and abusing steroids need to be on HRT for the rest of your life. This happened to me. I abused steroids for perhaps 10 11 years and I since that time had had to go on HRT. my dose very similar to his 140 millig. And so you can see he was able to put on almost 15 lbs just from HRT alone. Before going on anything and in order to do it safely, please go and get checked out by Al Goreex. You get your blood work done to see if you're safe and healthy. You can get prescription medications done very quickly. You could get for example dalil, seialis viagra, you know those as well as inclapene and talmasartin. Perhaps you have high blood pressure. And so if you want a doctor to talk things over you and get prescribed actual prescriptions from pharmaceutical medications for much cheaper than everywhere else, Algo Gorx, click the link in description, code, Greg, 10% off. >> In order for me to be competitive in the MPC division, chasing an IFBB Pro card, I needed to continue to push. So the goal was 90 kg. My weight had become a little bit stagnant. So what we did is we increased the PD dosage to 200 mg of testosterone per week. At 11 weeks in, he upped the dose to 200 milligrams in order to keep the muscle being added. After a while, whatever dose you're on, your body gets used to it, and it's not going to continue to get any bigger. And so, just because your first cycle was on 500 milligrams of test and some anavar, perhaps it was Aldura's dad cycle. Well, eventually that comes to an end. All the gains you made, perhaps you put on 10 pounds of muscle, you've now peaked out again. And the only way to go even higher is to increase the doses. And so unfortunately, you can't just take a little bit and think, "Hey, I want to make indefinite gains." You're going to have to continue to push higher doses, which of course are not going to be healthy. And so, if we look at his physique, do we not see a little bit of the moon face right now? A little bit of puffiness. And so, although he's putting on a lot of muscle, it does come with some roundness. He looks a bit fluffier. Not saying he doesn't look good, but he is fluffier than last time. In total, I spent six months progressively pushing. Because I was only utilizing 150 milligram, which is a cruise as people would define it, I was able to blast on 200 for a further 12 weeks. In that time frame, my physique went from this to this. And so, he's put on 13 kg in about 6 months from only doing HRT type of doses. Guys, that's well over 30 pounds. Some of it water and fat, but a lot of it is muscle. And so very impressive gains on so little. >> And now we went into a preparation for my first competitive bodybuilding show as an assisted athlete in the MPC pursuing an IFBB Pro card. >> Following this, he cut down, did proper cycle in order to turn IFBB Pro and he placed second in his first competition. So very good. He knew he had to push the drugs even further. >> This was in October. My bodybuilding journey started in January. >> And so you can notice as he's standing on stage, notice how his face is a lot fuller. I mean, he's peeled here. He's very, very lean. Very low body fat percentage. But yet, you see that his face, even on stage, lean, is a lot rounder and fuller than it is right now. He's perhaps 5 or 10% body fat more now in his offseason than he was standing on stage. That is one of the side effects of using testosterone. Often times, you'll look and look puffy. We call it a moon face. And so you will often times look a lot older and less attractive. And if you look at his physique, you can see the nipples arounding that area. You see some gynecomastia being formed. This is something men despise. Many people getting surgeries for this. We just had genetic anomaly, get a surgery. He couldn't lift his arms over his head for about 3 weeks. Wasn't able to train. And it is in fact very expensive. And this goal of pursuing an IFBB Pro card is not just a dream, but it's actually in touching distance after just 10 months on the amateur circuit. Following this pro qualifier where he got third out of 25 competitors, remember the winner gets a pro card. He's thinking, I'm within striking distance. Perhaps that dream of an IFBB pro card, it's a more of a reality than ever before. And so when you get that close, you almost can feel it and you're willing to push the drugs even more. Just ask Mike Isertell. He competed. He desperately wanted his IFPB Pro card. But because he had loose skin, extra fat cells, he got a very difficult surgery in order to look better. And despite the brain fog, the fact that it can take years off of your life, despite everything, it's still worth it in that moment. And please may I add very little use of PEDs in comparison to the people who beat me and in comparison to the people who I'd already beaten. And so this is every person's statement ever. Literally, it's everyone's statement. >> I used hardly any drugs in comparison to what other people are taking. >> This is what everyone does. In order to justify taking the sizes of the drugs that you're doing, you say, "Well, my friend takes this, they take that. these pros are taking way higher doses. That allows you to feel a little bit better. In other words, it allows you to cope because it can't feel good to know that you're on abusive levels of steroids when that's going to take off years from your life. And so you say, "Well, compared to my friends, compared to those competitors, I was hardly taking anything." And so you say, "You know what? Next time I'm going to take a little bit more. >> I was only ever going to take minimal amounts in order to get the maximum back." However, all of a sudden, that mentality switched and I was like, I will do whatever I need to do to get to where I need to get to. >> And so, you see that at first it's I'm only going to take minimal amounts. I'm not willing to risk my health. I'm going to take very low doses. But once you get very good, you're thinking I'm meant to be somebody. Perhaps I could get on the Olympia stage. It's now worth it. That riskreward ratio, it's going higher than ever before. The same applies to women. They might say, "I'm only going to take very low doses. I won't risk my voice changing. But before too long, they're competing on the national stage thinking, hey, I could become a bikini pro or they are a pro. They're upping the doses. They're losing their hair, deeper voices, having to shave. And few years later, they don't even want to compete anymore, but yet they've ruined their bodies. Now, it's important to know after Milan, I ran a very extensive health phase. I pulled everything out completely and went on to TRT. When I say everything, I want full transparency on this channel. I was using testosterone and I were using a DHT right so primoboline or mastron. I was also using fat burners also known as lipolytics in the form of clenbuterol um and just generally some orals anavar >> and so he decided to go off the testosterone mastone or primo as well as the clenbuterol the anavar and he wanted to just go on TRT to become a little bit healthier this is what typically is done in people's off seasons they'll go on very high doses of several different substances and then after the competition they'll go down to lower doses in order to get healthy now healthy is dependent on the person. Some people have more risk for health than others, but he's doing this knowing next cycle it's going to be even stronger and higher dose because he wants to win that pro card. You perhaps join the gym just trying to be healthy, to to fit in, to look better, but before you know it, you're addicted to that dopamine, that rush, the thrill of being a champion on stage. Many people come up to you, ask you, for example, hey, how much do you bench? How big are your arms? You become the center of attention at every party or anywhere you go and you get addicted to that feeling. It's very difficult to go from being the center of attention to just fitting in in the crowd. January 2024. Here I went into another offseason. This offseason spanned only 12 weeks. It was an in-n-out offseason. We built a significant amount of muscle tissue. And again, from October all the way through to the end of March, I went from weighing 80 kg on stage. and I added 20 kg. >> His next bulk in his offseason, he's now 100 kg. Remember, he started at 78. It's 22 kg. It's about 49 pounds. This is a lot of muscle, a little bit of fat, but it's in only just over a year. >> I went from having a physique that most 18 to 30 year olds desired to being a big bodybuilder to just having a physique that most bodybuilders would want. And along with that, I had a neck that was double the size. My face had completely changed. And >> so notice he describes it. My neck got twice as thick. This is very bad. It causes various sleep disorders like sleep apnnea. Many people are wearing the mask in order to go to bed at night and they wake up during the night literally choking. They can't get any air. It's very dangerous. It can make you feel tired. And so that CPAP machine becomes a must. Further to that, his facial changes. He didn't look the same. used to be, I would say, more attractive, but with all the bloated puffiness from using steroids and so on, he now looks older. He looks like a bodybuilder. And for some people, perhaps they like that, but he's no longer has the desired physique of most people who are in their 20s. They wouldn't want to look like that. >> It was almost like I'd lost my identity. I had no real purpose other than to be a pro. >> He describes all he wanted was to be a pro. He had no other identity. Being a pro was his identity. It's all about when am I going for my pro card. Eat, sleep, train. All he cares about is winning. He gave up his friends, his social life, his fun, all in order to pursue a pro card. And for what? Really think about it. It's fun at the time. You're chasing the pro card, the thrill of being a pro. But what does it mean to actually be a pro? What does that change in your life if you're giving up all the happiness that you experience all to chase an IP pro card where you have to abuse performance and instinct drugs in order to do so? >> I had incredible run. I finished second in Alakantia amateur Olympia, the biggest amateur show pretty much in the world. I won the MRO Classic which is probably the second biggest show and narrowly missed out on a pro card in the overall. And then I went to Ireland, I won my class, and I lost in the overall again. And so he did several shows backtoback, three shows getting second place as a number of times very close to earning his pro card. >> Before bodybuilding, I had a thriving transformation business. And during bodybuilding, I would wake up with no energy, with no drive, and just think, I can't wait for today to be done because I had low food, high cardio, and I was running a lot of lipolytics and PDS in order to achieve the goal. >> Totally relate. as he's bodybuilding, no energy, hard to get through your day, and you're basically just waiting it for it to be over. It isn't fun like looking at your physique in the mirror and seeing you look better. It's about the only thing fun of a bodybuilding competition. You're improving in terms of how your physique is looking, but everything else is more difficult. >> And it was now time officially a year ago to this day where I needed to transition to being fully back natural. >> And so he decided, look, it's not worth it. I'm not going to use steroids anymore. And he decided to go off cold turkey. No more steroids. I'm just going to come off. Many people think that that's what Hussein Farhat did. That he went on steroids and just stopped taking them cold turkey. And that he just kept his gains. >> Felt like [\h__\h] Had no desire to go to the gym. And my physique was disappearing right in front of my face. >> Nine weeks after stopping, his physique was disappearing right in front of him. His testosterone levels, they're bottom out. Of course they are. When you're using exogenous testosterone, androgens, and so on, your body then says, "We don't need to produce any." It then stops. And so when you stop injecting the testosterone, your body is still on a break. It's not producing testosterone. And so what happens is your muscles, they will melt from your body. Pound after pound after pound. Every single day you go to the gym, you're weaker. You're thinking, "Hey, progressive overload. Train harder than last time." Every week you get weaker. every single week without fail, you're losing muscle, looking worse in the mirror. Imagine how that feels. You really think it's worth it? And so whatever cycle you go on, once you stop, you need to be prepared for this to happen. >> So for me, motivation to train had completely diminished. Motivation to lift weights had completely diminished. >> And so where's the motivation? I can't wait to go to the gym and see how much weaker I got. Can't wait to go and see that my muscles are flatter, that I'm losing size, fullness, vascularity. Yay. let's go to the gym. No, no one says that. That is not what happens. And so that is why most bodybuilders, that's right, almost all of them in their offseason, they're not off, they're on lower doses. Hey, let's just drop it down to 500 milligrams of tests because I don't want to look like garbage. Let's just do the dad cycle year round. That is what people are doing. They're not going on nothing. They're not cycling off. They're not even going on HRT. They're going on, hey, whatever is HRT, let's double it by two and a half. >> I wanted to try and see if I could recover naturally. And the truth be told, I wasn't really recovering. >> Rather than going off cold turkey, of course, they could have contacted Algo RX, perhaps got some inclus, all of the size that you put on while taking steroids. A lot of people are willing to take the PEDs, but they're not willing to do the blood work frequently and they're not willing to do their postcycle therapy properly if they come off. >> And so he says, look, if you're willing to spend the money on the steroids, the supplements, and so on, you have to be willing to spend the money to get off properly because if you don't, you're going to feel even worse. It's not worth it. >> So, it was around September 2024 when I officially started my proper in-depth PCT protocol. This was probably the hardest three to four months of the whole journey. >> And so he says during his PCT, that was the hardest part of the entire thing. Despite the fact he's on a PCT, hey, he's not on those steroids anymore. And so he's consistently looking softer, getting weaker, has brain fog, lack of energy, sex drive is going down. It's not fun. If you've never tried it, you have no idea what I'm talking about. But imagine going from feeling like Superman to feeling like you're hung over every single day. >> I was losing all the muscle, which to be honest for me was amazing. My neck was getting thinner. The inflammation from my face was dropping off. I was looking younger. I did suffer from really bad acne across all of my back and all of my face. >> Not only that, a lot of people think, "Oh, you just get acne when you're on steroids." Often times you get it when you come off. It's the change in hormones that's causing you to break out. training and weight training was just the worst thing in the world. >> Think of it. Hear that sentence. Training, weight training was the worst thing in the world. This is a man whose passion was to go to the gym and work out. That's what he loved to do. That was his thing. He hated it. He had no motivation. He went from being highly motivated, couldn't wait to go to the gym, to once he got off steroids, he hated it. He didn't like it. But how could you like it? Every time you go, you look worse. You feel worse. You're getting weaker. How could that possibly be fun? >> I just wasn't built to run a 10K. But I would rather do that than lift weights. That's the extremes of how I was feeling. >> He hated lifting weights so much that despite the fact he hated running. He went for a 10K with blistered feet. Hated it. And that was more fun than going to the gym. >> The one thing that I suffered with the most, and everybody close to me knew this, was my self-confidence. I was starting to see the older version of me. I could wear nice clothes again. I started to enjoy and see what I looked like in the mirror. >> Eventually, however, as his muscles began to deteriorate, to get a lot smaller, his neck size went down, the puffiness started to reside, he started to be able to fit in his own clothes again. He started to look better, to look fitter, to look younger, to look more normal, but a healthy normal. Being a bodybuilder, you don't look normal. And I know many people that's their goal, but for other people, they just want to be healthy. >> I still don't look at weights the same. I still don't go into the gym. I don't look at the barbell with the same level of aggression. >> But since that time, his love for lifting, it hasn't been the same. Once you can bench press, for example, 405 lbs for 10 reps. Is it going to be fun to now do 225 for 10 reps, you've lost so much strength, and so it simply isn't the same. And so, he now enjoys things more related to doing cardio, just to being fit. He doesn't have the same love for weightlifting that he once had. And that is the result of using and abusing performance-enhancing drugs. Once you're at the top, once you're really strong, it's hard to go back down to normal. And so, looking at his physique right now, which do you think is better? The jacked up steroid enhanced stage photos or how he looks right now, which do you think is more desirable? Where does he look better? Is bigger necessarily better? Clearly, the old physique would embarrass this one on a bodybuilding stage. But would you not rather look like this? Does he not look amazing right now? >> Of this current period now, I'm the fittest that I've ever been. My heart rate when I was a bodybuilder was 73 beats per minute. It's now 43 beats per minute. >> And compare his health. His resting heart rate as a bodybuilder was 73. It's now 43. Think of how much longer he's going to be able to live by training as an athlete versus training as a bodybuilder. I'm much happier naturally being in control of my hormones, liking how I look and not having what I define as a roller coaster of emotions because you're pushing extremes. And so he's much happier as a natural. He feels he looks better. He's in control of his emotions. Everything is just better as a natural athlete. For some people, they're thinking, "No, that's not the way." But remember, if you're not old enough to make that decision, then don't make that decision. Does that make sense? If you're a teenager, do you really think you're prepared to go on abusive doses of steroids, SARMMS, and so on? Why can't you wait? Whatever thing you're into right now, likely it's going to change when you get older. We all think that how we are right now is going to be how we always will be. I'm telling you, it's going to change. Perhaps you're in love. This is how I feel. 10 years from now, you might not even be talking to that person you're in love with. So, please remember that the decisions you make right now can in fact affect you for the rest of your life. >> I learned a lot, but I'm glad that I can sit here 12 months after the journey, be back to my best self, be fit, be healthy, and be able to share my journey with you guys. >> I have to tell you that if I were to go back in time, I would not use abuse performance-enhancing drugs. I didn't need them. It would be amazing to right now be able to tell everyone, "Hey, don't I look fit? I'm 49. I have plenty of muscle. check out my physique when I was younger and they would all say, "Hey, you're a fake natty. There's no way you did that natural. There's no way you're natural right now." But because I used steroids for approximately 11 years, people think I started on steroids at the age of 10. You were always unnatural. And so, if I had never taken steroids, I'm certain most people would say, "Hey, you abuse steroids. You look good, but hey, you abuse steroids." And so, why not just train and try to look like you're on steroids while being natural? Is that not the goal? Try to look like you're a fake natty while being natural. That would be the world's ultimate compliment. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to check out Momentous Clothing by clicking the link in description, as well as coaching plans by me and my team. You can click in the description for that. Watch one of those two bloops over there. And of course, pick up Cookbook 3.1, the best one ever, as well as Turkeestone, GO2 Max, all the supplements. code Greg 15% off.