He always looks way better than average, but sometimes he just looks like really that's natural. So it begs the question, is he in fact natural? Coach Greg and today a natty or not on Steve Chris. A number of people have requested for this video. He recently posted on his Instagram 13 years into fitness bodybuilding. never use roids. Do you believe me? And frankly, this guy's been on my radar for a long time, and I've been flip-flopping back and forth, back and forth. And today, I'm going to go over his transformation. I'm going to tell you, do I in fact believe he's natural or is he not natural? And so, the reason that so many people think he's not natural is they're watching his transformations where he says he's natural. Natural transformation YouTube videos and so on. Also, I've seen him do a collab with Richard Deshawn, who I've stated previously not natural. You can think he is if you want, but I've stated previously that I don't believe he's natural. You can doubt me, but doubt me. And so, he's done a collab with him and he actually, in my opinion, looked bigger, leaner than Richard Deshawn. And also, if you look at him today, he looks absolutely shredded. very low body fat levels and exceptional arm development. Exceptional arms combined with great abs. Often times people are going to think you're not natural when you're actually natural. So could it be that he just has exceptional arm genetics and that he's actually natural? Well, maybe. But let's examine this further. So looking back at his genetics, do I believe that he has worldclass genetics? Could it be that he has shitty genetics and he just took a lot of PDS? Absolutely not. This guy has gifted genetics. I'm looking way back to when he was 14 years of age. You could already see the muscles. Used to play football and by age 17, he had a fantastic physique, better than 99% of teenagers without any question. And he is a dedicated personal trainer. So, he would have the knowledge, the training experience to know exactly how to train to build that physique. But he's also competed in the IFBB, non-drug tested, against other people who can take whatever they want. And let's be real, will you make more money as a personal trainer if you have a fantastic physique? Then if you don't, of course you will. If you have a body that looks like you know what you're doing, you are going to make more money. So the encouragement would be, why not take something so that you look better, so that you make more money. And so you might be thinking, is it possible to build this kind of physique natural? The answer is yes. It is possible for people with amazing genetics, gifted genetics to look like this natural. I fully believe that if Chris Bumstead were natural, he would in fact look better and bigger than this. Better and bigger. And just how big is this guy? Well, he's 6 feet tall. Currently weighs 205 shredded pounds. 2056 feet tall, almost as tall as Chris Bumpstead, who competes ridiculously mind-blowing shredded over 230 pounds. But could Chris be 205 lbs at this guy's body fat percentage? Of course he should. Of course he could. But just because Chris can do it, does that mean that Steve did? Well, I have to admit, I went back and forth, back and forth, looking after picture after picture. Some I'm like, well, I think he's natural here. It does show a decent amount of progression. Nothing jumps out. He doesn't have any outward signs of using pies. I don't see gyno. I don't see acne. He's not balding. Everything looks natural. Aside from the fact that HE LOOKS LIKE A FREAKING SPECIMEN in three quarters, who looks like this natural? One in a million. But is he that one in a million that did it natural? So, we have to further examine how is he doing now? He's 31 years of age. Has he continued to improve? Has he stopped? What exactly is happening to his physique today? Well, four years ago, he was 96 kg, a little bit softer, about 212 lb. Four years later, 93 kg. That's a loss of 3 kg. He's about 205 lb. So, in the last 4 years, he's lost 7 lb, but gotten significantly leaner. If he was much bigger and leaner now than he was, then it would be obvious that he's taking PDS. not very likely you're going to add a significant amount of muscle in your 30s if you've been training since you were a teenager, but I don't believe that he has added a significant amount of muscle. So, it does seem possible that he might in fact be natural. So, what I do notice is he fluctuates from going from looking phenomenal to looking oh my goodness phenomenal. He always looks way better than average, but sometimes he just looks like really that's natural. So it begs the question, is he in fact natural? You examine his bicep in particular, it can see just how shredded and lean it is. Paper thin skin. And when you're lean like that, your natural production of testosterone is going to go down. It's going to be hard to have fulll looking muscles when you're that shredded. And so what do I personally think is happening? I personally think this. I don't think he's using steroids. I think he purposefully said the words never used roids so that he could be honest in saying I've never used steroids. Just because you don't use steroids doesn't mean you're natural. However, in these videos it says natural transformation. Highly suspect. If I was a betting man, and I am, I would bet he's not natural. Might I be wrong? I might be, but I don't think he's natural. I think with all the pressure to look amazing, 1.3 million followers on Instagram, make more money if you look better, and he's been saying he's natural for so long, I don't feel he's going to come out and say, "Hey, guess what? I I wasn't natural this whole time." What benefit would it be to him to say that? And if he was 100% natural, why doesn't he say, "I am 100% natural. I've never done anything." And just because I haven't seen a massive growth for any time doesn't actually mean that he hasn't been using anything the whole time. What could explain this? Very easily lowdose testosterone. HRT from a young age could explain all of this growth. If you lose a lowd dose HRT, testosterone replacement therapy from a young age, you could develop in this way. He could diet, retain much more muscle, look shredded. just add in some diuretics for a photo shoot or cut his water, get pumped up, maybe photoshop a little bit, maybe add a little bit of girth to the old biceps. So, although I'd love to give him the he's natural card, I I just can't do it. I have to tell you what I honestly think and my true opinion is I don't believe he's 100% natural. Doesn't mean he's always on something. Doesn't mean he's taking trend. Doesn't even mean he's taking steroids. But I don't believe that for his entire life he's been 100% natural. And I don't want to take away from his hard work. I mean, I'm just giving you my opinion here. Obviously, he trains really hard. And to be in that kind of edition with or without PDS, that is incredible. It is not easy to do this to experience to hold very low body fat levels all the time. That's hard. He clearly has a great diet, knows what he's doing, but I don't think he's always natural. If you're trying to get to singledigit body fat, looking like a gym shark athlete, it can be extremely difficult to maintain that physique. Often times you will in fact lose muscle. People criticize me saying you should be lean year round and main gain. I'm not telling you to be this lean year round. This is very difficult to achieve. Singledigit body fat for most people is not a realistic goal to maintain. You can do it once, diet down for a show, things like that. But to maintain that year round, very, very difficult. So, please don't take this as a video saying, "Hey, you can maintain single-digit body fat, build muscle, and look jacked." Obviously much easier with PDS, but some people can actually do it. So, am I 100% sure he's on PDS or natural? No. But if I was forced to bet and had to make a choice, I'm betting he's not natural. If you're curious about if you need HRT, why not get your blood work done? Why not see if you're healthy? Even if you are on TRT or if you're already taking things, why not get it checked out. Do you have good blood work? Are you healthy? Be proactive with your health. So, let me know. Do you want more natty knots? Do you still like them? Do you hate them? Write it in the comment section. Whose natty or not you want me to do on next? Ending it here. Greget.com for coaching. Greg Ducet IP pro. Please click one of the bloops, watch one of those HARDER THAN LAST TIME SUPPLEMENTS. CLICK THE LINK IN DESCRIPTION. Don't forget about the freaking cookbook, training book, coaching plans by me, my team. Subscribe, click the bell button, follow me on the gram and the talk. Both of them. Go follow me. Greg Ducet IB Pro. Greg D. Type it all in there. And until next time, I am