SARMMS, steroids, peptides, the list goes on and on, and you all are buying them. But where are you getting it from? And today's video, I'm going over the best clinic by far in the United States. And I'm talking about the cheapest prices, the best service, the least judgment. And so if you're interested in taking in clomophene peptides, telmardin, you name it, this is the clinic for you. Now, previously I'd work with transcend and I'm certain that all of you have heard of Meric Health. Now these are great clinics. They offer great services. However, there's one huge major problem. They're very, very expensive. And so like working with coach Greg, remember I coach people. One of my most expensive packages, $39,000 a year. It's very expensive. And so although I'm an excellent coach, not everyone can afford it. And so since that time, I've dramatically lowered their prices. And what Algo RX has done is they've also dramatically lowered their prices. Adam Hot. Hot. Hot. Hot. Hot. Hot. Hot. Hot. Hot. Hot. Hotchkiss and Jim, they both formerly worked for Merrick Health. They essentially started and helped grow the company to making millions of dollars. But what they saw was that not everyone could afford it. And so if you were a bodybuilder, you're taking steroids or perhaps you wanted to stop, you needed HRT and so on, the prices unfortunately were too high for many people to afford it. And so what they noticed is often times people would ask, they would apply. Remember, I've sent many people to transcend as well. And unfortunately, the vast majority, I'm talking close to 90%, they couldn't afford even the blood work to get seen by professional doctors in order to help them, to give them the medications that they need. And so, they saw a huge void in inequity in allowing many people to be allowed professional service from doctors and so on in order to help them. people who were perhaps abusing steroids who wanted to stop people who they knew were buying SARMMS from shady websites and so on and dramatically endangering their health. I mean we've seen many young people have done videos on this the dangers of taking steroids and so on but yet many of these people were told I'm sorry but you can afford it and so they started their own HRT/med clinic. Now, as of right now, they're selling inclapene, but it's going to be another month before they start doing TRT, testosterone. And so, what they did is they made it a lot easier, a lot cheaper, a lot simpler for you to get what you need. And so, for example, you fill out a questionnaire, it's going to take you a couple of minutes. It's all it's going to take. And if you're for example abusing testosterone trend and so on and you have high blood pressure you could get talicartin. If your testosterone levels are too low you can get inclapene you will get exactly what you need and it's for significantly cheaper prices. And so let's look at seialis. We're going to do a price comparison. And so you were perhaps on steroids and now you're not and you can't get the downstairs harder than last time. What you want to do is you want to get sealis. And so if you go to Meric Health, they of course can help you. And so how much would that cost? Well, the initial visit, it's going to cost you $250 as a deposit in order to talk to their medical experts. And at a minimum, you have to get $450 in blood work readings in order to talk with them. And so you have $450 plus a $250 deposit. And so to get Seialis minimum, it's $700 USD. and you haven't even yet bought the seialis versus algo. In order to get the seialis, it's a twominut survey. And get this, a $15 doctor fee. If you want to get seialis, you got to pay minimum 700. Algarx, it's 15. And so at Algorex, the margins are razor thin. They don't mark it up dramatically. They want you to have the ability to afford it. And the people selling you these medications, they do not work on commission. And so by selling you 10 different things, they're not making more money. Versus at Meric Health, the more you spend, the more they make. And so imagine the bias. You're trying to purchase some supplements from someone and you're thinking, "I just want seal." And they're thinking, "Yeah, but do you want this? Do you want that? Perhaps you could benefit from that." And by the end of it, perhaps you spent $10,000. And the more you spend, let's say you do spend $10,000, they're going to make greater commissions. But at Algo Gorx, they're not making any external money. And so the person you're talking to is not going to try to convince you to purchase things that perhaps maybe you don't really need. You all understand that what I'm talking about is the salesperson. Like when you go to a store, if somebody makes commission, they might convince you to buy something you need. Oh, instead of buying a 10-in monitor, hey, buy a 30-inch monitor. at Algarx, the wellness coaches, the people you're speaking to don't make an additional income if you purchase what they're selling. And so what you need to know is that if you're purchasing from somewhere else, they may be incentivized to sell you more than you possibly need. And so toadill 90 count, it's a $1.17 per. That's for 3 months. And if you purchase 150 count for 5 months, it's only 86 cents a serving. You can purchase as little as 15 tablets, which works out to $29. It's $1.93 per pill. And so the more you buy, the cheaper it gets. And so for the average person, perhaps they're going to purchase for 3 months. $105 for 3 months. And so you fill out the two-minute questionnaire, you pay $15, and you can purchase Seialis for $105. That's it. In comparison, if you go to Mer Health, you paid the $700. And so for 90 days with Meric Health, it's $225 for 90 days. And so $105 compared to $225. However, it's $225 plus 700. So to get the 3 months of Sealis from Eric Health, it's now $925 in comparison to 120. And so which can you afford? Now I can afford to go to Mer Health. I have a lot of money. I can afford it. Many of you, you cannot. And so just like in comparison to Creatine, to Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum, not everyone can afford this. I've read a lot of comments saying, "I don't have $80. I don't have $100. I can't afford this, but I can afford creatine." And so I said, "Of course, not everyone can afford Turesterone, a Juga, Turkistanica, and so on." And so what did I say to these people? Look, if you're a broke college student, high school student, and so on, get the creatine and don't spend your money on a juga. I'm not trying to cause high school students to be poor. And remember, I don't want high school students to buy it anyway. You're too young. You have plenty of gains to be made without buying any supplements whatsoever. And so when you get older, you have a steady income and you're trying to maximize your physique and training in the gym. You can then purchase harder than last time supplements. And so that $450 package, it's currently gone up to $495. And so it's even more expensive than I was explaining. And remember, they're also going to try to upsell you to an even greater package to spend $2,000 or more. Remember, this is how companies work. They're trying to upsell you. That's how companies make money. They're doing nothing wrong. They're trying to sell more and more things cuz they're going to make more money. Perhaps you need it. crap, you know. And so, for example, in harder than last time, I'd like you to purchase Turk Platinum, but on top of that, of course, I want you to get GO2 Max. And so, the more things you buy, the better. And while you're at it, purchase Cookbook 3.1 as well as Janick's Juice or the Blue Lobster. And so, that is how it works. But remember, every one of these packages is more expensive than the last. And so, the prices can be astronomical. you could very easily be spending over $10,000 a year by purchasing through Merrick Health. And so with Algo RX, the cheaper blood work packages, they start at $250. Remember Merrick Health, it's $495. And so it's approximately half price. And so if you don't have thousands of dollars to burn, you most likely want to consider going with Algo RX. Cheaper prices with just as good of medications. And so, what do you think the smarter choice actually is? And don't forget that $250 blood work panel with Algarx, you can change it. You don't need to taste for everything. You can get it even cheaper or you don't need to do it at all. It's up to you. You do have to pay the $15 doctor fee, but that is all. In comparison with Merrick Health, it's significantly more expensive. Now, let's say you want your blood work read. You're perhaps you need somebody to tell you how to use testosterone, trend, everything, and you don't have a coach. You could hire a coach. Coach, Greg, I charge $750 for 40 minutes and $500 for 20 minutes for phone consults. I do this all the time. People asking me about HRT, what supplements to take and so on, how about their dieting, everything. I do this all the time. Phone calls with Coach Greg. How much do they charge? Well, to talk to their doctor for an hour going over your blood work to make sure you're doing things properly, it's $250. Literally, I was listening to him explain this and I was thinking, your doctors only charge $250. I charge $500 for 20 minutes. They charge $250 for an hour. And so, instead of spending $250 to them, you can of course talk to Coach Greg for $500 for 20 minutes. Now, I'm not going to sit here and say, "Don't talk to Coach Greg." But if I didn't have a lot of money, if I was broke, I'm not talking to Coach Greg. I'm expensive. I'm going to talk to them. $250, their doctors are going to go over your blood work. Hey, maybe you need this, maybe you need that. They can explain it. And I don't know how they do this, but for that $250, it's not just during that exact hour. You could actually talk to them further on. You can ask questions, texting, and so on. And so, it's actually coaching. In addition to this, you get a full coaching plan. I mean, I'm going to have to start sending all my clients to Algo RX. Do you guys know how much more I charge than that? A heck of a lot more. And my prices have come down dramatically, but it's still way more than this. Do you see the value? Do you see how cheap it actually is? But let's look at some of the other prices. All of this is pharmacy grade. When you listen to your favorite 17-year-old social media influencer, 19, whatever, and they say, "Use my discount code and buy this." They're sending you to SARM sites that perhaps later they're going to get shut down. They're selling you things that they likely they shouldn't. And where was it even made? This is not proven to be real. And so you might be getting something that's fake from China. You have no idea what you're actually getting. And so do you want to take that risk? And so if you want to get credible pharmaceutical grade supplements, medications and so on, you should be looking at algo RX. And so please be careful. And so if it's IGF-1, tessamorin, sir moralin, inclenine, seialis viagra, telmartin, the list goes on and on. Consider Algo RX. And as of right now, perhaps during this video right now, it's not currently available, but very shortly, they're going to be offering HRT, hormone replacement therapy or testosterone replacement therapy, that will include testosterone. And so, if you're someone that needs TRT, they very shortly will be able to get it for you. It's so much easier than going to your doctor. Often times, you go to the doctor and they're saying, "Hey, what have you taken? What are you doing?" And they're basically gatekeepers preventing you from getting what you need. They are not going to judge you. They're not going to say, "This is bad. You're a horrible person. Get out of here." They're going to say, "Oh, you made that mistake. That was pretty dumb. We're going to give you this to try to make you better." You will not be denied to get anything that you need. Let me repeat that. You will not be denied in getting what you need. If you're getting black market products right now, you don't know where you're getting it from. Can you actually trust them? You need to stop. How do you know what you're actually using? You may in fact be putting your life in jeopardy. Be careful. And so, stop potentially using fake products, black market products, and get what you need from Algo RX. All of this is legal. You're thinking, "Coach Greg, how could you?" All legal. What Alggo RX is doing is they're using a harm reduction approach. And so perhaps you got a guy, let's say a 20-year-old, he's saying, "You know what? I'm going to use test trend and dbol. Bro at the gym is going to sell to me." They're thinking, "Well, this is not good." And so rather than just saying, "No, we can't help you. We can't do anything. Just don't do it." You know what's going to happen? That person is going to go out and they're going to do it anyway. And so rather than that, they're going to try to help you. Now, they'll prescribe you what you need. Obviously, it's not going to be trend. they're going to have it at harm reduction. Does that mean there's no risk whatsoever? Of course not. Should you be using inclapene at age 20 if you're already healthy and so on? Of course not. Should you be using testosterone? No. But if they already know that you're putting your life in danger, that you're already taking risks, they're going to reduce those risks by monitoring you and helping with what you need. Pricing, in case you're wondering. Telma Sartin. Starting at $39 for 30, but if you go and get a 90day supply, it's $89. It's $99 each. And of course, you can purchase more 150 for only $119. And so if you buy in bulk, if you purchase, for example, for 5 months, it's going to be significantly cheaper. And as you know, Telmartin, many people are taking this to help control their blood pressure. If you have high blood pressure, you're most certainly taking years off of your life. Another item, Nebol. It's a cuttingedge blood pressure medication for athletes. It's not going to uh reduce your ability to perform cardio and so on. It's a beta blocker. And so guys, cutting edge. If you're looking for the best supplements, the best medications, you know where to go. And those of you who are interested in, for example, finasteride, but you're not interested in taking that, as many people, they do suffer sexual side effects that they don't want to have. They have topical products that they can use so that you don't lose your hair and you don't suffer from sexual side effects. And so for that you can get $45 for 30 or a 90 pack this 90 days for $105. And so as you can see very very affordable. If you compare the crazy, outrageous prices of other companies, other HRT clinics, you'll quickly see why so many people are going to Algo RX. The same quality service, the same medications, the same pharma grade, but for significantly cheaper. And so, if you're out there and you're spending a lot of money, look at Algorex. At least compare it because I'm convinced that once you try it, you're going to keep going back. You're going to say, "Why am I spending double, triple, five times the money for the exact same thing?" There's no need. And so, click the link in description and if you enter code Greg, you'll get 10% off. And so, what we noticed at Algorx is that the person's income is a huge predictor of future health problems. When you have guys like, let's talk about Togei, when he was in university as a broke college student, what was he taking? He was blasting hella gear, not knowing what he was doing. and we saw the results. Bros taking droppers from various research chemical sites and taking anything and you saw how bad his health was. Now, do you think that people who are making six figures a year, $100,000 or millionaires and so on, do you think they're wasting all their money on chemical sites and so on when they could be getting quality ingredients they can trust with doctor supervision? Of course not. And so what ALGOX is, they've bridged the gap between people who have no money, who wish they could afford what they're doing, and those who do. And so now there's no excuse. Why are you spending your hard-earned money on cheap research chemical sites when you can get literally better quality products monitored by a doctor? And what do I mean by that? I'm talking about you're getting your blood work to monitor you. I mean, do you really want to have things like happen like that Logan kid? He was 17 years of age. Did you see what happened? He was using research chemicals, I'm sure. RAD-140, LGD, and so on. And what happened to him? He almost died. And what about Togei? Did that guy look healthy? And so, do you really think that Togei right now is going to get research chemicals off some dumb site that's being promoted by some 20-year-old? Of course not. Togei is now making bank. But listen, you don't need to make bank to go with Algo RX. They have very cheap, very affordable prices. And so unless you're a complete and utter [\h__\h] an idiot, you're not going to get your blood work done. You're just going to take whatever you want, not even know if it's exactly what you purchase inside the bottle, and for what? You're too lazy to click the link in the description. Oh, I don't trust Coach Craig. Are you kidding me? Do you really think I don't care? I don't want you to be healthy. Listen, I abused for over 10 years. Do I have regrets? Of course I do. Do you not think that I wish I had a doctor back then that could have modered me every step of the way? Back then they weren't doing this. Now they are. And so if you do these things on your own and you just don't give a [\h__\h] what am I supposed to say? You don't care about living to be 70, 80, 90 years of age. You just want to throw your life away. And so if you are using steroids, SARMMS, anything or if you're going to before just taking that step, you got to contact Algorex and make sure that you're healthy. Do it the smart way. I urge you, don't make the same mistakes as other people have done. And if you chose to use Merrick Health Transcend, by all means, the only difference is you're going to spend a lot more money. And so if you want to get the same level of care for a fraction of the prices, Algo RX, click the link in description, code Greg, 10% off. This is not just for people who are interested in using performance-enhancing drugs. This is also for people who are 100% natural. Are you overweight? Do you have 50 lbs to lose? Get your blood work done. Are you deficient in something? They can offer services, medications that you need. Are you trying to lose weight? Do you need something to help you? If you're interested, and it's not just for the gear heads or people using sarms the sar goblins, this is for everyone. If you're interested in being healthy, I mean, how more simple can I put it? If you want to be healthier than last time, click the link in description, code, Greg, 10% off. Why do you think that I switched over to Algo RX? I was with Transcend before. I could have been with them now. I'm now a part owner. I believe in them. so strongly. I want to be with them not just for a couple of months or for six months or for a year, forever. This is the company that you need. It's the company that I know and trust. And so, guys, did you not watch that video I did with Adam Hotkits years ago? It's still on my YouTube channel. And so, if you're interested, go and check him out. I've been in contact with him for years. We've known each other for a long time. And so, if you're interested, you know what to do. Click the link in the description. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Of course, if you know anyone interested in using supplements and medications and so on, send them this video. Interested in working with me for coaching and so on. Of course, you can click the link in description. Also have Momentous Clothing. If you're interested in that, you can click the link as well. And for anything supplements, the Turk Builder Max, Turk Platinum, GO2 Max, and so on, click the link in description. code Greg 15% off. And until next time, I am out.