I'm just trying to keep it real. Many of you are just going to glaze her and say how amazing it is and how strong she is, but you're never going to call her out on what she actually needs to hear. And so we have a woman and she's famous for being fat. That's why she's famous. Nothing wrong with that. I'm famous for being a short 5'6 manlet who sounds like the parrot from Aladdin. >> I can't take it anymore. >> We all have our thing. 1.2 million followers. Finding joy in everyday life. Love it. I do the same thing. You can do hard things. Absolutely. What brought my attention to this woman is she recently discovered powerlifting. This video, it went viral. Check this out. My first trap bar deadlift PR 400 lb. I mean, it is a lot of weight. And so I was asked, you know, Coach Greg, what do you think of all this? I mean, she's deadlifted 400 lb. It's her first try. And I'm thinking, well, yeah, it's not bad. She can deadlift her body weight. And so, here's the thing. On the grand scheme of things, 400 lb, it is a lot of weight, but when you weigh close to 400 lb, it's a lot less impressive. In powerlifting, they have weight classes. And so, she would have to compete in the highest weight class. Now, if she weighed 125 lbs and did the same thing, yes, it's very impressive. But what you need to know about the trap bar deadlift, it's the easiest way to deadlift by far. I've seen people who deadlift, for example, at 2 in the morning over three plates, having never done it before. Female, don't ask what she's doing at my house at 2:00 in the morning and why she wanted to pick up that weight, but there's three plates on the bar. I was doing bent rows, whatever. And she bends over. I'm suggesting, "You can't do this. You haven't even warmed up." And she picks it up almost like it was nothing. And I'm thinking, how is this even possible? And so when I see a woman who's close to 400 lb lifting 400 lb on a trap bar deadlift, which is basically you just stand up like this, you don't need to bend forward. It's even easier than a sumo deadlift. It really isn't all that hard. Now, is it impressive for her to do this? Absolutely. It's her first time doing it. But if she were to try doing a regular deadlift, having to bend forward and so on, she wouldn't be able to lift nearly this much weight. But if she practiced, I'm certain she could be an absolutely amazing and outstanding deadlifter. But here's the problem. She's too fat. Again, I said it. Now, am I fat shaming? Probably. I'm saying this woman is morbidly obese, is going to die 20 years younger because of it. Everyone is glazing her, but the problem is she's had too much glaze on too many donuts. Sorry, it's 2025 and when you tell people facts, they get mad at you because you're a bad person. No, you're a bad person for glazing her and not telling her that she needs to put the fork down. That when you look like this, you're ruining your life. She leans forward a little bit. And now, because she's so heavy, the body fat in her stomach, it literally is pushing off her knees. Let me demonstrate this. And 20 minutes later, when you're really, really fat and you bend over doing a squat or leg press deadlift, your stomach, it sits into your knees. And so when you go, the belly is pushing off of you. And so it's kind of like a spring. And so those of you who do the leg press and you're really, really fat, you know this. Your knees come down. And when your knees bend about 3 in, it's already getting into the cushion. And you got some more pushing to push it back. Does that make sense? And so for her, all that weight's an advantage. Now, it's still a great lift. It's still very impressive. But do you know what would be way more impressive than this? Her losing 100, perhaps 200 lb and continuing to keep going. I would rather see her lose 100 lb and only be able to lift 300 lb than her to gain 100 lb and to do 500. Are you with me? The powerlifting community would welcome you with open arms. Investigating it now, y'all have already shown how great a community it is. Here's the problem. When you get involved in a sport that promotes or glorifies the bad things that you're already doing, it's not good for you. And listen, I'm not going to be a hypocrite. Bodybuilders, not just powerlifters, use and abuse performance-enhancing drugs. If you get into bodybuilding, it's not going to be any different. There's going to be temptations to do unhealthy things to try to win your competitions. In powerlifting, perhaps it's gluttony, eating more calories, force-feeding, and so on. And for some people using steroids, but it isn't healthy. It would be far more healthy for her to, for example, say, "You know what? I want to start doing cardio." All you have to do is to try, but if you try the wrong thing, it's not going to help you. Lifting 400 lb once burns perhaps 2 calories. It isn't much in comparison. Going for a walk for a mile for this woman probably going to burn well over 200 calories. Here is my suggestion. If I were coaching her, I would say yes, let's do powerlifting, but let's also lose some weight. Let's go for those several mile walks. Let's reduce our body weight by at least 100 pounds and or more. and let's see what we can do. And remember, I always say to lose half the weight. If she has to lose 200 pounds, I say, "Hey, let's lose 100." Let's be realistic. And if she's too hungry, of course, I'm going to suggest that she takes GLP Max. I'm certain that the reason that she's this heavy, it's because she was born with very strong hunger signals. She's hungrier than last time. Grein is through the roof. And so, it's very difficult for her to put the fork down. It's an uphill battle. I'm not saying this is all her fault. Genetics plays a very large role. And so unless she has some extra help and remember if she has for example a doctor prescribe Ozmpic or other GLPS and so on then that could also help. And I also would suggest she gets your blood work taken. You never know what could go wrong. I would suggest she goes to Algo RX of which I'm a part owner. You could click the link in the description because you can get your blood work done. You can get various medications for example in clomophene seialis Viagra all the different things you get them at significantly reduced prices they're not going to try to convince you to take medications that you don't need but for example she needs telmartin for high blood pressure or anything to help with her health and so in comparison to Mer health you're going to pay at max half of what you're paying there and so if you're interested click the link in the description this is your gem incredible I'm thinking immediate immediately know it's the high calorie jam. She's consumed too much of it and that she should perhaps swap over to low sugar jams. But her response is this. Honestly, I wish I knew lifting heavy was my jam way earlier. Yep. And this is the message I want you to know. So many people have elite level genetics in things that they are not even aware of. You don't even know it. I had a guy Charlie on my cycling team. He was over 300 lb. He's currently about 180. He was morbidly obese, but yet now he can absolutely destroy me in a bike race. He's way faster. He lost over a 100 pounds and now he's winning bike races. And so you don't know your genetics until you use them. She could be possibly one of the strongest women in the world. We don't know that. But unfortunately, she didn't try she didn't try powerlifting until right now, but better late than never. But how do we know she might not be an elite marathon runner? That she might be an amazing swimmer, a cyclist. Perhaps she could do iron man competitions. She's saying powerlifting is my jam. What if it's bike racing? I would love to see this woman try doing some more cardio. I would like her to take something perhaps GLP to help control her appetite so that she can lose weight. And I most certainly hope that she stays natural. I know when you start powerlifting, the temptation is greater. Same with bodybuilding. And so, if you're looking for something that can help, that's natural, that can improve your performance, help you recover better, put on more muscle, get stronger, remember, there's a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And so, you can try it riskfree. Code Greg, 15% off. And let's not forget about the amazing benefits of GO2 Max help you to improve your cardio. And so if you're not aware of this, you're probably thinking, "Oh yeah, yeah, creatine is good." Creatine pales in comparison to some of the best natural supplements in the world. You just don't know it yet. You're going to be floored by your capacity. I would also love to see her try straw man competitions, powerlifting competitions. I would like her to go ice skating, swimming, running, every freaking activity in the world. I was a physical education teacher. And so when I would see people who are morbidly obese, especially the children, I'm thinking this is so sad. Why can't we find them activities that we like, and why can't we have their parents actually teach them how to eat healthy? Trust me, you can lose weight. Everyone can do it. It's harder for some people. It's more like an uphill battle, but everyone can do it. Consider it like this. We Running a marathon is hard. Yeah, but you don't have to run the whole time. You could walk. And for some people, it's like running a marathon uphill. Yeah, but you can still walk slowly up a hill. Everyone can get there. You can do it. It might take you longer. You might have to try harder, but you can do it. And you do have some assistance. It's not as hard as it once was. And so, in 2025, there really is no excuse. If you know what you're doing and you have a proper coach, for example, Coach Greg, which you can get right now, click the link in description and apply, it is significantly easier than ever before. Running that mile uphill in 2025, it's basically you're on the way back. As hard as it was up there till 2025, now we have various medications. It's like running back downhill. It's so much easier. It's still hard. a full marathon downhill. It's still a challenge. It's still going to take a long time, but you can in fact do it. It is finally manageable. I've been doing YouTube videos for a long time, coaching for a long time, competing for a long time. This was not available when I was younger. When I was competing, there was no ompic. There were no GLPS. There was broccoli, chicken, and rice with salt and pepper. Now you got geese barbecue sauces. You got low calorie condoms. We got the amazing lowfat this, lowfat that. It's easy. You even have the freaking cookbook 3.1. Have you heard of the book? There's no way that you haven't. Are you kidding me? There's no possible way. Almost sold 100,000 of these copies. It's incredible. I don't know any book as good or as detailed as amazing as this. All laid out the calories, everything, vegetables, fruits, how many calories, how much of it can you eat? and all the recipes easier than last time to create. If you're looking for delicious, high protein, high-fiber meals for the big eaters, people that have a hard time putting the fork down, that is the book for you. Code Greg 15% off. Girl, 400 lb for your baseline without even training is crazy. Her response, thank you. I did dumbbell lifting, but it makes sense why I never gained muscle lifting 10 to 15 lbs. See, she's figuring it out. I mean, this video might have crossed that I'm a being a dick, that I'm being an but I'm just trying to keep it real. She had all this strength in her this entire time, but she didn't know it yet because she was lifting these stupid 10 and 15 lb dumbbells. Like, what's up with that? Her baseline of weighing 400 lb is a lot. And so, it's expected that she lifts a lot of weight. If she could only lift, for example, 225 lbs, I'd be thinking, how? I mean, she's very, very large. Mass moves mass. The bigger you are, the more weight you should be able to lift. I got goosebumps. I've been powerlifter for 7 years and I'm nowhere near that. Amazing. I'm so freaking excited to learn where I can go from here. She now has the motivation, the drive, the determination, like she feels it. It's intrinsic. What happens is in sport often times we have something known as intrinsic and exttrinsic reward. Exttrinsic is when you just do it for other people. like, "I'm lifting weights cuz I need big muscles to get that girl cuz she only likes guys with big muscles and so you're just doing it for her." Or, "Hey, I'm going to get a plastic trophy in the end." You're doing it for that. Or, hey, your dad's going to say, "Bravo, you you lifted really hard." And so, you're doing it for external validation or external reward. It has to become intrinsic. I want to do it. Why? For the trophy? No. For me? Do you really think that I'm riding my bikes every single day, lifting weights? sonal for extrinsic motivation like that person has to tell me to do it or that person will say bravo Greg bravo or do you think that I actually want to do it for me if you can get to the point where you enjoy it and you're doing it for you progressive overload the pain you gradually over time you start to like it a little bit more each and every day perhaps the first week it was hard you're so tired you're like oh my god but you're thinking I feel so good about it it's making me feel good on the inside that delayed gratification knowing that if You train really hard for a year, that FTP on the bike or that weight that you're lifting, it's going to get even better. Pav, you focus on being stronger versus smaller. H okay, so here's the problem with that. And she's already very, very strong. Her weakness is body composition. When I was in grade 10, my phys teacher taught me the five health related components. We had muscular strength, muscular endurance, we had body composition, we had cardiovascular endurance and h five flexibility. We need to improve those things. And I remember them saying, Greg, you need to have balance. You have incredible strength, incredible muscular endurance. You have really good cardio. All these things are good, but you are not very flexible. Do you even stretch? If you design a proper exercise program for yourself, perhaps you could add in some flexibility. I mean, you're lifting weights like no other. You're strongest guy in the school. You're doing more cardio than everyone else. You're in the swim team, the cycling team, the running team. I mean, you're just a freaking animal. All you do is exercise, but you're never stretching. And so, you can't even touch the back of your hands. Can't do it. I did start stretching and I did improve and I'm perhaps not as flexible as I could be, but I do in fact try. I went to yoga. I did all these things. My weakness is likely flexibility in terms of everything else. I mean, really, if you were to coach me like you were coaching me and I said, you know what, I want to be a physical specimen, the healthiest person I could be. Would you think, yeah, we need to do your one rep max. You need we need to improve your deadlift strength. Why? What about your muscular endurance? Don't you have that Guinness World Record? What about your body composition? Your single-digit body fat, cardio, you're racing bikes. What is your weakness? Well, can you touch your toes? Can you reach back? What about your shoulders? Are you tight? Let's not go to being tight. If you were to coach her, as I'm analyzing her, would I be concerned about her strength? Remember, I'm trying to optimize her quantity and quality of life. both of these factors. In order to be healthy, you need to have both. She's already strong, clearly beyond expectations. But what about her body composition? She's taking years off her life, probably 20, from morbid obesity, which oftentimes leads to type 2 diabetes and so on. What about her cardiovascular endurance? Does anyone think that this woman could, for example, go and do cardio at a decent speed for an hour? She's too heavy. Could she actually go for a walk for an hour straight at a very good speed? I mean, if she could, it's impressive. And if she could, let's say that she could. Greg, you're wrong. I've seen her go out and jog for 5 miles in an hour. If this woman can jog 5 miles in an hour, and if she were to drop 200 lb, she would be running marathons like no other. Because the heavier you are, the more weight you're carrying on that run. And so, as you get smaller, your speed goes up. This is why all these cyclists who lose weight, they get so much faster. If you start at 300 lb and you can put out 200 watts and you train for a year and now you're 200 lb and put out 300 watts, you're going to go exceptionally faster. You're going to go so much faster because you both lost weight and you put out more power. And so if she were to practice running and lost weight, not only would her cardiovascular system get better, she would become more efficient, which means she could run faster and or further, she would go significantly faster due to the fact that she has less weight to carry. Does that make sense? And so this is what I'm thinking when I'm analyzing other people. And so you focus on being stronger versus smaller. That is a mistake. And so yeah, POV, this is what happens. It is a mistake. Why would you do that? Here's the thing. Why not do both? You know, I'm not a hater. I'm just trying to help. She can focus on being stronger and smaller at the same time. GLP maxmpic calorie deficit, putting the fork down, whatever. There are so many ways to do this. She could do exactly what she's doing right here, every single bit of it. Doing the deadlifts, throwing balls against the wall, whatever she wants. and lose weight at the same time by eating fewer calories. And if you don't believe me, because your IQ is probably 79. >> 79. >> Calories in, calories out. If she's in a deficit, she's going to lose weight. It's impossible not to. Sorry, that's how it works. On this planet, we obey the laws of thermodynamics. Has quoted from Homer Simpson. >> In this house, we obey the laws of thermodynamics. >> If you're thinking, "No, but she has an underactive thyroid, a slow metabolism, all this nonsense." Even if she does, she's eating way more calories than she needs. There's no way you can convince me that this woman is eating under 2,000 calories. If you told me she's eating under 3,000 calories, I would not believe you. I would say, "Yeah, let me track her calories." Imagine if I had a tracking calorie sponsor right now, I would plug them in. And so, if she accurately tracked her calories and started eating, for example, 2,000 calories a day, she would get smaller like that. It would happen very, very quickly. Does it mean it's easy? Of course not. Grein is very high. We've already discussed this. And so my suggestion to her is to keep on lifting weights. Keep doing it. Try to get stronger. Compete in powerlifting. Give strong men or strong women a try, but to also eat in a calorie deficit. I know she can do it. Imagine with her 1.2 million followers if she goes on a weight loss journey and says, "You know what? I could lose the weight. I just didn't know how." And so she puts in the work. She loses 100 pounds. She deadlifts 500. She becomes a role model to the world. That is what I want to see and I know that she can do it. Becoming strong has been my most favorite thing to focus on. Okay, we all have our favorites. I no longer care what my body looks like because I know what it's capable of. It's not about your looks. I know you feel it's about your looks, but it's about your health. Say it with me. Your health. You may not have the ideal attractive looking physique. We can agree to that. It's not what's going to be on the cover of a bikini selling swimsuit magazine. But that is not the point. That is not why you should lose weight. Those reasons, the superficial ones, yeah, it's important for many people, but the real reason is what's going on inside. Because if you were to get your blood work done, examine your blood glucose levels, liver enzymes, kidney function, all of this, perhaps your your heart, your blood pressure, how close to getting a heart attack are you already. And so she states, "I'm less afraid of haters because I know I could take them in a fight." You know what? I don't doubt her. She probably could. But here's the problem. Who she can't take on in a fight, it's herself and it's her insides. You might be able to beat up every single woman and man out there. You're stronger, better fighter, all of those things, but what about the fight for your health? What happens when you can't fit in an MRI machine to see what's wrong with you? What then? And so, you're putting on a brave face, acting, looking tough to the world, looking very strong, but what is happening on the inside? Not just physically, but mentally. It's one thing to say, you know, I don't care. It's okay. I'm proud of this body. But it's another thing to mean it. I think you're on the right track. Functional strong is a lifesaver in more ways than one. Functionally strong doesn't save your life when you have a heart attack. It doesn't save your life when you have type 2 diabetes. What does save your life is losing the weight. Now, I'm all about body positivity, but I am in this sense. You should do whatever it takes and be proactive to improve the health of your body. You not only owe it to yourself, do you owe it to your friends, family, pets, and so on. If you don't want to do it for you, do it for somebody else. Do you want to leave this earth sooner than last time? Or do you want to stay for as long as you can? Because if you do, you're going to try to lose some weight. Hopefully, you got the message. You understand the important of weight loss. I'm not just trying to make fun of her. I'm actually trying to help her. It's tough love. Many of you are just going to glaze her and say how amazing it is and how strong she is, but you're never going to call her out on what she actually needs to hear. And so what I do, I tell you what you need to hear, not what you want to hear. You wanted to hear this is amazing. You're so strong. Keep going. You're a power lifter your phenom. But what you need to hear is you need to lose some weight. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. Of course, the coaching plans by me, my team, the cookbooks, the training books, the circle diet book, Algo RX, of which I'm an equity owner in the company. You can click the link in description to work with qualified doctors right now at very affordable prices, much cheaper than their competitors. And until next time, I am out.