Like if she was able to put on 22 lbs of muscle in 3 months, if she continued to train like three more months and then three more after that in like 3 years, she would probably end up putting on 80 lb of muscle. >> Sydney Sweeney has kings. >> Sydney Sweeney gained her entire lifetime of gains in 3 months. Coach Greg, in today's video, Sydney Sweeney added 35 lbs of muscle for a boxing movie role. No, she didn't. I am sick and tired of all the lies. Why does Hollywood keep doing this to us? 35 lbs of muscle in three turkey months. What is up with all the lies? Are they now doing this on purpose? I ate chicken, broccoli, and rice. I trained 6 hours a day and I put on 30 lbs of muscle in 3 months. It's gotten to the point where the regular person, you know, people who don't watch Coach Greg, they're not watching Coach Greg and chill that they actually are starting to believe this. That all you need to do is up the protein, go to the gym, and well, you're going to get jacked. That it's that easy. Even with trend baloney sandwiches, you're not going to put on 35 lbs in 3 months. I mean, this is a woman. She started about 120 lbs. 35 lbs of muscle would be the difference between somebody who's never set foot in the gym and somebody who's competing at the Miss Olympia Championship. 35 lbs on a woman is a lot. It would be like 70 lbs of muscle on a man. And so most women, i.e. 99% of females will never put on 35 lbs of muscle in their entire lifetimes, EVEN WITH STEROIDS. SO, HOW IS SYDNEY DOING IT IN THREE FREAKING MONTHS? Sydney's twomon training. Oh, I'm sorry. It was only two months. Three of the months were bulking on protein and two months of training. And so, think about how ridiculous this is. This is about 15 pounds of muscle per [laughter] month. Half a pound of muscle a day. Most people struggling to gain half a pound of muscle a month, she's out there doing it in a day. And so, what did she do? Well, let's see. Let's copy her program. 1 hour of weight training in the morning. That's fine. That makes sense. I can see that. 1 hour of working out. Next, 3 hours of boxing. How many of you think that doing 3 hours of boxing is going to help you to put on more muscle? Boxing is mostly cardio. It's going to make you fit. It's going to burn off a tremendous amount of calories. And so if DEA said she lost 35 pounds in three months because she was training so much, that would have made more sense. If somebody started at 200 lb and 3 months later they're down 35 lbs from doing an hour of weights and 3 hours of cardio. I would believe it. And she's not even done there, guys. One hour of weight training in the evening. How many of you think that that is necessary? You have a newbie lifter. Hey, I want to get in shape. What am I going to do? Well, for day one, we're going to work out for 1 hour with weights. Then we're going to do 3 hours of boxing, and then we're going to go and do another hour of lifting weights because the first hour it wasn't enough. This is severe overtraining. And so, because of that, you know that Sydney Sweeney is on performance-enhancing drugs. Does anyone think that these famous actors are 100% natural? As soon as you hear, "Put on 35 lbs of muscle in 3 months," you have to assume she's on abusive doses of performance-enhancing drugs, steroids, sarms, peptides, growth hormone, insulin, everything. You're expecting to see an incredible transformation. Perhaps she's shaving, losing her hair, she's going to have a puffy face. She's going to have severe side effects. But when I see the after, all I see is a girl who ate a little bit more cheesecake. I don't see a woman who's abused incredible amounts of performance-enhancing drugs. I barely see any changes. I see a girl who started eating a calorie surplus and that's it. If you start training 5 hours a day, remember I'm an IFBB pro. I've trained my entire life and I'm fit. If I made a video right now and I said, you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to do a 90-day transformation. I'm going to hop back on. I'm doing test trend everything under the sun. I am going to get jacked. I don't care about my health. And in 90 days from now, I'm going to put on 35 lbs of muscle. Does anyone think I could do it? I'm 192 lbs now. I'd have to get up to 227 lbs. At my biggest in my life, abusing steroids for 10 straight years, I got to 232 lbs. Does anyone think it's that easy to simply put on 35 lbs? And remember, I'm a hyperresponder. I easily put on muscle and I am on Turk Platinum. If I can't get that heavy that quickly, how could she, a woman with far lower levels of testosterone? And even if I could, do you think I would do one hour of weightlifting in the morning followed by 3 hours of cardio, boxing, Muay Thai, whatever, bike riding, and then another hour of lifting weights after that? If I did that, do you think I could recover? Now add to that while being natural. You train for an hour, your muscles are sore. And guess what? When you grow, you grow when you're not training. When you're resting. When am I resting? I'm doing 3 hours of cardio after that. And then I have to drag my ass into the gym again and do some more bicep curls yet again. More bench presses after boxing all day. This is ridiculous. And so we know that they are absolutely lying. Sydney Sweeney says that she added 35 lbs of muscle for her role in Christy by continually pounding more and more protein shakes. I mean I mean I don't know what I mean. This is ridiculous. I It's bad enough when Wolverine says chicken, broccoli, and rice in four hours of working out a day. At least he's a man. It's somewhat believable to people who are very gullible. Perhaps 5% of the population are so stupid to think that guys are gaining this much muscle by just bulking up on chicken, broccoli, and rice. 6,000 calories a day, 4hour workouts, two a days. But does anyone think that a dainty female is adding 35 lbs of muscle by having extra protein shakes? If this were the truth, she should start a new business. Getting sexy with Sydney Sweeney. And this is all you have to do. You have protein shakes, you know, not chicken, broccoli, and rice. It's the shakes. Protein in liquid form. It's more bioavailable. And so, you put on a ton of muscle. And in two months, maybe three, you're going to put on more muscle than 99% of women put on in their entire lives. I mean, she would make even more money. Every single IFBB pro would hire her. Hey, you got third at the Olympia this year. Oh, hire Sydney Sweeney. Have an extra protein shake or two a day, you're up 20 lbs of muscle. It's easy. It's not. Greg O Gallagher chimes in. 35 lb of weight. No, it isn't even 35 lb of weight. She didn't gain 35 lb. Even if it was just fat. It's not easy to gain 35 lb of fat in 3 months. She would need to go in a 1360 calorie surplus every single day for 90 days to gain that much weight in 3 months. That's perhaps almost double the calories that she would have been eating before going on this bulking diet. And remember, when you eat a lot of food, a lot of that is not actually going to turn to fat. She's doing what? 3 hours of boxing and 2 hours lifting weights every single day. 5 hours. How many calories do you think she's burning during those workouts? I mean, even if she's hardly trying at all, let's say she's halfassing everything. Boxing, n I don't feel like I'm tired. Lifting weights, yeah, just give me the tense. She's still going to burn 200 calories per hour. That's 1,000 calories. That means she would need to eat 2300 extra calories in order to be in a surplus just to put on that much weight. How is that possible? It's not. Like, I really don't think that she could do it. Do you all have any idea what 35 lbs of muscle looks like? Bro, men running all the gear in the world and eating 8,000 calories a day would struggle to do this in 18 months. 35 as in 35. Like five away from 40. Yeah. Okay. Adding 35 lb and 35 lb of muscle are two different things. Yeah. And they're also two things that she didn't do. Oh, sorry. I've been corrected. A new article came out, a different article. Of course, it was an exaggeration. It wasn't 35 lbs. Let me read this. Sydney Sweeney gained 34 lb and built a fighter's body for Christy. Her trainer reveals how she did it. 35 was too much. It was 34. They were rounding up. I mean, I know men all round up their heights except for Coach Greg. I literally tell you exactly what I am because I don't need to lie. But it's 34 lb. It's not any different. It's still going to be impossible. You're going to convince me that this girl walked into this private training facility and committed to gaining over 30 lbs in 3 months. A girl who's been thin her entire life just said, "Yeah, bring it. The protein shakes. You're going to have to wolf these down. And in 3 months from now, you're going to look like a professional bodybuilding competitor." If that was actually true and I was dating Sydney Sweeney, remember, I'm not dating her. I'm with MPs. But if I was her boyfriend, I'd be saying, "Yeah, you're not drinking any of those protein shakes because what the hell did they put in them?" If they think you're somehow gaining 30 lbs of muscle in 3 months, they are giving you something in secret. Probably trend baloney sandwiches mixed with Anavar. 30 plus pounds is ridiculous. If they had said 15, be like, "Okay, look, it's going to be hard. Half of it's going to be fat, but don't worry. We can diet it off after, but can you commit to this for 3 months? We're going to go up 15 pounds. Look, you're not going to fit any of your clothes. You're going to look like a different person. Are you willing to do it? Hey, we're paying you millions of dollars. Maybe. Maybe you could convince that actress to go for it. But 30 [snorts] plus, no. Impossible. Robert says about 23 of what Sweeney put on was muscle. It was somewhere around the 34 lb mark that she ended up putting on. We first heard it was 35 lbs of muscle. Then we heard it was 34. And now we hear it's 2/3 muscle. 2/3 of 34, it's approximately 22. And so Sydney Sweeney, they're saying trainer saying his words that she put on 22 lbs of muscle in 3 months and also 12 lbs of fat. No. Just no. Can you understand this? Steroids, they're not magic. Putting on 22 pounds of muscle in three months is the work of a magician. Even with one in a billion genetics, it doesn't happen in a year. Yes. With steroids, yes. Top tier genetics, top 1% with steroids, primobolan, anifar, the list goes on and on. 22 lbs of muscle in one year. But for a natural top 1% genetics, probably 10 to 12 pounds of muscle in a year. She did double that in three months. I rest my case. It's not just how much you eat, it's when you eat. [\h__\h] It is in fact how much you eat. If you ate the perfect meal five times a day at the exact hour, but you're eating at maintenance, you would not have gained 35 lbs. Around week five of training, Sweeney had already gained 20 lb. 4 lbs a week. That's over a half a pound a day. That's about a 2,000 calorie daily surplus. Does anyone believe this? There's no way that those protein shakes were enough timed to put on 20 lbs in 5 weeks. She had dense shoulders and she was developing her back. We put 4 in on her glutes alone and she was loving that part of it. You all think she added 4 in to her glutes in 5 weeks? Really? that it was mostly muscle. Twothirds the way back when filming wrapped. Roberts also helped Sweeney transition back to her natural size. People assuming going back down is easy, he says, but it takes as much discipline as putting the weight on. And so you're telling me that this girl with one in a billion genetics to put on 22 lbs of muscle in 3 months, that 3 months later she just lost it all, that it took willpower. How did she lose that much muscle that quickly? Did she simply lay in a bed and not move? If you put on 22 pounds of muscle, especially if it's natural, it's not just going to disappear. Is it that easy to just put on 20 lbs and lose 20 lbs whenever you want? Robert wants women, especially to understand that strength training isn't the enemy. There's this fear, I don't want to get bulky or masculine, he says. Nothing could be further from the truth. If women could put on 22 lbs of muscle and 34 lbs in 3 months, it would be exactly the truth. That would be bulky. And if being strong and muscular WASN'T THAT BAD, WHY DID SHE LOSE ALL OF IT following the movie? This is ridiculous. >> Like, if she was able to put on 22 lbs of muscle in 3 months, if she continued to train like three more months and then three more after that in like 3 years, she would probably end up putting on 80 pounds of muscle. like your first year you have newbie gains and so the first three months you're just getting started in the first three months if you keep training for nine more months you're going to gain at least double that and so the 22 lbs if you extend it on it would have been at least 44 pounds of muscle like you just have to think of it logically if you can gain that much muscle in a few months you can continue to gain a little bit more for years to come you don't gain all the muscle of your lifetime in a matter of three months the gains they keep coming. The first year you gain the most. The next year you're going to gain less and the next year even less after that. But most people can keep gaining for 10 or 15 years. And so first year lots, less, less, less, and then it kind of just trails off after that. Sydney Sweeney gained her entire lifetime of gains in 3 months. If you want to stay natural and make more gains than last time, not 34 pounds in 3 months, but three or four pounds of muscle in a month, who knows? Perhaps if you have genetics like Coach Greg, you can do it. Remember, if it doesn't exceed your expectations, it's a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And so, if you're interested, of course, Turk Builder Platinum and Turk Builder Max, code Greg, 15% off. Don't forget, as well, if you have lower levels of testosterone, Gest Platinum, as well as G Focus Limitless for those of you studying, trying to write exams, concentrate, focus that much better. And so any of the supplements, head to the website, code Greg, 15% off. And if you're interested in being a sponsored athlete and or ambassador, please click the link in the description as well. If you want to carry our amazing stuff online in your stores and gyms, please apply by clicking below. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like this video if you liked it. Give it a like. Watch those two bloops. Of course, you can get the Circle Diet book and cookbook 3.1. If you're interested, head over to the website and the delicious Kao bars. Man, Mr. Mike, he loved these so much. If you enter code Kaiko, psycho ci, calories in, calories out, it's 50% off. It's a great deal. Head over to my website and until next time, I am out.