What else? Some dill and a little bit of salt. And I'mma mix that around, right? And it's going to make me a nice homemade tazinki sauce. And so this is my impersonation of Mikey. That took me out for no reason. Hey guys, I'm Mikey. I'm at the grocery store. We're going to buy some low calorie Greek yogurt. Yeah. Two twos. My words gross tea. Hey, you know what I need is frozen hash browns. You don't even know. They're hacks. No, it's not a hack. Frozen hash browns is not a hack. Hash browns is not a hack. Do not get the hash browns. We need to come here and literally just buy everything we're craving, bro, for a cheat day. That'd be insane. No, no, no. Time out. Get some Turk instead. Tea. If you go and buy every single thing that you're craving just because you're craving something, this is a huge mistake. And here's the thing, you need to slowly introduce those cravings. If you have a craving something, just give it a little. Don't be like, "Oh, I'm not going to have any until Friday night and I have all of it." This is what a binge eating disordered behavior looks like. It's exactly this. You can't just put off all of your urges and do them all on Saturday night. Don't enjoy yourself. No, these are actually gas, bro. Hold up. These are gas. You get two of these, right? They're like medium size 100 calories, right? You open up a door, that should stay shut. No, I actually recommend you get the Greek yogurt ice cream bars. They're portion controlled. You get a box. There's six of them. Worst case scenario, eat all six. Mine have 110 calories. 660 calories in a box of six. It's not really that bad. Versus if you get the ice cream 2 lers, it could be 2,000 3,000 calories later. Or even if you get the smaller hogenes, which have about a,000 calories is far worse. Greek yogurt ice cream bars with five grams of protein per. This is not all that bad. It's made from coconut. Coconut is extremely hydrating and good for you. And these are great. Just because a coconut water is is hydrating doesn't mean that if you take trace coconut elements and put it in a ice cream bar that it's going to some hydrate you. It would be like saying if you take vitamin C it's going to hydrate you because well if you drink orange juice then there's vitamin C in it. And so by taking the vitamin C, it's hydrating you. But no, it's the water that's doing that, not the coconut part. I wonder if the green giants got a giant coffee. I would have to assume so. I would say yes. I mean, if he didn't, then he would have a micro. And a micro on a green giant would be probably the size of a banana. I mean, portion control, like if he's uh 30 feet tall and he's got a micro, it's still going to be relatively big in comparison to a human. And so Chris, it's probably bigger than yours. All right. Thank you. All right. So, cauliflower rice. And so, stop recording. Thank you. We'll stop and immediately continue to record. Why are they saying you can't record a grocery store? Like, what are they thinking? Is it not a public place? I mean, it I feel like it's a public place. You should be able to record videos in a grocery store. I mean, it's not a locker room. Oh, you don't have to go Joey swole on this guy. Mind your own business. You can't record in a grocery store. Like, it's a bit much. Mind your own business. You need the fat-free milk, man. Put in the milk. The protein shakes. This goes in the protein shakes. And there is the milk. See, even the trend twins know what they're doing. What do you think is better? The the diet bangs root beer or the diet uh AW root beer? Aw. Doesn't matter. As long as it's diet and not regular, you're set. And are you aware of the 19,000 case recall of the diet cherry coke whatever fiasco? They put regular pop instead of the diet. How many people have new fears unlocked? Is that the saying? New fear unlocked. Buying diet pop and it actually being regular. New fear unlocked. Like we doing all this to be healthy, but we're literally we're like the healthiest most unhealthy people ever because we're Yeah. taking roids along with them. And so if they did exactly what they're doing right now, minus the steroids, would they be at the level of the healthiest humans on the planet? Would they be Brian Johnson 2.0's? I feel like no. If they trend twins were not on performance-enhancing drugs, would they be the healthiest humans on the planet? Comment below. I think they'd be above average. They wouldn't be one in 4.8 standard deviations from the mean, which is Do you know about how much that is? one in a million. They wouldn't be like Usain Farhat. I'm just thinking like if they eat cheats on the weekend and they eat 1,800 calories during the day and then they starve themselves and then they don't eat and eat one meal in the afternoon, they there's too many things like they're they're spitting not swallowing. That doesn't sound healthy. So, I think it's more than just the steroids. I'm not saying that they're below average, but I don't think they're at that high level health, if you know what I mean. I think we need a daddy arc. I need I think we need a a turkey. And did I hear that? They need some Turk. I heard Turk. And so Trend twins, get off of the steroids, which you just said you shouldn't be on. Then you'd be healthier. And try Turk Builder Max and see what happened. Maybe that's where that rattling's coming from. Some weird rattling going on. Turk with it. I don't want my [\h__\h] rattling. I just bought it and it's rattling. That's not a good sign. My experiences don't work with it. If they got chlamydia or gorrhea maned up like togei, this is a problem. This is a massive problem. Stay away. And they got buffins, baby. Barbecue mac and cheese. What? 360 calories, bro. And so, is it better to order your groceries online than to show up in the store? Cuz I think it's better to go to the store cuz you can experience all these like freaky vegetables and fruits that you're not going to see on the internet and you're still going to see crumble cookie or whatever candy. You're still can press the button just cuz you're not there. You still see it. Like you don't tell me people never junk food. They're on their phones. Oh, it's easy. You don't cheat. You just go Door Dash. I think we just proved that the uh phone system doesn't work. When I Instacard though, I just type in what I want and I So I don't I don't go down a list. So, I feel you could stick to your plan a little bit. Probably about one in a million chance that working for most people that they just type in all the foods that they want on whatever Instacart thingy. Yeah. How are you going to know what's out there? How are you going to get the buy one strawberry get one free? How you going to get three blueberries for $105? How are you getting all the sales and discounts? Not everyone is rich like us. They can't just like not care about grocery sales. It's still the price listed for the same type of like it's going to be more expensive I think. Although the time investment of just not having to drive to the store, there's a fee for the delivery of stuff. Oh, there is. See, I get my chef and others to go grocery shop for me, which it saves me time. And then I tell them what to buy and I say, "Buy other healthy [\h__\h] from the cookbook." And it works for me. And so I suggest you get a chef to live in your home and cook all your meals for you. This is my number one suggestion, my tip for grocery haul. and you send them to the grocery store and they go and get your groceries and they cook your meals and they do your laundry and your dishes. Um they can do everything for you. Get your gardeners. Um and then get them to set up your Zift bike so that you can do your cardio. Uh everything that they can do because everything I can do they can do better. Yeah. So it's 6:00 I've eaten like 300 calories today. It's 6:00 he's at 300 calories. Is he waking up at 2:00 in the afternoon? Is he playing video games all night? What is going on right now? It's 6:00. It's 6:00 here. How many calories did I eat? Probably all of them. There's never a day where I've only had three six,000 calories by 6. You have to have at least have had 50% of your calories by nighttime. I mean, this is ridiculous. He's like backloading his carbs before bed. This is just not smart. If you don't eat all day thinking, I'll just save it for later. What happens is your ghrelin, it goes through the roof. Makes you very hungry. They make it makes it twice as hard to put the fork down when it comes to eating in the evening. And so what you end up doing, oh that crumble cookies, delicious. That box of cereal, it's gone. That tub of ice cream. Yep. I want that, too. Let's mix the crumble inside of it. And then we're going to spit it out. I eat like a one meal to like hold me over. And then like I'll have a pre-workout snack and and then in between that [\h__\h] ton of coffee, [\h__\h] ton of energy drinks. He has one meal to hold himself over. It's 300 calories and then a preworkout meal and then a [\h__\h] ton of caffeine stems and stuff. I mean, he could get blue lobstered all day, but why not just have like, you know what, Trenches, could I trade you some boxes of my protein bars or some of your feral fertilizer and we'll see what happens. I mean, this would be fantastic. We could partner up and the trend twins could give me their supplements and I could give them mine. I could hook them up with some Turk builder and they could get me feral up. After my workout, I eat all my calories at once. I'm lowkey being a beta, bro. We're being betas in here. No wonder I'm getting small. I'm taking less steroids. None. The trend twins are now off steroids and they're being little betas. No wonder they're getting small. It's probably less to do with the one meal a day and more to do with the not taking steroids anymore, which is going to be a separate video. Bro, should we we compete, bro? Get our pro card. Oh, no. Yeah, everyone wants a pro cards. First, we had Sam Sulick, then we had Will Tennyson, we had Larry Wheels, we then just had Eric Janicki. And so now it's the Trend Twins turn to get pro cards. Now, if I would make a suggestion, I would suggest you hire Eric Janicki to do your training. I will also suggest that you get coach Greg to do your diet. Trend twins, you have the book. Now that you have been on Reddit too, tried as well as my cookbook, you can afford to get a chef to make you all these delicious recipes. You're no longer going to be craving crumble. It's just not going to be there. It's just really that easy. You're not going to have 300 calorie meal until 6:00 and then binge the rest of the night with stupid moronic choices of foods. You're going to actually lock in and know what you're doing. And so with the team effort, Coach Reg, Eric Janicki, and perhaps you have a one ina million chance of turning IB pro next year just like Hussein Farhat. And so if you're interested in the cookbook, and remember if you want to get training by Coach Greg, click the link in the description. I'm taking on more clients at drastically reduced prices. It's so low now that some of you can afford it if you have a very good job. We have phone calls with Coach Greg. You're going to have unlimited check-ins, text messages. You can get your blood work read as well. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you like it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And for the pre-work workouts, the Turk Builder Max, the coaching plans by me and team, the hard and last time clothing line, everything you want, get to the website. And until next time, I am out.