 When he brags about his health being good, look, I told you, you can abuse steroids and be healthy at the same time, have you not watched my videos, Young LA? And so, how the TURK are you sponsoring this guy? Coach Greg, in today's video, an update on Logan Dishman, he's redone his blood work and he says he's now got a clean bill of health, the only problem with this is he's got about 10 years to live at most. DAAAAMN! I wanted to say that this was going to be a great story, that he'd listened to his doctors, that he went 100% natural, but instead of that, he ignored Coach Greg, ignored his doctors, and continues to abuse performance-enhancing drugs. His blood work, of which he posted, and we're going to be going over that with you right now, and I'm going to prove to you just how horrible this actually is. But, let's hear it from himself, does he think that he's unhealthy? The new blood work I had before surgery to get cleared, health has improved so much and is proof that you can be healthy and do what you love at the same time. I don't know if that's actually sarcasm, I don't know if it's a joke, if it's rage made, if it's made on purpose to get Coach Greg to make a video, because his blood work is horrendously bad. This is a problem. This is a problem. This is a problem. Yes, sir, glad to see you are healthy. Big things. And so, someone says they're healthy, and without going over the blood work, you just say, hey, I take your word for it. Congratulations. Good job, Logan. Problem is, 131 down from 215 seems like the right path to me. Next comment. It's the right path, but it's still not healthy whatsoever, and he seriously needs to pattern up his labs, or he's generally going to die soon. If your blood pressure was, let's say, 250 over 150, and you went to the doctor and he gave you medication, and your blood pressure was now 210 over 130, you'd say, hey, great improvement, it's improving, I'm healthy again. Would you say that, or you say you're still going to die? Just because one marker got better by a little bit doesn't mean that his blood work is suddenly great and that he can blast allosteroids. No, he is not, but he is not healthy whatsoever yet. People think gear just kills you instantly. It happens over time and built up stress over decades. And so, steroids is not something that typically you just take and then you get a heart attack and you die in one day. It's something where the damage accumulates over months and or years, typically years. Remember Boston Lloyd? Mr. 3CC? Well, he's no longer with us. People warned him, but he didn't listen. But yet it still took years for this to occur. And so, if he continues at this pace, he'll probably still most likely make it into his late 20s, but he most likely isn't seeing 30. Might be tripping, but it's still cooked, bro. Even the average viewer who had a look at his blood work was saying, bro, this isn't healthy. And so, why are you making look like it actually is? But you know how it is. Teenagers, they don't want to believe that anything can happen to them. And so, let's see exactly why it's so bad. The first thing we see, if you zoom in, free testosterone, it's at 820. That's about four times the high normal. His actual testosterone, the total T, it's at 1,955. That's double the high normal. And so, clearly, he's using testosterone as a base. I would guess somewhere between 300 and 400 milligrams of tests a week. And so, certainly, at least double what he should be using if it was just HRT. You can see a big X marking off his former labs for LH and FSH. They were above 20. Most likely, that's indicating that he was on in clomiphene. But now, you can see it's under one, both markers. This is because he's using external or exogenous testosterone. He's injecting it into his body. And so, his body is now shut down. Perhaps the testicles are smaller than last time. That's not a major concern. But, it does prove that bro is not natty and using higher levels of tests. Next, we notice potassium is at 5.1. The range is 3.8 to 5.1. You might be thinking, well, that's normal. It's 5.1. It's right at the max. Two standard deviations from the main. In Canada, that reference range is actually lower. Most likely, the cause of this is from taking talmosartan to control blood pressure. And so, is he actually healthy as a teenager if he's already using blood pressure medications? This is known as polypharmacy. In order to control the fact that being on testosterone is going to increase his blood pressure. Blood pressure, in my opinion, is the first sign of heart disease, heart problems that are going to happen. And so, if you already have high blood pressure and have to use drugs to control it as a teenager, how are you making it into your 30s? Next, A-S-T-A-L-T, both above the reference range. Now, remember, I'm on HRT and my liver enzymes are not elevated. And so, when you're using injectables, you don't expect it to raise your liver enzymes to this extent. If he was just on injectable testosterone, for example, you wouldn't expect that. But, oftentimes, when you're using orals, so for example, if you added in Anavar or perhaps D-Ball, any of the different orals, or even SARMs, these can directly affect your liver. And so, most likely, based on this, he's both using an injectable as well as orals. Not good for your liver, especially for a teenager who's continuously abusing SARMs as well as steroids. Another thing which we notice, or if you examine, is you see that the calcium is high, as well as potassium. These are right at the limit, just above the limit. And this is something seen in chronic kidney disease. And so, is it possible that he's already early onset for kidney problems that are only going to get worse as he gets older? And creatinine, 1.21. Notice the max is 1.24. He's almost right at the limit. That is a marker of kidney function, and he's already right at the limit. Would want to expect him to be a lot lower, because as he gets more muscle, gets bigger, continues to boost steroids, it's only going to go even higher. For those of you saying, yeah, but he's taking creatine, he has more muscle. I was an abusive steroid using competitive IFBB Pro, and I've never been above 0.84. He's way higher than Coach Greg while I was using Tren and so on. And so, to say, oh, it's just creatine, it's just because he's using that. You really think this is going to end well? If it's this high as a teenager, if I was him, I would be stopping right now. Next, it's only getting worse. Cholesterol. LDL is 131, which is high, and the HDL to good cholesterol, it's only 9 single digits. This is bad. The LDL-HDL ratio, it's horrendous. It's over 15, and prior to this, it was at 3.7. You're supposed to be below 5. And so, anyone that knows anything about blood work, as soon as they see this, would say, bro, you need to stop. It's not close. It's not maybe. It's not, look at my blood work. It's actually good. It's, I can't believe it's this bad. And so, let me break it down to you straight so that you can understand. Independent risk factors for cardiovascular disease. HDL low, bad. LDL high, bad. Triglycerides high, bad. Triglycerides plus HDL low, bad. Triglycerides plus LDL high, bad. All three together, multiply it all together, horribly awful bad. If you actually look at all of this factor in his age, you're looking at, maybe he makes it to 30. Maybe. It's possible. I mean, if he stops right now, obviously, it helps him out. He'll probably make it into his 40s, 50s, perhaps. But if he doesn't, if he doesn't care, he continues to do this. Bro, he making it to 30. Does he think that Boston Lloyd was a one off that you can just use performance enhancing drugs and abuse them? And clearly, based on what we're seeing, he's not just abusing testosterone. He's probably on trend. He's also using orals and it's affecting his body entirely. And so we're seeing essentially here, it's the same thing as an IV drug user. They do it for a couple of weeks, couple of months. They're still surviving. The blood work looks like this. They're not dead yet. But if they continue to do it, two, three, four, five years go down the line. How many are making it 10 years and or more? This is the situation he's under. And remember, it's not like he hasn't had any risk factors in his past. He's already been hospitalized. He already almost died. And what have we seen about people who have already almost died? It oftentimes happens again, case in point, Cali Muscle. Cali Muscle never started taking steroids until he was around 34 years of age. And so imagine had Cali Muscle started at 16, 17. What do you really think he would have made it up into his 40s? What we're seeing here is a guy using drugs at a far earlier age, which reduces his life expectancy by that much. And so anyone that looks at this guy and encourages him, says, I'm proud of you. Your blood work has come down. You're doing a good job. You are an enabler. Supplement companies, if you're sponsoring this guy, you're essentially promoting degeneracy. You're promoting somebody who's doing horrible things to your body. And so why would anyone do that? Shame on you, Young LA. Young LA, you're promoting this. He's got 92,000 followers. 92,000 kids, teenagers, are going to look up to this guy and perhaps copy his actions. When he brags about his health being good, look, I told you, you can abuse steroids and be healthy at the same time. Have you not watched my videos, Young LA? And so how the f*** are you sponsoring this guy? If we wanted to make an analogy for a female, imagine a female, she sells her body for money and she's 17 years of age. This is worse than that. Would Young LA sponsor a 17 year old who's selling her body? Probably not. But at least that girl probably going to live into her forties. What we're promoting is a 17 year old who's promoting death. How can you have an athlete like that and literally think it's okay? This is horrendously bad. It's even worse because this kid is so young. He doesn't even realize he's going to die far younger than he should. Goblin gear company. What are you selling? Steroids? What exactly is that? Goblin gear. Why would you sponsor him? Is making money worth that much that you will sponsor? Well, that would be like me saying, hey everyone, let's all sponsor Peter Attia after releasing the Episcene files. Why would we do that? Imagine, you don't care. You don't have morals. You don't have pride. You're just going to promote degeneracy. You're going to promote all this shit on social media just to make a quick dollar. What else is there? Well, we see his hematocrit. It's in the red. It's above the reference range. So his blood is too thick. And so it's easier to get heart attacks, clot strokes and so on. But hey, that's not a big deal. Right? And so imagine if teenagers didn't look up to, for example, I don't know, Togi, who used steroids when he was young. The Trend Twins, Sam Sulik, Chris Bumstead, whoever, even Coach Greg. Perhaps he was watching old Coach Greg videos and said, I want to look like that. And so all of us are somewhat to blame any of us who have used steroids, whether we've admitted or not. By having larger than life physiques, having more muscle than last time, some people are going to try to copy and to look like lust. And so rather than using steroids, especially when you're a teenager, stop comparing yourself to other people. The first thing you do when you get to your natural genetic limit, remember, you don't need them as a teenager when you're an adult. Turk Builder Max. Going to help you to build muscle, have more energy, to train harder than last time. And it's waterproofed. You're not going to be failing any drug tests. And it actually does work. Use natural supplements first before, if ever, you get into steroids. And remember, some people are going to get older, going to do what they're going to do. The lowest dose that makes you happy. I know that many of you are going to say, yeah, but you're a hypocrite. Use steroids. I started in my 30s. I was already a competitive bodybuilder, 42 shows under my belt. And so if you say, yeah, but you use steroids, how could you say you shouldn't use them? I've had the experience of not using them, 42 shows. Then I used them, got all those gains. And then I realized this isn't worth it. I shouldn't do this anymore. And I stopped. And so who better to explain the pros, the cons, good, bad, the ugly, than somebody who's been through it all. I regret taking steroids. And Logan Disman right now, probably no regrets. Until he has a life altering event. He goes to the hospital, heart attack. He's on beta blockers, aspirin, blood thinners. The list goes on and on. It says, hey, you can't go to the gym. It's not safe for you. You have to stop lifting weights. Then it's too late. He gets off the steroids, loses all the muscles, all the gains, and doesn't even want to go to the gym. And so then he trained with those weights for what? To have a good time for two or three years as a teenager? He should have waited. No one cares that you're this big and this strong. Only you care and the people who are enablers. And so find yourself some better friends. The friends who are like Coach Greg, who will literally sit there and call you out. It's not fun to hear that you're going to die 50 years younger than you should be. Who wants to hear that? Coach Greg is so mean. Follow your dreams. Anyone who says to follow your dreams despite the fact they can kill you is not your friend. It's just somebody there along for the ride to witness the car crash in person. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost you out of them. Like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch any of those to boost. Remember, we're looking for harder than last time sponsored athletes. You got a following. You want to promote the brand. Click the link in the description. You want our supplements in your stores and or gym. Of course, do the exact same thing. Don't forget code Greg for Al Gorex and code Greg 15% off on HLT supplements. And until next time, I am out.