I am not a doctor. I'm not explaining how to take steroids. I'm simply saying what they can do and what they won't do. Do not take steroids. Steroid tier list. And so a doctor explains the best and worst compounds. The video is getting a lot of traction. I see the comment says Greg will have a response video in 24 hours. Well, I'm not that fast. Sometimes I am. We're And so we're going to watch this video and I who am not a doctor am going to see if I agree with this doctor and I'm going to tell you in advance. Of course I'm not. Of course he doesn't know what he's talking about. I mean just look at this guy. Does he look like he's taken steroids? Has he coached people who've taken steroids? Does he know anything about steroids aside from a couple things that he's read? And so the difference I use and abuse steroids for over 10 years. Since that time I'm only on HRT. Remember, I am not a doctor. I'm not explaining how to take steroids. I'm simply saying what they can do and what they won't do. Do not take steroids, especially if it's in a country where it's illegal. Some countries, for example, Canada, you're allowed to take these things. It's not illegal, but it's illegal to sell them. And so, please be careful. Stay natural. Don't use steroids. This is about how effective are these compounds overall for their given indication, for their given purpose. You deserve to know which steroids are the safest and or the best and which ones are the ones you should avoid. And so by watching this video, you're going to discover which steroids, if you're using them, should you be using and which ones should you be staying away from. >> Originally, I thought we could get something like a fishbowl and randomly just pull names out of a hat or something like that. Instead, we have an empty box of protein bars from Gorilla Mind. In comparison, I have a half full box of Seco Bars, but I've got various supplements around me. For example, uh Turk Platinum, Turk Builder Max, I've got Go2 Max. I have natural supplements that I think you should use instead of steroids. So, if you want to do it natural, at least do it natural first. Code Greg, 15% off. Click the link in the description. MK-677 is a ghrein receptor agonist and it's actually the only one that's orally available, a compound that will stimulate hunger over a prolonged period of time. Did you know that MK-677 can cause pre-diabetes? I've gone over kids blood work, teenagers, guys in their 20s, and oftent times I'm thinking, why is bro pre-diabetic already? And come to find out they're using MK-677. Unless you're doing a ton of cardio and you're very safe and you're ultra healthy, it's very dangerous. 16y olds, 15y olds, they're thinking MK is the answer to getting jacked. You're not going to look like a bodybuilder from just taking MK, but you're probably going to look like you've eaten too many calories, you're bloated, you're a lot fatter, while at the same time likely taking years away from your life. And so, I think it's bad. It's very dangerous for most people. What I noticed is that for me, it made all the difference when it came to actually consuming enough calories in order to put on size. >> Does bro look like he needs to eat more? >> Damn. >> Yeah, I get it. MK-677 is going to make you hunger. Trust me, I've used it. I used it for years and I hated it. It made me hungry. It made it harder for me to stick to my diet. And when I prepped and coached clients, I had to cut it out at least eight weeks before competition because a it makes you hunger, harder to stick to your diet, and b it makes you watery, bloated, puffy, not the looks that most people want. If you're someone who's perhaps underweight, maybe 5% of people are underweight, and you have a very difficult time getting in calories, it could be of benefit. But for the rest of us, guys who are already struggling not to overeat, people for example who are getting my cookbook or people who want to get leaner, people who are cutting down, it's the exact opposite of what you want. And so unless you have a shredded humix, you probably don't want to use MK-677 cuz I don't care you know what you're doing, whether you're natural, whether you're enhanced, if you don't eat enough protein, if you don't eat enough food, you will not grow and you will not progress. Yeah, he's making a good point, but how many of you need to eat more calories and get in more protein in order to build muscle? Like, how many of you out there watching this are too skinny? I mean, Jack's fit, perhaps him, maybe Tristan Lee, but how many other guys out there are looking for a way to eat more? I can tell you that I sell two supplements, Hunger than Last Time and GLP Max. This one makes you eat less. This one makes you eat more. This outsells this 20 to1. 20 times more people are buying GLP max than hunger in last time. And so if you just want to get hunger, why not use hunger than last time? If you're someone who is, let's say, a hard gainer or you're someone where it really struggles to put on size, I got to say like MK-677, this is S tier, man. And so for putting on size and getting in more calories, he rates it in S tier. Now, clearly, if you're on a diet and you're cutting, you want to look good, you're trying to be safe, you're trying to be healthy, it's not an S tier. I'm comparing the good with the bad and the ugly, and I'm going to give it a C tier. I'm not going to say it's a D or an F. There are some benefits. I mean, it doesn't suppress your natural production of testosterone, which is a major plus for people that don't want to use a product and have to do a PCT and so on. But the fact that it mostly just makes you hungry and isn't going to add a tremendous amount of size while potentially causing pre-diabetes, I got to only give it a C tier. I mean, there's so many other products out there that can help you to build more muscles safely or even not safely that I wouldn't bother. This one is a fantastic uh favorite. Tyrannobal aka T-ball. >> Same T-ball was a fan. >> What was attractive about T-ball is that it was orally available and it really wasn't that androgenic. They were able to give it at least in smaller doses to their female athletes in addition to their male athletes. >> Are you saying it's not all that androgenic? Does he know that they gave those female swim teams this and upon winning half of those events they said, "Hey, what's with your voices?" The women answered, "We're here to win medals, not to sing." And so, if you're thinking, "Oh, this is safe for women. It's not androgenic." It isn't safe for women. And yes, it is androgenic. You can't take this even in moderately doses and not slowly turn into a man. I mean, why would the swim team sound like men if it was actually safe to be taking? We're going to go ahead and for T-ball, I think I feel pretty confident putting this right in uh A tier of uh oral steroids. And myself, I'd also put it in an A tier. T-ball is kind of like a mix of what you'd get from Anavar and dbol at the same time. The dbol makes you more watery. Anavvar doesn't make you that way. T-ball, it's somewhere in the middle. It's going to give you some size and some strength. It's very strong, but it isn't completely safe. Obviously, it's taken orally, which is harmful for your liver. It's known as being hepotoxic. And so, you do have to use some caution when using this. Personally, I was taking this at approximately 30 milligs a day. If you're a female, you definitely want to be very, very careful. Probably 5 millig at most. And it's not something that you can run for more than a couple of months. Be careful. It is an excellent oral designer steroid. I'm giving it an A tier. >> Next, we've got Equipoise. Wo Nelly. Equipoise is an interesting compound because it is more anabolic than testosterone. >> Nope, got it wrong. It's not more anabolic than testosterone. In saying anabolic, he's meaning to build muscle. If two individuals both took the same dose, one person took 500 milligs of EQ and the other person took 500 milligs of testosterone, the person who took testosterone would build more muscle than equipoise. And so testosterone is more anabolic than EQ. He got it wrong. >> Not quite as dry. You're not going for that shredded look of primabolan. This is something that you're going to run whenever you are in more of a bulking phase. >> And so if you want to compare how much water retention you get from equipoise, it's somewhere in a mix between for example primomastone and testosterone. Somewhere in the middle. Masterone primo, it's going to be extremely dry gains. Hardly any water at all. It's not converting to estrogen. testosterone going to have a lot of testosterone convert to estrogen. You're going to get a lot more water. This is somewhere in the middle. So, in comparison to, for example, something like Deca, a lot less water retention, and so you want to look athletic and not be watery, this would be an excellent choice. It does have some drawbacks. And again, while it is a little bit more anabolic than just pure testosterone, also has some drawbacks associated with that. So, I'm going to give Equipoise a solid B tier. >> And so, he's putting it in a B tier. I'm going to have to give it a tier. Especially right now where it's very difficult to get mastrone and or primo due to certain changes in the way people are allowed to get away with making steroids. There's a lot least and primo and so more often than not that is now going to be faked EQ also not very expensive. And so when you're considering the price of it, the fact that it is in fact very effective, I'm going to give it an A tier. >> We're talking super draw. one of the most uh powerful yet hpatic hpattoxic compounds that's ever been invented and you could buy it at GNC. >> It's just wild that they were selling this in the early 2000s. This is over 20 years ago. This was legal. It was being sold over the counter super draw. People were using this. It's literally a steroid. But for a while it was legal. But so is something known as GHB. You heard of this? This was sold in GNC. GHB is illegal. You cannot use this. You cannot buy this. But for a while, it was given the pass, but only to be taken away. And so, Super Draw, it's very, very strong. It's very hepotoxic. It can damage your liver. You don't need a lot. Personally, I used it as high as 30 milligrams a day. Only that one time when I mismeasured it, I wanted to do 10 milligrams, end up taking 100. Yeah, I had an amazing workout, but I was kind of scared for my liver. And so, I didn't take anything for approximately a week. So, there are some females that I've coached that have taken this. the doses of 5 milligrams and yes they did experience side effects and so you need to be careful consider it to be much more potent than anavar it's going to put on size very very quickly but because it's so heptoxic you can't use it indefinitely and so I'm going to have to give it a B tier but only if used for a very short period of time >> nandrallone danoate from a performance enhancement standpoint nandrallone has been estimated to be 20 times more myiogenic than testosterone. If you look at those old assay studies, you know, in rats, >> it is not going to put on 20 times more muscle than that of using testosterone. This is ridiculous. Testosterone is going to put on more muscle than deca. Testosterone is stronger than deca. And so, why even say that? I mean, wasn't there rodent studies that said that a juga tistanica or turquestone could actually put on more muscle than deca? Just because they said this is better than deca on rats doesn't mean that it translate to putting on more muscle than deca. Deca is stronger. >> If you are running a pure Nanderlone cycle or a Nanderlone dominant cycle, it becomes really likely that you could develop sexual dysfunction. You know, also known as decad. >> Here's the thing. I've used this twice, got decadic twice. I've coached athletes use this and about half of them get decad. So, when people would ask me to do a cycle and say, "I want to use Deca," I would say, "I want you not to use Deca." And here's why. I say the pros, the cons, and I say my own experience. I say this may very well happen. Do you still want to do it? And if they do, they do. My opinion is deca is horrible. I hate it. And so I'm giving it the D as in it's affecting my D and I don't want to ever use it. Now, if your doctor's prescribing it in very low doses, it does have its place. But for the most part, if you care about having sexy time, I wouldn't use it. We did a retrospective study on that when I was in fellowship and I am still super proud of that. Just because I published on it for that reason alone S tier. >> Do you think bro is maybe somewhat biased? I mean he's literally saying I'm biased. I'm going to give it S tier because I did a paper on it 20 years ago when I was in university. Myself in comparison. I give you the rating that I'm giving it based on what I know that it actually does. Listen to whoever you want. He gives it an S tier. Oh, it's amazing. Well, I'm giving it the D. Dandrallone phenyl proprianate aka NPP. >> NPP is basically just fast acting deca. I mean it's very similar and in how fast it gets into your body, how fast it's absorbed and how fast it's excreted. >> It has a shorter half-life which means that you have to inject more frequently. But the benefit is that you don't have to worry about fluid retention as much. >> No. Why lie? Why completely give out false information? I thought you were a doctor. You do a paper on this stuff. So you're saying because it has a faster esther that you're not going to hold water. What's next? If you use test probe versus testenthy, you're not going to hold as much water. Oh, let's go one step up. Why not use testosterone suspension? It's in and you're out. Your body really, really quickly and so you won't hold water. This is [\h__\h] I don't care what Esther it is. It's going to do what it's going to do. Whether it's quick or it's slow, both are going to cause you to retain a massive boatload of water. We should say that NPP is uh S tier. But you know what? I uh I don't believe that because I prefer DECA because I wrote a paper on DECA and I have not written a paper on NPP. >> And so if you don't like looking like a powerlifter, a strongman competitor, I mean, they talk about the joint being more lubricated and so on. I mean, just being on testosterone, you're going to get that feeling. If you're on testosterone versus being 100% natural, you're going to feel better. You can train heavier. It's not going to feel as hard. I don't suggest you use Deca unless you like being bloated, watery, perhaps you're a sumo wrestler and so on. But if you like lean, dry, hard gains, it's not the one for you. >> Windstrol aka Winnie. >> Poor man's anavar. This is what Winstrol is. It's poor man's anavar. It's harder on the liver. It's going to be cheaper, but it's not going to give you the same level of strength, the same amazing pumps. Now, perhaps some people say it's better because it's stronger. Well, in females, it's going to be more likely to cause you to have a deeper voice. It's more androgenic. It's less safe. And so, why not just use Anavar? If you're in debate of what to use, Anavar Winstrol, it's Anavar every single time of the week for both males and females. >> It's very easy to take. It's orally available, so it's easy to hide your stash from your parents. >> Oral steroids are equally easy to hide from your parents no matter what bottle they're from. Anavar, Winstrol, T-ball, Superdraw, they're all the same. They're all in the same size bottle. There's no difference. >> The drawback from Winstrol is that it uh is really really hard on your liver, but it's especially hard on your lipids. >> Exactly. It does what it's supposed to do, but it's negative on your blood work, on your lipids. And so, why would you use that when there are better options? Now remember, if you're interested in getting your blood work done to make sure that you're healthy or you're looking for prescription medications from a doctor, click on algo RX. They can get your blood work done and they will literally legally prescribe you exactly what you need. For example, do you need Viagra, Seialis, Telmaartin for, for for example, if you have high blood pressure or do you need inclin? What exactly do you need? The doctors very quickly can prescribe you medications without the gatekeeping. 10% off code, Greg. Click the link in the description >> for that. We're going to put Winstrol in solid uh B tier. >> I'm giving it a C. Winstrol is a Ctier steroid. There's so many that are better. It's not the one that I'd recommend. ment. When you want to go to the dark side of Deca, M& is your man. I'm going to have to put M& as a solid uh B tier. >> And so, personally, I would give Mint a C tier. It's very, very strong, but it's very, very watery. You're going to get bloated. It's not good for your blood pressure. Consider it basically a watery trend. Trend is very, very strong. Mint also extremely strong. And so, you need very, very small doses. But because of the safety profile, the fact that you could just use testosterone instead, I have to give it a C tier. >> Proviron. I have never seen anybody run on their own. I've never seen anybody run in a small stack. >> In comparison, I've actually coached thousands of athletes and I've seen people use this on their own. I've personally used it myself on its own and I absolutely love it. I'm not putting it up as high as Anavar, which is my favorite. But Proviron, it's very, very good at what it does. It increases your aggression. It increases your hardness. It doesn't build a lot of muscle, but it also increases the hardness of the downstairs as well as the body. And so, if you're somebody that would benefit from being harder than last time, which this supplement will do, this will also do the same. If you're getting ready for a competition or a photo shoot, it causes your body to appear harder. Not only for males, but for females. And so for the last week before, for example, the bikini competition or any of those competitions. I thought women were natural in those shows. Of course, they are not. Bikini competitors are anything but natural. At least at the top level, these girls aren't natty. and proviron one of the game changers in changing a physique to look that much harder. You're not going to get that watery, bloated retention. You're going to have more energy. You're going to look better. And it's relatively safe and it's not going to shut down your test production all that much. For these reasons, I'm giving it an A tier. >> I don't know if uh this is actually providing any sort of benefit at that point. Proviron uh this is this is F tier. >> Wow. F tier and I give it an A. I love Proviron. I think it's very effective. Hey, we differ in opinions. >> Testosterone Cypionate, the OG uh steroid >> S tier. It's test sip. I don't care if it's test sip or test nth. Testosterone is testosterone. It's what doctors prescribe. I'm literally on testosterone. HRT, 140 milligrams of testosterone a week. It's been studied more than any other steroid in the world. And so if doctors are prescribing this, the most common steroid ever prescribed, it's got to be S tier. I mean, what could make you feel better like that? If you need HRT, if you have lower levels of testosterone, of which you can, of course, go to Al Gorex, click the link in the description. Testosterone is S tier. If he doesn't agree, well, I don't know what to tell you. >> This is what everything else is built upon. And this is the standard, right? Uh, this is going to have to end up being uh another uh S tier. >> And so, finally, we agree on something. >> Trend. It's a meme. It's incredibly potent, but this is straight this is straight F tier. This is trap. >> And so, a great explanation of trend. I agree with everything he said, but rather than giving it an F tier, I have to give it a C tier. I mean, I've used it a number of times. It's kind of like one of those things that you have to if you have to. As bad as the side effects were, which they absolutely were, it really can transform your physique. And so, I'm comparing the good with the bad, and the good is so good and the bad is so bad. And therefore, I'm giving a rating somewhere in the middle. I would never take this again. But when I was a competitive bodybuilder, you know, gunning for the chop, trying to be an IP pro as well as competing as a pro, it was a must for me. And so, I'm giving it a C because, hey, it isn't good for me. Halo Testin. You are not going to get bigger on Halo Testin. Um, your head might get bigger and you might think that you're tougher and stronger than you actually are. >> You're going to think you're bigger and stronger, but you are going to be bigger and stronger. Trust me. For example, before powerlifting meet, when I took 50 milligs of Halo, I didn't just feel like I could run over a wall. I felt like I could run through the wall. I was the wall. It made me feel incredible. Now, it also is super heptoxic. It's super bad for your liver, but it gives you so much energy. I mean, this guy, there's no way he's a bodybuilder. I don't believe he's ever been on a diet. I don't believe he's ever been at 5% body fat. But when you wake up and you're thinking, "How am I getting out of bed?" And you pop a halo test in. And you then go to the gym and you get through an hour of cardio and you're thinking, "How did I do that?" You did it because of halo. And so, although it's horrible for you and it also can affect your mind, trust me, it can make you angry. It can make you aggressive. It's not like caffeine. It's different. It gives you just energy from within. It's not going to put on a lot of size, but it's going to dry you out. It's going to give you energy when you need it most during peak week. And so for bodybuilders or for powerlifter when you need to push a PR, it's amazing. And so, just like train, it can be amazing, but at the same time, it's very bad for your body. And so, overall, I'm giving this one a D. I think that more people would benefit from Trend than Halo. I think the only people that really need Halo specifically are competitors in either powerlifting or bodybuilding. I also know MMA fighters, for example, that would use this before their competitions. And so, because it's for a limited type of person, I'm giving this one the D. For an average person, an average bodybuilder, an average person going to the gym, I don't think you need it. I'm giving it a D. >> Anavar, baby. Most preoral anabolic agent there is. I know people, you know, male competitors who have run it at low doses. You know, I'm talking 2.5, 5 milligrams a day. >> S tier, yeah, no one's using 2 and a half or 5 milligrams a day. Females, yes, but men, no. Men aren't using 2 and 1 half to 5 milligs per day. It's still liver toxic, but really only in higher doses. If you're running 5 or 10 milligs a day, it's probably no more dangerous than drinking alcohol. This helps maintain muscle mass that you have already acred while you are in a caloric deficit. >> Yeah. And on top of that, it allows you to acrew more muscle mass if you're in a calorie surplus and or if you're eating at maintenance, you will lower your body fat and build muscle at the same time. >> Primabolan. This is excellent. This is an incredible compound. It is absolute S tier for me. >> And so I'm going to be putting this in a tier as in most people who buy Primo are getting fake Primo. And so you have to consider why buy it if you're not getting the real thing. And right now I would say even more than that. I would say probably close to 90% of Primo is fake. It's also very very expensive and it's not going to put nearly on as much muscle as if you're taking testosterone. But the benefit of it, it's not as suppressive as testosterone. It's about half as suppressive. And it is amazing if you're trying to get a physique without any water retention. So, if you're a bodybuilder and you're looking to get stage lean, appear on stage and have less water tension, less puffiness, and so on, this is amazing. But if you're just regular Joe, you're better off using testosterone properly for HRT, it's going to be very, very effective. And it doesn't put on that much muscle. I remember doing a cycle with,000 milligrams of primo and after 10 weeks, I put on 2 lbs of muscle. It is really good if you can get it, but it's a tier at best. >> It's a risky compound and it has only a very very limited window of application. Anadrol, this is going to be Ctier for me. >> And so I'm giving anrol the D tier. I don't really like it. I have used it prior in competitions. It makes it definitely more difficult for me to consume calories. I was getting up middle of the night throwing up. It was very hard on my stomach. being uncomfortable in your own skin all the time as well as holding a tremendous amount of water. You look puffy. You look bloated. But hey, I was powerlifting. I was trying to set world records. And so that was the drug that I was using. But for most people, most people aren't trying to set world records on the bench press. And so for most people, there are better steroids that you could be using giving it the D. >> A growth hormone requires a strategy because whenever you start to dose growth hormone, uh you're going to have changes in insulin sensitivity. Funny how he mentions diabetes with using growth hormone, but skips over that with using MK-677. Now, I hope he's not sponsored by some SAMS company where he's giving a discount code to sell MK-677. I would hate to find that out because how can you rate growth hormone as less effective or lower tiered than MK-677? >> Issues when it comes to accumulating uh fluid in joint spaces. And so athletes will often develop carpal tunnel and so they will be in the gym working out and they'll just drop their dumbbell. >> I know I did use uh growth hormone for a powerlifting competition one time and I had a very difficult time holding on to the bar. I get some carpal tunnel syndrome. I do believe that growth hormone is the of all steroids. I know it's not a steroid of all performance-enhancing drugs, the most overrated of all and the most expensive. And so think of it, it's essentially the holy grail, the most expensive, the pinnacle of drugs that you can use to put on size and so on, but yet it has the lowest effects. And so if you compared HRT at just say 100 milligrams a week in comparison to growth hormone, it's probably going to cost 10 times as much. You're going to make more muscle gains from HRT than growth hormone. And so growth hormone, it's not that impressive. It's not that amazing. I'm giving it a D. growth hormone. Uh if we're looking at it just as a purely anabolic agent, this is going to be probably B tier for most uh recreational uh users. >> Growth hormone's Btier, but he says MK-677 is S tier. And so do you really think that MK-677 is more effective than growth hormone? Like really, like come on. How many IPB pros do you think would switch out their I don't know $50,000 a year drug protocol for using growth hormone with MK-677? I mean, just think of it. It is not less effective than MEK677. Growth hormone is essentially better, but it's way more expensive and it's also dangerous in the same way that MK-677 is. And so, both of them should not be S tier. >> My advice is always follow your local laws wherever you happen to be. Don't cheat. Don't lie, okay? And always take your health into consideration. >> There you have it. Hope you enjoyed the video. Hope you learned something. As he said, don't use steroids. stay 100% natural. And if you are using steroids, hopefully you're at least 25 years of age. You've trained at least 10 years in the gym and you're at least approaching your natural genetic potential. If you just started training, you have no business using steroids. If you don't know these steroids, you shouldn't be taking them. You should be an expert on all of this. Before I even took my first steroid, I knew more than 99.9% of people because I researched it for two years. I wanted to make sure that I would be at least doing it somewhat safe that I knew a little bit about it. And so, please, please be careful. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Watch one of those two bloops. Don't forget code Greg for 15% off on the various supplements like getting blue lobster, the Turk of course, as well as the cookbook. Interested in coaching? You can apply by clicking the link in the description. Algo RX code rag 10% off. And until next time, I am out.