and his best friend is a 70s something year old chicken. >> So that will be my next role with Benny Safy and I get I'm so excited because I get a chance to transform again like I was able to do in Smashing the Machine. So can't wait. >> The reason for all his weight loss is he's going to be starring in a new movie called Lizard Music where he plays a 70-year-old man whose best friend is a chicken. How do I even start this? I'm riding along racing bikes only to find out the real actual reason why The Rock lost all of this muscle. And you're not going to believe it. I mean, how could you believe it? Well, I don't believe it. He's again lying through his teeth. Do you think he's going to admit to coming off of steroids, HRT, SARMMS, peptides, growth hormone, any of this stuff? Of course not. And so you got to watch the video. Wait till you see what The Rock is spewing. Yeah, he's not cooking. He's spewing. And one thing he's not cooking is chicken breasts. Just wait. Just Just wait. Just you just wait and see. Shut up. >> We're going to make a film called Lizard Music, which is based off of a novel written by Daniel Pinkwire. And um little bit of backstory for you guys. Uh here is Benny pitched me this after we wrapped the smashing machine and after about 45 minutes his pitch ended and I said I am your chicken man. And what that means is there's um without giving too much away, there's a the role that I will play is is a very um whimsical and eccentric 70s something year old man called the chicken man. And his best friend is a 70some year old chicken. Yeah. And so that will be my next role with Benny Safy and I get I'm so excited because I get a chance to hopefully transform again like I was able to do in Smashing Machine. So, can't wait. called Lizard Music, where he plays a This man is eccentric. He's a little weird. He's obviously a little bit more frail. I mean, how many men in their 70s look like The Rock? And so the Rock went from playing a 20-some year old jacked up behemoth of a man juiced out of his mind on steroids in his 20s to now a frail man in his 70s apparently has nothing to do with cardiovascular disease, asterosclerosis, the fact that his circumlexed artery is getting closed off, >> what they thought was plaque in the circumlex uh valve. And so I do believe that he's playing this role, but I don't believe that The Rock is just losing all of his muscle for that sole purpose. Now, Rock, how are you going to lose all that muscle? You know, you're in your 50s. How are you going to go from a man who's juiced out of his mind, looks incredible, is in his 50s, to a frail man in his 70s in a matter of what, a year? How are you going to do that? What exactly is involved? Like imagine I'm about the rocks age to gonna be 50 this week. How would I go from looking like Coach Greg? Perhaps I look 50. You might think I look 60. Whatever. Some of you just yap a lot. I think I look perhaps 40. How would I go from looking like a jacked up cyclist to a frail man in his 70s? Well, the first thing I would do is I would stop using performance-enhancing drugs, namely HRT. The next thing I would do is I wouldn't work out ever. Zero working out. The next thing I would do is I would starve myself. I would eat hardly any protein. Now, would I ever actually do that? Oh, well, they would pay you $20 million, Coach Greg. I would say no. Why would I want to go from being healthy to being a frail old man for money? I mean, I would pay every ounce of that money, $20 million, to not have to do it. The Rock is almost worth a billion dollars as is. Why would he do that? And so does it perhaps not make a little bit more sense where they would have told him, Rock, you have to get off the steroids. And he's thinking, oh [\h__\h] now what? And so upon hearing that, he thinks, oh wow, I'll play a chicken man. What makes more sense? You are told by a doctor you need to come off steroids for health purposes. I mean, the main character Transformers went on SARMMS for a few months and his cardiologist told him he had to come off. And so imagine the rock. >> Yeah. some weird new steroid that they gave me that I got big. >> And so does it not make more sense that they told him that he had to come off, then he finds a movie role where he had to lose all his muscle in order to justify the transformation he's making. And so just like he had to transform for the movie Marker, of which I'm told he had to put on 30 lbs. Imagine The Rock had to put on 30 lbs of muscle to play the role of Mark Kerr for that movie. And following that movie, I'm told that he lost those 30 lbs. But following the loss of those 30 lbs, that wasn't enough. He has to continue to shrivel down into a pebble in order to play that old man. Dwayne Johnson says weight loss is for new acting role. He plays a 70-year-old man whose best friend is a chicken. I still have a long way to go. I mean, The Rock still looks incredible for 53 years of age. He looks nothing like a man who's 70. And so my opinion is if you built your physique while being 100% natural, even if you just sit down and play video games all freaking year long, you're not going to look like you're 70. Do you really think that your muscles that you built over the course of perhaps 30 plus years are suddenly going to disappear in one year from not working out? It doesn't make sense. It makes no sense. Does it not make more sense that he was blasting steroids and eventually he came off? I'm asking you. And so then The Rock says it means eating less chicken. The Rock said in an interview about the upcoming film. Well, obviously I mean he's best friends with the chicken. I would assume he's not going to eat chickens. Last I checked, I don't eat my best friend. Of course, it's mostly about the protein. losing muscle, an act few of us mere mortals would ever dream of, we have enough of a hard time putting it on, require less protein in your diet. And so, The Rock has decided to go on a low protein diet. That explains it. I mean, he went from saying he ate 6 to 8,000 calories and having those massive stacks of pancakes on the weekend, those cheat meals, perhaps drinking tequila, waking up at 4:30 to do those bikini girl workouts where he walks around with 15 lb dumbbells doing lunges, and where he sweats so much and rings out the sweat as if sweat is a sign of having a good workout. It's just a sign that you were in a hot environment. It doesn't mean you had a great workout. I mean, if that was the case, just lay down in a sauna, not even have to move. The way to lose all that muscle is you just eat low protein. And so, no more chicken, no more egg whites, I guess, no more steak. And so, just eat rice cakes, perhaps rice, asparagus, and less protein, and you'll lose uh 60 70 pounds of muscle. It doesn't work like that. Something you don't know. Well, you probably heard of this. To maximize muscle hypertrophy, you should be consuming about one gram of protein per pound of body weight. And so for the Rock, let's say he weighs 250, about 250 grams of protein. Now, if the Rock lowers his protein intake to 0.5 grams of protein per pound, 125 gram, how many of you think he's even going to lose 5 lbs of muscle from doing that? He's not. Even if he only consumes.5 g of protein per pound of body weight, he's still going to be eating more protein than is recommended by the RDA. 36 g per pound of body weight. 154 lb person would eat 56 g of protein per day. Even if the rock consumes only 90 g of protein per day, he's probably going to be healthy. That is the minimum recommended by the RDA. And if you consume that, most people going to be healthy. Now, does it optimize muscle growth? No. But it's enough to not look like a 70-year-old man. And so unless he's eating drastically less protein than that, unless he's going vegan and purposely avoiding the protein and even in vegetables, he's going to have enough protein to at least maintain a semblance of a guy that has some muscle. I mean, literally, if I cut out whey protein, chicken breast, egg whites, if I went vegan, totally vegan, I wouldn't lose 50 lbs of muscle. This is ridiculous. Notice no mention of steroids. None whatsoever. Does this not sound like some copium, a scapegoat, a copout, a a way to get away with not admitting the truth? I think in The Rock's mind, plausible deniability. It's plausible, as in it's possible for the average [\h__\h] out there to actually believe this, that by just cutting out chicken from his diet that he's going to lose 60 or 70 lbs of muscle and play a withered out old man. Guys, it isn't that easy to lose muscle. I mean, people, they think that it's true. The only time you'll see somebody lose this kind of muscle this quickly is when they stop using steroids. If you built your muscle naturally the hard way through honest hard work, you don't suddenly lose it out of thin air. I don't care if you stop working out for a year. Do you not remember that time when we had to wear bloody masks all the time and the gyms were shut down? How many of you lost all your muscle during that time? I know I didn't. I'm literally weightlifting twice a week and I still look jacked. And yeah, I'm on HRT, but in comparison to when I was blasting hella gear, I still retain a decent amount of muscle. Now, if I cut out HRT, don't you think I would get a little bit smaller? Of course, I would. And so, if The Rock went from blasting, test trend, deca, whatever, to doing nothing and stopped working out, of course he's going to lose muscle. But does anyone believe that The Rock would literally give up working out just to play a movie role? The Rock, I believe, in my heart of hearts, I believe that The Rock loves to work out. After all, he's a former athlete, a football player, a wrestler. He trains, he works out. Now, he might exaggerate how intensely he works out, but I do believe that he is passionate about health and fitness. I do believe that he loves to go to the gym. Anyone that's blasting hella gear to look jacked, they must love it. And if you are already a multi-millionaire approaching being a billionaire with a B, why would you give up what you love for a paycheck? How much money do you think they would have to pay me to stop riding my bike for a year? Do you think I would stop for $10 million? Why would I do that? I love working out. Do you think that I would stop working out riding bikes for $10 million for one year? Of course not. Why would I do that? I love working out. I mean, I had a hair transplant. They said you can't do cardio for a month and I took 2 and 1/2 days off. I'm like, if the hair doesn't keep, it doesn't keep. This is not that big a deal. And so, there's no way I can imagine being paid to stop doing what I love. I don't understand why The Rock is doing this other than thinking he must be required to downsize in order to live a long and healthy life. And so I believe he's still going to be training, still going to the gym, is still eating chicken, but just doing so without the use of performance-enhancing drugs. That is what I believe. And then following the movie, he can get an MRI, a test, and see how's the circumlex artery looking right now. Are my arteries healthy? Do you think that I can go back on just a little bit? And so perhaps he's not even on HRT. Perhaps he's on nothing. Perhaps the minimalist doses, but he will continue to monitor his health and say, "Am I okay to up the dose? Hey, I'm on 100 milligrams a week. Doc, could I go up to 120, 140? Could I bump it up to 180, 200, 250? Is it okay to sprinkle in some Anavar? Sprinkle in some IGF-1. Perhaps some BPC-157, TB-500, whatever. Oh, and by the way, if you want to get your blood work done or you want to get inclapene or seialis, those kind of things, you can of course visit Algo RX code Greg 10% off. Doctors will give you prescription medications. No more gatekeeping and very cheap prices. And so if you want a semiglutide or tzipide to help you to lose weight, they are the place to get it. Click the link in the description now. rock. Once you're done being a chicken man, once you're done playing the chicken, once you're done playing chicken, I mean, he kind of is playing chicken. He's playing Russian roulette with his health with using steroids and so on. Why not use Turk builder Max? I mean, The Rock, he's selling alcohol, tequila, making millions of dollars selling carcinogenic items. I mean, that is not healthy. And so, Rock, why don't you get into Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum and try to do something healthy? It's going to help you to build muscle. You get more energy. And so, is that not what you want? Something to help keep your gains now that you're into your 50s. And so, if you're like Coach Greg and you want to use these supplements, code Greg, 15% off, click the link in description. And don't forget, money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And so if you're not sure that it's going to work, you can try it. Risk-free, money back guarantee. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two loops. Oh, and by the way, I won the race. I'm setting PRs yet again. And I'm pushing 50. That's right, 50 keys of Turk across the border straight up from Usbekiststan. I haven't stopped. And so on top of the Turk, of course, you're getting GO2 max. This is amazing for cardio. And please don't underrate how important cardio is to improve your V2 max, to improve your quality and quantity of life. Get to the website, code Greg, 15% off. Enter code seco for half price on the protein bars. Delicious 230 calories, 21 g of protein. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you like to watch one of those two bloops, the cookbooks, training books, coaching plans by me and my team. And until next time, I am out.