There's not a chance in hell he's clean. Not a chance in hell. As big as the rock is at 50, >> my muscles are gone and I've lost 60 lbs. >> They're not all gone. >> Coach Greg, in today's video, Joe Rogan criticizes The Rock. He calls him a liar. And as you've seen in the past, he says there's no possible way that The Rock was 100% natural. that to get that much muscle, you're not just on HRT, that you're abusing steroids in high doses. Joe on the Rock playing Mark Kerr and his dramatic weight loss. Before I get into this, personally, I think that this is all planned out and clever marketing. I mean, The Rock is getting so much attention, so much publicity. We're all talking about the smashing machine, Mark Kerr, and so on. And it's all because The Rock lost all of that weight. And so if he hadn't have lost the weight, I don't think the movie would have done quite as well. The Rock is an actor and my opinion on actors is they're professional liars. I mean, that is their job. They go on a movie and they play a role, a character. They read a script and they are very believable. And so when The Rock tells you something, oh, I only used steroids when I was 19. I'm the hardest worker in the room. He can say a lot of things and it does seem believable because he appears to be a very nice guy. However, when you add up the amount of times that he's lied in his past and understand that when you do these highbudget films, most likely they tell you or perhaps they even force you to sign a contract and say that you're natural and so you can't come out and admit it. >> How about The Rock had to get on more steroids to play him in a biopic. That's how big Mark Cerr was. They're like, "Hey, hey Rock, we need you to play Marker. We need you to give him on more steroids." >> The rumor has to stop that The Rock lost weight to play the role of Mark Kerr. He needed more steroids. Have you seen The Rock in that movie? Mark Kerr was 6'1 and 260. 260 lbs. The Rock is taller than that. And so if he were only 260, he would look rather spelt in comparison. And so he had to hop on even more to get even bigger. And so for people saying, "Oh yeah, it's for the movies. He's playing a part." It wasn't for the movie. Look at him in the movie. Look at the size of him. What happened was following the movie, he lost all that weight. >> He lost a lot of weight. Have you seen him now? He's slimmed down. I bet getting that big probably felt like >> Technically, getting that big doesn't feel like anything. It don't feel like Your body gets used to it. It's a slow progression over many years. It's not like The Rock put on 50 pounds of muscle in a month. It's something that happened over several years and actually decades. You don't notice the high blood pressure. You don't feel that whatsoever. You don't feel that you've lost your cardio. I know I didn't. I used to do triathlons for 13 years and then I slowly put on weight after that. And so, you don't feel anything because from one day to the next, you don't really notice anything. The Rock probably was just happy with the muscles that he had, the roles that he was playing, the $800 million that he had made from being a blockbuster superstar. But there is a humbling moment when you get an MRI, a CAT scan, an AI test, I don't care what it is, and they discover in one of your arteries, in the rock's case, the circumlex artery, that there's plaque buildup. Now the doctors, they try to cover it up by saying, "Oh, it was there from birth. It's some form of an obstruction, but that's normal." And The Rock, he doesn't take any medications whatsoever. I mean, was The Rock a part owner in this company? Why would he go on record and say all of these things, but yet deny the fact that he was on any medications? Do you really think a guy in his 50s who's abusing copious amounts of steroids isn't taking anything to mitigate those damages? First off, testosterone is medication. And so if he was on testosterone, of which I highly think that he is, that is a medication. What about if he had high blood pressure, he could be on telmartin? Was he perhaps on a statin to control his cholesterol? Do you not think that The Rock with hundreds of millions of dollars would have been taking everything possible to be as healthy as possible and also have all those muscles? I mean, why wouldn't he? And based on his blood work, based on what we heard, it seems highly unlikely, as in one in a billion, that The Rock wasn't taking abusive doses of steroids. If you're interested in getting your blood work done or getting talisartin or perhaps inclapeneialis or semiglutides tzipides to help you lose weight and having a medical doctor go over your blood work. Click the link in the description code Greg to work with algorx. Remember qualified doctors will prescribe prescription medications and they can in fact go over your blood work to explain exactly what it means. What's the point of getting blood work if you don't know how to read it? They all want to do that. That's why >> Batista, that's why he >> Oh, that's right. >> And so Joe is saying, "Look, how is this any different than Batista?" And just because The Rock is significantly smaller, perhaps he's down 50 or 60 lb, doesn't mean that he's still not a very large man. When you're that big, even without all that extra weight, you're still a large man. Batista 6'4 and 240, it's still huge. But in comparison to 300, it is in fact a lot smaller. Now, The Rock who's losing all this weight can actually pivot. I mean, why would he want to become a tombstone, he couldn't keep doing the things that he was doing in order to keep all that size? And so, he can now pivot in his career. He doesn't need to play the same exact roles. And so, what a great opportunity for The Rock to use this as a scapegoat, as a cope. You know guys, that's a downside for this role to play Mark Kerr. The movie was recorded and finished before he lost all that weight. And so, do you not think it's more likely that after hearing about the circumlex artery that was almost blocked that he's thinking, you know what, I'd rather avoid getting a heart attack. And so, I'm going on the lowest doses possible and I'm going to shed off a lot of this muscle. The Rock's PR is off the chain. declines being on gear for over a decade, almost got a heart attack and his health went down bad and needed to get off the gear and blames the weight loss on his new movie role. It's almost as if people are gullible. Of course they are. Like you and I who are watching this video, we know better. But do you think that the average person in the world doesn't understand that The Rock wouldn't just lose 50 or 60 pounds of muscle in a matter of months if he were to change up his diet? Really? You think that if you're natural that you suddenly lose 50 pounds of muscle? If he was natural, he could literally stop working out, just race coach Greg on a bike, and not lose 50 lbs of muscle in years. Do you really think it's that simple? You just magically lose all that muscle? You really think it's that easy to lose your muscle? When you build muscle naturally, it stays with you. Your body wants that muscle when you build it. when you build it artificially, your body fights to keep it. And so the first chance it gets when you're on performance-enhancing drugs is it wants to lose that muscle because you have more muscle than your body wants, you're above your homeostasis. But if you did it through natural means, you know, training hard, being the hardest worker in the room, up at 430, doing all the things The Rock claims he did, you would keep that muscle for years, even if you stopped working out. But the Rock didn't stop working out. He stopped taking steroids. The Rock denies using steroids. >> What Joe is saying The Rock did, which is steroids, is something The Rock has denied. His father denied. His uncles denied the whole family's diet. It's It's one of those things. Would it be overly big deal? In all fairness, it wouldn't be that big of a deal if you weren't out there telling people about nutrition and telling people about your diet, telling people about your workouts. As soon as you start doing that and trying to influence and motivate and bring people along the journey, but you lie to them about the journey, right? I mean, it's liver king. You're liver king all over again. It's the exact same thing. How is this any different than the liver king? We all dislike the liver king. Oh my god, look at the liar. Look what he's done. Oh, I got all these muscles from eating liver. What has the rock done? Well, like his family, they all lie about being natural. The whole family. It's not just him. It's everyone. And so Rock has been lying about this for years now. If you're just an average Joe on the street, I don't think you need to make an announcement and say, "Look, I'm not natural. I'm using steroids. I'm taking this. I'm taking that." But when you're a celebrity, and even if you're a celebrity, I don't think you need to do it. But when you start talking about you being the hardest worker in the room, you put on all those muscles cuz you train so hard and then we watch your workout and you're training with bikini girl weights, 15 lb dumbbells for lunges. Are you kidding me? Two plates on each side on a hack squat. What kind of weights is that? Two or three plates on the leg press? I can do that with my left leg alone for 50 reps. Come on, Rock. You're not building all that muscle from that ass workout. You lie. Oh, I eat 6 to8,000 calories a day. That's why I'm the rock. I eat so much food. And look at my cheat day. I eat the most pancakes of any humanin the world. Oh, and while I'm at it, you know, buy my alcohol, hard liquor. I promote that, which we know causes cancer. But it's no big deal because I'm the rock. You know, I'm built different. I don't need steroids to build this body. And so he gives us advice on nutrition, on training, motivates us to be the hardest worker in the room. But the reason he's the hardest worker, it's because of steroids. This would be analogist to finding out that David Gogggins is on performance-enhancing drugs all along. Imagine you found out that David Gogggins is on testosterone and that he's on special medications to give him energy to go on all those runs. How would you feel about that? Oh, I'm the hardest worker. I'm built different really. But you're taking test and taking this and taking that. We would lose respect for David Gogggins. And so if you are going to take these things and speak about dieting and training, nutrition, you have to tell your fans that, well, I'm aided by performance-enhancing drugs, then you can do what you want. Hey guys, I'm The Rock. I'm in my 50s. Obviously, I'm on HRT. It's helping to give me more energy, but I also do this and I do that. And you don't. You think just because you took steroids, you're going to look like The Rock at 53? I guarantee that you're not. Well, perhaps five or six of you watching this video or perhaps out of a 100 thousand might, but most are not. And so, The Rock's physique, it's so extraordinary that even with steroids, it's still almost impossible to believe. And by impossible to believe is to believe that he could continue doing this for years to come. The Rock became a pebble to avoid being a tombstone because of this drama, the controversy on The Rock losing weight. Of course, people are going to find videos. I get sent this video, I don't know, 20 times. Everyone's saying this video saying, "Look, comment on this about The Rock." And so, let me play this video and explain what's going on. >> My muscles are gone and I've lost 60 lb. >> Does anyone actually think that The Rock would use the words, "My muscles are gone." I could see him saying, "I lost 60 lb." But when he starts the clip with my muscles are gone, I'm thinking he's either being sarcastic or this is AI. Many people think this is real. It looks real. But in 2025, you can't believe anything you see anymore. The Rock's muscles are not gone. When you add perhaps 150 lbs of muscle and you lose 60 of it, they're not all gone. If Samson Dota lost 60 lbs of muscle, he would still have way more muscle than me. And so his muscles are not gone. Chris Bumstead's muscles also not gone. Perhaps he lost 15 pounds from dropping from abusive doses of steroids to just HRT, but he still has a lot of muscle. >> Behind this, there are three reasons that make me both happy and sad. First, since 2024, I've had digestive issues. I had to undergo treatment and adjust my diet and weight management plan. >> It's actually true that he had digestive issues. He spoke about that in that video I dissected where he had essentially cardiovascular disease with the circumlex artery being partially blocked, but he tried to spin it all and blame it on his stomach. I'm not kidding. I kid you not. If you haven't watched that video, go and check it out. And so, The Rock has stomach issues. I have stomach issues, but it's not causing me to get a heart attack. And so, yeah, you could change up your diet. Now, we all know you lied about eating 6 to 8,000 calories a day. No one needs to eat that much food. Just going about their regular day. Oh, I'm filming a movie. I need 8,000 calories. No, you don't. If Derek Lunsford, a former Mr. Olympia champion's bulking on 3,500 calories. I highly doubt The Rock needs to eat double that. Oh, but he's way bigger than Derek. Derek is over 250 pounds of muscle. The Rock is also in the 200s. And so unless he's doing five hours of cardio a day, which he's not, he's not eating all those calories. And he stated this in previous videos. We know that this is Now, what's also is this is AI. The Rock isn't actually saying, you know, I had to lose all this weight because of my stomach. You don't just change up your diet and lose 60 pounds. If that were the case, what was wrong with his stomach? Imagine you have such severe stomach problems that you lose 60 lbs. I mean, did he have Crohn's disease, colitis? Did he have to get an operation to remove part of his stomach because you're not losing 60 lbs of muscle from having a digestive issue? You get bloated, you're uncomfortable, but it's not going to cause you to lose 60 lbs. >> Many people say my muscles disappeared because I took medications like Ompic, but I want to clarify, I have never taken such drugs. I do believe that to be true. He doesn't take Ozmpic. But imagine being proud of that. I would never take Ozmpic. If he took Ozmpic, would I really care? Hey guys, I'm trying to cut down for my next movie role. I had to play a shredded bodybuilder peeled. If The Rock came out and said he used Ozmpic or Tzipotide or Reatride, none of that would surprise me, but I believe that most likely he didn't. But for a guy that we know lies about using performance-enhancing drugs, at least we think we know that he lies. Would it really shock you to find out that he was perhaps taking everything? He was trying to cut down to slim down. Perhaps he had a little bit too much food noise and decided to get a prescription for tzipotide. And so, could The Rock actually admit even that? If he gave us that and said, "You know what? I'm going to come out and say everything. I was on testosterone. I was on tzipotide. I was on growth hormone. I was on fat burners. You name it. People would at least say, "We knew it." And then they could move on. >> I care deeply about my health and would never do anything that harms my body. Please don't worry about me. >> I mean, I care deeply about my health and I would never do anything to harm it. I think that you can do two things. You can both care deeply about your health and also at the same time do things to harm it. I don't think that just because you care about your health. I mean, I feel like almost everyone in the world, if you had a checkbox, you know, you had a poll. Do you care about your health? I don't care about my health. Most people would say, I care about my health. Most care. It's just most don't want to do all the things to ensure that you have it. It's like, we'll do most of those things. Hey, I care about not getting in a car accident when I'm driving, but sometimes I'm speeding. I am. Well, Coach Greg, you don't you want to live? Yes. Well, shouldn't you be driving 100 km an hour on the highway instead of 110? Yes, I should. But yet, I still do it. And so, sometimes we do in fact take some risks. The problem is some risks are greater than others. >> Also, I got a new movie role and losing weight quickly was to better portray the character. Yeah, I believe that to be as true as well, but we all know he didn't lose weight for that role. We also know that this is CGI in case people are clipping this. >> So, I deliberately lost my muscles for my career and that makes me happy. >> But whether I have muscles or not, I am still me. >> Does anyone think that The Rock could actually have lost all of his muscles for his career? I think The Rock likes his body too much to just lose all of his muscle for his career. I wouldn't lose all of my muscle for what I love. I love racing bikes. If I would be faster on a bike if I lost, for example, 20 lbs of muscle, but I'm not going to do that. Would I be better? Absolutely. Do I like getting better at bike riding? Of course I do. But I'm not going to sacrifice the way that I look just so that I'm faster on the bike. Now, if The Rock were to actually lose muscle from a role, I believe he could perhaps do that. He would cycle off performance-enhancing drugs for three or four months, give his body a break, play that character who's perhaps a little bit thinner, and then cycle back on. That is normal. That's part of bodybuilding. But to say he's going to stop and keep the muscles off for life, I don't believe he would do that unless he had to, unless he was forced. Essentially, the doctor looks at him in the face and says, "You need to stop or you're a tombstone. I give you five years." Once you hear that, your life changes. You no longer care about the muscles, the way people look at you being the biggest man in the room. And you think, "What good is being the biggest man if I'm the biggest man but sitting in a coffin?" And so the Rock, he had to smarten up. He's had his time. I believe perhaps five or 10 years too long. And he's finally made some changes. Now, how will this affect him? How long will he be able to live? I don't know. I wish I did. Hopefully, it wasn't too late and they can reverse some of the damages. I'm certain that doing cardio is paramount. Being in the top 2% of V2 max reduces your all cause mortality by five-fold. And so, if you have really good cardio, like I'm talking elite level, 98 percentile, you have a five-fold decreased chance of dying. Those are very good odds. And so the fitter you get, the more likely you're going to live a long and healthy life. And so if you're watching this and you're thinking, you know what, I want to be like The Rock. I want to also come off steroids. I want to know how can I live a long and healthy life. I suggest you start doing some cardio. Get eat healthy, lose some weight, get your body fat down to 15% or perhaps even a little bit less, somewhere around there. Do at least 150 minutes of zone 2 cardio a week. And on top of that, twice a week, go and do some intervals, some V2 max training. Go hard, push yourself, perhaps go in a race. That will improve your V2 max that much more. That is my advice. I'd also suggest, well, why not get the cookbook? Make your life easier to lose weight. We also have GO2 max to improve your cardio. Go. Get it? V2. It's going to dramatically improve your cardio. studies to back this up as well on NMN and so on. And so if you're interested, code Greg, 15% off rather than using steroids, of course, use natural supplements like Turk Builder Max to give you more energy, greater recovery, graver stamina, you can train harder, get stronger, put on more muscle, money back guarantee, and a $20 gift card. We also have GLP Max, Gest Platinum. We have a ton of other supplements, and don't forget to use code Greg for 15% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algum. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. I also do coaching plans. If you're interested in those, of course, click the link and apply. And until next time, I am out.