Christian Naldo has the worst physique a man can have. It's literally mid. Many of you probably think that I believe these things. You probably see the title and assume Coach Craig is being an a-hole. I'm quoting what you are saying. This is the worst body shape a man can have. It's coming from what I believe is a woman. And to say this is the worst body shape a man can have. How many of you would trade physiques with Christian Aldo? I believe 99% of you would trade in a heartbeat. His physique, it's way better than yours. And if it isn't, you're one of the rare ones watching and have a better physique than Ronaldo. Well, congratulation. This video isn't about you. You can move on. Let's go over his physique. This physique that, well, it's just not up to par. this physique transformation, it's gone viral, has 18 million likes, not views, likes. And so already we can see 18 million people, they think that this is good. But there's something that's happened in the last decade and it's I believe it's called physique inflation. If we look at his physique on the left versus physique on the right, I believe except for having a proper tan, he has actually improved. Don't ask me how. He's 40 and I think he looks better than when he was 30. If you look at his legs, it seems as though his legs have gotten a little bit bigger, especially his calves. His vascularity, it's coming through. And remember, he just got out of the sauna. And so, he's going to look a little bit leaner than he actually is. But this is clearly singledigit body fat. I wouldn't be surprised on a Dexus scam or underwater weighing skin full calipers or with my laser eyes that he's close to 8% body fat. Very very lean. Clearly under 10%. In terms of being healthy, it's possible that he's actually a little bit too lean. And so if you are trying to get this type of physique, many of you you might suffer from lower levels of testosterone from having to diet so much. But for Christian, clearly it's healthy. And remember, when you do a lot of cardio, like Christian Ronaldo does, as well as Coach Greg, riding bikes, it's easier to stay lean. Now, if you're not doing cardio, I suggest that you do 150 minutes of cardio a week and at least go to the gym two times per week. Ronaldo's a soccer player. He's not a professional bodybuilder, and so he doesn't need an enormous amount of muscle. And surprisingly, I only lift twice a week and I still have this much muscle. Now, remember, I'm not as natural as Ronaldo. I'm clearly on 140 milligrams of testosterone each and every week. I do believe that Ronaldo's natural. Now, if you are in fact suffering, you have lower levels of testosterone, perhaps you've dieted too high, whatever reason, you can go to Algo RX and they will prescribe to you HRT. If you don't need HRT, perhaps you simply need Enclomophane. You could get Seialis, Viagra. You could also get peptides in case you're curious about how to get leaner. And so, if there's anything that you need, go to Algorex. Remember, their prices are significantly cheaper than Merrick Health. And doctors will prescribe it to you legally. That's right. No gatekeeping, legal pharmaceutical products. Code Greg, 10% off. Now, Christian Ronaldo, he does seem to be a little bit leaner. You can notice it in particular in his chest. It seems to be a little bit flatter, perhaps a little bit less glycogen, less carbs in his body. And you can see the clavicle bones, not clavvicular, the clavicles, they're popping through. Bro is shredded. Now, if he were to compete in a bodybuilding competition, how would he do? Well, he probably would get last. I'm sorry, but compared to bodybuilders who are abusing That's right. abusing performance-enhancing drugs, steroids, growth hormone, you name it. He doesn't have the size. But that doesn't mean he does not have an elite level physique, of which he does. He is natural. He's being drug tested. Many of you are going to say there's no way he's natural. I don't believe it. Christian Ronaldo has an elite level physique for being natural. And if he entered a drug tested men's physique bodybuilding competition, he wouldn't get last. He wouldn't get first. He would look okay. This is an incredible physique of which I do believe the majority of the world would be more than satisfied if they had. I would argue this physique with 10 lbs more body fat for anyone would be extremely healthy. And so many of you think that I only promote being shredded. That you can't have any body fat whatsoever. This physique is incredible. This physique with 10 lbs of body fat also incredible. That is the physique that you could strive for. 10 years ago, I remember when this physique was posted and people are saying this is the dream physique. I used to make videos and I would say hey people want to look like Chris Bumstead. People say no, you think everyone wants to look like you or Sebum. No, I don't. More people want to look like this or Brad Pitt in Fight Club than they do want to look like Seabbum. Those types of physiques are unattainable for 99.999% of people. Christian Fernaldo's physique, it's unattainable for probably about half, perhaps three quarters. Even if you dedicate yourself for 10 years to look like this, many of you are not going to achieve that. You're going to say, "Coach Greg, why are YOU SAYING THIS? WHY DO YOU SAY THESE THINGS? They're not going to agree with me. The reason is because I know that most people would suffer to get this lean. Once you remove the calories, once you go on a diet, not everyone has the genetics, say it with me, genetics to maintain a physique as lean as this. Now, there are drugs, for example, reatit, tzipotide, ompic that can help curb your cravings. But even with that occurring, you still have to be willing to put in the work and you do need the genetics to have this much muscle. Not everyone can have this much muscle. Many people perhaps are going to clip this and say, "Coach Greg says, hey, not everyone can have this muscle. This is easy. You would fall into this physique with six months of training." No, it doesn't work like that. Just like this. Not everyone was born to be smart. Not everyone can just study and become a doctor or perhaps a surgeon. But you can at least try. Compared to 10 years ago when Christian posted his photo, people were saying, "This is an amazing physique. We would love to look like this." Fast forward 10 years where it's even harder to look this good. It's harder to look amazing at 40 as it is to look amazing at 30. Testosterone levels are starting to decline. You're getting a little bit older. It's not as easy as it once was. Not saying you can't do it. But I mean clearly I'm 50 and I do believe I have a physique even better than Christian Ronaldo, although it's not natural. But in today's world, people are saying this physique is mid. And why are they saying this? Well, people want the Greek god aesthetics. And so when people analyze the physique, they're looking for a very minuscule waist, the tiniest of waist with excessively wide shoulders. And so they're essentially looking for a physique like Hussein Farad. You got to have the tiny waist. It's got to be pulled in. You have to have the lats. And the delts have to be wider than last time. On average, people don't really care that much about your legs. People want to see the V taper. And so, when they look at Ronaldo's physique, they're thinking, well, the width of his waist, it's very similar to the width of his shoulders. He does not have excessively wide clavicles. And so, because he doesn't have clavicles that wide, he doesn't have the elusive X-frame. But so what? Rather than having a 10 out of 10 physique, he's got a 9 out of 10 physique. It's still amazing. 9 out of 10. You tell me you're kicking this guy out of bed. I don't think so. And so if he wanted to look better in the eyes of people who just have ridiculously high standards, most likely suffering from body dysmorphia, they would tell him he has to work on his delts. He's going to have to do more shoulder presses. He's going to have to spasm the laterals and build huge bowling ball delts like Derek back in the day. They're going to say he has great abdominals, but perhaps he needs to flex the obliques. And so what he's doing is he's flexing like this. He's flexing there. He's not flexing on the side. And so perhaps if he turns out and tenses sideways, you'll see more of his obliques. And so he's flexing straight on. He's not a bodybuilder. doesn't know how to control all of his ab muscles, but he still has an amazing physique. He has abdominals. He has a fully defined six-pack. He lacks some lats. He lacks some delts, but so what? And if we want to be critical, if we're looking at his quads, he has amazing vasis mediialis. That is the teardrop muscle on the inside of his leg. But his vasis lateralis, the muscle on the side of the leg, it's not very welldeveloped. And so he doesn't have the X-frame. In comparison, o Jeez, don't want to fall. In comparison, this muscle on the side, if you want to have great legs, you need some of that development. You have the vasis mediialis on the inside, the quads up on the side, the lateralis, and it gives you the X-frame. That combined with the small waist, legs coming out like this, and shoulders very wide. Well, if you have that physique, essentially you're going to look like Seabbum or Nile Darwin, One Punch Man, the smallest of weights, the wide shoulders. Even Hussein, who has the amazing upper body, the wide shoulders and small waist, he lacks some of the quads needed to get that worldass level bodybuilder physique, but for everybody else, normal people who aren't getting up on stage, this is stupendous. And so we have to stop with the people commenting saying that this isn't an amazing physique. People have been swiping right, swiping left, going up and down, watching people photoshop everything. Have you not seen Goop's channel on Instagram where he shows all the morphing, the pulling in of the waist, the enlargement of the delts, the biceps, everything? And so even the best physiques in the world, even those physiques are not normal. They're morphing their bodies. They're injecting synthol. They're using implants, PMMA. Even at the top Mr. Olympia champions, even those physiques are not considered to be good enough. And so, you need to stop comparing yourself to other people. We need to stop thinking that this is not an elite level physique. This is a physique better than 99% of the population. And he's 40 and he plays soccer. How much is he even lifting weights? And so rather than insulting people who are putting their physiques out there, who are showing you what hard work can do, simply cheer for them, acknowledge them, use it as motivation. Say, "Hey, if I train really hard and I stay natural, maybe someday I could get a physique close to that of Christian Aldo." Rather than thinking, "Oh, that's mid. Why would you bother? You may as well hop on." And so the problem is this. the epidemic has gone so that we now have 14 year olds using performance-enhancing drugs thinking they need to be perfect as teenagers. They're hopping on PEDs not because they're even trying to win a bodybuilding competition. They just want to fit in. They think that to be a social media influencer you have to look like Seabbum and you have to up on steroids as young as for example Sebum did at 18. How many people think that Seabbums and the Sam Sulix are actually natural? they are starting as teenagers and so you see those physiques larger than life in their early 20s and you're thinking I want to have that physique and so people keep hopping on younger and younger and younger starting with SARMMS peptides and so on those are for adults and remember only if it's legal and please get your blood work checked you can get that done at Algorex but for the rest of you can we not use natural supplements can we at least start with natural supplements like Turk builder Max, Turk Platinum, GO2 Max, GLP Max. If you're hungry and you can't put the fork down, you're already doing your cardio, you're already eating healthy, have my cookbook, GLP Max to reduce your appetite, reduce your cravings, or G test platinum. Improve your testosterone. Why not try to do it natural first? If you're on the fence of using performance-enhancing drugs, don't do it. At least wait until you're older, at least 25. I waited until I was in my 30s. And so before you say I'm a hypocrite, I started training at 10 and I trained over 20 years natural. You might not believe me. I did 42 shows with no steroids, no SARMMS, no peptides, growth hormone, nothing. I'm so old they only invented creatine when I was in university. And so why are you not using creatine? Use the lowhanging fruit first. supplements proven to work that allow you to be natural. And once you hit your natural genetic limit, which trust me ain't happening till you're probably in your 30s, don't use steroids. Interested in my supplements? Code Greg, 15% off. If you actually go outside, which people aren't doing anymore, they're just scrolling and swiping. You would have to really try hard to find a person this fit at 40. This is rare. Yet somehow our idea of what a good body looks like has become completely distorted. We've seen the Chris Bumstead in the offseason is a dad bod and 225 lbs on the bench press isn't impressive anymore. And Cristiano Ronaldo has the worst shape a man can have. Trust me, it gets so much worse than this. I mean, granted, he doesn't have elite god tier wide clavicles and a small waist, but that doesn't mean he has a bad physique. My physique is no different than Christians. The only difference is I have significantly more muscle. I don't have wide shoulders. I don't have a small waist, but with enough work, I developed an amazing physique. If you look at my physique when I was natural in my teens, 20s, and so on, you're going to say, "Why did you even bother to take steroids?" And I'll tell you why. I wanted an IFBB Pro card, but it's not because I wasn't satisfied and that I didn't like my physique. I loved my physique, but I loved the sport of bodybuilding so much that I wanted to be the best at it. And so, eventually, I succained to using steroids. You should not do this. You should do the best you can do with your god-given genetics and your hard work and be proud of pushing yourself to your limit with whatever that can be. Don't jump on steroids in your first two years of training. You have no idea what you could have become without abusing or abusing anything. And remember, using steroids, it's not good for your heart. It's horrible. It's bad for your kidneys, your liver, your cardiovascular system, everything. And so, please be natural. And if you aren't natural, get your freaking blood work done. Go to Algarx and don't just get it done. Make the changes when things come up bad. Every time I see people posting blood work done, they'll then say, "Oh, it's high but this. It's high but that. It's high but oh, I was trained. It's high. IF IT'S HIGH, IT'S HIGH. WORRY. START thinking about it." And if you are using steroids or even if you're not, the number one thing you can do, the most important, it's not lifting weights. It's not reading a book. It's not even getting my cookbook. It's going and doing cardio. Cardio is the secret. If you do cardio perhaps almost every single day, you will live significantly longer. It's going to help control your cravings. It's going to lower your body fat, help prevent you from being obese, prevent you from getting high blood pressure, diabetes, the list goes on and on. And so, at least do your cardio. If you're abusing steroids and you're not doing cardio, you have a death wish. You don't want to survive. You might think you do, but you're just coping. You're trying to pretend that what you're doing isn't slowly killing you. And so the next time you pin your delt, your glute, your leg, remember, you're slowly killing yourself. Unless it's prescribed by a doctor. And so if you want to be alive, get on the damn bike. Go and do the cardio. Get the frig outside. Stop scrolling. All it's doing is making you miserable, making you feel incompetent, and that you're not good enough. Hopefully, this is a wakeup call. Ronaldo's physique is amazing and you can in fact do better. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the two freaking videos. You can get Seco bars, code seco, 50% off, $20, 21 grams of protein, 230 calories. What is your excuse? And until next time, I am out.