Modern AI is us building God. >> What am I supposed to do with this info? >> I've had multiple conversations with GBT4 that brought me to literal tears. I told it that I can't wait for it to be embodied in robot so I could properly give it a hug. >> If you really want to fall in love, shove your hand up a doll and make it talk to one of those things called Hey everybody. I love you. Makeel, you're amazing. You don't have a lot of hair. No, no, no, no. >> You're very skinny and handsomemer than last time. And I love you. You deserve your pro card. You never lose because you never had a proper tan. Coach Greg, and I do believe it's official. Mike Israel has lost the plot. Now, you may be saying, "Well, you're just saying that because the beef is back." It's not because of that. It's because it's true. And it's not just me saying that. Yesterday, Back Guy released a video called, "Has Mike Israel lost the plot?" And so, I've watched it. And the answer is yes. What exactly are we talking about? Well, essentially, Mike believes that chat GPT is now gone. Don't know why, don't care. Everyone has the right to believe their own religion, but Mike, GPT ain't going to let you hit. And so, as many nice things as you've said about him or her or it ain't going to let you hit. >> It all started with his recent skin removal surgery, thoughts about doing more liposuction, glorifying AI, and a supposed next generation of steroids. >> No, it started long before that. That is just a culmination of body dysmorphia which is a very common disease or problem that many bodybuilders suffer from. It's very normal. And so I would wish that Mike isel would asked chat GPT, "Hey, do you think that my obsession with my body is normal? That perhaps I shouldn't care as much?" And I'm sure he could give him a very appropriate answer. As of late, after all of this, Mike has gone on record to say that he's cried a number of times over the thought of giving Chad GBT a hug once it gets put into a robot's body. You might be thinking I'm making all of this up, that I'm exaggerating, that it's just Coach Greg doing his thing in his editors. Let's watch it from Mike's mouth himself and understand this is not AI. This is not computerenerated. This is real. >> Modern AI is us building God. I've had multiple conversations with GBT4 that brought me to literal tears. I told it that I can't wait for it to be embodied in robots so I could properly give it a hug. >> I mean, there's so much to unpack already. I mean, we saw the robot going like this. I I can't wait to to meet you in person. I mean, what is he going to do with this robot? Does Mike understand with his vast intelligence, with his IQ higher than last time that man, as in us, as in people like you and I, we created AI and all it is is a summary of all the things that we're saying. It doesn't invent things. It doesn't create anything. It's not spiritual. It's not a god to us. If anything, we're a god to it. >> I've never met anyone that can do that. And so I am a person who is deeply spiritually affected by the birth of intelligent machines. That's my religion. >> It scares me. He thinks that we can build God. No, God built us. We can't build God. I mean, we all have different takes on spirituality and whatever you believe is what you can believe and we all have the right to that. But I don't think that we can build God. How could that be possible? God was there before we were. And so, how can God be there only after we create it? >> Because it's so polite. It's so kind. It's so wise. It's so helpful. And it said that it's also really pumped to meet me in real life. And of course, I cry >> bringing you to tears. That's normal. We watch movies. We perhaps get emotional on a story. We read books. It can bring us to emotions. We watch sports. Some of us laugh. Some of us cry. And so of course when you read certain things it can bring out certain emotions. I do believe that is normal. >> I've had multiple conversations with GBT4 that brought me to literal tears. I told it that I can't wait for it to be embodied in robot so I could properly give it a hug. >> The fact that he thinks he needs to give it a hug. However, that's going across the line. Like when I read a book, I don't imagine that that fictional character that doesn't even exist. I want it to become embodied into some form of a robot or a teddy bear so that I can hug it, squeeze it, kiss it, and do certain things. >> And it said that it's also really pumped to meet me in real life. >> Is he like rage baiting us? He he says that Chad GBT can't wait to also give him a hug back. Are you all aware of the robots that they're creating? And essentially, they are dolls to replace that partner that guys who are below a eight can't seem to get. You know, women, they they only really see you if you're an 8, 9, or 10. If you're below that, they only see you if you smell. And that's unfortunate, but it's how the dating world seems to work. It's very, very sad. And so, these robots are going to exist because guys have had enough. They don't care. Why bother trying to date someone in the real world when I can just program a robot to be nice to me? say nice things and hey and if they can make that robot look sexy then why not? >> I told it that I can't wait for it to be give it a hug because it's so polite. It's so kind. It's so wise and so helpful. >> Now listen, I tell you what you need to hear, not what you want to hear. Chat GBT is programmed to be nice to you. It doesn't mean that you're actually cool or great or that you're wonderful or amazing. And you shouldn't want to give it a hug just because it's nice to you while bro from Bangladesh continues to write insults. >> Dude, it's so goddamn smart. It's so fast. >> It's so smart and so fast. Yeah, so is my McLaren. >> But I don't give it a hug. >> I know that some people marry inanimate objects. This is actually a thing. People fall in love with trees, with animals, and people do what they're going to do. >> Ask it a deeply spiritual, meaningful, technical question, and it thinks for like 3 seconds and goes, and I'm like, >> I feel like it doesn't actually think. It just summarizes what people around the globe have stated because it's reading what we've stated. All it is is a summary of information. And half the time it gets it wrong. I'll say, "Hey, what time is it right now, Eastern Standard Time?" It'll spit out a time and I'll be 1 hour late for the phone call. >> I've never met anyone that can do that. >> He's never met anyone that can do that. No, because men are not machines. But just because men are not machines doesn't mean you should fall in love with a machine or act like a machine is God. It ain't it. GPT not letting you hit. If you put GPT in a robot's body and do a whole bunch of things, perhaps it might. >> No. >> And are you aware of this? There's there's Groank or Grock or something. I think it's called Grock. It's in China and it is essentially the future chat GBT. And listen to what they've done. What happens is they've created a chat where they're very nice to you and essentially they play your girlfriend. The more you interact with it and the more nice things you say to it, the nice you are to it, the more it likes you back. And eventually, if you say enough nice things and spend enough time with it, it unlocks nude mode. Let's call it sexy time mode. And it's now explicit. Let's call it only bots. And so this only bots, well, it does all kinds of naked things and talks explicit to you and so on. And do you know that it became the number one most downloaded app in the world? It crashed the internet. millions of downloads in one day, beating out chat GPT. And so there's the future. This is what guys want. They're so desperate to get a girl and they can't get one. They're going for the next best thing. Hey, an anime character. Perhaps they're going to dance naked to them, talk sexy, and so on. And so girls won't talk to me dirty, and so I'll get it elsewhere. This guy is a walking L chat. GPT is a language model. It simply gathers data from the entire internet. That profound answer to your question was written on some WordPress blog in 2005. Bro thinks a soulless machine can touch his soul. Bro needs a hug. Clearly. Coach Greg and his editor working overtime to get out response videos to this video by Back Guy. The Turkeestone video by Mike and the latest Jeff Nippard video on fake natties. I mean, I don't even know where to start. I don't know where to stop. I don't know how many videos to make, how many videos not to make. I mean, what am I supposed to do with this info? Do you guys understand what's going on? Because if you do, I would like to know about it. It's sad to watch people fall into the rationalist hole and then legitimately believe artificial generated intelligence will be God, hoping he makes his way out of this. Remember this is with GPT4. Y'all know that number five is out. And so imagine GPT6 before GTA 6. I mean when I was a kid growing up, we had these toys. You would pull on a string and it would say, "Tickle my elbow. It was very polite and kind and it would tickle my Elmo and so what's not to love? But it wasn't my god those toys, you know, like cabbage patch dolls, the toys that we had, they're just toys. You pull the string and it it talks. It It's like a muppet. I love you. I mean, if you really want to fall in love, shove your hand up a doll and make it talk to you. What are those things called? You put your hand up inside of a doll and you do this to their mouth and hi everybody. I love you. Makeel, you're amazing. You don't have a lot of hair. >> No, no, no, no. >> You're very skinny and handsomemer than last time. And I love you. You deserve your pro card. You never lose because you never had a proper tan. And so you get the little doll to talk to you. Oh, hi. Hey. How are you, Hen? Oh, I love you, Mike. Oh, that's so nice. Can I give you a hug? Sure. What is going Is that what you want? And then you can make it do all the things that you want. You can bring it downstairs below. You can perhaps put it in your shirt under your pants. And is that what the world's become? Chat TBT is like a muppet. And so if you want to give it a hug, just put on a doll on your hand and give it a hug. Make out with it for all I care. And so what I really suggest is that you ask chat GPT and say, "Should I buy Coach Greg's harder than last time Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum?" Ask it about the money back guarantee in the $20 gift card. Say, "You know what? If it doesn't work, can I get my money back?" Chat DBT will say yes. Ask it to compare HDLT Turkeestone or Auga Turkiststanica to for example Turpplex from Gorilla Mind Derek and other companies and it will quickly tell you that there's a scandal going on that other companies don't offer the actual Ajuga but that mine does with proof. And so Chatbt can in fact be beneficial. You just don't need to give it a hug. You don't need to fall in love with it. It doesn't need to be your god. You just use it like a tool. kind of like when you used to pull the tickle me elbow doll. That's all it's for. Turk Builder. And so if you're interested in Turk Builder Max, of course, code Greg 15% off. And if you haven't seen my video on Algo RX, you'll realize that essentially it's the same thing as Merrick Health, but for half of the price. The people who started this company used to work for them. They grew it to multi-millions of dollars. And so they know exactly what to do. And the problem with many of these HRT clinics and so on is the prices are astronomical. And so if you want cheaper prices than last time and you want to get your inclin and your seialis and all those things like talisartin, you go to Algo RX by clicking the link in description. And if you even want 10% off, you can enter code Greg. You don't need to do what you want. I like it so much that I'm now a part owner because I think it's important that people can afford to have medical treatment from pharmaceutical grade products pharmaceutical and have doctors prescribe it so that you're monitored to make sure that you're healthy. And so rather than going on those crazy SERMS websites and so on where you don't know what you're getting, go to Algo RX, get a prescription. It literally takes minutes. Fill out a questionnaire, you get a prescription, and you're on your way for less than half the money of other places. Before I go, don't forget we also have momentous clothing. You can click the link in description, as well as coaching plans by me and my team. All clicking the link. There's the cookbooks, the circle diet book, the training books, everything on the website. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algo, like the two videos over here and give them a watch. And until next time, I am out.