Let's just keep piling up the things that Clavvicular hasn't shared with us. Whatever I've done, it's not a big deal. So what? I crashed my car. So what? I got kicked out of university. So what? I have illegal drugs. So what? I got caught. So what if I hit a 56y old woman? So what? Coach Craig. And this just ended Clvicular's career. Many of you thought perhaps I'm overreacting that Clvicular he's not actually the worst social media influencer in the world. I'm here to tell you it's way worse. And by the end of this video, you're going to agree with me. The things that I've discovered about clavvicular, I can't begin to explain, but let me try. Curious case of clavvicular by turkey tom. Never in my life have I seen such a start to finish mic drop video for an entire hour. How could they find so many crazy things about clviculum? I just cannot believe it. Going to try to summarize the rise and very quickf fall of clavviculum. Clav claims that he was just 14 years old when he ordered testosterone off the internet for the first time. I started roids about 2 weeks after I started lifting. Why? because Natty gains are slow and gay. >> And so 2 weeks after he begins lifting weights, he begins taking steroids and SARms. Cuz you know what? Training Natty is gay. >> Based on his video, he's well aware of the risks, but it's a trade-off he was comfortable with because he claims to have gained 55 lbs of muscle in 12 weeks. >> 55 lbs of muscle in 12 weeks. And so we're off to a great start. He's already a liar. >> Now, there is a bit of an increased libido. like you might catch yourself uh you know going on Tinder at 12:00 a.m. >> I'm so old I didn't even realize that there was Tinder for kids. I thought it was for adults only. 3 years ago he was 16 years of age swiping right left Tinder at midnight trying to get hookups. I didn't know this was a thing. >> One month or so after his 18th birthday, he made a post saying he had already gone on four steroid cycles >> before he was 18. already. This is one of his cycles. Test 550 milligs a week. Masterone 200 mg a week and aromomasin when needed usually 5 milligrams every other day. >> In the same post, he also notes that taking substances in the past had seriously affected his liver health. >> And so he admits that SARMMS had messed up his liver and caused his testosterone levels to shut down. At 16 years of age, already spending $700 per cycle. Remember, he comes from a wealthy family, having attended private school. No, you aren't going to jump to Mike Thirsten tier from his level in a cycle unless you're borderline already referencing Mike Thirsten. You know, bro, who's 100% natural, right, guys? He states that he dreads going to get haircuts because, as he puts it, I'd rather look homeless than have to talk to someone for 30 minutes straight. God, I want a Ro max. And people think that I'm autistic. This is ridiculous. People, just because I'm intelligent and I work hard and I'm not scared to call out the it doesn't make me neurovivergent. You want to see somebody who's neurode divergent? This is what it is. I dread talking to people IRL, even if it's for 30 seconds. I thought it was 30 minutes. 30 seconds, guys. I do anything to avoid those awkward meaningless exchanges. Here's how I say 50 words or less per day. What is this? Silence maxing. How to get through a day without speaking to anyone. Does this seem normal to you? TRUST ME, IT'S GOING TO GET infinitely worse. >> He even went as far as making an entire thread about his crippling social anxiety. >> They laughed at me during that stream. Clvicular and his boyfriend when I said he didn't hang around with friends, they laughed. They scoffed at me. I was quoting something he had said in an interview. I KNOW MORE ABOUT Clevaker's life than he does himself. I am not making up. >> When I get home, I try to go straight to my room without seeing my parents. I always greet my dog, though, because I love her. This is the only female I will ever feel a connection to. Not saying there's anything wrong with a cute little dog, but people are also worthy of attention. And if you're normal, not trying to look max, not insecure, people are fun to be around with. And so if he's coaching kids, 14y olds, on how to look max and how to do certain drugs and so on, this is not good. This is your leader. I used to have a therapist, but stopped going because of how dreadful it is. They constantly try to bluepill you and warp your sense of reality. >> I mean, that's his first mistake. He stopped going. Oh, they're trying to bluepill me. This man is so far gone that he's beyond help. They tried to help him, but he refused. And so, the first step is admitting that he has a problem. He doesn't admit that. He thinks the rest of us have a problem, that I have a problem, when we're simply trying to help him out. and he then charges money to coach other people to be more like himself. >> In one post, he claims that in real life, he's generally perceived as a pretty normal guy. He says he has no problem speaking to girls or giving class presentations. >> Later in this video, he's going to describe how he has 1 kilogram of a drug taken deliberately along with alcohol to lower his inhibitions. Because his words, not mine. He's not comfortable. He can't pick up women unless he's intoxicated. Unless he's high on drugs. Which is it, Clav? For a guy that can't stand 30 seconds of talking to people, who writes on a forum how to avoid making over 50 words a day in detail. I don't think that's someone that has an easy time talking with ladies. >> Obviously, these posts are in complete conflict with each other. On one hand, he hates people who have sex and goon. On the other, he also does both of these things. >> How do you hate the exact thing that you admit to doing? Here's the problem with lying. You have to keep up the lie. And so, if you say one thing and you do the opposite, people are eventually going to find out. He can be seen asking for help on what kind of pictures to put on his profile to get better matches, while also complaining about how incapable he is of holding any kind of conversation with the women he does end up matching with. He's literally asking for advice on what photos to post. He doesn't understand how to talk to girls. He doesn't understand why he can get the date, but he can't get a second one. Is that really the man you want to listen to that you ought to aspire to be like? I literally can't talk to women for more than one minute without blowing my NT mask. It's so over. That's your leader. That's your man who has no problem talking to ladies. How about you do me the courtesy of after all these conversations that I don't even want to you think I want to talk about your hobbies, I want to get in your pants, god damn it. And so, unfortunately, Clab doesn't understand that you have to converse with a girl before you can get in her pants. He thinks you can just say, "Hey, undress. Let's have sexy time and we'll take it from there." Clab, I'm I'm sorry, but the world doesn't work like that. And so just because you've ascended, and I don't care if you're literally a 10 out of 10, not every woman is going to drop their pants just because you smile at them correctly. All the mogging in the world is not going to get you laid if you don't have a personality. Perhaps it works on some low value women who don't give a about you, who don't care about their future, but for most women, it ain't going to work. This really comes to a head with one thread simply titled masturbating mog sex with girls. I'd rather goon 24/7 than have to cope and jester on dating apps. >> I mean, who am I to judge? I'm not you. And so, if you'd rather grab your detent alone, by all means. >> Plus, when I jerk off, I can sit on my hand till it's numb and pretend a blonde Stacy is jerking me. And so Clav, I mean, I guess if you want to just Greg your ducet alone, I'm not going to hate you for it, but why would you then make fun of other people who are doing the same? I mean, on the one hand, you say you hate these people, they're losers, and so on. Then on the second hand, you're literally using your second hand on yourself. While I can't show it on YouTube, there's multiple videos of him injecting himself with something called lemon bottle, which is a controversial substance that supposedly dissolves fat in your body. He's injecting a fat dissolver on his face along with that 17-year-old girlfriend that he had. We've seen that. Posted that about Instagram. I'm not against a 19-year-old dating a 17-year-old, but I am against them injecting people when they are not in fact a doctor. And what about the hunter eyes? Did you know he injected that into his downstairs trying to make it bigger? >> As for Botox, he didn't want to get it done by a doctor. Instead, he was interested in doing it himself, asking members of the forum where he could get it online. >> And I mean, why would you bother going to a doctor to get your Botox when you can do it yourself for cheaper? He's trying to scheme better than Togei, his idol, the man who did it first. >> It's at this point that we begin to see the line being crossed as Clav goes from exclusively affecting himself with his antics to potentially affecting other people in a variety of ways. >> And so, it's one thing to do this to yourself. you know, you're bone smashing, you're using testosterone, you're doing illegal things, at least it's only affecting yourself. But when you start broadcasting this and encouraging other people to do it, well, that's crossing the line. Clav was outright planning to start doing Botox injections for other students to make a quick buck. He was concerned about being kicked out if the college ever found his social media accounts. >> Some advice for some of you schemers, don't tell everyone on social media what you're doing. I mean, I think it goes without saying if you're starting to do illegal activities, selling things, services, pretending you're a doctor, whatever. You probably shouldn't type it on forums and say you're going to do that because other people see that and they're going to snitch you out. >> Clound himself not being invited out by anyone. And even when he did get with a woman, he had to be on multiple drugs to be able to perform due to his severe erectile dysfunction. Is it possible that he's the same as Mike Isertell and that eventually he's going to come out as being gay? >> I'm gay. >> If you're with a hot female and you're on testosterone, we know he isn't natural. How is it possible that your Johnson the downstairs that it isn't working? Now, clvicular, there are natural supplements out there and no, it's not a scheme. It's not a scam. There's money back guarantees, $50 gift card, and [snorts] so you can try it at no risk to yourself. But if you don't want this and you actually want prescription medications, you know, from a pharmacy prescribed by a doctor, Algo RX. And so what I would like you to do is compare the prices with Merrick Health. If you need Viagra, sealis, inclenine, testosterone, perhaps various peptides, you're trying to lose weight, you're trying to look smack, but do it in a healthy fashion, Alorex can do your blood work, doctors will prescribe you medications, pharmaceutical, and it's 100% legal. You're not breaking any laws. And so, if you're interested, code Greg for 10% off. Click the link in description. >> The story basically goes that a girl he liked started dating a Chad. So his response was to wait for her outside her house and literally flash her naked in a trench coat. >> Is it possible that Clav's girl left him for another man who perhaps was mogging him, was hotter, maybe he was 6'6 and so he got upset. And if he in fact flash this girl and did all the photos waiting for her house is a little bit sad. But could that in fact explain it all? the fact that he's so obsessed with making himself look better if he feels that his lady left him for a more attractive man, then that would explain why he thinks he needs to ascend. So, I always go to the stall to pee. This time, it's me in this BBC. I start my pee stream and it's kind of quiet and weak. I can tell the BBC is laughing at my subhuman stream. >> This is what's happening with the nerds of the world. Why would you think that? Out of all the things that I think would happen when I'm peeing in a stall, if I hear somebody doing something else in the stall next to me, I in no way think that it's about me. Does this not describe main character syndrome? He literally is going to the bathroom and he thinks that other people are mogging him in the stall next to him because their piss stream is louder. Really? He whips it out and produces the most girthful and powerful stream I've ever experienced. mogs me to Gandandy with his beautiful luscious stream. >> What's next? You taking a and the plump is louder and he mogged you with a bigger >> Cloud was clearly becoming more serious about his looks maxing efforts now as he started taking more drugs, including a daily dose of erectile dysfunction pills. >> A daily dose of 10 milligs of seialis and osteoporosis pills to harden up his bones. And I'm not talking about that bone. Does this not remind you of polyarm pharmacy using one drug to offset the next? He was keeping lidocaine, a local anesthetic, in his bedroom. His mom found it and was not very pleased. She stole the package of lidocaine. And I'm losing my mind right now. He's mad because his mom took his lidocaine from him to prevent him from doing all his operations and surgeries on himself. You know, inserting the needles in his downstairs to try and get Hunter eyes. Bro is lucky he has any function whatsoever. Or perhaps he doesn't and that's why he's taking Sealis. >> Was all of this really worth it? He decided it was time to just give it all up to walk [music] away. And that's the end of the video. Just kidding. He started taking Tren. >> And what do we know about Tren from Mr. Mike? [clears throat] Then it can make you gay. Have crazy and strange sexual thoughts. When someone claiming to be 14 years old using the site asked what drugs they should use, Clavvicular gave him a detailed list of what he thinks he should take. >> Advising a 14-year-old on what anabolics, performance-enhancing drugs that they should be using. Is that not going a little bit too far? It's a 14-year-old kid. He's trying to explain to them what drugs that kid should be taking. >> His disdain for Gym Bros is so strong that he scoffed at how they pose in the gym's mirror. He's making fun of people who train natural because he says he can get five times the gains by taking steroids. But yet, we've seen that he hasn't even gone to the gym for the last month. >> As well as his brave declaration that asking people for pictures of their penis is not gay as long as it's to check for aesthetics. >> Asking other guys to please send me pictures of your private Johnson your downstairs because I want to raid its beauty. How is that not gay? Despite having to take three different meds to treat his erectile dysfunction, and use a penis pump, he claims he slept with nearly 100 women, >> 80 milligrams Viagra, 15 mg Sealis, PT-141. Any of those on its own, a plenty to have to take this all at once at only 19. Bro isn't going to be having sexy time for very long. Remember, as you age, things are going to get worse. And so if already you need this at 19, what are you going to need at 29? Or imagine once he's 50, if he ever makes it that far. >> I don't really give a about getting girls. I just want to mog like mo. Do you guys mogging? >> It means basically like looking better than someone. >> Upon talking to other girls, his response, his chat, you know, I don't really want to get with girls. I just want to mugg. I just want to be hotter than other men. I don't care about being with anybody. I'm just obsessed with my appearance. >> His mom once again found his roid stash, but this time he managed to convince her to let him keep it with the argument that he's an adult and paid for all of it himself. >> I was panicking so hard today because my mom cleaned my room and found 50 vials of Roids raw powders and pills. I mean, you would think it was Coach Greg back in 2012, of which I received a 20month sentence for house arrest. And remember, that's because I'm from Canada, where steroids is legal. He lives in the United States, it's not legal. If I had been caught doing the exact same thing in the United States, I most certainly would have gone to jail. Let's add to this. I have 1 kilo of pregab. So, it was finished. Clavvicular is one to talk calling out coach Greg saying, "I'm scheming." That's coming from a man who literally is hiding over 50 vials of testosterone in his mom's house and who's been kicked out of university for all of this. And so essentially, and he even admits this, he's taking this drug in order to talk to girls that he doesn't feel comfortable that when he's taking this drug, it lowers in his absence and he can speak to girls fluently. Does that someone who's neurode divergent and simply doesn't feel any embarrassment whatsoever that he's got the gift of gab with no anxiety whatsoever? If that were the case, why does he essentially have a lifetime supply of this drug and nothing's happened to him? >> Clav points out that there was 1 kilogram of pregab. What he's referring to is the medication pregabalin, which is used to treat epilepsy and anxiety. And so when he says he got kicked out of university for roid maxing, for using steroids, notice how he leaves out a lot of details. I noticed that when he responded to me, he'll say one thing, but he leaves out the rest. And in the last video, I stated, "Yeah, I remember this kind of kid. When I was a school teacher, I would kick out a student, send him to the office for doing about 10 outrageous things, and they would say, "Oh, I just turned around." But you forgot about that part where you attacked the student and called him the C-word. But you only mentioned the part where you turned around. >> He eventually evolved his stack to also include beer. The ethanol will intoxicate me to make me low inhib and happy. >> Why do you think he's doing all of these drugs? He's trying to become popular, famous. He's trying to live stream. He has to go and talk to different people of which he himself has admitted he has a hard time talking to someone for even 30 seconds. He literally has made videos, descriptions on how to go a day without speaking more than 50 words to anyone. To avoid everyone, to eat at different times, to bathroom max and go at the bathroom when no one else is around. To avoid seeing his parents, to eat at different times, to fast so that you don't have to be seen by other people. Does that sound like somebody who has no problem talking to other people or like somebody who would be using these various drugs in order to cope? In August 2024, he was charged with misdemeanor assault and battery on a 56-y old woman, as well as felony assault and battery on a 63y old man. >> Assault and battery on a 56-year-old woman and 63year-old man. I mean, they're even older than Grandpa Coach Greg. Punching an elderly female when you're a 19-year-old man, that doesn't look so good on you. Is he going to use the excuse that he was intoxicated? that he was high on drugs. Well, maybe >> leading to an all-out brawl. So far, not really anything unreasonable from Clav, but it appears that during the chaos, he was throwing punches at someone's mom. >> That doesn't sound very good, but yet other people have not joined the bandwagon. Ice coffee hour. Oh, Clavicular. He's such a sweet guy. I believe everything he's saying. He's neurode divergent. That's his excuse. Really? Are you not listening to what's going on? How are people not listening to Coach Greg? Well, I'll tell you. Maturing is realizing that everything I've said is actually correct once you see that once I point something out, why are we even debating with me? Why are we arguing? >> He most likely didn't do it on purpose, especially since these charges were dropped. >> Perhaps they were paid off. I don't know. How do you drop charges? Do you go to the other people and say, "Please don't charge me. Drop the charges. I'll give you some money. I know it's happened in the past. What exactly went down? >> I was uh kicked out of uni for essentially roid maxing. Unfortunately, someone decided to archive all of my posts. >> Doesn't mention the 1 kilogram of drugs over 3,000 strong doses. Doesn't mention any of these things. He picks the smallest lowest hanging fruit and he goes from there. Oh, really? just for steroids, which by the way are legal in the United States. Just for 50 plus bottles. Oh no. What about that 1 kilogram of medication >> detailing all my alleged uh activities which prompted them uh the university to do a search of my room and uh uncover certain looks maxing peptides. >> And heaven forbid somebody sending this information to the university. You know, we've got a kid here. He's got some Botox, which is one of the most deadliest substances in the world. Paralyzes your muscle, and you have an unqualified 19-year-old that's going to start offering services to other students to do Botox, which could end very, very poorly. Oh, and on top of that, he has a kilogram of a dangerous drug as well as other drugs, AND STEROIDS, WHICH ARE LEGAL. AND SO, HEAVEN FORBID SOMEBODY CARED ENOUGH TO tell someone about it, to get him expelled for the health and wellness of other people. >> This Chestered clown world of America, that's illegal. [snorts] Uh, testosterone is illegal, guys. You're not actually allowed to do it. >> And so, notice how he didn't go to jail. He didn't get house arrest. And he's in the United States. How exactly did this happen? But Coach Greg, when I was selling performance-enhancing drugs, 20 months of house arrest, you see the difference. Class 4 in Canada, United States, it's a scheduled three. It's a big deal. And so, Clvicular, he can't do any wrong. One thing after the next, punching a 56-y old woman and a 63y old man drop the charges. Steroids. Ah, we'll kick him out, but no jail sentence. But what about crashing your vehicle while being high? Oh, no big deal. >> Without a uh extremely gestured prescription that I can't afford. I don't have health insurance. >> Oh, he couldn't afford any legal testosterone from an HRT clinic. I mean, he couldn't have gone to AL GOREEX. NO WAY. Couldn't afford it. But yet he could afford a kilogram of that drug, 50 vials of testosterone, drinking alcohol almost every day, and saving up for bonechanging surgery. But no, I couldn't afford testosterone from a legal source. >> He was now fully committed to becoming a popular looks maxing influencer. His next video is titled, I started trend at 18, and so should you. >> I'm not influencing other people to do anything. I just say what I'm doing and if other people copy me, well, that's not my fault. I'm just being honest. It doesn't get more straightforward than that. >> You can clearly see how much further he was going into the abyss, getting an $86 penis pump, getting on multiple weight loss drugs like Mojaro and DNP. >> DNP, one of the most dangerous fat burners in the world. Even in all of my endeavors, I've never once used it, and I don't coach other people to use this. I've had two athletes in my past that were using it and I said, "Please don't. It's very, very dangerous. You don't want to use this. Clav is doing it at 18." >> And these habits would eventually lead him to crash his car. Body cam footage of the aftermath has been released and we can see that he basically drove into a ditch on a narrow road. >> When I was a kid, we grew up and we said, you know, drinking and driving is bad. There's being driving while intoxicated or high or anything. It's very dangerous. And the thing with drinking and driving is it doesn't just put yourself in danger. If it was just yourself, I don't think it would be that big a deal. Hey, if you're doing things in the comfort of your own home, privacy of your own home, but by all means, if you're an adult, when you get behind the wheel, you can dramatically change somebody's life. That is on you. that would lay on your conscience for the rest of your life. It isn't worth it. >> But that's much less informative than what Clav himself said in a post [music] about the incident. It'll cost me at least 2 to three grand. Surgery delayed once again. >> Are you okay? I noticed I would not off on fenibet after having energy all day. Fenibet, another drug that people take in order to talk to the ladies. It reduces your inhibitions and so on. Some people swear by it, but in higher doses, it can cause extreme fatigue. Essentially, you're actually high. His response, did the cops do any kind of sobriety test on you? Nah, they didn't give AI was intoxicated. I'm boys with them. We work out at the gym. Did Clav just get off again, scot-free? I mean, is he have the halo effect as he describes? Is he so good-looking that the cops they they give him the pass, not the pass for the n-word, of which he uses in spades. The pass to, hey, you commit a crime, you break the law, you crash your car, nah, you're good, boy. You're good. >> He opened a coaching page where he charges people $49 every month to have access to his methods. [music] We have Clvicular teaching kids how to use drugs who's done all of these things in comparison to Coach Greg trying to teach kids you don't need drugs. Wait until you're older. And FYI, I in fact coached a young girl for 4 years. She started with me at 15 until the age of 19 and now she's on her own. Helped her for four straight years. I have my master's degree in kinesiology and education. I was trained to be a school principal as well as a physical education teacher and I have experience coaching thousands of athletes at all ages. Interested in my coaching services? Click the link in the description and apply right now. >> Clvicular had been served with a restraining order that ensured he wouldn't abuse contact or come within a 100 yards of an anonymous woman. >> A restraining order? I mean, let's just keep piling up the things that Clavvicular hasn't shared with us. He also expresses total confidence that he isn't insecure. And instead, all of his decisions are informed by pure logic and rationality. >> And so, no, he isn't insecure. He's simply logical. You know, neurode divergent. He's 6'2. He wants to be 6'6. He thinks that sniffing math is going to help him to get hollower cheeks because, you know, he's hungry. But yet, we've seen how his diet looks. He's eating junk food crap all the time. He clearly doesn't have my cookbook, but yet says the cookbook's a scam. He called me out for having a scam cookbook when I've sold nearly a 100,000 copies and people have benefited for several years. What has Clab done? Bro is 19 and has been in more trouble than I've been in my entire life. >> What did I really do? I crashed my car because I I took too much back with him. Oh >> and so he rages back, says whatever I've done, it's not a big deal. So what? I crashed my car. So what? I got kicked out of university. So what? I have illegal drugs. So what? I got caught. So what if I hit a 56 year old woman? So what? >> Well, at least in 5 years, [music] whether I am a Frankfano box job or the next gigachad, at least I could say that I gave something my all. >> Yeah, why not give something your all in something positive? you know, going to the gym and working out, studying in school, a job, a relationship, maybe running, doing a bike race, training. Those are respectable things. You're giving your all in illegal activities and looks maxing. And you can't even do the most basic things, the fundamentals, like actually going to the gym. >> At least I tried. At least I dedicated myself to the craft. >> Bro tried. What did he try to do? Buy all the drugs and do all the shortcuts possible? >> You think that I'm doing this as a form of entertainment when I have to stay up for three days in a row? High on crystal meth. >> And so he actually believes this. He's not lying. This is not a scheme, an act. This is the real Cleav. He literally thinks you need to be a top 1% Looks Max character in order to get a girl. According to people who actually met him in real life, not much was different. In a Reddit thread about a stream clip of his where he showed off his penis pump, one user wrote, "Clav is the most insecure human he's ever come across. Going manic by trying all sorts of looks maxing techniques, talks about anabolic steroids and plastic surgery. A meltdown if he sees the slightest imperfection, and will ruin everyone's plans by refusing to leave the house because he's ugly." I literally witnessed Clav snort per [clears throat] literally witnessed it. >> Adam Roth is saying I witnessed him doing some math. I couldn't believe it. And so does this look like it's staged. >> It's worth noting that he's mentioned his sister, who is just 13 years old by the way, multiple times, will never understand hardship, will have every one of her desires fulfilled by cuckled men. >> He talks about his sister in this way. She's only 13. talking about her attractiveness scale, how some prince is going to take out how she'll probably end up with some rich guy and he'll be able to take her for her money. I mean, is that really the mentality you would have about your very own sister? The theory is that her marrying a rich Saudi prince or some like that will benefit me and allow me to exploit money from her. He's talking about his sister this way. A lot of the people claiming he's ascended will show before and after pictures, but the before is when he was like 13 years old. And so, has Clav actually ascended? Has all his looks maxing techniques actually worked? I don't think it's made any difference whatsoever. I think he would in fact look better if he hadn't have taken steroids and actually had been training and going to the gym. If, for example, Coach Greg had been coaching him while being 100% natural. You really think that doing math, using all of these drugs, reheat, two tried, you name it. Do you think these things are better than simply going to the gym and training? Imagine the amount of alcohol he's consumed, the damage that's already done to his brain. Not to mention the 1 kilogram of pregrab and other drugs that he's been using. Are we really that surprised that someone's appearance changed for the better from before when they were in high school to when they're supposed to be college age? Is that really shocking to anyone? >> You're really going to show a 13-year-old before and after till they're 19 and say, "Look at how much their ascension has actually worked. How would it not? He became an adult. It's automatically going to get better." >> He's either going to need to hard pivot into actually talking about something that matters, or he's going to fade into irrelevance like the rest of the Red Pill guys did once their audience has realized how full of they were. All that's next is for Clav to come out as being gay and to stop all the drugs and we can move on. Hope you are now educated. You now understand why I've said Clav is the worst social media influencer in the world. He's a horrible influence on teenagers. And if you're a parent with a kid, you need to be careful. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops for coaching for the Turk Builder Max Turk Platinum code Greg 15% off. And until next time, I am out.