Here is my message to Eric's father. If you're listening, test him. Coach Greg and an update on Eric English. Now, y'all remember this guy is 15 years of age, and I speculated that maybe he's on performance-enhancing drugs. I wasn't sure. After all, we saw the footage him hanging around with Larry Wheels saying, you know, I will eventually use steroids. I'm planning on it. The fact that he was 180 lb and he'd gotten significantly bigger. Saw him hanging out at Young LA with other famous YouTubers. For example, Logan, I think it's Logan Dman. I don't know, do you know, is that his last name? We don't know his last name. He's a guy that was in the hospital for abusing steroids and had a a staff infection, whatever. as well as other famous guys much older who are clearly jacked. Now, when you're young and impressionable and you're hanging around with older people who are influencers or perhaps they're making an impression on you or you're looking up to them and you know that they're steroids, the chances are even greater that you are going to use steroids. And so I was very very concerned and I'm still concerned and I'm concerned not only for him but I'm concerned for all the children of the world. Now remember recently he had lost his mother to cancer. He's only got his father and so it's much more difficult. He turned to weight as a way of coping as an outlet and so on. A very positive endeavor. And so that is truly amazing. But unfortunately, I do believe, I'm 99.9% certain at this time, that he has already chosen to go to the dark side, and I'm not talking about Dartmouth across from Halifax, nolva Scotia. Uh there's crumble, which is horrendous. You guys did not know that in my cookbook there's you're literally a peanut butter. It's peanut butter. Hussein was eating it last night. He said, "This is literally better than crumble." I'm like, "Well, everything's better than crumble." But it's a rice cake, the peanut butter, and some low calorie jam on top of it. It's the hack. It is so good. He couldn't believe the macros. There are 14 grams of protein and 90 calories per serving. I mean, in peanut butter, servings are huge. So, you get four times the volume as you do for regular peanut butter. I don't know how I got on a tangent about buying my cookbook on a video about me thinking Eric's using performance-enhancing drugs, but I find a way. It's what I do. Code Greg, 15% off. I personally think that Eric is too young for even Turk Builder Max and or Turk Platinum. How is he already on performance-enhancing drugs? Now, you're thinking, "Yeah, but what evidence do you have?" And I mean, aside from people chat, people yap, people talk. It gets to Coach Greg. And so, I don't always believe everything that I'm hearing. I'm saying, "Hey, I still got to give him the benefit of the doubt." But just watch his latest post. It was on his stories. I want you to watch and pay attention and ask yourself, is it still possible that he's natural? It says coming for 405, up 70 lb in 2 weeks on bench. He's going to bench press 365 lb, which is 70 more pounds than he was doing 2 weeks ago. Now, if I asked anyone around and I said, "Hey, how many of you think you could put on 70 lbs on your bench in a couple weeks?" I do believe most people are going to say, "Probably not." If I said, "With steroids, would you expect to put on 70 pounds in two weeks?" I think most people would say also probably not. And so, how do you think he's putting 70 lb on his bench while being 100% natural at the age of 15? It's 365 lbs. Look at the bloated moon face, which is a side effect of steroids. He looks very, very puffy. He's got a relatively narrow grip. And he's driving the weight up. He's almost sticking with the bar. It's not going up. He's squirming. And eventually, he gets the weight up. Now, this set was in my opinion very very dangerous. And one thing that you should understand is when you use performance-enhancing drugs, yes, you are going to get significantly stronger, but often times the muscles get stronger than the tendons and or ligaments. And so, as he's struggling, squirming to press that weight up, I'm thinking he's going to get injured. He's going to tear a pec. He's only 15. This is horrendous. He luckily gets the weight up uninjured, but his next goal is 405. he's coming for. And so, how many weeks from now is he going to get four or five? Is it going to be in two more weeks? How strong does he have to get before we all come to the conclusion that he's probably not natural? And has he not learned from these other influencers? For example, the trend twins. We saw Mike benching 585 lbs. He got too strong too quickly and he ended up tearing his pec. And so, how many of you think that this will never happen to Eric in his future? What makes this even worse is he did this following an injury. Recovery went so smooth 3 months and one week ago. Fractured the bone in my shoulder and got a light tear in my rotator cuff. And so 3 months after fracturing a bone in his shoulder and getting a tear in his rotator cuff, he's setting huge PRs on the bench. Now, even without steroids, does this sound safe andor healthy? I mean, when you get injured, are you not supposed to train perhaps a little bit less? Go lighter, not heavier. One rep max, that is already dangerous. And so, why do it so young? We see him here standing next to Togei. Does that not say it all? Do you not see the influence that these people can make? He's hanging out. He's on the I don't know if it's a young LA yacht. Oh, and here's Logan. This is the guy I'm talking about. He's standing with him right there. This kid was 17 years old. Staff infection. bragging about. And right next to him, the trend twins. And below that, Daddy Noel. Everyone in that photo is on steroids. Perhaps not Eric at that time, but since that time, I do believe he's no longer natural. Unless he has some crazy polymorphism that suddenly at the age of 15, you put on 70 lbs on your bench. You speedrun recovering from injuries. I don't think it's possible. Not to mention, look how much older he looks. Now, I know you're going to say, "Well, he's going through puberty. He's a young guy." But puberty does not explain this. The puffier looking face, the water retention, this is a direct side effect of testosterone converting to estrogen, mogging the life force out of toi. He's richer, he's taller, he has more play, and he's bigger. Imagine being 15 years of age and having to read comments about mogging someone, thinking you need to mo them, and him saying, "No, he's richer, taller, handsomemer, has more RZ," and having to live up to that. There's a reason why they have something known as middle schools. It's to keep younger kids away from the high schoolers. Because when you get kids hanging around older kids, often times what the older kids are going to do, it trickles down to the younger. And so this kid, Eric, is too young to be in young LA hanging out with these people who aren't so young. You know, I know it's young LA guys perhaps in their 20s, maybe late teens. He's 15. And so when he's at 15, at a tender age, vulnerable, and he hangs around other people using and abusing performance sensing drugs, which you know are clearly going to talk about it, how could he not be influenced? Here is my message to Eric's father. If you're listening, test him. You can watch this video and say, "I'm a hater." You could say, "Oh, you should have directly messaged him in private." You can say all the things that you want. If you have a son or a daughter, I don't care if you're Eric's father or someone else's father. If you have a kid and you think, you know what, I want to make sure that my kid isn't abusing performance-enhancing drugs, perhaps that they're not using any drugs, get them drug tested. You're the dad. You have the power. You have that right. Ask them to get their blood work taken. And if you find out that their testosterone levels are five times the normal range or that their cholesterol's out of whack or that there's other problems and concerns, you can then decide what are we going to do from here. Do they need counseling with a counselor? Why do you need to do this? Do you need to have a talk? Because listen, everyone makes mistakes. But the earlier you can figure this out and make changes, the better it's going to be for everyone. There's too much pressure on young men on social media to do performance-enhancing drugs to use them. This is what I believe has already happened right now. Dad's still got it. And so his dad is beating him in a sprint, which is great to see. They're having a good time. But should the dad not be somewhat suspicious? I mean, look at the size of his 15-year-old in comparison to him. And he did watch the video where he admitted to Larry Wheels that he was planning on using performance dancing drugs in the future. Whatever it takes, he was willing to do it. I would be concerned if I had a kid. I'm thinking I don't want them to do it. And so, if you think they might be doing it, test them. Hey son, we're going to get our blood work done. I just want to make sure that you're healthy. You know, make sure that you're good. How is that a bad thing? Being proactive and let's say the test results come back perfect. No testosterone, no crash testosterone levels. Cuz remember, depending on what substance you're taking, it's going to wreak havoc on your blood work. If the blood work comes back amazing, you can say, "You know what, son? I believed you all along. I just wanted to make sure cuz I watched Coach Greg's video and I had to make sure that you were healthy because I care and love you. Wouldn't you rather have that than just to ignore the problem, to ignore what's going on and just say, "Yeah, do whatever you want." 15 is far too young to be using and or abusing performance-enhancing drugs. 15-year-old Jack Hanma love you guys. I mean, look at this photo. Look at the video. Like, does he look natural here? Are we not concerned? Are we not thinking he's probably not natural? I mean, you might believe in him and say, "No, it's just hard work." But based on what you're seeing, do you not think it's a maybe that he's on performance ants and drugs? And is a maybe not enough if you are a parent, a guardian to make sure that they're natural. It's your job to protect your kids. And so if you let it go unnoticed, you say nothing, do nothing, act like it doesn't matter. Well, that's on you. How what the f are they feeding you? And so we see here 13 to 15 he was working out in his room at home and now he's bench pressing three plates on each side for multiple reps with I'm going to call it questionable technique. You can see how his leg is moving around. He doesn't have a spotter nearby. Very susceptible to injury. He's training very very heavy. I mean there's nothing wrong with training like this. But is it not important that he does it natural? I mean the number one comment the first comment I'm seeing is Eric's definitely on gear. Sam Sulick does three plates on incline and this kid is 16. And in Eric response, 15 actually with like the funny goofball face. What would little you think about you being on steroids? Now, his response is speaking out of ignorance. Does that mean that you're claiming to be 100% natural? This person is looking at you and thinking, "Well, if you're lifting nearly as much weight as Sam Sulik, who's blast in steroids and is in his 20s, who has amazing genetics, and you're doing three plates on each side, that means you're probably on steroids." And so, he wants you to ask yourself, think back to when you were 13. Would that 13-year-old be proud of your decisions? I mean, I can look back at my own self, remember, I'm 50, and ask myself, hey, when I was 25, would I have ever thought I would use steroids? The answer was no. And so when I was on performance dancing drugs, you could have said, "Greg, look back to when you were younger, your younger self, and ask yourself, what would that person think of you?" He would lose respect. He would think, "Why are you doing this?" He would say, "You don't need that. You're awesome without it." And so, how is that a bad comment? He's trying to say, "Eric, look back to when you were younger, when your morals were different, when you didn't think you needed to have all this muscle, that it wasn't important, and go back to that." Now, we understand that you can be struggling, that you're perhaps depressed. Well, I don't know anything that's going on inside your head. But what I do know is that at 15 years of age, using drugs, for example, steroids is only going to make things worse in the long term. It may be a short-term outlet. You're getting the dopamine, the feedback, the huge pumps, the strength increases, and you're thinking, "Well, this is amazing." But what happens when you can no longer do it? What happens when you're in your 20s and your health takes a downturn? There's only so long that you can do this. It's only going to get worse from here. Skinny, weak 15year-old. Is this the message that we want to send to our younger audience? Skinny, weak 15-year-old, and he's bench pressing, three plates on each side, flexing, looking huge. What does that do to other 15-year-olds? like other 15year-olds that are thinking, you know what, I have really good genetics and perhaps they're benching 265 lbs for reps and they're they're like, "Wow, like look at me." And then they stumble upon Eric's page, they're like, "Oh, well, I guess I got up to Annie. I better take steroids, too. Maybe I should start with SARMs." Now, it's not like I know what he's taking. It could be SARMs. It could be testosterone. It could be a number of different things, but I don't believe that it's nothing. The first comment is a picture of a needle and Eric's response is insecurity. How many of you think that because I think that Eric is on steroids? The reason for that is because I'm insecure with myself. Like I have low self-esteem. I don't like myself. I'm not happy. Every day for me is like my birthday. How many of you think that the reason I'm saying this is because I think that 15year-olds shouldn't use steroids. And so when I see people insulting other people who are accusing them of, of course they're accusing him. Like Eric, put yourself in that person's shoes. Does it not make sense that they would say these things? Like really just like like put yourself in their shoes. Like sit down for a minute, relax, and think. Other people are accusing me of being on steroids. Is that because they have low self-esteem that they're insecure? What do they have? An avoidance attachment style? Anxious attachment style? Oh, they're just anxious and so they're projecting their own insecurities on me. Or do they just think that 15 is too young to use steroids? Now, perhaps your parents have never told you, you know, using drugs are bad, but I am I'm telling you that using drugs and steroids at 15, it's definitely bad. It's not a maybe. It's not, oh, but I have a career in fitness coming up. I have over a million followers, so I get the pass cuz I'm going to be a competitor. I want to be on the Olympia stage. It doesn't work like that. You are too young. Now, if you decide to do that when you're older, when you're perhaps 25 plus, you've trained. You are at your natural genetic limit. Well, hey, at least you waited. But you haven't even started. You're 15. Think about it. Like, you probably don't give a about the other 15year-olds that are probably following you, that you're their hero to thousands, maybe even more people out there. They're watching you. They're watching you every move. They wish they could be you. They want to be you exactly like you. And now that they see that you're on steroids or that you're saying you're natural, they don't know. Well, how do you think they're going to feel? Like, how does it make you feel? Are you proud of doing this? Like, and if you are 100% natural, you know what you should do? Go to your dad and say, "I want to get my blood work done because I want to prove to that Coach Greg guy that I'm actually natural." Like, Dad, I understand why so many people think that I'm a fake natty because like look at me. I mean, what are the odds that I could build a physique like this at 15? I mean, Hussein, people don't even believe him. This guy's 15. And so, what is he 1 in 10 million? And so, if you want to prove to the world that you are natural, give other people hope, get the blood work done, show the results, and say, "Hey, here's the proof I'm natural. Keep training, and keep doing your thing." But you can't come out here and comment and think that other people are doing this out of spite about being bad people because they themselves care. Oh, Greg is a hater. Why? For giving AI'm I'm a hater for giving a And it's not just about helping Eric. It's about helping everyone. Every 15year-old out there, and it's not just 15. You're going to be doing this at 14, 13, 12, 16, 17, 18, whatever. Somebody needs to stand up and tell people that this is not a good look. That you don't need to have all this muscle to be famous on social media. It's gone too far. Enough is enough. One and a half year sibling transformation. I wonder what his sibling thinks. Eric, what would you think if your sister started using steroids like right now? Like she went in your room, I don't know, she found something and she were to use exactly what you're using. Would you be happy with that? Would you help her to do it or you try to convince her not to? I mean, I want you to think about it. And it says, "That's actually crazy. I wish I started that age." Somebody wrote a comment responding back, "I miss him." Perhaps they mean the kid that was natural, that wasn't obsessed with being the biggest person around. And I understand that people change over time. We get older. But if I had a kid and he started training at, let's call it 11 or 12, and I knew that because he started training at 11 or 12, he would eventually use steroids at 15, I would wish and pray that they never ever went to the gym ever. And I like working out. I started lifting at 10. But knowing that starting the gym this young and becoming ultra famous, going ultraviral, 100 plus million views, if I knew that that would lead to them being not only famous, but also using and abusing steroids at 15, I would say none of this is worth it. It's not worth the fame, it's not worth the money, it's not worth the glory, because in the end, the only thing that truly matters is your health. Health is wealth. And so 1.5 million followers is more followers than I have. But it's not worth abusing steroids at 15 just to get all those followers and whatever sponsorship contracts, Young Allay and so on. It's just not worth it. And so I'm sad to have to say that I do believe I'm almost confirmed that this guy is no longer natural. I was hoping that perhaps he just went on a crazy bulk combined with puberty and all this kind of stuff that he was still natural that it wasn't too late. After seeing this, after hearing the stories, it's nearly confirmed Eric no longer natural. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to booy algorithm, and by the way, if you want to get your blood work taken to make sure that you're healthy, you're doing the right things, go to algo RX, code Greg, 10% off. You can also get things like Encleophene, Telmicartin, Viagraialis. You can of course get semiglutide, tzipotide. Remember being monitored by a doctor to make sure that you're being safe, that you're doing things that are healthy using prescription medications. Very smart move to make. And these are very, very cheap. About half price of, for example, Mer Health. And so if you're looking for a deal, Algo RX, that's the company for you. Interested in Turk Builder Max? Turk Platinum 100% natural. You can take this code, Greg, 15% off. I suggest teenagers don't use this. You're too young. You don't need to take these things. Also, go to max. GLP max is for improved cardio and GLP max is to help reduce your appetite. And of course, you can get the cookbooks, coaching plans by me and my team. Don't forget to get Blue Lobster before you go to the gym. And the seco bars are 50% off. And I just want to highlight a brand new product, G Focus Limitless. You got to concentrate. You got to study for your exams. You want to think better. This is for your brain. And so if you're interested, of course, code Greg, 15% off. And until next time, I am out.