I hate to break it to you, but that means your heart could literally stop. And so, let me make this clear. Taking Clenbuterol can cause you to have a fatal arrhythmia. Coach Greg. And in today's video, we're going over Rose Fit. Her actual name is Kim Miller. has 180,000 followers on Instagram and she's training for her IFBB Pro card in women's wellness and she recently posted a video my steroid cycle expose. She explains in detail exactly what she's taking in detail in order to tell you this is what it takes to be a women's wellness competitor. >> Yeah, I just wanted to have a very like real and honest conversation with you guys. automatically. If you listen to her, you notice the changes in her vocal cords. You can hear she sounds a little bit different. Also, you can see she does have some receding hair and this is a direct a side effect from using performance-enhancing drugs, namely steroids. But she has chosen this and she loves the way that she looks. It's not for everyone. Not everyone likes a woman with this much muscle, but this is what it takes to be an IPB pro. >> I'm sure some people are going to think that this is a lot. I'm sure some people are going to think that I'm lying and that I'm not giving you guys the full picture. >> Full disclosure, I know this woman personally. I've met her several times, hung out with her. She's very open, honest, transparent, and I do believe 100% that she is not lying. She's not exaggerating. She's telling you exactly what she's doing. And so it allows the average viewer, both male and female, to get an understanding, an appreciation for the amount of steroids females have to take to get a physique such as this. And so if you're thinking, "Oh, she probably just did 5 or 10 milligrams of Anavar, what is wrong? What are you even thinking?" And to the opposite extent, if you think that she's on 500 milligrams of Tren, guys, it's somewhere in the middle. And I'm going to be starting back at 16 weeks out. And I'm going to kind of just like walk you through the basically my cycle at each point of prep and like where we've been adding things in and changing things. If you followed her journey, perhaps you're already a follower. If not, I suggest you go and give her a follow. You'll see that she's currently peeled. I mean, she's just as lean or leaner than I was when I was competing in professional bodybuilding competitions. Her glutes have striations. She's got lines details all over her back. She told me she took a DEXA scan expecting it to come out at 10% body fat and it literally had her at 6.9. Now remember, DEXA scans are not 100% accurate in determining body fat percentages. It's mainly used for determining bone density, but it does give you an idea of just how shredded she actually is. My glutes and hamstrings are insane right now. Under 6% body fat on my hips and glutes. somehow slightly leaner than my abs and arms. I literally am just standing still and you can see them. It's wild, lol. And so remember, she's doing this with the aid of performance-enhancing drugs. It's not normal for a female to get to sub 10% body fat. Women essentially have 6 to 9% essential fats. And so if a woman gets too lean, she's most likely going to lose her period. It's called amenorhea. and it's not healthy. And so if you're thinking, "Oh, I just want to maintain 10, 11, 12% body fat year round. I want to be shredded." Your body isn't made for this. It's difficult for most men to be this leak. >> Let's go all the way back to June. Believe it would have been June. So, 16 weeks out. Um, going into the prep, I wasn't taking anything besides GH and TB-500 and BP157 peptides. And all of that was for the primary reason of healing my shoulder. Uh, for those of you that don't know, I like tore my rotator cuff in like February. >> She's recovering from an injury. She's using growth hormone TB-500, BPC57. I do believe that BPC-157, TB-500 can in fact help people speed recovery from injuries. I have used that in the past. But one thing you need to be careful with growth hormone is that with overuse, repeated use, doing it for too long, especially for example, if you have a family history of cancer, that it can make that more likely. And so if you have a history of cancer in your family, please don't use growth hormone. But another side effect is it can in fact change your bones. It's known as acroaggali or giganticism which is literally your bones getting bigger oftent times in the forehead. It could be in the jaw. And so if you're a female trying to remain feminine, you should be careful with growth hormone. And personally when I hear people saying, "Hey, I'm on growth hormone. It's going to allow me to eat a little bit more. It allows me to stay leaner year round." I'm thinking there's so many things that are safer to use year round. Now, for example, if someone says, "Hey, I want to be lean. I'm using growth hormone." I would immediately tell that person, "Are you sure you wouldn't prefer to use, for example, ompic or tzipotide, not that those are 100% safe, but I think it's better to use something that directly affects your appetite to reduce it, reduce the food noise than to use growth hormone, which can in fact have serious side effects. Now, if you are interested, you can get ozempic Trozipside GLPS for example at Algo RX. Click the link in description code Greg 10% off. >> At 16 weeks out is when I started Primobolin and this was my first time ever doing injectable Primo. >> Previous to this, she'd never used injectables and often times orals are a gateway to the injectables. Most women are not going to feel comfortable injecting. Often times, this applies to men as well. But what she says is that orals are not as effective. That they're harder on the liver. It is harder on the liver, but orals oftentimes can be more effective. They have a quicker onset of action as in if you take anavar within perhaps even hours you can feel a difference. Injectable primo, it could take days and or weeks to really notice a difference, but it is healthier on your liver, your kidneys for long-term use. And so when people inject steroids, for example, primo or testosterone, whatever, they have much more stable blood levels. You don't feel it quite as much. In comparison, Anavvar perhaps has a 10hour half-life onset of action within hours. You're going to feel it right away. You take it perhaps couple hours before the gym. You go and train and you really feel it working. Primo, you inject it and you go to the gym, you don't really notice anything per se. It takes a lot longer to kick in. And so anecdotally, anyone that uses oral steroids, for example, Anavar, in comparison to injectables, you're going to feel it more during the orals, but it doesn't offer very stable blood levels unless you're taking it perhaps two or three times a day. In reality, injections are more anabolic because they're consistently helping you to build muscle versus orals. you have a shorter window where you feel it more, but the overall anabolic response, the effect, it's not as consistent. And so, in the long run, you will build less muscle by using orals than you will injectables. >> So, 16 weeks out, started the Primain injectable, and that was 30 millig three times a week. >> Here's the thing, and this is what I don't like. The pressure to use steroids is so strong. You might be judging, you're thinking, well, why would she do this? Why doesn't she compete without it? When you want to be an IPV pro and you know that almost every single girl that you're competing against is using injectable primo, do you not feel that they're going to have the pressure to do the exact same thing? I mean, can you really blame her? You're going to go to a gunfight with a knife? It doesn't make sense. And so, if she competed natural, she most likely would get last place. I'm not trying to be critical. I'm just being realistic. And so when you compete in bodybuilding, women's wellness figure, or even in bikini, trust me, I've seen bikini girls using far more greater doses than this. Do not assume that these girls are natural. Just because they look pretty, just because they're hot, just because they have amazing bodies, doesn't mean they're not on performance-enhancing drugs. And in fact, they most likely are. What I would suggest if I were coaching a female is I'm going to convince them to do the lowest dose that makes them happy. Now, even if that dose is not enough to win the pro card, I'd rather them compete and get, for example, fourth place and save the girl for next year. You shouldn't try to make a lifetime worth of games in one year. Now, I know there's a lot of pressure and you really want it really bad, but you have to think of your future. Rather than abusing steroids at high doses for one year, why not use the lowest dose possible and spread out those gains for 5 years. And what I personally did was I stayed natural till I was in my 30s. I know most of you don't believe it. You think I'm a liar, snake oil salesman, everything. But I'm telling you, I was natty. I did 42 competitions, 100% natural. And so I got to my natural genetic limit. Remember, she's only perhaps 27 years of age. She wasn't at her genatic genetic limit, but she wanted those gains now. And so, if you wait until you're 30, get to your peak and use very low doses, you can stretch out those gains for longer, keep your health, avoid the side effects, and be much happier for the long term. >> And that was it. That's all I was taking at 16 weeks out to 12 weeks out. So, the primo and then one one IU of GH. And so she started her cycle 30 mg of injectable primo three times per week. Now to me that does in fact make sense. She's spreading out her doses so that she doesn't get a very high trough. She doesn't get very high blood levels very quickly. And she's spreading it out to be consistent. Now is 90 milligrams of primo safe? No. It's not safe at all. It's a very high dose. Remember primo in a female is way stronger than primo in a male. And so on average, I like to use add a zero roughly multiply by 12. And so a female on 30 milligrams of primo three times a week, that's 90. If it was a man doing it, it would probably take 900 milligrams or even a little bit more to offer the same amount of muscle growth stimulus. And so you might be thinking 90 milligrams is not all that much. For a man to receive the same benefit, it's 10 times more. And so if I said, "Hey, I'm doing my first cycle. I'm on 900 milligrams of Primo." Would you not think that that's a lot? >> At 12 weeks out, we upsed the Primo to 40 milligrams three times a week. So, you know, same frequency, just added a little bit more to the dosage, I guess. >> And so, we're now 12 weeks out. Primo dose is going up to 40 * 3. That's 120 milligs a week. Very high doses. very unlikely that you could do a 16week cycle at these doses without getting permanent changes. For example, your voice getting deeper, perhaps losing some hair, um acne, I don't think is that big a deal, or perhaps you could get clitoral enlargement, as well as you could potentially get hair growth, facial hair growth. And so, you do need to be careful. And my suggestion, as soon as you notice these changes, you need to stop right away. If you stop right away, there's a chance you can undo the irreversible changes. >> And then we also added in Clen 23 and T4. So these are all not steroids. These more or less affect like your estrogen and your hormones and are like fat burning and metabolizing compounds. >> Clen 25 micrograms starting at 12 weeks out. First of all, 25 is way too high to start. If you're going to start Clen, start at 10. You can get headaches. It's not good for you. And the problems with clenosis can cause permanent damage to your heart. And so rather than taking clenbuterol, I would suggest adding in tesso fenine. It's a dopamine reuptake inhibitor. It's not a cardiac stimulant like clenbuterol. And it's going to give you some extra energy while reducing your appetite. This will increase your resting metabolic rate, which means you burn more calories and much safer than clen. My personal opinion on clen is use it at most in the final weeks before a competition. I personally would rather see someone add in for example ompic or tzipotide and that will reduce your appetite reduce your food noise and allow you to stick to your diet. Tesso fencine probably the better choice but perhaps you can't get it you don't have it. I do believe that in an offseason, that is an important time to maintain a lean and healthy body. And Kim actually in her offseason was perhaps in the low 22% body fat. She's actually quite lean. And so I don't see the reason of adding in Clen this far out. The benefits versus the side effects, I don't think they're worth it. Use the lowest dose that makes you happy. At 12 weeks out or 16, you shouldn't be that hungry. It should be fairly easy to stick to your diet, to your cardio routine, and if it isn't, you were simply too heavy in your offseason. You need to save these things for when you need them most. I think these are all the that is a very low amount of CL. I'll get into it later, but we we definitely go up from there. Um, but I think for T3 and T4, that's a pretty standard and like low amount. >> And so she says this is a low amount T4 and T3. Someone with Hashimoto's would literally be taking less. And so by low amount, she should have said it's a high amount and it's simply not needed. We're 12 weeks out. Why are we taking drugs to burn body fat when a calorie deficit would suffice? Rather than eating, for example, 2,200 calories, why don't we eat 2,000 calories and not take T4 and T3? And so my suggestion, don't use these drugs. And if you do, wait until later. In taking these drugs, you're accelerating the development of heart failure. It's certainly not worth it when quite literally 15 minutes of extra cardio or a couple hundred less calories in your diet would do the exact same thing. And another major problem, major concern is she could become hypothyroid upon sessation of the these drugs following the competition. The T4, very long halflife, perhaps up to a week. It's going to suppress her natural body's production of these hormones. And so by taking this, you're essentially making it very, very difficult to get off of these drugs when the show is over. And so you're taking these drugs with the potential danger of causing permanent side effects in the future. If you must take these drugs, simply only use the T3. Don't take the T4. The T3 has a much shorter half-life. Make it much easier to go off of the drug and return back to normal. Personally, I've never used T4, even in my past. And remember, I'm an IFBB Pro. I have used T3 for up to 6 weeks in doses as low as this. I wouldn't use it to this day. I wouldn't recommend it. There were other compounds way better and so why risk it? It simply isn't worth it. >> At that point, we also upped the GH to two IU per day. So that's the full picture for 12 weeks out. >> The growth hormone at two IUs a day, it's just going to put more strain in the heart. It's going to increase risk of a chromagali or giganticism. It's not worth it. It's not worth the tradeoff for the minimal potential benefit that it creates. So now we are at 10 weeks out. We added in 10 millig of anabar. The clen was up to 40 micrograms per day and everything else stayed the same. >> And so we're now 10 weeks out. Of course the clen is up to 40 because your body gets used to it. You have to up the dose which is why I don't like to see clen used this far out. You need to save it when you need it most. Anavvar 10 milligrams a day. Now if it was just anavar on its own I think that she would be safe in using this. I mean some people can get side effects. for example, voice change and so on. But 10 millig, it's for most bikini competitors a dose that they can sustain. But to use it for this long in addition to 120 milligs of primo, you're adding to the androgens, which is going to make side effects that much more dangerous. Why are we adding in anar when if you wanted better gains, more improvements, you could just simply increase the dose of primo. It's still 10 weeks out. Anavar for 10 weeks is going to put some strain on your liver and so would it not make more sense to continue to do what you're doing if you needed more muscle mass? Why didn't we just start at 40 milligrams three times a week? Why didn't we start at 50? 150 milligrams of primo. We're starting bang on from day one. I don't see the point of adding in the orals at that high of a dose for this long when you're already using injectables which for the long term are going to put on more muscle. One problem with taking orals for 10 weeks when you're particularly this lean is it increases the risk of a choleistatic liver injury and that is when the bile ducts become damaged. It's slowing the removal of bile and this can create more problems and so if anything we should be removing orals as you're getting more shredded and sticking to the injectables. When you get shredded, your body slows down the production and the flow of bile and clearly this woman is peeled. And so add to that the orals and it's going to get into higher doses. This can create more problems than last time. >> Now we are getting to halfway through prep point, which is 8 weeks out. Um the primo, the VAR, the T4, and the T3 all stay and the GH all stayed the same from the previous numbers. Uh the clen at this point was 40 micrograms per day and we added in Novadax just 10 millig each day. Clearly her estrogen is already low. Adding in nolva is going to increase her clotting risk and so why are we adding in a drug to do something that your body doesn't need to do which increases the danger to your heart. If her coach had her on test which does convert to estran and said let's add in 10 milligs of nolva that would make sense. But notice she's not on test and I do believe 100% she's being honest and she's not omitting that she's taking testosterone. And so I simply don't believe that her coach knows what he's doing. >> Honestly, I was getting really really severe cramps in my side. Um I couldn't really bend over. If I like got down on my knees on the floor to like clean something, I would like severely cramp. And so what she's describing is textbook signs of hypocalemia, which is very low potassium levels. And I hate to break it to you, but that means your heart could literally stop. And so let me make this clear. Taking Clenbuterol can shift your potassium and cause you to have a fatal arrhythmia. And so let's not take Clen ever. Full stop. I was still on my feet getting dehydrated, not having salt intake and like it was like reallying me. >> And so she described she wasn't taking in enough sodium, but in reality it's not enough potassium. And so that Logan Paul's prime drink that has way too much potassium and not enough sodium for rehydration, that would have actually been of benefit to her because what she needed was potassium, not the sodium. This is why tesso fencine a greatly superior choice over using clan. Now remember, if you're interested in having a coach, may as well plug myself, click the link in description and apply right now. And so imagine if Kim had coach Greg telling her what to do. She wouldn't had any of these difficulties. I can make your life better than last time. Algo RX sells five amino MQ. This is going to supercharge your NAD levels. Your cardio is going to go through the roof. It's even more effective than GO2 max. GO2 max amazing compound. You can get it at HDLT supplements. Code Greg 15% off. And this, of course, 100% safe. It's not of any risk, but five amino MQ. Well, it's a research peptide. I can't promise it's safe, but it's a heck of a lot safer than Carterine, which is GW-501516. And so, if you're interested in that, click the link in description. Code Greg 10% off ALGO RX. Then at four weeks out is when we got back on the clen. Um started taking 60 micrograms a day. So that's the most cl I've ever taken like ever in my life. 60 micrograms a day. Everything else stayed the same except the Anavar and the nolva both got brought up to 20 milligs per day instead of 10. And so we're now 4 weeks out and guess what? The Anavar gets doubled going from 10 to 20. That is a huge increase in risk. Of course, you're going to feel it more. You're going to have much more strength in the gym, greater pumps. But if you're taking 20 milligrams, please split it out into two doses. Taking 20 milligs all at once. It is in fact a lot. It has a a shorter half-life. And so, you should be taking, for example, 10 milligrams twice a day or even 6.66 milligs three times per day. nolva is now increased to 20 millig. I mean, that's as much as I took. 20 millig of nolva is a lot and for 4 weeks for what? What exactly are we trying to do? She's not on testosterone. She has suppressed testosterone levels. At this point, show me the blood work. I'd be thinking, what exactly is going on inside your body? >> That's where we're at now. We're actually pulling back a little bit on it looks like Clen. And so, thank God she's pulling back on the clan, going from 60 milligrams down to 30. Hopefully, she doesn't experience an arhythmia. She doesn't have any problems. She can make it to the competition and win her IPB pro card >> and GH as well. >> And so, she's taking out the GH cuz it can in fact cause water retention. She's trying to be completely bone dry, shredded, peeled. And so, if you're thinking, you know, wellness, it's for girls who want to look well. Wellness isn't well. Wellness is for women with a ton of muscle who are shredded. Personally, I think that the category of wellness has gone too far. And so, if you look at the top wellness competitors in the world, Kim would be tiny. She's not even big enough. And look at the drugs that she's doing. She's on high doses and it's still not enough muscle for her to compete. She's weighing about 149 lbs, about 5' 7 in tall. And so that is a ton of muscle, sub 10% body fat, but yet it still isn't enough. >> So at this point at 6 days out, my exact cycle is looking like 40 millig of primo three times a week, 20 millig of anavar a day, 60 micrograms of clen a day, 100 micrograms of T4 a day, 25 micrograms of T3 a day, and 20 millig of nolva a day. If you're abusing these drugs in higher doses, clan at this dose for this long, T3, T4, all these things, while having lower levels of estrogen and drying out, you can experience heart failure without even realizing it, which is going to cause you to retain more water than last time. And so, please be careful. Bodybuilding a very dangerous sport. It's not worth it to get your pro card. Think of your long-term health and is it actually worth it? Are people in the comments going to be like, "Oh my god, like why aren't you telling people you're on test or trend?" Like, yeah, probably. I have never ever ever touched those things in my life and I never will. What may in fact be shocking to you is that lower doses of test and trend would literally be safer than what she's doing. If all she did was test and trend in lower doses, I'm not talking about 100 plus milligs of Tren. It would be safer. The nolva, the Clen, the T4, the T3, these are dangerous for extended periods of time. You've seen her discuss the cramps on her side. She had to stop taking Clen. What if she had kept going? Hypoc calmia. What if she'd passed away? I would hate to think that I would be making a video on my friend who literally died from abusing performance-enhancing drugs. And so, warning, if you're on clen, please avoid using Lasix or hydrochloroioide as those can decrease your potassium to even lower levels and it could result in arrhythmia. Instead of using these compounds to dry out, try for example Aldactone or in 2025 perhaps the safest of all and also the most expensive is tovapin. It's the safest, the most expensive. But remember, this is your health that we're talking about. And so we don't want anyone to literally pass away during peak week or on stage at the Olympia. This does not affect your electrolytes in this way. It's not going to reduce your sodium, your potassium. It allows you to pee out more water while maintaining that delicate electrolyte balance. And so that is what I'd recommend. >> I definitely have like a very I don't want to say that. I think I look feminine still. Um but you know, my voice has lowered a little bit. >> And so she states these cycles have given her very minimal side effects. Yes, my voice has been lowered, but I do believe that for most people, these are serious side effects. A voice change alone, for many women, they wouldn't like this. they wouldn't want to experience it. And she states, "I'm still feminine." I mean, I think it's very clear. We're looking through her photos. She still looks amazing. She looks very feminine. Many people would like this. I mean, she does, in fact, have an OAF account with thousands of followers. She's doing extremely well. And so, people do, in fact, love her appearance. But if she continues in higher doses than last time, she's going to become more muscular and more, let's call it, niche, and less people would enjoy her appearance. >> Like very minimal side effects. Yes, I have experience from taking steroids, but I'm just like not willing to push it any further. Um, this is like kind of my limit with like what I'm willing to take. >> And so she states, look, this is my limit. This is where I draw the line. If she wanted to do well as an IFBB pro, she would in fact have to up the doses, probably double, perhaps triple. And at that point, I'm certain she would have to start shaving. She would perhaps be losing her hair. These are not things she wants to experience. She says in the next 3 to 5 years, perhaps she wants to have children. Hopefully, it hasn't affect her to that level right now as of yet. And so, is it actually worth it? I mean, you have to consider this. It's perhaps very important to you while you're taking the steroids. It alters your mind. But 10, 20 years from now, are you going to look back and think, you know what, I really glad I got that pro card. Or will you think, I didn't need a pro card. Why not just look your best, be healthy, lower the doses, and compete and train into your 30s and 40s? >> And at the end of the day, I know when I read all of this out loud, it sounds like a lot. >> Well, that's because it is. I mean, I'm just being honest. This is a lot. It was way more than I would let any competitor ever use unless they know look I am willing to accept the side effects the risks and even still it's not just the anabolics the anavar and the primo it's the nolva the cle the T4 these are equally if not more dangerous I don't know many women who perhaps have passed away from using primo and or anavar but people experimenting with T4 T3 three and clen in high doses very very dangerous. >> I feel like every other time I open my Instagram app, I'm seeing that there's been like another pro that's passed away. >> The thing is when it's happening to you, it's hard for you to judge this. You see other people who are passing away, doing certain things, and are no longer with us. What if that were you? I'm sorry. It could in fact be you. Not everyone can get away with this. her doses are extreme. She does of course know many other females who are using higher doses. Just because but just because your doses are lower than someone else doesn't make it safe. >> So I'm happy with where I'm at now. I'm very happy with where my physique is and I'm comfortable with the amount of steroids I'm taking. Is it going to be enough to go pro? I think I look great and we're just honestly going to have to see who shows up. But like you never [\h__\h] know. At this point, I feel like I have pushed my body size-wise and gear-wise to the furthest extent that I'm comfortable with. This is her career. She makes a very good living by looking this way. By having more muscles and less body fat, many more people are going to come and explore her channel to see exactly how she looks, what she's doing for her. The financial incentive is huge. Imagine if you could make perhaps $1 million by taking such steroids. Would you not be tempted? That coupled with the desire to go pro, to achieve a liflong dream, very difficult to say no. This is her limit. Whether she goes pro, whether she doesn't, she's hard stop. I'm not doing higher doses than this. After the competition, get off all the drugs, do the healthy things, and get your blood work done to ensure that you're still healthy. Remember, you can get your blood work taken at Algo RX. Use code Greg 10% off. Now, if you're not interested in using Primo and Anavar, you do have natural alternatives. For example, Turk Builder Max and obviously you're not going to get as much muscle as using Primo or Anavar, but it is still going to benefit you and you can do it for years. This is safe. You're not revoking your natty status. You're not going to turn you into a man. You're not going to get a deeper voice. You're not going to lose your hair. It's not going to have growth of the downstairs or facial hair. And so if you do want to make more gains than last time, code Greg 15% off and if it doesn't exceed your expectations, you're disappointed. You get your money back and a $20 gift card and so you can try it riskfree. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the album. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops for the cookbooks, the training books, coaching plans by myself, my team. Apply, click the links. And until next time, I am out.