It's so hard to put the fork down when you're hungry. Same as putting the bottle down if you're an alcoholic. It's hard. Coach Greg, and today I'm going to be reviewing a video by The Iron Musket. Many of you know he's reviewed my cookbook. Recently, he had hired me for a one-time coaching plan where I was able to learn more about him, give him some tips on losing weight and so on. He made a video. It's called the 10,000 calorie challenge. Why I'm not doing it. Watch the video. He revealed some interesting facts and information that I want to share to a lot more people because a lot of people I feel can really relate to this guy and his story. And he's so genuine. I really like the Iron Musket. One of my favorite YouTubers. I enjoy watching many of his videos, his recipes for ice creams and so on. This is why I'm not going to be doing the 10,000 calorie challenge. at least right now because I can't. Now, that's not me saying I can't eat that much food. I definitely can and that's why I'm not doing it. Trust you me. The man can eat 10,000 calories. He likes to eat and he in fact binge eats and has had a binge eating disorder for a long time. He says it himself in the video. I'm not breaking any rules. I'm not breaking his confidence. I'm not telling you things he's not saying in this video. binge eating. When you eat so many calories and you can't stop, you just keep eating. Too many calories, you can't put the fork down. Lot of you can relate. Way more people than you think have this. It's everywhere. So many people suffer from this, but just people aren't talking about it. People are talking about mental health or being an alcoholic, maybe being a drug addict, and so on. Not many people are saying, "Hey, suffer from binge eating disorder. I already put on about 20 pounds. Not right when quarantine started, but a few months after that, I lost my why. I lost my why. So, he's riding his bike. He loves the fresh air. He likes getting exercise. He enjoys it. He likes going to the gym. It makes him feel good. He gets a pump. Helps you look better, feel better, and get healthier. But not always. Not everyone has the ability to stay motivated all the time. Sometimes it just doesn't happen. You just don't feel it. You go to the gym and you want to give up. You don't want to get out on the bikes. You just aren't feeling it. So many people can relate to that. I am so fortunate and blessed that I enjoy the gym and the bike so much. I don't really find it that hard to go. I have really weird kind of crazy genetics. Okay. That's what allows me to do a bodybuilding contest where I have to get sub 5% body fat. You think anyone can do that? The amount of suffering you have to do, you have to be so dedicated. It's hard. I know not everyone can be like me. I'm crazy. Really, I am. But most of you can be better than you are. Okay? Most of you can be healthy. You don't need to be shredded to be healthy. Our musketss gained 20 pounds from his leanest ever weight. My suggestion was your goals are to be too lean. Not everyone can be 9% body fat like coach Greg Aron Muskin. He used to be overweight, lost the weight, and now he's gained 20 lbs back. It's really not bad. He still looks pretty healthy. Is he shredded? No. Is he jacked? No. Is he natural? Yes, he's natty. So, he's not going to have the crazy muscle mass that he could have if he was on PDS, but he's natural, so give him props. He's natural as a young guy. muscle will develop over time. Why not shoot for 15%. So many of your goals are to look like your favorite Gym Shark athlete, who's probably not natural, but so many of you want the six-pack abs, and it's hard. If you choose a weight that's too light, hunger hormones are eventually going to come after you, and you can't sustain it. Better to pick a weight that you can sustain for the rest of your life. Choose a diet that you can maintain for the rest of your life. Same with exercise. I loved everything about eating low calorie dense foods because for the longest I was suffering on tiny little schmuck servings and I would be hungry in 2 minutes. So he loves eating low calorie dense foods like from the cookbook. You eat low calorie dense foods, it fills you up and you lose weight. It does and it works. He was sick and tired of eating these small portions and having to stop and being hungry. But eventually he lost his way a little bit. He stopped eating that way and kept binge eating. It's a mental thing. You binge eat and you can't stop. You say, "I'll just deal with it tomorrow." It's still a choice. Eating is a choice. Okay? Of course, it's influenced by genetics and hormones. Grelin and watch it eat. It keeps punching you in the face to eat. So, here's the message. Don't try to do too much. Just do the best that you can do. The iron musket want to be too lean for his own good. Too much. You diet to a point that you're happy. If you're suffering, if you're starving, if you're hungry, if you have low energy levels, it's enough. Enough is enough. And when you get to that point, enough is enough. You stop dieting and you go to maintenance and you live at that weight. Maybe down the road someday, you'll be able to get even leaner. If you know anyone with a binge eating disorder or have ever read about it online, they don't want to be on camera while they're doing it. They don't want to show their face. They want to be in the dark. They want to be alone. They want to be isolated. It was what you didn't see behind the camera. People with binge eating disorders, they don't do it in public for the most part. It's done in secret when no one's around. They're buying the pizzas and the chips and the ice cream and they're eating alone in solitude. They don't want to be judged. You're binging. You're not proud of it, but you can't stop. It's a disorder. It needs to stop. And you can stop it. You have to try. Stop having unrealistic goals for yourself. If you're trying to maintain a body fat that's too low, the hunger hormones are going to keep coming. And if you binge until those hormones go away, it's not going to work. Often, you know what this leads to? It's called bulimia. A lot of people will have a binge eating disorder, not be able to stop eating, and then they say, "Hey, I just ate 10,000 calories. Uh, I better throw up." And that becomes one day, then another, then another, and before you know it, you're doing it 10 times a day, and all you're doing is eating and puking and eating and puking. Not a good thing. Certainly not healthy. No one's going to argue against that, believe me. Especially prevalent in the fitness world or frankly in any world, anywhere where beauty is defined as being a certain weight or a certain thinness. You're hungry, you eat, you have to. It's so hard to not eat. Fighting those cravings, those urges over and over again. You binge, you feel guilty, you purge. Believe me, it's an eating disorder. So is binge eating. It's not good. You need to have a wellbalanced diet of low calorie dense foods that you spread out throughout the day. Oh, I'll just do intermittent fasting and I can eat whatever I want at once. Then you eat 5,000 calories at once. Still binge eating. It's not going to solve anything. Sure, some of you have done it. Sure, some of you it works. Sure, couple of you, yeah, sure, some of you can do anything. But for the most part, it's not the best, most sustainable diet possible. Now, I don't want you guys to get concerned when you see all these food challenges and food review videos. Those aren't the times where I'm at a low point. Those are the times when I feel amazing. And no, I'm not saying the iron muscimic. But if you start binge eating, eating 5,000 plus calories a day, you might have to do 10 hours of exercise to burn that off. Or you could throw up. A lot of times throwing up looks a lot easier than going for 10 hours of cardio. That is what happens. And people have all this pressure to stay so lean. Imagine if I had to be 5% body fat year round to feel good about myself. Imagine if I didn't love myself at any weight. So, learn to love yourself at any weight. So many of you making fun of these posters. Love yourself at any size. Yes, you should love yourself at any size. If you're 400 lb, you should love yourself. If you're 400 lb, you should also love yourself enough to do the best you can do to diet and exercise. If that's the best you can do, if you're doing your best, then so be it. 400 lb, that's so be it. You don't want to diet to the point of having bulimia or anorexia or an eating disorder. It's not beneficial. Just be healthy. Do the best you can. That's different for everyone. I know this and I know your genetics are going to play a role in this. Do the best that you can. Don't develop an eating disorder. Stop trying to be perfect. No one can be perfect. I remember some days I was like, "Man, I lost the weight so fast, man. It's no worry. It's just 5 lb. Oh man, come on. It's just 10 lbs. Oh man, come on. It's 15 lb. Oh man, it's just 20 lb. Oh my gosh, I just screwed up bad. Now I feel depressed. So, I'm going to use food as comfort." This ridiculous cycle. It's a ridiculous cycle. You start gaining weight. Oh, it's 5 lbs. That's no big deal. It's 10. Forgive yourself. Hey, it's a pandemic. It's the cove. I gained 20 lbs. Okay. Eventually, it's like, "Oh crap, I screwed up. I gained all this weight. I didn't try. I gave up. Now what?" Then you get an eat disorder. Maybe you binge eat and then you throw up. Maybe you binge eat and you don't. Maybe you become anorexic. Maybe you have an exercise addiction. It's better to have moderation at all times. Always do a moderate amount that you can sustain and handle. I made the mistake. I shoved the food in my throat. I screwed up. Stopped going to the gym. I lost my mind. And now I Well, okay, fine. I guess I'll just tell you I'm a freaking billionaire. And I was able well, I had to skip a couple rent payments and sell my car, but then I could afford Coach Greg Ducet. So then he hired Coach Greg. He hired me for a client consult. Called me up. We spoke on the phone. Gave him as many tips as I could. Then he hired me for a one-time plan. He started eating from the cookbook, eating the planned recipes that I gave him. Greg gave me a lot of excellent tips because he knew what it was like to binge after a long period of restriction. So, I'm talking to Iron Mouse and I can relate. 59 bodybuilding competitions where I dieted to severely low body fat levels. And then after the show, no buffet was safe. My editor Steve, brother Steve, he knows. We go to the buffet, ate till we couldn't eat no more. Probably ate 10,000 calories in a sitting. Then guess what? We went to the all you can eat buffet again for lunch. And then for supper, after a period of severe calorie restriction, your body doesn't know what it's doing. It eats and eats and eats. I went from abs to flabs in a month. My first diet, I gained 25 pounds in a month. But sure, it was incredible. There was no way I could stop eating. I ate till I was sick. The soon as I could eat something else, I ate again. So, you don't think I can relate? 45 years old. I've been dieting since I was a teenager. I've been through everything y'all been through. I've done it. I've done every diet. I know what it's like. That's why I know the current diet that I'm on is the best diet. Not by a little bit, by a long shot. You think it's just PDS that allowed me to look like this, but then dieting like this for a heck of a long time, for years. Even before I took PDS, I still got shredded. I found a way. I got over the binge eating problem that I had. And I always knew I could eat a lot. That's why I challenged Will. I was like, man, I can eat a lot. I don't ever see people that can outeat me. I never actually witnessed someone in person eat more than me. So I'm like, I can eat a lot. So I challenge them. And why do I not do 10,000 calorie challenges all the time? Because they get views. 10,000 calorie donut. Tell me you wouldn't watch that. I don't do it because I don't want to trigger back binge eating disorders. I don't want to be a binge eater. It's a bad thing. I learned what not to do. But hey, I said, for this one time, I'm going to do a 10,000 calorie challenge, all from healthy food to prove a point. So hard to do. You think that would have been hard with pizza. That calorie challenge was a nightmare, but it was all healthy food. I don't want to eat a 10,000 calorie junk food binge diet. He told me, "You don't need to eat all your recipes. It's so simple. It's so simple. Taste testing recipes. You don't have to eat the whole batch. you could throw it away. I don't know about you guys, but when I was raised, you eat the whole plate. You don't waste food. You don't chuck food out. There are people in Africa and I felt horrible about those kids in Africa and I thought it would be the worst thing of all time if I were to dump the food. Same as musket when I was a kid. Hey, you got to finish your food. You got to eat it all. The starving children in Africa. That's what I was told when I was a kid. Sorry. That's why I was just saying what I was told. So, you eat the food. But like the most is saying, "Hey, if you throw that food in the garbage, feed it to the dogs, the starving people in Africa, they're not getting to eat it. Even if you throw in the trash, it's not being mailed to them. So it doesn't actually help. So you don't need to actually finish your food. You go to a restaurant and you got a big plate of fries and a burger, you're allowed to eat half the burger and half the fries and give the rest back. You don't have to actually eat it all. What would I do? I would eat my burger and fries and I would eat all six people's meals at the end of drostanolone. You guys all got fries left? Pass it over. I'm eating it all. Used to binge eat. Learned it was a problem. Had to do something about it. Was proactive. Said, "I'm not going to go to these buffets anymore. Wanted to not going to do it. Learn what works for you." I wasn't ever thinking I would ever need to hire anybody, but it got so screwed up where you're binging day after day after day. You've lost sight of your fitness goals and you think it's just as simple as, "Oh, put the fork down." Yeah. Yeah, it's exactly equal to that easy. However, that's the hardest part. It's so hard to put the fork down when you're hungry. Same as putting the bottle down if you're an alcoholic. It's hard. Not saying putting the fork down is easy. It's the hardest thing you'll ever do when you're hungry. Especially if you're high and hungry. Ever had marijuana and try to put the fork down when you're eating? Are you kidding me? And it's legal in Canada now. So, don't write in the comment section that I'm breaking the law. now. Not breaking the law anymore. Used to break the law. Not breaking it no more. It doesn't take long for me to get into a routine and get disciplined again. That's why I knew I was screwing up and kept going because I didn't care. I lost my why. I was like, man, nobody's watching me for my physique. I could just eat myself to hell. Here's the why. The why is for your health. Iron Musk, it's for your health. It's for you. It's not for me. It's not for other people who are watching your channel. It's for you. You go to the gym. You ride your bike. You eat healthy for you. Your body's a temple treated as such. Some days I was eating 6,000 calories in one meal after eating all day. Then my last meal is 6,000 calories. Do the math. He was eating all day. Then his final meal of the day was 6,000 calories in a sitting, turning over in pain. It's a binge eating disorder. He can't stop. Just like an alcohol addiction. You're drunk and you keep drinking. It's not good. And you know what's worse than that? Doing it again the next day. You have to decide for you. I have to stop this. It's hard, but you have to try. Try harder than last time. It got so bad that for the first time in my life, I said, I got to get the heck out of my environment and go to a hotel. This ain't happening. I can't just eat the whole house out of inventory, out of stock. I had to go to a hotel. I stayed there for around 2 days just to get my mind right. It was like when I went to a buffet and I looked and I was like, I can't stop. I'm going to eat it all. I can't stop until I'm so full. I'm going to explode. And that's what I did. So, what did he do? He's proactive. He literally left the apartment and went to a hotel to get out of it. Then he was fine. Couple days and I'm good. Out of sight, out of mind. The food wasn't there. Then he went back to the apartment. Binge again cuz the food's there. What's the lesson? Keep the crap out of the house. Get it out of sight. At least lock it away. prevent yourself from making that mistake. When I see people say, "Oh, well, you should just just let your body intuitively eat." So, people are say, "Hey, why don't you just like intuitively eat? You don't go all in. You know anyone that said to do that?" Well, guess what? In the real world, most people who go all in, they don't just binge for a while, normalize, and then lose all the weight, look amazing. They intuitively eat till they're 300 lb and then they're overweight, depressed, and then they have to crash diet and the cycle continues. It worked for one girl. Doesn't work for most people. So, the iron musket, great video. He's really truly trying to help people. He genuinely cares about your health. So many people, they're trying to maintain 6 7 8 9% body fat when they're not made to be that lean. Health is 15%. Since when is the leaner the better? The leaner the leaner? Leaner isn't better. Leaner isn't healthier. You're not healthier when you're 5% than 10. 10 and 15. 15% you're healthy. Maybe if you're a world class marathon or a cycling champion, you can get into that lower level of body fat for your sport. Doesn't mean it's healthy. Means you need to do that for your sport. Is it healthy to get punched in the face like boxing? No. But you do it for your sport. Is being 5% healthy to be a bodybuilder? No. But you do it for your sport. Stop trying to look like a professional bodybuilder for your entire life. Or be as lean as one. It's not healthy. Also, do not binge. Do not bulk to the point of force feeding. It's not healthy. Maintain a healthy weight for the rest of your life. Greg ducet.com for coaching. Greg Ducet IP Pro. Follow All about Ally. That's right. My girlfriend has a YouTube channel. Be sure to check her out. Blooping up two videos. Be sure to watch them. And until next time, I am out. out to go eat Thanksgiving with editor