And so there lies the problem. People think that Jeff is a sciencebased lifter. I mean, technically perhaps he is, but what's more important is that they're scratching each other's backs. If one person in this corner or the kingdom of back scratchers says something, the others have to agree with it. And if somebody does something wrong, the rest, well, they have to quickly try and cover it up. coach Greg and World War III has broken out. The Israel files were first released and next the Nipstine files and so in today's video which is literally going to be a Netflix documentary. I hope you all invested in nit I hope you all invested in Netflix because if you did it's going through the roof. I'm going to have content for years. >> And so in this video, things such as Jeff Nippard's coverup, the lies, the circle jerk, of which I would recommend cool head blended flavor. Remember, this is great for your favorite throat goat. And so with all these boys circle jerking it along, I highly recommend it. We're going to see how Solomon exposes Jeff Nippard for who he really is. He's going to expose Jeff Nippard for being exactly what I always knew. And so, wait till you see what he exposes. You are going to be shocked. Many of you not going to believe it. And all of you in the sciencebased community, all in that little circle jerk. Essentially, it's like the movie Mean Girls. When you find out what these professionals, these experts, these so-called scientists are actually doing, you are going to be shocked. You will never think of them the same. And so the entirety of the fitness industry is talking about this. We're going to see how Jeff Nippard's programs were essentially, I guess you could call it, first drafts. I mean, with the mistakes involved, impossible workouts, workouts that are literally physically impossible to perform. How Solomon discovered this and out and Jeff trying to cover it all up. We're going to see how Jeff treated Solomon upon Solomon making the video on Mike Israel and how Solomon along with a hero of Israel as well as Nippard was outcasted because they became friends with Coach Greg. will see with proof how Jeff has main character syndrome and thinks literally and I'm not making this [\h__\h] up that HDLT supplements the name harder than last time was based on me making fun of Jeff Nippard for what he says was not deadlifting hard enough because he had a back injury. He literally thinks I named my company HDLT supplements to make fun of him. Oh, and that Jet thinks that HLT has been scamming people out of millions of dollars for years. And so, if you want to find out the truth of the circle, the lube that's required, what actually went down? Well, stay tuned for several videos and be sure to go watch Solomon and click the hype button. It's currently at number 20 on hyped. So, please give Solomon a follow. I first was introduced to Solomon upon making a video on Dr. Mike, of which I reacted to, promoted his video, and since that time, he's amassed over 50,000 followers with only a few videos. Be sure to watch the Israel files, over 1 million views, and be sure to check out what else is in store. He's only approximately 25 years of age, but his YouTube trajectory is outstanding. And so after watching this video, I'm certain you're going to be thinking where is Jeff Nippard's apology that essentially these scientific researchers backed mainly by Mike Isizertell and Jeff Nippard among others has are simply a group of back scratchers or I like to call them circlejerkers. Don't forget your loop. And that the entire fitness industry is essentially being run by a fitness mafia. And so, just like it is in politics, get ready because the house of cards is falling down. And so, the first thing I recommend is you go out, press pause, get a bag of popcorn, and go into the comment section as you're in for a treat. A plane has hit the second science-based lifting YouTuber. 13,000 likes already with over a 100 replies. And so, the Twin Towers in this case essentially are Dr. Mike and Jeff Nipper, the central hub of what's going on. the leaders of the pack, if you will, and both of the towers are crumbling down. And of course, they're going to try to cover it up. Both of them. And we have proof. The evidence is clear. Turns out the bench press program Solomon acquired from Jeff was just a rough draft. Solomon singlehandedly helping Greg Ducet reach billionaire status. Babe, billionaire. Did you ever think I would be a billionaire? I mean, honestly, I did think it was possible. I I felt like there was a chance, but I don't think it's worth it. I think like >> millionaires have more problems. So, >> yeah, more money, more problems. I think $100 million is plenty. I don't need to add an extra zero. And so, I do believe they're exaggerating. I don't need to have nine digits. Perfectly happy with eight. So, I suppose if this does in fact keep up, who knows? Anything's possible. I mean, what are the odds I'll be become a billionaire? It's less. It's It's more than one a million. feeding Greg Ducet's family for generations with this one. Honestly, I already had this happen with the last one. With this one, it's going to be feeding. >> Who are we feeding >> at this point? I don't even know who we're feeding. I can't bulk that. I can't eat enough. Please come to bed, honey. It's 300 a.m. Not now, babe. A new chapter in the Israel saga just dropped. Every time Solomon releases a video, Greg moves up a tax bracket. I mean, honestly, I'm already in the highest hack bracket, so it's partially true. If I were not already there, I would be moving up brackets, but hey, it's a good point. Babe, wake up. Solomon is wrecking another fitness YouTuber. Now, I don't see this comment anywhere, but couldn't we say, "Hey, turn the TV on. What channel?" >> It doesn't matter. And so just like 9/11 back in the day or other major historical events, just turn on the TV. Everyone is going to be talking about it. And so the Nipststein files, the Israel files couldn't get any bigger. Jeff was so annoying with his response to Solomon's PhD review. He didn't even look into it. He just immediately ran to cover for his buddy. Not very science-based. And so there lies the problem. People think that Jeff is a sciencebased lifter. I mean, technically perhaps he is, but what's more important is that they're scratching each other's backs. If one person in this corner or the kingdom of back scratchers says something, the others have to agree with it. And if somebody does something wrong, the rest, well, they have to quickly try and cover it up. Hence, it's just like the mafia. One does one thing, one agrees. If one says something bad, they have to jump to their defense. And so anyone that wants to be in this circle, the mean girl circle, they have to agree with everyone in the circle. And so when one person strays and so for example, Solomon used to be in that circle was literally helping Nifford with his programmings, the programs that he was selling to the world, Nippard was paying Solomon to help him with these productions. And so when Solomon began to see some of the information was wrong from Dr. Mike Isertell as well as Jeff Nippard. They had to outcast him to quickly clear him up, delete comments, write emails saying, "Don't talk about this." All because Solomon was speaking the truth, as well as agreeing with Coach Greg, which I've always been doing. All my channel does is call out the [\h__\h] Many of you thought, "Oh, no, it's my bullshit." But turns out I was right after all. I've been vindicated yet again. If Solomon has taught me anything in this beef, it's to not [\h__\h] with the real nerd. What's the matter, babe? You've barely touched your cedar and Gatorade. The Nipstein files. Incoming Dr. Milo video claiming that the private messages were all just rough drafts and accidentally sent by his university. It's funny they mentioned these PhDs because people who are involved in PhDs understand that there is no like first draft, second draft, third draft. There's continuous mentoring and monitoring where they're continuously evaluating, making sure that you're doing things right. There's no way you would get to a final thesis paper with mistakes everywhere. This just wasn't happen. But hey, I guess not every university PhD is equivalent. I mean, when you go to horrendously low valued universities where essentially it's just PhD mills, you you pay the money, you go to university, and you get the PhD. And then if you're working for the right person and you do enough collabs, you can scratch each other's backs and defend everything that they're saying. PhD candy here. No way the committee signature page would be put on a draft or accidentally uploaded by a library admin. Even MA thesis requires the version that gets archived to be the absolute final version. The document you assess was the version that was defeated, subsequently edited, and then submitted. The following narrative about it being a draft are utterly implausible. My god, man. They have not even recovered from the first nuke. I think I'll start praying for a Milo video to complete the trilogy. This is brutal. John Bravo, I'm here for World War II. Bruh, Solomon is singlehandedly taking down the fake science circle jerk that dominates YouTube fitness. This is a tremendous contribution, sir. We appreciate it. When a bunch of spudo intellects poked the wrong bear, and that's exactly what's happening, lmao, I now have a parasocial relationship with Solomon Nelson, my former client. What a flex. And so, remember, Jeff is Solomon's former client. And so, when he says these things with evidence, with photos of emails, interactions, and so on, it is not a lie. and he kept the receipts. Jeff can't delete his comments out of this one. Realizing there will never be a better YouTube drama than this is truly incredible. What a time to be alive. Finally, the whole fitness mafia is getting exposed. Turns out the entire science-based fitness community are just bros appealing to authority. When someone who is actually smart is provoked by people who are pretending to be smart. I mean, I'm not sure if Mike Isertel was pretending to be smarter. I mean, Ziku was over 160. And didn't Jeff Nippard study to be a dentist and then dropped out? I mean, and so, how is he not an exercise scientist? I mean, he went to school to study dentistry, and so, of course, he's an expert on the human body. Well, I mean, he did study the mouth a lot, and so perhaps he is in fact a throat goat. And so did Mike Ezertell see that Jeff Nipples dropped out of You like that, right? And so did Mike Ezertell see Jeff Nipples drop out of dentistry school and ask him to join his circle as a throat goat? If Jeff Nippard thinks that you merily pointed out semicolons, he never watched the video, but of course he is just acting in bad faith to cover up the science mafia. How dare YouTube hide this from me for 11 seconds? No way. Jeff actually made those Instagram comments. Is he a child? Yes, he made those comments. I see every single one of them. I screenshotted those comment. I sent him to other people and said, "This is your hero, your savior, the one that you think would never lie, that he would never do anything to cover anything up. That he's 100% honest, that he has integrity." I've known about this from Jeff for years. Jeff Nippard fake wholesome science-based persona is over. Thank you, Solomon. Solomon is basically all four horsemen of the manllet apocalypse. >> I mean, you're also going down. >> No, baby. Yeah, I'm not a manlet. I'm taller than both. She thinks I'm a manlet. I'm taller than both Jeff Nippard and Mike Israel. >> Towering over. >> I tower over these guys. >> Yeah, >> I've met them in person and I am in fact taller than last time. >> The third tower though. No, there's only two twin towers. >> Yeah, that's >> that's right. >> No, I'm one of the guys that rescue. I'm essentially the firefighters that go in to save the day. I'm exposing all the cover-ups, guys. You don't think I know? You don't think I got the dirt as well? Okay, that's enough of this. All right. And so, with all further ado, strap yourselves in. Get out the strap on if you want. Get our throat goats and lube. You're in for a ride. A long one at that. And so, we're going to be edging harder than last time. Next time on Coach Greg. >> Jeff Nippod. Jeff Nippod. Jeff Nippod. Jeff Nippod. >> Wait a minute. Get it how you live it. Jeff Nippod. Jeff Nippod. >> Now that the truth has emerged, I wonder if scientist Jeff is feeling ashamed of himself for his part in bringing the standards down to an even lower level. In Jeff's words, I suppose anyone that shows the truth about someone, anyone that talks about somebody, unless it's circlejerking them, well, he doesn't like