HHS largely flipping the old food pyramid upside down. >> Perhaps they watched South Park and this is what they came up with. >> Sir, the pyramid is upside down. >> Turn the pyramid upside down. >> If you believe that, you're a Coach Greg, and you're not going to believe it, they've just released the new food pyramid, guys. And they essentially did what Cartman back on South Park from 11 years ago suggested that be done. >> Sir, we've got a boy on the hotline who says he might know something. >> It's upside down. >> What? >> Who else is here because the pyramid turned upside down in 2026? Who's here after JFK turned the pyramid upside down? JFK just did this for real. Every comment is going towards the South Park episode. And of course, you've all seen this back from 11 years ago as it just proves how ridiculous and moronic that the world actually is. You guys all believe in sciencebased If this isn't your wakeup call as to the that the government officials, the powers that be are spewing, well, I don't know what is. Does anyone think that they needed to just flip the period upside down? That the reason why so many other people are obese is because they're eating too many grains. You know that grains food group. It's the cause of all the problems. If we only ate more beef, butter, and tallow, add in some cheese, there would be no problems. If you believe that, you're a And here is the problem. People are not exercising and they're not following the food group in the first place. How is the food recommendation supposed to work if the people don't follow the recommendations? >> We've been fed a corrupt food pyramid that has had a myopic focus on demonizing natural healthy saturated fats, telling you not to eat eggs and steak. >> How many of you think that you know the solution? It lied in not having a corrupt keyword corrupt food pyramid. Is it the people who made the original pyramid? Is it those people that were corrupt and that this time around nobody is corrupt? IT'S ALL BASED ON the goodness, the kindness of their heart >> and ignoring a giant blind spot, refined carbohydrates, added sugars, ultrarocessed foods. And so we can see that the major changes are the emphasis on fatty foods, butter, tallow being at the top, being the most important, and reducing the amount of sugars and also artificial sweeteners. That's something that's not mentioned here. They don't want you to have your diet pops and so on as if that's causing obesity. Studies have literally shown the opposite. Now, a few things that I like. They suggest the increase in protein. That makes sense. I would have increased it a little bit more. 1 gram of protein per pound of body weight. But hey, more protein, it's a step in the right direction. And so 1.2 to 1.6 g per kilogram of body weight. And so it works out to over.55 to perhaps 7 g per pound of body weight. A little bit more than it was. For fruits and vegetables, it suggests two servings of fruit each and every day and three of vegetables. My suggestion would be that would be even higher and two to four whole grain servings each and every day. Now, who do you think came up with this? Did they call up Coach Greg? Did they send me a DM to say, "Coach Greg, you know, we know that you know what you're doing. You got an amazing cookbook. Can you in fact design the pyramid?" I would have had the pyramid. It would have had a lot of the foods in my food group. It would had my cookbook at the top. I would had a reduction in butter. who wants to cook with butter uh fat from fatty steaks. I would have removed all of that cuz it's high in saturated fats. But no, they didn't contact me. They could have. I would have been happy to help them. But what did the US government contact? >> I want all of you to take a look at the conflicts of interest section here. Many of these reviewers have been paid by big beef and big dairy. >> And so what do they do? Well, they pay off people with conflicts of interest. you know, people who perhaps have it in your best interest to consume more butter, fats, dairy, highfat dairy, all these things. You get those people, give them a few bucks, and then all of a sudden, a new pyramid is made. I mean, that would be equivalent to if the food pyramid came out, you saw my name in it, and there was a recommendation for Blue Robster Preworkout right on top of it. What would y'all be thinking? And so when they're paying big pharma to be involved in this, does that not raise the red flag? >> But then they say that saturated fat should not exceed 10% of total daily calories. For most adults, that's around 20 to 25 gram of saturated fat a day. >> They're recommending a significant increase in fat. you know, fatty steaks, butter, beef, tallow, highfat dairy, but at the same time, don't consume more than 10% saturated fat in your diet. How do you do each of those things? That would be like recommending that everyone gets an massive increase in protein, but that they go on a vegetarian diet. Would that make sense? No, it would not. And so, this is equivalent to that. And so if you're trying to consume less saturated fat, you need to cut out the foods that have more saturated fat, namely butter, highfat dairy, and highfat meat, and so on. >> HHS largely flipping the old food pyramid upside down, releasing new dietary guidelines. >> Did they all watch the season finale of Stranger Things and decide to go to the upside down, literally the upside down world? They said, "You know what? Let's flip the pyramid. Perhaps they watch South Park." And this is what they came up with. >> We have ended an era of medical dogma where in the past the only thing that has been recommended is to avoid fat. >> How many of you raised your hand thought the only thing you needed to do to lose weight was to avoid fat? Nobody had their hand up. What do you think you needed to avoid? Junk food, bunch of sugar, eating fast food after midnight. Just like the gremlins probably shouldn't be eating after midnight. We are moving on to a scientific based approach to say we need more protein. >> Oh, it's a science-based approach now. And so they cherrypick a few science-based things like we should eat more protein. That's great advice. I'll give you some applause for that. More protein. But what about including butter and beef tallow at the top of the list? You know, when you cook your anabolic French toast from my freaking cookbook, you're going to use a bunch of butter because it's suggested to add in butter and beef tallow in the freaking pyramid. Why do you think I removed a yolk? It removed the calories. Last I checked, in order to lose weight, it's calories in, calories out. That is how we lose weight. And so, whatever pyramid scheme that you want in order to help you lose weight, so long as it allows you in a calorie sit, that's the scheme that's going to work. And so, if you're adding in oils and butters in order to cook, you are a Thank you yet again. You are an idiot. >> And there's nothing wrong with fat. You don't need to serve kids lowfat foods like low-fat dairy. And so there's nothing wrong with highfat dairy. Well, not if you're an athlete, not if you're me, not if you're an epig, if you're racing bikes, but if you're a fat piece of sitting on your couch and you weigh 400 lb, and you reach for the highfat Greek yogurt, or better still, the hogen dolls, the fat dairy products, and a bunch of whole eggs, and you consume bacon and ribeye steak. Do you really think that's going to help you to lose weight? And so why not switch to lower fat dairy products, lower fat meat choices, those fatty steaks, chicken breasts, and why not have some white fish? Perhaps you can have your healthy fats from salmon. Would that not make sense? And while you're at it, why are you still drinking regular pop? Drink a diet soda. It's got perhaps five calories. And studies, that's right, actual studies have shown that you're more satiated and it prevents you from being as hungry and it keeps you on a diet for longer even after the diet is stopped. >> So, let's bring in Jillian Michaels, the host of Toxic America's Food Crisis on Fox Nation. Good morning. >> Good morning. >> Good morning. How is this new information? >> What does Jillian Michaels know about anything aside from screaming at a bunch of fat lossers on how to lose weight? >> What the am I here for? Does she actually know anything? All I remember about Jillian Riichels is that she screams and shouts at people who are obese to tell them to keep exercising. Oh, and she tells them to take a bunch of caffeine pills, which is actually cheating for the show. Do you guys all know this? I watched the documentary. So, this had been captured decades ago by the Corn Refiners Association, the Wheat Growers of America, the Soybean Growers of America. >> That's right. We went from one group of biased paid off focused groups who decided what the fear of pyramid should be to a different group of paid off food biased groups who are saying something different. >> The prior guidelines were driven not by health interest but by merkantile interest of the food industry. They're both biased. And this is going to result in hundreds of billions of dollars of food being put out in schools and so on based on whoever had the most money to convince the people who made the food pyramid to put in what they wanted. This is not impartial. It's not science-based. Merkantile entre of the food industry. Some people are thinking, "Oh, yes, this is such a great change." They're focusing on real foods, whole foods. How many of you didn't think that the previous guidelines focused on real foods, whole foods? They never recommended that you go out and buy junk food, chips, cookies, cakes, and ice creams all the time. That wasn't part of the plan. It said to limit that, perhaps one or two servings a day. This is no different. The problem over the years, and why obesity has gotten so much worse, there's far more people who are in fact obese or morbidly obese, is because people, they move less. If you're very active, you can eat the old pyramid style. You can eat whatever you want. The problem is, most of you aren't athletes. Most of you are sitting on your ass playing video games all day or watching with your thumbs. If you're not losing weight, try to consume fewer calories. Get my freaking cookbook. Don't forget about Go2 Max as well as Turk Builder Platinum. Go to the gym, lift weights, build muscle, boost up your metabolism, and stop eating so many foods. You know what those are. Eat more fruits and vegetables, more lean proteins, and more lowfat dairy products. If you do all of that, it's going to be that much easier for you to lose weight. GLP max because this helps you to have less appetite cravings and so on. And so when you consume this, you're less hungry. It's kind of like ompic and tricetide and rea less hungry, you eat less food, calorie deficit, you lose weight. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment boost algorithm videos, you got to watch those. Looking to sponsor HLT athletes. If you're interested, of course, click the link and apply. And if you own a store or a gym, looking to have our products into your stores, click and apply right now. And of course, you get your blood work done. Get various things like HRT and Clomophine, Tadalapil, Seialis, get all those things. Get it at algo RX code Greg for 10% off. And until next time, now I'm out.