You're looking down at your opponent. You have respect for them. You're talking to them. But you can see the the brain's ticking. What do I actually think of this guy? How do I measure up to him? Coach Greg, and you've got the pose down you were looking for. Sam Sulic versus Larry Wheels. We don't have to wait till they compete against each other next year. And so here is the preview. And so before this takes place, they hit a chest workout together. And on the last set, Larry Wheels, he calls Sam Sulic a god. Oh god. >> And so Larry very impressed with Sam Sulic's training technique, his effort. Larry wheels a little bit stronger than Sam, but who wins in a pose down? >> Oh, okay. Hell yeah. >> Hell yeah. >> We'll we'll get in front of a mirror somewhere. Yeah. Uh >> and so we see the smirk from Sam. He's ready to pose down. They both have equally pumped their chest. And so it's very equal. Now remember Sam Sulick, he doesn't have a proper tan. And so he is at a slight disadvantage. They're both weighing over 260 pounds. Sam Sulick is about two inches shorter. And so pound-for-pound, Sam actually has more muscle than Larry Wheels. But you wouldn't think that by looking at them, Larry Wheels is huge. In particular, with his upper body, Sam Sulic, on the other hand, we know he has the better legs. >> Purely based on forearms, there's a little different league. We got a bit more size and grain here. And so Sam acknowledges, "Look, Larry Wheels has more size and grain in the forearms. We know where he developed those forearm muscles. It's from Cam Girls from way back when." Larry seems to be slightly leaner than Sam Sulic. He has more vascularity. He does appear to have more muscle. And so, who is actually going to win this? I mean, based on how they look in shirts and clothing, I got to give it to Larry Wheels. >> But that's not all. That's not the tell all of a build, right? Bodybuilding. >> But Sam has a great point. It's not just who has the best forearms. I mean, we need to remove the tarps. As Jesse James said, tarps off for the boys. And so, let's see it. Bring it, guys. Who's going to come out on top? And who will be a bottom? >> Well, I mean, [\h__\h] how long have you been on the bodybuilding side of things? >> About 2 years now. Since 23. >> So, he's been bodybuilding longer than me. >> I mean, Sam, let's be honest. Larry Wheels is what, 7 years older than you? He started lifting at about the same age as you did around 15. And so regardless if Larry Wheels has been bodybuilding longer or not than you, he's been lifting for far longer. He has the advantage. You don't peak in bodybuilding in your early 20s, it's most oftent times in your 30s. And so even if it's a tie or even if Sam Sulic is a little bit behind Larry at this point, he most likely will catch up and surpass him >> in the sense of at least competing. I mean, just look at them standing next to each other. Larry Wheels is clearly dominant. However, you wouldn't think that Sam Sulick and Larry would weigh the exact same amount. Larry, he looks more massive and he's taller. And so, poundfor-pound, inch for inch, you would think that Larry would be perhaps 30, maybe even 40 lbs bigger than Sam. However, they do have their shirts on. And bodybuilding often comes down to the smallest of the waist. And so if Larry has a smaller waist than Sam, it's going to make him appear a lot larger. In comparison, Sam is perhaps thicker in the waistline. Perhaps he's carrying a little bit more body fat. And so, let's just wait and see. And so, first glance, Larry's bigger. Larry looks a little bit leaner. He has more size. Overall, everything appears to be better. >> Man, my boy looking. Guys, I got to confess this is a little sus. They're ripping off their shirts. They're all pumped up. They're sweaty. They're breathing hard. I hear, "All right, man." And I have on closed captioning and it says, "All right, man. My boy looking dick." And so, even close captioning thinks that this is well male on male action. >> I'm just reporting the news. And so before even hitting the pose, you notice the width that Larry Wheels possesses. His delts are wider than last time. He has very wide clavicles and his chest muscles, they're like balloons on his chest. It makes no sense. And he does appear to have larger arms and larger forearms. And so everything about Larry is beating Sam as they stand, relax, ready to pose. And as they hit the pose, it still belongs to Larry. He has the thicker chest. He has more muscle. He's a little bit wider skin color. frankly is a little bit better. And so, one pose for Larry. As Sam flexes down, preparing for the side chest, he's showing us the tricep. This side, tricep on the side, very lean, looking very thick. And so, hey, very good-looking arms for Sam Sulick. Now, once they hit the pose, I'm still giving it to Larry. You can see there's more trapezius development here. He has more cap delts. His arms appear to be a little bit larger. and the chestfulness, it's off the charts for Larry. Two poses for Larry Wheels. Both gentlemen, offseason, they still show prominent Christmas trees. And so, these guys aren't fat. They're looking very, very lean for offseason bodybuilders. In the back, double bicep. I thought Larry Wheels was going to knock it out of the park. Larry Wheels, I do believe his back is his best body part. One thing, however, that you need to understand is that the camera is placed further to the right. And so the person to the left is going to look a little bit smaller. So in this pose, Sam does appear to be mogging Larry Wheels. However, I think if the camera were centered, I do think that Larry Wheels would have more muscle on his back. If I didn't know better, I might say that this is now two poses to one for Larry Wheels. However, I know that the camera angle is playing tricks on people. He's mogging him. From the closer camera, I can see the thickness of Larry Wheel's back, as in how much muscle is poking out from the back. So, imagine I'm standing to the side. How much muscle is actually going back that way? How thick is it? It's as if you could poke a 4in needle through his muscle and it wouldn't hit the end. He's so thick. It's also sounding really, really sus judging a man, but hey, he's super thick. The bubbliness of the muscles. I'm still giving it to Larry. three poses to zero. >> I'd say very very different levels of size. >> Do you think so? >> And so Sam Sulic, he has no ego. Look, very different levels of size, Larry. Do you think so? I mean, he's not going to say, "Yes, clearly I'm so much bigger than you." He knows it, but he doesn't need to say it. And so when guys talk to guys, they're trying to lift each other up. Hey, you have a lot of size. You're really thick. You're looking really lean. Really? You think so? Oh my god, you're so much bigger than me. Well, really, no way. We both weigh in the 260s and so they're being very nice, very cordial, >> very different levels of size. >> But not incomparable. >> Not incomparable. >> If we took the pants off, >> this is the most sus pose down of all time. And so Sam's like, "Look, we do have differences of size, but it's not incomparable. It's not like when I was posing against when I was flexing with Z and he said, show the legs. Show the legs, bro. >> Show the legs. >> I'll leave these pants on. >> For one front post and then you can put it back on. >> Oh my god. >> Bro was an alpha. He made me take my pants off in the middle of the gym and so I did it. And he mogged me. He only weighed perhaps 235 lbs. He was 265, but yet he looked bigger than him. But in this comparison, hey, it's not apples and oranges. It's apples and apples. Only one is slightly bigger than the other. if we took the pants off, we'd have something to talk about. >> And so Larry says, "Look, you know, if we took our pants off, then we'd have something to talk about." I mean, imagine the viral views that that would get. Larry Wheels and Sam Sulik start an OAF account together. That breaks the internet. >> I think in the department, it's a no. Brandy, you got me wavy there. >> No ego whatsoever. He says, "Look, Sam. Yeah, I agree with you. I have more muscle in the upper body. I mean, it's very obvious. It's apparent. We can see this. He's more rounded. He's bubblier. But if we had to compare legs, no question Sam Sulick's got it. I think everyone believes that. And so what we have is we have two amazing classic physique professional bodybuilders. And how do we pick the winner? Sam Sulick has better legs and Larry Wheels has a better upper body. Now, the one thing that's lacking here is they're not in show condition. When you diet down for competition, how much muscle will remain? How close to their weight caps will each of these athletes actually be? We can't decide who's the champion in this offseason, I'm giving it to Larry Wheels. There are more muscles in the upper body than that of the legs. And so, if Larry Wheels wins in the upper body and Sam Sulick wins in the legs, the upper body still takes it. It's not one to one, if you know what I mean. However, come showtime, if Sam Sulic diets down to sub 4% body fat and Larry Wheels only shows up at sub 5% body fat, I do believe Sam Sulick will take it. There's still a long time until the Arnold's or whenever they decide to face off against each other. And so Sam Sulick still has more muscle he can put on. And don't forget with the proper tan as well as dehydration pumping up effectively and with exquisite posing, it's going to come down to each other's look on the day of the competition. You cannot predict it. As you're seeing it right now, it does look like Larry Wheels has an advantage, but come showtime, you never know Sam Sulic might in fact take it. >> Yeah, never. Well, now this was nuts, man. >> Definitely, man. >> This was nuts. I mean, I didn't see any. No one's pants were removed. No one said should the legs would have really wanted to see these legs in comparison to each other, but postlift pose downs don't often involve the legs. And in fact, often times they do, especially when you're posing together in a dark room with the lights off in a gym with a camera recording. But hey, we didn't see their legs. >> Freaking all the hospitality in the world in this freaking gym. They're opening up special treatment and everything. >> The special treatment it it took place. >> There was no extracurricular activities that I saw going on. They hit a 30inut workout. Remember this is after an expo. This is past 9:30 at night. It's perhaps 11:00. I don't know how late this is going on, but they had an excellent workout training together. Two of the top most famous IFBB Pro Classic competitors in the world. >> I try to give you the red carpet experience. That's the way to do it. >> Oh yeah. No, I got to eat something. >> Definitely >> off to go eat some carpet. Larry wheels and Sam Sulic. >> You got to get some sleep. This guy's saying he's going to bed at 9:30. >> I'm way past my bedtime. >> It's like 11:00. >> And following that, they're going to bed in separate rooms, guys. Get your minds out of the gutter. >> And we got another expo tomorrow. >> Yes. >> But I guess I'll see you over there >> 100%. >> Yeah. Good luck. >> Yeah, you too. You got a 3-hour queue. And so this reminds me so much of that epic scene in the movie when Arnold Schwarzenegger meets his foe and they're shaking hands. >> You son of a [\h__\h] >> And it's like you're looking down at your opponent. You have respect for them. You're talking to them, but you can see the the brain's ticking. What do I actually think of this guy? How do I measure up to him? One more thing, the deciding factor that's going to take place to decide the winner between Sam Sulic and Larry Wheels, I do in fact believe it's got to be whichever person is taking Turk Platinum or Turk Max. This is the game changer, the difference maker, if you will. I mean, even if you're taking performance-enhancing drugs, this can be a benefit. Now, if you're 100% natural, this is almost like taking a performance sentencing drug, only it's legal. And why do I say it's almost like one? Well, because it's legal. It's on Wat's watch list, but if you take it, you're not actually banned, and so you're not cheating. And what is a performance-enhancing drug? It's a drug that enhances performance. I'm going to simplify that so that you understand it. It's something that you take that's not like food that makes your performance or your athletic ability or your outcomes you more than they were. You're going to improve and so enhancing it means improving and so getting better. And so this isn't food and it's going to enhance or make better your performance. And by that I mean make you stronger, have more muscle, recover more, so that whatever you're doing, whether it's sprinting on a bike or lifting weights in the gym, like doing a leg press or a squat, trying to train for 2 hours, doing cardio, and so on, it's going to improve that to make it better. And so, it's kind of like a performance-enhancing drug, only it's not a drug. It's without the drug part. And so, it's a performance-enhancing supplement. It's a lot like creatine, only creatine, it doesn't work as well as Turk Platinum or Turk Builder Max. And you're thinking, well, how is that possible? Isn't this the gold standard? Do you know how much muscle you can expect to gain from creatine kilogram? This is not bad. It's pretty good. And do you know what percentage of people can feel or notice creatine working? Well, out of 119,000 people that I surveyed, only 50%. And so the best natural supplement in the world which I think we can conclude is this right now until more research comes out on Turk Builder Max which is a Juga Turkistanica and so on only 50% notice this half and so if a million people take creatine half a million people feel creatine this is better and so if a million people take Turk builder more people are going to like this than creatine and so I can't wait for the studies to come out And what we need is a double blind placebo control trial where you give for example 100 people creatine 100 people Turk platinum or juga turkistanica 100 people nothing no one knows what they're taking and after they taken it for I don't know let's call it a month maybe it's 10 weeks you say to the person which of the groups do you think you were in you see this is me using some logic which you think you're in if you had no performance benefit whatsoever ever. If you didn't feel anything, you're going to say, "H, I bet I was in the placebo." Now, if you had some performance benefit, you you maybe gained a kilogram, for example, gained a couple pounds, maybe you got a little bit stronger, you're probably going to guess you were in creatine. The other group is going to say, "You know what? My training was through the roof. I was way stronger. I had more energy. I recovered faster. I have no idea how I was able to get those kind of gains. They're going to get this group and then you're all going to eat your words and all of you are going to continue to buy and reby Turk Platinum and Turk Builder Max. Do you get it now? Do you know what I'm saying? This is greater than that. Now, the disadvantage, totally transparent, this costs way more. And so dollar for dollar, I don't think that this is better deal than that. And so if you don't have any money, you're a broke college student, for example, you're only 19 years of age, this is the one that you get. This is very expensive. It's not for people that don't make a lot of money. Well, understand this. The competitors that lie to you and sell you fake auga and lie about it and it's actually cyanosis or some other plant, a copy plant, and we've actually tested them with chain of custody. And so we can prove it if anyone tries to sue us. We have the proof. We have the receipts. And on top of that, we have a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And so I see the comments. Oh, you snake oil salesman. Well, don't buy it then. But if you do buy it and it is snake oil, you get your money back. And so who loses here? Who exactly is the loser? the people, the tens of thousands of people buying this and rebying it that love it or the people that bought maybe Gorilla Mines Turlex or some other [\h__\h] product that didn't have a Juga Turkiststatica and then they said, "Oh, it didn't actually work." Who's actually losing? The ones who buy my product and love it or the ones who don't? Code Greg 15% off. Remember, I'm a part owner of Algo RX. And so, if you want to get your blood work taken or if you want to get Seialis to Dalifil or Talmasin or Enclophene, the list goes on and on. You can get it very, very quickly, easily, fill out a few questions. A doctor will prescribe it legally. Pharmaceutical medications right to your door. And so, what are you waiting for? The cheapest prices you can find, way cheaper than Mer Health on average, less than half price. And so, hey, if you got money to burn, then buy all of these. They're the most expensive. And go and get peptides and other supplements from anywhere else. But if you are shopping on a budget, you don't have as much money, you can get this one. It's cheaper. As well as you can get creatine, and you can go to algo RX code Greg, 10% off from Algo RX. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Let me know in the comment who do you think is going to win, Sam Sulic or Larry Wheels. And of course, we got the cookbooks, the circle diet book, got the training books, coaching plans by me and my team. If you want to get coached by me, just my call last night for 45 minutes. We had eight of my athletes show up and I answered all of their questions. And so, if you want the best coaching in the world, click the link and apply right now. And last but not least, don't forget to purchase Momentous Apparel. Click the link in description. And until next time, I am out.