The twin towers of the Isertel and the Nipstein, they came crashing down. >> Jeff's actions suggest that for him they don't. >> Mom and Meanie, he wrote me nasty email. Read it about me. Does that not sound like Bean Girls the movie? >> Whoopsie. Wrong version was simply something that uncritical Jeff wanted to believe. >> Release the Nipstein rap video. Wait a minute. Get it how you live it. Jeff Nippot. Jeff Nippot. the trend set up. Jeff Nippod, science-based lifter. Jeff Nippod, quick step off. Jeff Nippod, I don't want to take your picture. >> And so, getting back to Jeff's comment, the entire HTT brand harder than last time. The entire brand, my entire brand worth tens of millions of dollars is an acronym that originated from videos falsely claiming I wasn't training hard based off one clip of me deadlifting during back injury rehab. He literally thinks that my company brand harder than last time of which I have a sign in my basement that I look up when I'm ready to sprint when I haven't gone hard enough when I'm thinking do I have any strength left any power left I look up at the sign it says harder than last time that that was based on Jeff doing one set not to failure while he had hurt his back doing deadlifts really Jeff main character syndrome much you think I named my company brand to try to get at you for trying to get at you for training like a kitty not training hard because of one set you did not to failure when your back was injured. Really, Jeff? You really think that's the case? Or has it been my entire brand for decades? Since I was a little kid, since I was in my teens. I started training at 10. I'm 50. I've been training for four decades. It's longer than you were born. And what has been my motto? Train harder than last time. Harder than freaking last time. harder than last time. >> Don't you know it's trained harder than last time? >> I don't push one to three reps in reserve. Don't do too much recoverable volume. Don't push yourself. Save yourself. No, I tell people to train hard. And so my brand harder than last time is not based on the fact that you didn't train hard for one set of deadlifts because your back was injured. Greg also constantly pedals bunk supplements like turquestone and undermines science regularly. Really? I have over a billion views, Jeff. And I debunk false videos that other people make and my Turkeone is not bunk. It's a Jugga Turkiststanica. And I've been vindicated. And I know you know this. I know you've seen these videos. It's not possible that you have not. You know that Derek was the scammer. Turquestone from Coach Greg's HLT supplements comes from Ajuga Turkiststanica from Isbekiststan and I have proof and you're welcome to test it in your new lab whenever you want. Lyall, your other coast collaborator and I are not on good terms. Oh well, wow. We were not on good ter is Jeff used to love this guy was an ambassador selling his programs, his books. Jeff used to promote Lyall, but now they're not on good terms. Why do you think that is? Have you ever seen any of the Lyall videos about my Gizertell? Lyall constantly pokes the holes in my Kizertell's knowledge. And so what does Jeff then do? I don't like Lyall because he doesn't like Jeff and I like Mike. And so because of the circle jerk they're involved in, well, I can't be friends with Solomon because Solomon's friends with Lyall. Does that not sound like Bean Girls the movie? He's adorable. Oh, it's so fetch. >> Jeff has literally stated that he almost agrees with everything that Lyall has stated. He literally hired him to go over his programs. And so Nippod knows that Solomon knows what he's doing. He, as in Lyall, cut me off at least five or 6 years ago for no apparent reason. And not in a nice way at all. In not a nice way, Lyall stopped messaging Jeff. And so he now hates Lyall because in not a nice way he stopped talking for no reason. Jeff, you were friends with Hussein. And why do you think you used Hussein for that video? It could it be because he had close to 3 million followers on Instagram? Could it be because he was very famous and trending and you thought that by putting him in one of your videos that it would get a lot of views of which of course it did. And so you tried to milk Hussein. But then Hussein, well, his friends with Coach Greg. And so, wait a minute. I can't be friends with Hussein cuz Greg is now friends with Solomon and went on his channel. And so, what does Jeff do? He then throws Hussein under the bus. That is the level that Jeff is willing to go. If you don't say the right thing, if you don't jerk the right person, you're not involved in scratching the right backs. Well, he doesn't want to have anything to do with you and he'll throw you to the wolves. And so then he says, "Recently, he sent a harassing email received by my mom who manages my web email." Let's let's unpack this. He writes Jeff an email of which his mom reads cuz his mom manages his email. I mean, what is Jeff living with his mom? His mom manages his email. And so his mom reads the email which is directed at Jeff. And he then says, "Oh, you wrote my mom an ass email." No, Jeff. He wrote you the email and your mom happened to read it. What did you say? Mom meanie. He wrote me email. Read it. Mommy, >> not a mama. Not the mama. >> What kind of a baby are you? I mean, I know you're a manlet, but you don't have to be a baby. A few years ago, I released an ebook for a high frequency program and he used that to public call me a charlatan. I guess only Lyall is allowed to release ebooks. Jeff is now thinking, "Well, anyone that's friends with Lyall, you're outcasted." Because he hurt he hurt his feelings. I also thought the expose on Mike's PhD was petty. Really? It was just petty. As far as I know, fair journalistic standards are to at least reach out to the party before publishing. I mean, this is ridiculous. It would be like going to the movies, watching a movie, and not liking it, and then calling up the producer of the movie and saying, "Are you sure that I watched the final draft? I mean, I didn't really like the movie, so hey, do you have another version of that movie that I could read that maybe I would like? Really, that's what he should have done? Where was your messaging Hussein to make sure that my comment on someone else's wall was in fact the truth? Where's your credibility, Jeff? I think Mike has better morals than what your content implies. How do you know that? Is it pillow time talk with Mike Isertel? How do you know Mike's morals? Did he say that after perhaps the lube was out? How would you know Mike's morals? He literally makes videos saying, "I'm very good at lying. >> Lying is easy as hell." >> And at the end, oh, please keep this private. And so essentially, I'm going to make fun of you. I'm going to put you down. I'm going to tear you down. I'm going to say all these horrible things about you publicly and then in private I'm going to tell you a bunch of things, but please don't share this to the world. >> How the hell did scientist Jeff know that the originally uploaded text of Mike's thesis was just a rough draft? He hadn't seen the verified date metadata confirming the claim. >> So, you see, Jeff cared more about defending Mike no matter what. He didn't care if it was actually right or he's wrong. He didn't care about the science, the facts. He just wanted to make Solomon look bad and Mike look good because Mike is in his circle jerk. >> Mike's whoopsie wrong version story was simply something that uncritical Jeff wanted to believe. >> Jeff is a very emotional man. He gets his feelings in the way. He doesn't simply report the science. He carries his emotions and shows you a fake false version of himself on camera. When you talk to Jeff in private one-on-one, it's you're a park builder. Or if you read his DMs or if you see what he tells to people in private, he's very, very nasty to say the least. And if you saw what Jeff actually says, how he treats people in the real world, including his fans, you would not think the same of Jeff. Did you see that video that Jeff took with Hussein? Did you notice that when a fan wanted a photo with him and Hussein and asked Jeff to take a photo that Jeff was saying, "No, I'm not taking a photo." >> Yeah, look. >> Yeah, of course. U >> I'm not taking this. >> I'm above that. I refuse to take a photo. I'm Jeff Nippod, a trend setter, science-based lifter. I don't want to take your picture. >> And for scientist Jeff, this imputed change of direction is pretty funny. Well, now I'm finding Jeff pretty funny. What has happened to the mild man of fitness? >> He thinks he's untouchable, but with all good things, they come to an end. And so Jeff's reign of superiority, the twin towers of the Israel and the Nipstine, they came crashing down. Jeff says that he doesn't align with the drama and gossip I do. And yet he's the one who created it in this instance. >> He pretends that he doesn't do it. He pretends he's all about the science. At least in my videos I say, "Yeah, I'm doing some drama. You guys all love it." Jeff pretends it's science this science that that I sell snake oil. When he's only saying that because he's jealous. He remembers the videos I did about him in the past and he's willing to lie. And so if he's willing to lie about this, what else is he willing to lie about? >> If he didn't write those offensive, pot stirring comments about me, then I wouldn't be making this video. >> Jeff asked for it. He poked the scientific bear man who's smarter than him. And eventually Solomon had had enough. I'm not going to get bullied by Nippod. You turk around and find out. You made fun of Solomon. You poked the bear and he simply went out and expose you with receipts evidence showing exactly the type of person that you really are. You wanted to have that squeaky clean. I'm Jeff Nipper, the scientist that I just report. a sign that said, "I would never let my emotions get in the way, but we've seen your true character, the comments that you're posting, the things you've said to people in private." >> Jeff seemed to identify with Mike's predicament and protested too much. Perhaps he was wondering, "How much longer can I go on without being talked about as a talent-free zone?" >> And so, was Jeff projecting when Solomon was critiquing Mike? Was Jeff thinking, "Oh no, what if he critiques me?" And so, did he perhaps lash out to him with the understanding that I better bury Solomon right now, disparage his credibility so that in case he says things about me that people won't believe him? >> He dirty deleted his two public post that sought to make fun of me for my Israel critique. He now has to reckon with the reality that I was right and he was wrong. >> Does Jeff apologize? No, let's hide the evidence. And what did Mike do? Did Mike first apologize? No, let's hide the evidence. It's the wrong draft. Let's make up a story. But once people don't believe that story, well, it's damage control. And this is the same with Jeff. >> Why would Jeff Nippart launch such a bizarre, unprofessional, misguided, and intellectually bankrupt attack over a critique that was never about him? >> Why did Jeff get involved in any of this? I mean Solomon was his friend. He had paid him. He did great work. Why did he get involved? >> This is not the behavior of a scientist engaging with a critique. It is the emotional reaction of an insecure insider lashing out. >> And so Jeff, he doesn't want to be accountable. He doesn't want to be scrutinized. He doesn't want to be examined. Is Jeff fearful that maybe one day somebody would find out that perhaps his training programs weren't as good as he once led on? That he wasn't the so-called scientist that he claims to be? That he simply has made friends with the right people who back him up and lead him to be more credible than he actually is. Is Jeff an actual scientist? Is he a researcher? Does he understand what he's doing? I think not. Where is his PhD in kinesiology or at the very least his masters? I mean, he studied the mouth. Doesn't mean he can't read a paper. But does he in fact know how to set up scientific research, data, information? Absolutely not. We saw Mike Isertel make mistakes in his PhD thesis. And so, do you really think that Jeff would not know how to do the same? You need to know how to read the data to do the proper statistical analysis. And without that, all the research in the world could essentially give us nothing. >> The response from Jeff's quarter was not soberly to embrace academic integrity, but to close ranks in denial for the sake of tribalistic solidarity. >> When someone challenged Mike, of which is a huge deal, rather than thinking, does he have anything valid to say, he chose to simply make fun of him. Why let someone critique my friend Mike? That could affect me financially in the future. And so he decided to simply outcast Solomon, make fun of him, and did the same thing to myself. >> Science is little more than a brand identity, a pretentious tiny shield, but one that's quickly discarded in favor of personal allegiances. >> And so, was this science or personal alliance? I think the latter. Is Jeff actually showing the science or is he simply showing you science as a brand in order to sell you more programs and to make more money? >> The standards we claim to uphold must actually mean something. Jeff's actions suggest that for him they don't. >> Be sure to follow Salman. Go and check out his video. It's 47 minutes long. I hope you enjoyed the Netflix documentary, the 10-p part series, whatever. What will come of this? Will Jeff Nippard ever apologize? Will he change his mind? I personally don't think so. I think Jeff and Mike and the group of researchers are all going to just have each other's back no matter what. And so, do they really care more about the science or do they care more about the circle jerk that they're belong to? And of course, interested in GO2 max turquestone, all the various supplements, code Greg, 15% off. Interested in coaching by myself and my team? Of course, click the link and apply the cookbooks, the training books, everything. Head to the website, code Greg, 15% off. And remember, if you're interested in getting your blood work done, as well as getting supplements from Alol RX, click the link in description. Code Greg 10% off. This includes things like Seialis, Viagra, Talmasartin or perhaps GLP-1 such as Ozmpic, Turzipide. The list goes on on. And until next time, I am out.