 naringin,liśmy mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage Because he has potential. Isn't that the famous last words? You know, it's different. I'm different. I deserve to use steroids. All of you, you shouldn't be using steroids. But me, I'm going to be the next C-bomb or Sam Sulik. And so I need steroids. This is called coping and or justification. You've convinced yourself that what you're doing, which you know is bad, that it's actually okay. And so his cognitive dissonance, it's going harder than last time. And so he goes by the name of Donat Cardos. And people had asked me to do a natty or not on him. Because after all, he has an amazing physique. But he actually came out and admitted everything on his own. And so at least give him that. At least he's not a fake natty. But I mean, would anyone believe him if he'd actually said that he was natural? Because all you need to do is look at his physique and know of his age. You know, there's no way that he could have a physique like that while being natural. Bro's 96 kilograms is about 215 pounds. Clearly at 15, he already looks like a fake natty. But I personally, I'm going to believe him. I'm going to take his word and assume that he's natural. Clearly he's got ridiculously good at genetics. But does that mean he should be hopping on steroids at such an early age? Will you ever get tested to prove that you're natural? Crazy physique, regardless. By the way, he's not natural. Are you kidding me? And so he shows himself at 15 years of age, 84 kilograms natty. And what you can see is that he's very, very lean. He has a lot of muscle, big arms, quads, abs. Not really the smallest of waist, but it could be just the pose. And in comparison, at 16, he's literally up 12 kilograms. And based on what I'm seeing, it's all muscle. And so from 15 to 16, he put on over 25 pounds of muscle. And so he says, this is when I hopped on. And so he's not pretending. He's not faking it. We've seen Chris Bumstead say, I started taking steroids at 18. I started because I was doing my very first competition, of which he competed about 214 pounds, about the same weight as this guy. But remember, Chris Bumstead was peeled, but he was in fact 18. And so people just keep using steroids younger than last time. And so all this came about was because he posted on his Instagram stories, ask me anything. So you are not natty. His response, I started 250 milligrams of test around six months ago. Did that for six weeks. Added in 20 milligrams of Anivar for a month. Then I went off for a month and a half doing a PCT and clomiphene, nolvidex, and so on. And now he's on 250 milligrams of test and he doesn't plan to hop off anymore. Why would he want to go off? I mean, bro's already 16 years of age and he's just going to use HCG to keep his fertility. I mean, first of all, it baffles me that you're 16 years of age and you think you need to use test already. Could have continued to train natural. Clearly things were working. You could have added steroids when you were older. Next, already thinking you need to use HCG at 16 in order to maintain fertility. Bro, if you're so stupid and moronic and dumb to be using steroids at 16, we don't want to pass on your DNA at this young of an age. I mean, think of it. I want to be able to get girls pregnant at 16. Tell that to your parents. If you say, mom, I just got my girlfriend pregnant or perhaps the village bicycle, it's not going to go over well. Perhaps this is the problem because if he in fact has parents, and I don't want to assume that he does or that he doesn't, perhaps it's his parents, his guardians, whatever. If you're his parents, you probably have access to his Instagram, right? This, if I can see it, you as parents, guardians, and so on, grandparents perhaps, perhaps you can see it. There has to be someone in his life that cares about him enough to tell him that what he's doing is stupid aside from me. I can't be the one to tell every single person around the world that they're too young to be abusing steroids. And I don't care what kind of genetics he thinks he has. It doesn't need to start at 16. You train natural for as long as you can first, even if you have amazing genetics. Not even sebum started at 16. I am in a unique situation compared to most people since I actually have potential and great genetics. Me doing this after four years of lifting already is not comparable to someone doing this after a couple of months. Do you know how stupid that sounds like? And people actually go with this. They're like, yeah, you know, he does have great genetics. The guy who just wants to look average, a guy who's below average, do you really think that he deserves to use steroids less than somebody who's genetically gifted? Average people want to look good. The world wants to look good. Whether you're advanced, normal, below average. And so if you already look better than almost everyone, why do you deserve steroids more than the person that just perhaps wants to look half as good as you? The only reason I haven't talked about this is because it's heavily criticized and looked down upon for regular people. And I, of course, understand why people think I am stupid for doing it and I don't argue with them. At least he's intellectual enough to understand why I and the rest of the world would think he's a moron. At least he gets it. And so if you get it, have you ever thought that maybe they're all right? If all these people, if you're smart enough to understand why we would say that you're too young, is it possible that you are in fact too young? You're bragging that, oh, I trained for whole years and have great genetics and so I deserve steroids. You're going to brag about having such great genetics because you look so good at 16. I started at 10, bro. I didn't start steroids until I was in my 30s. Should I have used steroids at all? No, but I'm at least thankful I didn't start at 16. Imagine if I had said, oh, I have more muscle than all of my friends. I'm the strongest bench presser in my school and I'm only 13 years of age, stronger than all the high school kids, stronger than the teachers. I have better genetics and so I need testosterone. Imagine if I had said that. Perhaps I wouldn't even be here to this day and I'm only 50 years of age. And so did you think of that? Do you really think that starting steroids at 16 is so important to your career that if you didn't start until you were 18, you would have no chance of success. If your genetics are so good of what you're saying that they are, why can't you wait until you're 18? I'm not saying to start at 18, but why couldn't you wait a little bit longer? Oh, four years of training. If you haven't trained 10 years, why are you using steroids? Or at the very least, five? Or at the very least, not be a freaking teenager. I didn't wait until I'm 18 or 19 is basically because honestly, I don't like wasting time if I know what I should do. You don't know what you should do if you're 16. I know you think you do, but let me remind you that I was once you. I was once also 16. You don't think that your parents or that older people were ever once a child, a teenager, that they actually grew up as well. And so let me tell you this. When you're young, you don't know any better. You think you know everything, but you haven't had the life experiences, the wisdom to know when you're doing something moronic of what you are. Do you think there's even a 1% chance that what you're doing makes sense? That, hey, I know the odds are stacked up against me, but maybe I'm right at 16 to use steroids. All those adults telling me I'm too young, they're all wrong because I have better genetics than them. Hey, maybe they're just jealous. And so what your parents should be doing right now is confiscating all of your steroids, bringing you to counseling and saying, we need to talk. Perhaps they've failed you. Perhaps you haven't enough talks. You don't have enough self-esteem or self-worth to know that you're good enough without the steroids. I don't know. I wasn't there. But what I do know is that parents are supposed to look out for you. If you have parents, they're supposed to prevent you from doing harm. And so, for example, if your parents are letting you drink alcohol at 15 or 16 years of age, they're idiots. They're morons. They're stupid. Alcohol is poison. If they let you ingest poison, are they doing their jobs as a parent? Steroids, also bad for a 16-year-old. It is a medication, a prescription of which you do not have. And so, if a parent lets a child use a drug without medical supervision, without a prescription, that parent is allowing their teenager to willingly break the law. And so, by that reason, the parent's also breaking the law. And so, why would a parent allow their child to abuse themselves? Every time you inject that, you're performing self-abuse. It's not okay. It's not cool. You need to stop by posting this in public. And the fact that you have over 50,000 followers, thank God he doesn't already have some Young LA or Gymshark sponsorship. All that would do is promote it to even more 16-year-olds. And the problem is, everyone follows someone a couple years older. And so, you follow Seabomb. He started at 18. I'll start a couple years younger. Somebody who's 14 going to follow you and say, oh, I started at 14. A 12-year-old going to follow the 14-year-old and so on. And so, it never ends. What's your opinion on SARMs? Do you use them? And so, it's so important to get the opinion of a kid. You know, I really want to know what a 16-year-old's opinion is on SARMs, on drugs. Only consider them if you're running it with a test base. But even then, there are always better alternatives. By the way, I wouldn't advise anybody hopping on SARMs or gear to just gain some muscle and then quit. That's the biggest bullshit ever because the muscle you will gain will 70% be lost after you quit. So, only do it if you actually thought it through and plan to do it long-term. By reading that, if I'm his 14-year-old follower, I'm going to think, okay, if I go on SARMs, I don't want to lose my games. And so, I'm just going to go on SARMs and never stop. That's all I see. I don't see any mention of the harms it could cause, the dangers, side effects. All I'm hearing is you're going to lose muscle if you stop taking SARMs. This advice is being given by a 16-year-old who has no medical degree, not even a university degree, and he hasn't even tried them himself. Why would you ask him? Why would he post this? What benefit could it cause? Perhaps he's trying to start a coaching business. Perhaps he can coach 14, 15, 16-year-olds on how to use performance-enhancing drugs. Might that be the case? Will you ever get tested to prove that you're natural? Crazy physique, regardless, by the way. People actually thought maybe he's natural. And so, the problem is there's so many liars out there, people pretending to be natural when they're not. And it's hilarious to me. Like, almost every single day, I get some message from a guy saying, Is Bro natural? He just posted his blood work. And I'll literally go and see the blood work, and I'll say, absolutely not. And he'll say, he just said he proved he was natural. His testosterone levels were only 48 nanograms per deciliter, and his LH and FSH, well, they're tanked. Did you ever think that maybe Bro hopped off, and that his LH and FSH are down, testosterone down, because he was on steroids? And so, this is where it all begins. David laid at 25, 89 kilograms. And so, we have David laid right here, very famous, millions of followers, doing his thing. Also, we said he was a fake natty back in the day, using SARMs probably, when he increases bench press by a ridiculous amount in a small period of time. And you can all believe that he was natural his entire life, but he's not natural now. So, you're comparing yourself to him. Okay, at 25. And so, you're at 16, 15. Why are you comparing yourself to David laid? Now, let's see the comparison photo. Me at 16, 96 kilograms. Okay, and so, you're a kilogram bigger than him. David has a much better looking physique overall, for aesthetic purposes. You have way more muscle. You have more muscle than him. You mog him in a bodybuilding competition. Great. Do we not see that comparison is the teeth? The teeth of joy. And so, you can compare yourself to David laid and say that you're bigger than him. How about if you compare yourself to genetic anomaly? You post in there. How about you compare yourself to Sam Sulik? And you're going to say, you know what? I'm not as big as them. Timed up the doses. You will always find somebody bigger than you. Half these guys develop body dysmorphia. You probably have body dysmorphia right now. You probably think you're not big enough. Why would you take steroids at 15, 16? Why couldn't you just be like, I'm a jacked natural guy? Why couldn't you have competed in a couple of years as a natural bodybuilder and dominated? And then said, you know what? I'm just going to win the national title natural. And then, oh, I know. I'll turn pro natural. And then, I'll compete natural. I'll get my pro card in the IFBB natural. Perhaps in classic physique because you're not big enough in the open. You do that. And then, eventually, maybe when you're 25 or you reach your natural genetic limit, you then say, you know, I'm going to hop on because I just can't grow anymore. That's what I did, except I was in my 30s. And so, why can't we wait? I don't care if you think that you're ready. I know that I'm ready. I can feel it. Do you know how many people I can think of that I've coached in powerlifting, bodybuilding, and so on who were really gifted as teenagers? And once they hit 18, 19, they got out of school, they stopped. Don't think that you're special just because you have elite level genetics. A one in a million physique. There are 4 billion men on this world. One in a million means there are 4,000 of you. You ever think of that? And so, your genetics are so good that there'S4,000 other guys with equally good genetics. And I'm telling you that using steroids at 16 doesn't give you an advantage. It gives you a disadvantage because you're preventing yourself from getting future gains. The earlier you start to use steroids, the less gains you're going to get on steroids when you're older. If you start steroids at 16, do you think you're going to put an ounce of muscle on after you're 26? Very, very difficult. If you start at 26, what do you think will then happen? You're going to make crazy gains even after you've hit your genetic limit. You're using steroids while your body would have built muscle anyway. And so, essentially, you're wasting your natty newbie gains. And so, why waste it? I'll tell you why you wasted it. Because you couldn't wait. When in doubt, wait it out. You couldn't wait. You didn't have the discipline, the mental strength to say, I'm going to hold off until I'm older. That's because you are weak. You succumb to using drugs at far too early of an age. You lacked the willpower. You lacked the courage to say no. And it's probably because of your upbringings, your parents. Clearly, if you're able to post this and nothing is happening. I mean, I don't see your channel taken down. You really think that my parents, if I had have posted, I'm going to start using steroids at 16, that they would have allowed it? I wouldn't have been living in the house. I would have been kicked out. There's no way they would have let me done this. And so the fact that you still have an account with 50,000 plus followers, your parents are allowing you to do this. Now, remember, I don't know if it's parents or guardians, but there's somebody that's looking after this guy and they need to do better. You need to do better. I mean, I understand if you're going to get some creatine, just the basics. But bro, you're going to make gains no matter what. And so you're even too young to be using HDLT supplements. Wait until you hit a plateau. When you hit a plateau, when you're a bit older, perhaps 18, 19, at some point, eventually the gain is going to stop. You've been training since you were 12. Eventually you gain, slow down. You take the Turk-Bilder Max and the gains, they continue. But you don't use steroids. This is moronic. It's ridiculous. Now you're obviously very young, but if you're older, I would strongly suggest you go to Algo RX and at least get your blood work. Find out. Do you have low levels of testosterone? Is there anything that you need? This guy, he doesn't need anything. But perhaps you need inclomiphene, testosterone. Perhaps you need Cialis. Remember, Algo RX is prescription medication prescribed legally by doctors. And it's about 50% the cost of Merrick Health. And so please do some price shopping comparisons and pick what you need. Code Greg for 10% off. And for the Turk and all those items, for example, the Kyco, Seco bars, you can get it with code Greg and code Seco gets it 50% off. Money back guarantee, $50 gift card. And so guys, before using steroids, at least use your natural supplements first. Don't take the chances. Don't risk your life, especially when you're a teenager. It's not worth it. There's too many side effects. It's not worth using the steroids. It's not worth altering your mind, altering your body. Be careful. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you like it. Don't forget to watch one of the two bloops. It's right there. If you want to be a sponsored athlete, of course, click the link in the description. You want to have HLT supplements in your stores and gyms, click the link. Coaching by me and my team, click the link as well. And until next time, I am out.