And so what I just witnessed is one of the greatest reactions of all time after failing a lift. I'm sorry. It's not a lift. It's not a PR. It's ego lifting. Everything about it was wrong. Was it impressive? Sure, absolutely. But bro, you got to live correctly. And so, everyone loves Lex Little, and I'm hearing the haters chirping right now. Not natural. How could you get so strong? I mean, a week ago, he bench pressed 45 lbs and he's already up to 455 lbs. How could that be? Remember, Lex Little formerly used to use testone in the past. We know this. And so perhaps he simply just hopped back on. Or I'm going to explain exactly how this was done. At Zoo Culture, he bench pressed 4530. A week later, 455. And if you watch the video correctly, you'll notice that the speed of the bar appears to be moving faster with 455 lbs than it did with 430. And so 455, it wasn't a one rep max. I believe he could have gotten two reps with that weight. Now, just because you're going for a one rep max doesn't mean he would have to perform the rep to failure. It doesn't have to be all out. And so, what he's doing is he's saving some. He's saving a little bit of his power for the next attempt, for the next lift, for the next day. If he continuously goes to failure, it could tire out his neurological system and he perhaps would then be overtraining. He might get injured. And so it isn't worth it. And so he's holding a little bit back, but he's still training effectively. He's doing sets of two. He's training very heavy. And clearly it's working. 430 to 455 in 7 days, though. And he responds, "Programming is magic." Now, the first thing I want you to notice is his ass comes off the bench by at least 4 in. And so what that effectively does is it shortens the range of motion. When you bench press with your ass on the ground, of course, he's arching as much as possible. He's trying to minimize the distance that the bar have to move. By driving his ass off the bench, it's not only forcing the bar up, but it's also minimizing the distance the bar has to travel. By doing this, he's effectively cheating by reducing the range of motion. It'd be very similar to saying, "Hey, let's just do a bench press off of some boards or let's stop four inches from his chest doing partial reps." And so, this was a partial bench press. Now, don't get me wrong, it's still impressive, but if he went into a powerlifting competition, it would be a no- lift. Next, how long did he pause the weight on his chest? Was it a very brief pause? Did he pause for a second? Did he pause for a clap? He didn't pause for anything. And so again, if it was done in powerlifting competition, even with his ass on the bench, it would have been a no lift. Next, you see the style of the bench that's being used. It's called Rogue. That is known as a fat pad. Do you see how thick the padding on the bench actually is? It's about 4 in thick. The bench is over 12 in wide. It's 12 in in diameter and 4 in thick. Bro, it's a 12x4. What you may or may not realize is that this is dramatically helping him on his lift. In comparison, when he bench pressed 430 lbs at Zoo Culture, the padding is a lot thinner and it's a lot more narrow. And so, you're thinking, well, how does that matter? I'll tell you how it matters. When you're bench pressing on a fat pad, as your elbows are coming down, your arms are literally sinking into the pad. It's sinking in and it's creating a recoil. It's literally going to be pressed up against the cushion of the bench. And so your arms are sinking into the pad. The pad is then getting compressed and eventually it's going to push itself upwards. And so it's analogist to this. Imagine a spotter is standing under you and their hands are under your arms and they're pushing the weight up. Would that not make you lift a little bit more? That's what's going on. And so if he were to try to perform this in competition, he would lose approximately 20 pounds from having a regulation bench, approximately 20 pounds from having to keep his ass on the bench, and 20 lb for having to pause the bar. This is 60 lb. And so that 455 lb bench press could very easily drop to 395. Still a very impressive lift at 93 kg or 205 lb, but a lot less than you're seeing. I don't know if he has taken his bench PR to failure in a minute. Bro has definitely gotten way stronger since that 420 to 425 bench a year or so ago. Is he actually stronger though? If he used a different bench, didn't keep his ass on the bench, and didn't pause, would he have actually gotten stronger? And so many times people get caught up in setting PRs. Every time you set a PR, there's a huge rush of dopamine. You see it in his face, in his excitement, in his voice. Bro is so excited. It's as if he won a million dollars. That is the feeling get when you do a PR. What he's doing is he's cheating to get that dopamine, to get that PR. And eventually he's not going to be able to cheat anymore. Imagine he goes back to zoo culture and suddenly the bench doesn't have the fat pad and it's a lot more narrow. All of a sudden he's 20 lbs weaker. Bro puts on 435 warming up for his 460 lb PR and he can't get it. He's wondering why. What happened? Or if he says, "You know what? I don't want to get injured. I've seen people tear their pec, for example, the Trend Twins and various others." And thinks, "I can't do this. I'm going to now start pausing." he's going to have to leave his ego at the door. It's going to be very demoralizing. And so, my advice is to always use the same exact technique when trying to set a PR as you are when you're training. If you start bouncing the bar off your chest, not going all the way down, getting your ass off the bench, and so on, eventually you're not going to be able to keep getting stronger. You're going to get depressed. You're not going to enjoy it. You're going to get weaker. And then you're going to go on a bulk and take steroids. This what happens. It's all fun and games while you're improving, but you can improve at this rate forever. I don't care how strong or how great his genetics are or how amazing the programming is. He's not going to be able to bench press at this rate and hit 600 lb. Eventually, he's not going to get any stronger, and he's going to say, "Well, this sucks. I had so much fun every week. I was going to the gym setting PRs." And so, it's going to be very depressing. And so if I were coaching him, I would have said, "You weren't going to do 435 lbs." He had done 430 previously. You can now do 435. This is enough. A 5 lb PR is almost enjoyable as a 25 lb PR. Winning $5 million isn't that much more exciting than winning $1 million. And so it would be much more enjoyable to, for example, win $1 million for 5 years straight than to win 5 million on your first year and never win ever again. That is the analogy of what it's like to lift weights in the gym. And so if you can stretch out your gains, you can slowly progressive overload using the same technique, making sure that you're pausing the weight and so on, you're going to be way more happy than if you, for example, were to abuse performance-enhancing drugs and make significant changes, significant gains in a very short period of time. Now, I'm not saying he's using steroids, serums, PDS, and so on. But what I am saying is he's cheating. He's cheating himself. He's cheating to get the dopamine rush by setting PRs in the gym. It's the bench he's using. The fat pad adds a little bit on his bench. I was so obsessed with the bench press. You guys perhaps don't know that I'm a world record holder in the bench press that I've competed in the bench press probably 70 times in competition that I've been very good at this ever since I was probably 10 years of age. Even at 13 weighing 120 something, I was bench pressing over 230. So, I'm very passionate about the bench press. I'm so passionate that I would bring my scale to the various gyms that I would train at and I would literally weigh the plates. Imagine going from one gym and having all the lightest weights versus another gym and it's all the heaviest plates. And so, what happens is you think, "Oh, I'm so much stronger at this gym. I want to train at that gym." And so, if you were to cheat the people at the various gyms, you could technically say, "You know what? Let's put all the 45 plates as 40s. The 35 lb plates are going to be 30s. The 25s are going to be 20s. And everyone is going to want to train at our gym because when they come to our gym, they're going to think, geez, the gravitational pull is lower. It's either that or all these hot girls training at the gym. It's getting the testosterone juices flowing and we're just that much stronger. It's the atmosphere, the hexagon lighting, the music, the fact that it's owned by Coach Craig. Whatever it is, we want that gym. And so if Alex Little used Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum and went to perform this bench press at whatever gym had the fat pad and he wasn't aware that the fat pad improved his performance, he would be a believer. He'd be thinking, "There's no other way. There's no other explanation. How else did I bench press 455 lbs? It's clearly the Turk Builder Max." And so what I want you to do is to try Turk Builder Max, but please go to the exact same gym. The same bar, the same weights, the same preworkout. Of course, you're getting Blue Lobstered or Eric Janickkey's juice or Hussein's mode. You got to use the same exact amount of scoops. You're taking two scoops, not three. It's so strong, you don't need it. You get Blue Lobstered. You go to the gym after taking your Turk Builder Max and you go and see how you perform. And if you feel stronger, you feel better, you can then attribute your gains to the turquestone, the aua turkeistanica in Turk Builder Max and Turk Builder Platinum. And remember, if you don't get stronger, you didn't feel the energy boost, the clarity, the recovery, all of these things. There's a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And if you've never used it before and you were scammed, you know, lied to by Gorilla Mine and other companies, if you show proof of purchase, you can get it for 50% off. You just have to show the proof of purchase. Show that you bought this in the past because I don't want you to think that this isn't going to work. And so, it's not fair to you if you tried fake a Jugga in the past and you were using cyanosis or something else and you then think that HDLT supplements isn't going to help you. And so I do believe that's the problem. Many people were scammed and lied to in the past. They using the fake product and so they think this isn't going to work. They haven't tried it and so they don't know. They tried Derek. They thought, "Well, he's such a great guy. He's such a swell chill guy." No, he's a liar. He lied to you. He's still lying. You really think someone's benching 206 kg naturally? Lol. Bro does an cycles, hence why he benches explodes. Then in a few months, you'll see him back down to 405. Now, here's the thing, and this is what people don't understand, and this is the problem. People think, you know, there's only perhaps one in a million people that can do this. I'm going to go with that. Lex is one in a million. And you're thinking, everyone's one in a million. We got Lex, we got Julian, we got Hussein, the list goes on and on. All these one in a millions. I mean, frankly, I'm one in a million. Think of the things that I've done. And so, how are there so many one ina- millions out there? Well, I'll tell you why. There are 8 billion people on this planet. That means there are 8,000 million people. Do you not think you're going to be somehow made aware of perhaps a hundred of them? Let's say you think of all the best fitness influencers in the world and you think of all of them. Anyone with 100,000 followers plus, there's probably a hundred of them out there that just it seems too good to be true. How's it possible? Explain it. How is bro so strong? But don't you think that where everyone has a cell phone now, the freaks of the freaks, the one in a millions are all going to stand out. They're going to post their videos of bench pressing, whatever weight they're bench pressing, deadlifting, and so on, or they're going to show their crazy transformations. And so, they're clearly going to stand out. That's why there's so many one in a millions right now. When I was 20 years of age, back about a 100red years ago, there were no cell phones. The internet wasn't invented. And so, we didn't know about all these other people. And so when I was growing up, I thought I was the strongest guy in the world. No one can beat me. Where are they? Everywhere I go, I'm the strongest. And so I'm thinking, I have the best physique. I'm the strongest. There's probably no one out there who could ever beat me. When I did my first triathlon, I thought I was going to be the champion. I had the best cardio of all my friends. I rode bikes. I ran. I swam. Who's going to beat me? I did my first triathlon. I told my dad, "How am I going to know which one of those bikes is mine?" There were 81 competitors. I had glasses I could hardly see. He's like, "I'll point out the bike." I get out of the swim. He starts laughing, pointing, saying, "There's your bike. The only one left." I got last place. I thought I was going to win. I had no idea that there were so many adults out there who actually trained for a triathlons. It's prior to the invention of the internet. Guys, it's 100 years ago. In today's day and age, you all see everyone. Every single freak, every guy who can bench press triple their body weight, double their body weight, has 200 lb of muscle and 20 in arms. You see all of them and so you think there's no way that you have that because I don't. None of my friends are that strong. I don't see anyone who can do that. And so you must be cheating. And so you're coping. You're on the copium and you're addicted harder than last time. You can't fathom the thought that somebody has better genetics than you. It hurts you to know that other people are simply stronger than you, have better genetics than you, and have more muscle than you. Do you ever think about how many people out there are smarter than you? I see frigin three-year-olds who are doing Rubik's cubes in a few seconds. There are kids out there who can calculate numbers faster than a calculator. There are guys who are 7 foot 6 in tall. They're not on growth hormone. They're not cheating. And so there are freaks. If you look at the best people, the one ina millions, everyone is good at something. There are people out there that can memorize entire phone books. It's insane. And so I'm sorry that this hurts you. And yeah, I know your comment. You don't have to write it. I already get it. I've lost all credibility by saying that Lex Little is natural. All my credibility is gone because Hussein Farhat passed three blood work tests in a row and he's this one guy in a million who was able to put on 45 lbs of muscle in 3 years natural. I get it. You don't like hearing that. I don't like knowing that there's people with IQ's of 180 that can memorize people's names faster than ever before. I'm jealous. I want to memorize people's names. I can't memorize hardly anyone. Half my friends, I don't remember their names. Bro, how low standards you got for yourself? Definitely not on gear. It's literally so easy to see. It's not easy to see, but how low are the standards? I mean, the comment was greatest natural to ever exist. like ever in the history of time. It's Lex Little who cheated a 455lb bench press at 206. Do you really think this is the best natural lift ever? I bench pressed more than this with a pause weighing in the 190s and I was natural. Oh, don't believe it cuz coach Greg, you were on steroids since you were 18. You don't need to believe it, but I was literally stronger than Licks Little and smaller. Well, maybe it was my little T-Rex arms. Yeah, well, maybe it was this, maybe it was that, but it happened. And trust me, I'm not the greatest bench presser to ever live. There are people who are 100% natural that bench press over 500 lb while weighing just around 200 with a pause. And so, yes, it's very impressive, but there are people out there who you just would not believe how impressive they actually are. Didn't spot cuz I'm waiting on five plates. And so, here's the thing. Once you start making gains and you start getting traction, people start cheering for you, you're going to want to bench that much more. for this 455. It actually looked easy. It looked like he probably could have benched 475 lbs. Now, mind you, with the same technique, you know, cheating the entire time, but is he not going to then want to show 475 lb and then 495 lbs? And what if when he gets it, will he not then want to do 500? And once he gets 500 lb, will he be thinking, you know what, I want to do the world record. And so, you're going to continuously move the goalpost. I'm sure at one point in his life, 405 was the goal. That was the dream. And I'm certain it moved up to 455. And now that he's got 455, what's next? 495. The 455 doesn't count. It wasn't a good lift. It was cheating in every sense of the word. But he's marked it down. He's getting a lot of likes. People are liking the lift. And so, hey, I see nothing wrong with that. But I also know that it's going to be depressing when he goes to zoo culture and he cannot press this weight. No hate, man. You are a strong as perk. Don't understand me wrong. But you see, and so it's so hard to just tell people what they need to hear, not what they want to hear. You know, it's very easy to say, "Strongest, unbelievable. You're my hero. You're the goat. Greatest natural of all time." All these things. Easy to say. But when you have some criticism, notice if you preface it with, "I like you. You're a good guy. No hate. I'm saying this as a friend." You can't just say, "Hey, you cheated to wait up." Because everyone going to hate on you. And so notice how much harder it is to be honest. Very, very hard. And so he says, "There was no pause and your butt was lifted. I just wonder if you're coming back to powerlifting, so lift by the rules." Defeated natty limit propaganda. And so there you have it. Uh, everyone is expecting Lex Little to bench press 495 lbs. I think that they'll actually be disappointed if he doesn't. I personally hope that he does. But do you know what I hope more than that? I hope he hits 455 with a pause. Actually, what I would like to see is 200 kg, which is 441 lbs in competition. The bar pauses and he lifts it up successfully in competition. That would be impressive. 200 kg at I believe he could compete at 93 kg. This is a very, very impressive weight. And so the world record, in case you're wondering, at his weight, because you're saying, you know, he's the greatest natural of all time. At his body weight, the record is 535.7 lbs with a pause on an real bench with his ass on the ground. So, probably more than 100 lbs more than he can do. But Lex is the greatest natural of all time. Well, Jonathan Ko, he did that lift. And not only that, his total, that's right, he did the squat and the deadlift as well, 888 kg. And I know what you're saying. No, he's a fake natty. Yeah. Yeah, cuz he lifted more than Lax. he didn't do it natural or is it possible that he just did that he's just that strong that he's perhaps one in 10 million one in 100 million? It's possible. And so stop putting limits on yourself. And if you think there's no way that you can do it, then you probably won't. And so why set the limit? Go after it. Just for reference, at 198 lb, so about 7 lb lighter than Lex with steroids, I bench pressed 529 lbs. not just once but twice in competition. And so with steroids, you can clearly see you can lift a lot more. Without the steroids, weighing in 194 lbs, I bench pressed 451. With steroids, 529. And I could have done a lot more. I had previously injured myself. I was bench pressing around 550 lbs at the time. And so clearly steroids, they work. Compared to being natural versus enhanced, it could perhaps help you by roughly 100 lb. And so if you're comparing your lift and you're on steroids and you're imagining how much you could lift without them, remove about 100 pounds. And if you're natural and you want to imagine if you took steroids, how much you could lift, add on about 100 and you'll know. And so save yourself the years of heartache or perhaps a heart attack and all the drug side effects of taking steroids and so on. And if you're really good at bench press right now and you can do for example 400 lb, well with steroids you do 500. And so you don't have to do it. Now listen, if you're interested in getting medications like Seialis, Viagra, getting your blood work taken, I'm now a part owner of Algo RX. And so I strongly recommend you go and check them out. They have the cheapest prices I've ever seen, much cheaper than companies like Merrick Health. And at Algo RX, they are not incentivized to sell you more products. They don't get a commission based on their sales. And so they're not going to try to convince you to buy this and buy that. Click the link in the description. The clothing line Momentous drops August 1st. And so if you're interested, click the link in the description. And so if you're interested, this is a brand created by Hussein Far Hat, Eric Janicki, as well as Coach Greg. Click the link in the description. And of course, as always, coaching plans by me and my team. You can click the link in the description if you're looking for the cookbooks, the training books, the circle diet book. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And until next time, I am out.