I loved it. I also was not doing any cardio which was just phenomenal. [screaming] My torture, my cardio of choice. Are you doing this on purpose to bait me? Coach Greg. And in today's video, the ugly side of competing. What it's really like to get up on stage. the competition diet as well as the after. And so for today's video, we're highlighting Nicole Dewy's. >> I'm going to speak on my entire prep experience. In all honesty, with that being said, I can confidently say that I will never compete in a bodybuilding competition ever again in my life. >> Starts the video off by saying, "I hated it and I'm never going to do it again." Despite the fact that she placed very well, I don't know if she won or got the top three, but she did amazing. but she hated it. >> I am an online health and fitness coach and I share all things fitness nutrition. >> Isn't it interesting that she's an online health and fitness coach and she herself hired a coach for her very first competition? Now, I don't think you actually need to compete to coach others. But if you're coaching others on how to compete and you've never even done it yourself, well, that doesn't make any sense. If you're coaching competitors, you have best have done it a lot. Not just once or twice, but preferably dozens of times. >> I had always been told that I have the physique for bikini, which is basically just glutes and shoulders. So, like, thank you. I appreciate that. But I was like, no. >> And so, full disclosure, she looks amazing heading into this competition. She has five years of training, and I do believe she has above average genetics, the wider shoulders, the amazing glutes, and so she was born for this. Well, if she wanted to be good at it. >> Then the seed was planted and I finally decided in October of 2022 to hire my coach Nick Karina. I've been following him on Instagram since freshman year of college and I was like when I finally take that step. >> And so with 5 years of training under her belt, she decided to hire a coach and at some point in the future, perhaps in the next year, she was going to compete. I think that's a great idea. I think that you should hire a coach that knows more than you, that can show you the ropes, perhaps teach you new exercises, how to eat, how to diet, how to get prepared, how to do the posing, everything. And so, any of you out there, if you're interested in getting coached, of course, apply by clicking the link in the description, I'm currently coaching just over 20 athletes, competitors, and non-competitors alike. And so, if you're interested, hit me up. So from October to March 2023, so that was about like 6 7 months of growing. I mean, prior to that, I had been growing before that, but not like diligently tracking macros, doing everything to a freaking tea. I mean, I'm saying like I was committed to this bulk. We worked up to I got up to 190 protein, 320 carb, and 60 fat. And I held that for several months. And I actually ended up putting on like 15 lbs of mass, which is [sighs and gasps] immediately now. Why is it that almost every time a female hires a male coach, they have her bulk? Coaches, why are you doing this to her? She put on 15 pounds. How many of you think that was all muscle? How many of you think that she's not 100% natural? I mean, even with Ajuga, Turkiststanica, Turk Builder Max, and so on, it's unlikely that a female is going to put on 15 lbs of muscle after having already trained for 5 years in a matter of months. And so, if we look at the before and the after, clearly she's added some junk in her trunk, and I'm not talking about muscle. Yeah, let's fatten her up now in the offseason and then later we're going to have to starve her and probably do hours and hours of cardio to make up for a stupid bulk that she didn't need to do. No, you know, why can't people just listen to Coach Greg? Oh, main gain. No, how could I possibly do that? You know, put on perhaps two or three, maybe four pounds during this time and let it be all muscle. Why would we ever do that? every single freaking time >> I committed to the bulk and dude I got strong like I was hip thrusting 405 like it was no thing I was doing RDL's with like 205 >> of course you were progressing you're getting stronger you're getting fatter you're eating a lot and what do you think is going to happen to the bulk of those gains when you diet and no let me put it this way crash diet and add a ton of card you're lose all those gains I said it and it's going to happen >> feeling strong looking strong feeling good and I loved it. I also also was not doing any cardio which was just phenomenal. [sighs] I I mean I You're talking to a guy that promotes cardio more than perhaps any other YouTuber out there. I also promote Go2ax. It's my number one supplement at least for cardio for me for others. If you're interested, code Greg 15% off. Hey, let's just brag about not doing cardio, which also led to you gaining 15 lbs of mostly fat. I hate doing cardio. Oh, let's brag. I didn't do any cardio. News flash. If you do cardio year round, you're going to stay leaner and you're going to become a better butter burner. What is that? A person who burns more calories from fat while they're exercising. Did you know that? Did you know that people who are fit burn a greater percentage of fat versus carbs both during and following exercise? You become fat adapted. Meaning, you don't adapt to doing cardio and burn fewer calories. You adapt to cardio, you burn more calories and more fat. Wouldn't that be amazing? How easy do you think it would be for me to get in shape right now? I'm doing an hour of cardio a day and or more and I burn over a,000 calories in an hour. How hard is it to get in shape when you burn 1,000 calories in an hour? >> So then around March, right around my birthday, we started decreasing calories. And I remember this is like permanently in my brain. He dropped my carbs 50 grams and I was like, I didn't know how to act. I'm like, dude, whoa. Like, >> yeah, that's what happens when you put on all that weight getting up to, I believe you said 145 lbs and you compete at 113 lbs. How do you think that's going to happen? It's a severe calorie deficit. And so, if you say that your ideal weight, your happy weight is 135 lbs, why didn't you start the diet at 135 pounds? You see the difference? And oh, just for the viewer at home, she's 125 or six pounds. Right now, she had bulked to 146 lb. And so, I could perhaps do a natty or not on her. I don't know if she did this natural. She didn't talk about any of that. But how is it that she was 145 lbs before going into competition? She was comfortably 135 pounds and now she's 125. It doesn't add up. >> Basically just slowly started decreasing carbs. My protein didn't really move. Fat moved a little bit later on, but then adding in cardio. So my torture, my cardio of choice. Are you doing this on purpose to bait me? Is this like rage bait for Coach Greg? My torture. Grab me up. Cardio of choice. [sighs] You're supposed to enjoy cardio. You should love it. You should at least like it. How is it torture? I mean, maybe you're not watching Coach Greg and chill while doing your cardio. And perhaps that's what's wrong. I mean, everyone else in the world is watching Coach Gres. You're watching my videos. You're learning about what not to do while dieting. And so, imagine if during those cardio sessions, you had put on this guy. would have been telling you, "Don't starve yourself. Get my freaking cookbook. Probably be eating Seco Protein bars every single day and enjoying life, having fun, and you would be doing your second show by now." >> I remember he bumped it up to like, I don't know, 20 minutes. I remember telling Cassidy, my roommate, I was like, "That extra 10 minutes, dude. Like, it really it just like it feels like it takes forever." >> She remembers him bumping up her cardio to 20 minutes. That extra 10 felt tough. So, oh yeah, we're going to add in 10 minutes of cardio now. You know, it's time to get cut up. And oh, now it's time to do 20. I mean, is this Ashton Hall? Let's bump it up to 20. 20 minutes. 20 minutes isn't even minimal amounts of cardio in your offseason. Minimally, it's 150 minutes of cardio a week. That's 30 minutes 5 days a week. This is not enough. And so, that's the first problem. And what is this saying? I was freezing this morning, so I kept my sweatpants on. Ask me if I regret this decision yet. The answer is absolutely. She looks like she's overded already. She's looking very uh lean, skinny. [snorts] You don't need to diet to this extent to do your very first bikini competition. It isn't a competition to see who gets the leanest. Is for who looks the best in a bikini. Leaner isn't always better. >> I started dieting in March. Let's keep that in mind. In March, I didn't step on stage until October 28th. That is how long it took me to get there. So, it was not a crash diet. 7 months of dieting. That's over 200 days. That's as long as Will Tennyson dieted. You don't need TO DIET FOR 200 DAYS TO STEP ON STAGE in a bikini competition. If you need 200 days to get in shape, you're not ready. Say it with me. You're not ready. If you can't stay within at least at most 16 weeks of contest shape, then you, my friend, say it with me again, you are fat. Bodybuilding isn't for fat sos. It's for people who want to be in shape. In your offseason, you should look like you work out. When people look at you offseason, they should be thinking, you know what? Do you ever do those bikini competitions? Hey, hey, are you a bodybuilder? If they're saying, "Yo, are you a powerlifter?" Or, "Hey, do you work out?" You should look like you work out and you should be proud of it. You should take pride in your physique. Going to the gym offseason, people should look at you and be thinking that there, that's a fit woman, a fit man, a fit couple. If you look so out of shape that people can't even tell you go to the gym, what are you even going to the gym for? Five minutes on stage. We don't compete for five minutes on stage. It's the journey. Has anyone ever taught you that? It's not the destination, but the journey. If you can't enjoy the process of getting in shape, getting yourself to the stage, then don't even bother. 5 minutes. So, she tortured herself, starved herself, did all kinds of cardio, which she defines as torture for seven months for a fiveminute dopamine hit. Hey, just go and find a man and have sexy time. That's a better way to spend your five minutes. Seven months of torture for only five minutes. Imagine if you all had to go and torture yourself, starve yourself for seven freaking months in order TO HAVE SEXY TIME FOR 5 minutes. Yeah, IT'S A GOOD TIME, BUT IT ISN'T WORTH IT. >> It was slow, sustainable, small changes over time that started to compound, which is what I do with my clients. what she does with her clients. Hopefully, she doesn't do with them with what was done to her. Sure, perhaps. I'm hoping she learned from her mistakes so that she doesn't get her clients to do the same. And I'm hoping our clients don't compete. >> Things started to get more spicy around May or June. We started doing carb cycling. Why are we cycling carbs? Listen, I cycle on the bike. Montar LBC. It's a great time. I'm racing on Zift. Meepster's racing on Zift. We both won this morning. She's fast. She's been riding for about three months. And you know why she's fast? Cuz I'm coaching her. That is why if you try and you want it bad enough, you can do it. Meogram. When I started dating her, she was a runner. She wasn't lifting weights. She was a runner. She got into the gym. She got into the bike. She broke her hand on a bike. She got breast implants. She couldn't train. But now she's on it. She's training harder than last time. She was watching this video with me before this and she's like she's complaining about going to the gym four hours a day. I wish I could go four hours a day, but you make me stop. She wants to be in the gym. She loves the gym. And so if the gym is your happy place, then bodybuilding, bikini, that is a sport for you. But if that's your place of torture, the place that you despise, THE PLACE THAT your coach is making you go to, it ain't it. It ain't for you. And that's fine. You can go a couple times a week doing whatever, but find something else you're passionate about. I don't care what it is. Ice skating, jogging, swimming, dancing, I don't care, but do something and make sure that you like it. >> In that time, was it a rash decision? Maybe. But I decided that if I didn't quit my full-time job working remotely for Transame on their retirement consolidation team, that I would never be able to fully pursue my online coaching business. And so during this diet, she quits her full-time job to be an online fitness coach while hiring her first coach herself and doing her very first competition. I don't know how old she is, but she said she started lifting in high school and she's been training for 5 years, so she's perhaps 23 years of age. I'm [clears throat] not sure if she's ready. I mean, hey, if she can get clients and she can coach them, then that's great. But there are probably out of the thousands or perhaps millions of coaches around the world, some people with more experience that would be better equipped to deal with your problems. I mean, she's going through this her very first time. How would she know what it's like if she's never done it? Like, I competed 59 times, 70 times in bodybuilding, master's degree in exercise kinesiology. I've coached thousands of people for decades. And so I feel like I'm qualified to talk about this, to say certain things, to coach people to do certain things. But when I was 20, I wasn't ready. Now, at 20, I'd done, I don't know, like five or six competitions to that point. I'd already placed third at nationals. I was provincial champion and so on. But was I really prepared to help people with their diets? I mean, maybe, but how is she ready? But I digress. leading up until maybe like four weeks out. That was when things got really bad. But I was like on it. Like every single thing in my life, I was checking the boxes. I was crushing it. Um and then I just started to feel like death. Like every single minute of the day. I totally relate to her at this point. She says until 4 weeks out, everything was great. She was crushing it. There comes a time in your diet when it's just no longer fun. It's hard to move. The shoulder checks when you're driving. That's hard. Getting up to use the washroom. Yeah. I'd prefer not to. Getting help to get out of the bathroom. Yeah, that would be beneficial. You're sick and tired of waking four or five times up at night to go to pee to the bathroom. You're starving. You have no energy at the gym. You have brain fog. Your sex drive is in the toilet. Everything makes you irritable. You have insomnia. Or if you're on performance-enhancing drugs, perhaps you have transomnia. But life starts to suck. And at that point, you're going to ask yourself, is it really worth it? But here's the thing. If you love the gym, really, really love the gym, you're going to keep going. You're not going to complain like this after the show. You're not going to say, "It's horrible." You're going to say, "It was the hardest thing I've ever done, and I'm going to do it again cuz I love it. Do you think I didn't suffer like this and or worse? Yet 59 times I chose to continue. And so people who say, "Oh, Coach Greg, you've lost all credibility. Have you ever competed? Do you know what it's like? Can you relate to your clients? Do you know how to coach people?" And so whether it's a natty or not or what you should be eating when you're dieting, what supplements you should be taking, don't you think I know? And so when I tell you something, I tell it to you from my heart, from my gut, from my instinct, having experienced this over and over again in the last four weeks. Yeah, the times are going to be tough. And let me tell you, this is often a time when people are going to start to develop an ED. And I'm not talking about the downstairs. If you've got an ED right there, harder than last time for this. It's for the men. I'm talking about visiting the washroom to do number three and or developing that word that starts with an A and ends with an EA. You know what I'm saying? I don't want to get demonetized. 25% of people involved in sports involving weight classes develop an ED. That's one out of four. Bodybuilding, it's significantly higher. Think of it. What sport in the world's sole focus is on your appearance and rewards you for being leaner than last time? For over dieting, for suffering, for saying no not to drugs. No, welcome those. How many shows are actually testing? But saying no to food. And so, please, I caution you, please be careful. Once the show's over, she's gonna go into this. You start eating. It can and will become a nightmare. A living, breathing nightmare. >> You know when you have the flu and your energy is just so low and to go to the bathroom just like thinking about getting up to go to the bathroom, you're like, I don't want to do that. That was how I felt. >> Yep. I've been there. Your testosterone levels also in the toilet. And remember, I've done 42 shows natural. I don't care if you believe me or not. I'm still going to tell you the truth. 42 of those shows I did 100% natural. But even when I was enhanced, I still felt like garbage. The only difference is I was bigger and leaner cuz I could diet that much harder. With performance-enhancing drugs, I could suffer that much more. Whether you choose to do it natural or enhanced, you're going to suffer. The difference is you're just going to look bigger and better, leaner, harder, but you're also going to potentially be taking years away from your life. Now, if you do want to be healthy, I would suggest you click the link in description and get your blood work done. Algo RX very [clears throat] cheap qualified doctors going to go over your blood work and see are you doing anything dangerous? Are there things you could do to improve? Do you need inclin? Do you need seialis? Do you need a GLP-1 like a semiglutide or for example turzipotide? These can drastically reduce your appetite and your cravings. Now I personally never dieted with such things but I know if I were to do a competition I absolutely would be using them. Why would I want to suffer with hunger unnecessarily when I can compete by using these compounds? Now if you're 100% natural and those risks don't outweigh the rewards, then absolutely don't do it. But if you're a person out there taking Clen or T3 or Adderall or any other ADD medications and you're not taking a GLP, well, I think that's a big mistake because if you can avoid taking those and take those instead, which to me are far less dangerous, then it's about risk mitigation. It is less dangerous to take the GLP1s like osmpic, semiglutide, tzipotide, even reatride than to take those dangerous fat burners. And let's not even go to taking steroids because you really think that people taking trend are going to be concerned with the dangers of taking a GLP or tzipotide? I don't think so. >> I remember I found out there's a default setting on the treadmill that if after you hit 60 minutes, it turns off. Like the fact I It almost makes me sick that I know that [sighs] it makes her sick that she knows that cardio equipment only goes up to 60 minutes. I mean, I'm 49. I knew this when I was perhaps 16 years of age. It makes you sick that you know that cardio equipments are limited at 60 minutes. I mean, what's next? you're going to get mad at me because I rode the bike at the gym for 90 minutes a couple days ago. Or that my brother rode two hours today on Zift. Or that the vegan cyclist rode a bike for what 24 hours straight, like 500 miles in a day. Or how [snorts] about this that David Gogggins runs over 60 hours straight? They run 200 miles. And so, wow, we're gonna feel so bad for you because you know that the treadmills get locked out at 60 minutes. Heavens forbid you might have had to do more than 60 minutes cardio in one single day. [sighs] This is just like I mean I'm glad she's being open, honest, and transparent. I hope she accept the fact that I am doing the exact same thing. But you're talking to a physical education teacher. I taught for 11 years. And to hear somebody complain that they know that the treadmill is locked out at 60 minutes. That is sad. You hated cardio that much. It's unfortunate that you didn't have Coach Greg as your physical education teacher when you were younger. I hopefully would have taught you that this is not a bad thing, that you should enjoy activity, that you should enjoy movement. And the gym is actually fun. If I had the choice between going and watching, I don't know, F1 movie with Brad Pitt for 2 hours and 35 minutes or going to the gym for 2 hours and 35 minutes, which do you think I would choose and which do you think is more fun? And what do you think Meepster would choose? And so, let that be a lesson to you. Choose the proper partner. If she just wanted to go to the movies or to go to eat out or to do all those kind of things, do you think I would be with her? You choose people that are like you, that add to you, that make you better. And so if you love the gym and that is your passion, find others that do the same. And so if you don't like doing cardio and you don't like dieting, you don't like any of this stuff, then get out of it. Why are you a fitness coach? Why are you helping people to lose weight? If it's so upsetting to you to do cardio, do you really think you're going to program your clients to do cardio? What do you think I do with my clients? Do you think I've ever had my clients do more than one hour of cardio a day? I've had them do more than two. Whatever it takes for some people. Hey, I'm going for my pro card. What do you think? I think you have zero chance unless you do 20 hours of cardio this week. Do you want to do it or do you not? What do you think they do? If they want it bad enough, they will do it. Oh, let's cancel Coach Greg for encouraging people to do a lot of cardio. Bunch of wuss is what these people