Guys, this is cutting edge sheet. We're adding in various ingredients and putting them into pre-workouts because I want you to have the best pre-workouts in the world. Coach Greg, in today's video, I want to announce to the world the signature series preworkout. It's finally available. Coach Greg's Blue Lobster, Hussein Far Hat's Hussein mode, and Eric, you can get the Janicki juice. And so I strongly recommend you buy all three as all of them are truly remarkable. If you want a great tasting pre-workout, these are it. Pick your poison or actually it's not poison but well it is if you take too much of it. These are very very strong. And a highlight of the product is the introduction of a brand new stimulant. It's known as celidraide. Technically it's not a stimulant. It's a psychoggenic, but this stuff it's truly remarkable. And so myself, Mepsoggram and others, we experimented with this ingredient on its own. We took the ingredient and suddenly we felt good. We felt happy. We felt in a good mood, if you will. And so many of you out there, hopefully not too many, they perhaps you tried some M. Maybe you did, maybe you didn't. And not going to say whether I've ever tried this, but it gives you a little bit of a happy, positive experience. If you take this pre-workout, you're going to feel good. You're going to train harder than last time. And if you don't, well, you get your money back and a $20 gift card. You all know that we have 100% faith in our products. And so, if you're unsatisfied, you didn't think it was strong enough, you thought it was too strong, I don't care. money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And so guys, for those of you who it's important, these are the colors, okay? There's no artificial dyes. If you guys are concerned that there may be some red 40, this is the Blue Lobster. This is the Janicki juice. And this is Husion mode. Okay. And so many of you are familiar with a supplement called Rodeiola. an excellent supplement. It contains 1 to 3% cylinderside. And so a clinical dose of rodeiola, it's 150 to 300 milligrams. That would equate to 1 and a half to 3 millig of celid. And so I do believe neutropics depot, they sell cylinderside in 10 mgram doses. 10 milligs. And so that is a respectable dose. And so the highest study dose for cylindricide, it's 60 milligrams. And in a full serving, three scoops, you get 45. Now, Coach Greg, I'm a little bit reckless. And so, in my experimenting with Mepsogram, I was taking between 100 and 150 milligs. I wanted to take a very high dose to know, can I actually feel it? Does this stuff actually work? Both of us, we really liked it. And so, I said, you got to get this in the brand new pre-workout. In a 2024 study, remember this is cutting edge research. All the buzzwords are there. randomized placeboc controlled study. It's new. It's not from 1985. This is the hard science. Here were the results of the study. Solidside supplementation enhanced overall percent predicted oxygen uptake during highintensity intermittent exercise. And that was with a p value of 01. And so, do you want it? Of course you do. Code Greg 15% off. The placebo group experienced a decrease in number of intervals performed during the time to exhaustion test. They also experienced a decrease in friendliness. I mean, I'm telling you, it felt kind of like M. And not not admitting that I've ever experimented with this, but myself and me, the eye surgeon, we were very very friendly. And so, guys, this is cutting edge sheet. We're adding in various ingredients and putting them into pre-workouts because I want you to have the best pre-workouts in the world. And the placebo group also experienced an increase in fatigue inertia. The placebo group was more tired and less friendly. But the people who took the solitter side more friendly and better able to do exercise. And remember that was at 1% that it wasn't actually true. You think we aren't doing our homework guys? The things I do for my community. putting myself in harm's way, experimenting with things to make me happier than last time while racing bikes. A lot of these other ingredients, they're really kind of boring. I don't want to bore you on the whole thing. The cylinder side is the most exciting one, but we have the top quality saffron. And so this top quality saffron, it's going to make you have a better sense of well-being. It's got lots of evidence. It's an amazing supplement. I would be surprised if other supplement companies didn't add this. And this saffron, think of it as a stimulantssparing agent. And what does that mean? Well, it means that you need less of those harsher stimulants like DMAA, those kind of harsher things, and have the same euphoric feeling while you're working out. I mean, who doesn't look forward to taking that preworkout on the lips? 5 minutes later, you feeling the tingles. You're feeling better. You're putting yourself in a better mood. You go down to the gym. You drive to the gym. race on your bike, lift weights, and so on, and you're just in the mood. And so, I strongly recommend that you save your pre-work workouts, your caffeine, and so on for pre-gim activity. And so, you remember that psychologist from like the 1800s, that Pavlo guy, the one with the dogs, the Pavlovian conditioning? If you take this pre-workout, the Blue Lobster, the Janicki Juice, the Hussein mode, and you take it before to go to a workout, you're going to feel better. It puts you in a better mood. And so then when you train, you associate the preworkout and the feelings of training with put you in a better mood. And so you seek out that behavior. You want to go to the gym, you want to work out, you want to do exercise, it becomes fun. Wow. And so if you took this pre-workout before doing [\h__\h] you don't like, like perhaps you don't like studying for an exam, you take the pre-workout, you study for the exam, the exam studying, you go make it a little bit more fun and enjoyable. And so you might study more. And so whatever you want to really enforce that you want to do, you could take this pre-workout before that and it'll be that much more enjoyable. And so I'm going to tell you how to pick up some chicks. You give this girl a preworkout, give her a glass, say, "You got to try the blue lobster." She drinks it and now she's in a better mood. And she's thinking, "You know what? I like this guy. The you're the guy. You're the one that gave her the pre-workout." She's thinking, "He's putting me in a better mood. He must be a sweet guy. He's look, I'm feeling the dopamine, the rush. And is am I mistaking this for love? And so this could be called the loving blue lobster. You give it to people and it's a magic potion. It makes them fall in love with you. That's more like one in a million type sheep, but it is in fact possible. You guys, did you know that instead of calling it a pre-workout, we should have called it the love potion? Why didn't you think of this? I got Marwan the genius with me who's creates all these supplements and so on. Why haven't you created a love potion? That's what I want all the chicks to be falling in love with you. And so what we've done in this new pre-workout is we've increased the bang for your buck. Smaller scoops but pack more of a punch. If you combine certain ratios of several ingredients, for example, lcitrilline with nitrates and so on, you can get a much more potent vasodilator without having to swallow back some gross tasting pre-workout. This is the best tasting pre-workout on the market. Now, not saying this flavor versus that. It depends on the person, but every single person that tried them has given all of them a nine or a 10 on 10. Regardless of the flavor, nine or a 10. Remember, anything past an eight is a banger. All of these are bangers. And so, choose the flavor that you want that's best for you. And so, the first thing I want you to understand is we have included actual lcitrilline, not lcitrilline malate, but lcitrilline. And so, when you see 4,000, it's equivalent to 8,000 of lcitrilline malate. And so, don't let that fool you. Now, in the correct dosages, there's literally research backing this up. In one study, they gave people the elcitrine and arginine in the same ratio that we've done and they put them on a power test. See how much power that they had. The results power outputs was significantly greater with citrine plus arginine than in placebo group. And it says p value 05. Plasma concentrations of post exercise NOX citrilline and arginine were significantly higher in the citrine parginine than in placebo group. Citrine plus arginine also gave improved post exercise subjective perception of leg muscle soreness and ease of pedaling. And so in conclusion, 7 days of oral citrine and arginine ingestion improved 10-minute cycling performance and the perception of physical exertion in male collegiate soccer players. And so remember this is in comparison to placebo. And so you have improved overall power. Now does that mean necessarily that if you do one set of an exercise it's going to improve you? No. But if you're racing bikes, if you're trying to get everything out of your body, drop sets, super sets, and so on, training harder than last time, that's when you notice it's going to benefit. And so the reason people are taking lcitrine is because they want to increase arginine in the blood. Now, we've added in arginine is that's what you want more of in the blood. However, often times it's not as bioavailable. But because we've added in lcitrilline, it's enhanced its bioavailability, allowing it to have a synergistic effect. And the highlight of the pump package is sodium nitrate. This is the most researched, the most influential. And so this is why we've added it. And so guys, you're not going to believe this. Well, hopefully I can convince you. The effects of dietary nitrate supplementation on endurance, exercise performance, and cardiorespiratory measures in healthy adults. a systematic review and metaanalysis. The results, this is what you've been waiting for. We included 73 studies. Nitrate supplementation improved power output 4.6 watts. That is a lot. Now, you might not understand this, but let's say you put out 100 watts. 4.6 means it went up by 4.6%. If you did 200 watts, that's 2.3%. This is from a meta analysis compared to placeos. What was the p value? 0.00001. Now other people, they do the stupidest studies that you'll ever imagine. For example, they'll take Turk builder and they'll give them one pill a day, a group of 12 people, and then they'll test them using some kind of a inbody scam or a DEXA scam. And then they'll say, "Hey, you don't have to train. You don't have to do anything. Let's see what happens." s and they use the dexa scam or the inbody scam and they say, "Oh, see, it didn't actually work. The p value is not strong enough." How on earth could it be strong enough when you have a sample size this low? You need to do a meta analysis, multiple studies, larger groups, in order to have it more reliable. And so even if you improve, let's say you had a sample size of one and you took creatine and you put on five pounds in a month, how are you going to prove that the creatine is why you gained the five pounds? Especially when using a DEXA scam or an InBody scam. Did you all know I got the InBody scam while I was on my cruise ship? What body fat percentage do you think that I would have to be in order for it to be somewhat accurate? Remember, I came in around 8.2% on the skinfold calipers. And so what do you think it was on the InBody scam? 19.8. What? Is that not proof enough to throw out every single study you've ever seen in your life using the InBody scam? And so we've also included vitamin C because when you take nitrates, some of them can be converted to nitrosamines and we don't want that. That's bad. And so by adding in the vitamin C, more of the nitrates get converted to nitric oxide. And as far as caffeine content, there is in fact quite a bit. And so on the full dose of three scoops, it's 450. For many people, that's too much. And for myself, I only need two scoops, which is 300 milligs of caffeine. And that's in addition to atheonine, which enhances the effects of the caffeine. And so remember, with any of these preworkouts, it's suggested that you start at one scoop a day to assess tolerance. From there, you can go to one and a half scoops, two scoops, or if you're a stim junkie, perhaps you're very much used to it, you can start at two scoops. And if you really need it, then you can go for all three. And of course, we have beta-alanine, one of the most slept on ingredients of any pre-workout. And and yes, some people will say it makes them feel itchy, but it's a very worthy supplement. I strongly believe in this, especially for exercise lasting perhaps up to a minute. If you're doing cardio, if you're doing drop sets, extended sets, doing time under tension sets, training like Eric Janicki, and so on. And so the full three scoops, it's 3600 milligrams, two scoops, 2400. Don't forget to use code Greg for 15% off. You don't forget about the Turk Builder Max, the GO2 max, and so on. All the various supplements, and look for the love potion in the near future. If you're interested in coaching by Coach Greg and my team, that includes reading your blood work, doing dietary recommendations, training plans, weekly check-ins, unlimited text messaging, phone calls with Coach Greg. Click the link in description and apply right now. I'm going to have to say you got to get all three. And then that way on one day you try one flavor, the next day you try the other. You can compare it with your girlfriend that you're trying to fall in love with you because you're giving her these flavors. You say, "Hey babe, which one do you want to try today?" And she says, "Of course I want to try the Blue Lobster cuz it's Coach Craig." Or, "I want to try Janickkey's juice today." And then you look at her and you say, "What did you say?" And you're like, "Babe, I'm right here. Janickkey's juice. You don't need to try that." And then you're like, "No, I want Hussein." And you're like, "Well, guys, he's one in a million. Of course, I want to try Hussein mode first." Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two boops to get cookbooks, training books, the coaching plans by me and my team, to get all the stuff. Don't forget about code Greg for 15% off. And until next time, I am out.