Why is it that women have exclusive access to the best equipment in the gym and that I can't use it? This is And >> I've had enough. >> The level of discrimination in the gym against men, guys like me, me and you, it has to stop. I'm going to the gym. Good life. You know, it's supposed to be a good gym. I would consider that they are fair and they treat people as equals. But lo and behold, Mepsogram, she goes into the female change room. And remember this is Good Life in Halifax, the my home gym. And she says, "Greg, did you know that there's an entire section? It's huge. And men are not allowed to go into it." And I'm like thinking, "Oh, it's probably just shitty old equipment. It's it can't be that good." and she shows me a video and I'm telling you it's five times as good as a gym I have in my house and I spent $70,000 on my home gym and so they have over $300,000 worth of equipment. A massive environment. It's huge. I'm telling you, it's bigger than most people's gyms and I'm not allowed in it. Now, men and women, they pay the same membership fees to attend the gym. And so why is it that women have exclusive access to the best equipment in the gym and that I can't use it? And so in today's workout, I'm trying to train shoulders. There's a group of teenagers. There's a group of older men. They're hogging the two-piece equipment for shoulders. There's two. Both of them I'm wanting to use, but I cannot. And so I'm spasming the side laterals. And so in the female only change room, two or three pieces of equipment and there's at most five or six people working out. And so the women at Goodl Life have the best equipment exclusive area for only them to train, but I cannot. Now when I go to other gyms, I have to pay extra to go to the exclusive section with the best equipment. Fit for Less has a black room at Conno Fitness. They have extra money you have to pay to use the best equipment. And so how is this fair? I mean, imagine going to a restaurant and they have a women's only section for people to eat and I show up and I say, "Hey, I want a table." Yeah. Well, you can't. There's a lineup. You can use it in an hour. That's how I felt when waiting cues are shoulder press machines. And so I say, "Well, over there there's about nine tables." Oh, but that's for women only. What kind of logic is this? I mean, it's 2025. I was half tempted to walk through the women's change room, identify as a female for today. I mean, I felt feminine. I'm women. And I was going to go there and train and see what they would say. >> I'm gay. >> What were they going to do? Call the police. I'm gay. And come in and arrest little old Coach Greg. I would make a scene. I identify as a female because I want to train shoulders. I'm entering women's wellness and I need the delts. >> Not the wellness. >> Not the wellness. And so, how is this fair? It's the exact analogy. I'm waiting for a table at drostanolone. You have tables available. I can't use it because I'm a gender. Because I have something in my pants that women don't have. I can't use the shoulder press machine. Is that fair? And so, hey, I'm almost 50 and so I feel discriminated against from the younger generation. And I mean, they speak with stupid slang words and so on. And so I want an elderly person's only section of the gym because I'm discriminated against. What about this? Hey, I have very tan skin. I don't feel comfortable around people who are very white. Have a very dark tan. I want a dark skin only section. Oh, what about this? I speak French. I only want to train with French people. Jespare. >> And so, how does it make sense in 2025 that females get a female only section in a gym and they don't even have to pay extra money for it? And so, I think this is ridiculous. This needs to stop. What this is referred to as Missandry. It's essentially reverse discrimination. Normally, people think, "Oh, men discriminate against women." This is women discriminating against men or at least gyms discriminating against me. And so, how is this even legal? I mean, I understand if the gyms are trying to do this because women are discriminated against or made fun of. They need a separate area so that they can go through their workouts. But to have this in place, it's almost as if they think, hey, men are never discriminated against. I mean, it's only women, only females feel uncomfortable in the gym. Why would a man ever feel like this? I mean, 500 lb man, perhaps a guy who's first time in the gym, an elderly senior, but because he's not a female, he has no access to that private gym. And so, I want you to look at the quality of the female gym that you're looking at. Imagine the space rental. Remember, this is Halifax. It's a very expensive place to be. Look at the square footage. Look at the equipment. Each piece of equipment 5 to $10,000. Each equipment is better than the last. And do you see tons of people using this? This is in the middle of the afternoon. And so why is it there? Imagine how much cheaper my membership could be if they sold that section off. Hey, we don't need that space anymore because it's 2025 and the men, they can train with the women now that the prices go down, rent and so on. Hey, I don't have to spend as much money. Now, not everyone makes much stool on Coach Greg on Trenador Greg, but I understand not everyone has a lot of money and so rather than paying $68 per month, perhaps it can make it 58. Or if you want access to this female only part of the gym, perhaps you have to pay extra. Now, think of it like this. When you go to the bar as a man and you have to pay $50 to get in and the women get in free, how is that fair? What's next? When I go get gas, because I'm a man, it's going to be $2 per liter. Women, $1 per liter. Where does it stop? It's equivalent to that. How is it any different? Let's Let's put ourselves in the side of the gym. Are they making more money from this? Five or six females are working out in the women's only section, of which they have to spend $300,000 for the equipment, plus the huge rental fees for a surface area that big. Would they not make more money by just saying, "Hey guys, you all have to train together or could they perhaps put some of that equipment into the main training area so that I can train my shoulders? And what if I feel like identify as a woman? Can I simply walk into the women's change room and proceed to work out? And why is it that they made it that way? You have to go through the female change room in order to get to it." And so I didn't even know that this place existed. I had never seen it before. I think this is wrong. And so do you really think the women who are training in the women's only section are training there because oh coach Greg is going to stare at them for a half a second? Or do you think this is where the best equipment is and I can hog all the equipment? I can go from glute exercise to squats to chest to shoulders, everything without anyone being in the way. But out there with all the men, well, you have to wait for the equipment. And so, of course, I'm training here. It's not because they feel like I'm staring at them. They're uncomfortable with their bodies. I mean, their buzzers are too low or they're wearing women's lingerie. It's because the equipment's better and it's a private area for them to work out. It's essentially the VIP room. Now, when I go to a bar, I spend perhaps $1,000 to play in a VIP room. And by play, I mean to drink alcohol and talk to girls. >> Is that where the VIP is? Right. The VIP section. >> Very immense penises for being very immense people. Very important people. VIP. >> Do you know what VIP stood for? >> I said very immense. >> Very immense penises. Did you all know that? >> Did you know that it started as a very immense penises and eventually became very important people? It's from the 1990s. It's part three of Revenge of the Nerds. >> What's the IP? >> Right here. >> Very immense penises. >> Wow. >> Look it up. Let's ask Chad CBT if he's all knowing. IQ of 200. Where did the phrase very immense penises come from for the definition of VIP in a movie? Come on, Chad GPD. Can you do this? Can you come through? It's a joke from Rush Hour from the 1998 movie Rush Hour. Jackie Chang and Chris Tucker. Not only do they have one squat rack in the women's section only, they got two professional squat racks. And so those five or six women, I mean, they needed that because the 50 of us who are training in the main section, well, we had to share all the equipment. And so, hey, but it's fair because it's women. Where's the section for black natural vegan athletes like Chris Bumstead and Genetic Anomaly? If they can have female only sections in gyms, well, then they should have male only sections in gyms to equal it out. I mean, is it not about equalization, equal treatment, equal this, equal that? And so, if you want it to be equal, make it equal. This is not equal. This is Missandry gay. >> In order to equalize this for everyone in the future, Blue Lobster for men it's regular price, but for females it's $400. And for Turk Platinum, for men it's $100, and for women it's $200. Seems fair, right? I mean, after all, we got to give a men an advantage because men have to pay for women's checks when they go to restaurants. Men have to pay for everything. It's men pay for this and men pay for that. And women, oh, I only look at guys who are 8, 9, and 10. And we want equality. We want to make the same amount of money as men, but we don't want to pay for anything. And we don't want to go to war, but we want to make the same money as you. And so, now that we do, now we're equals. Now, hey, I'm a woman. I don't want to go with a man with equal money me. This is for losers. I want men with more money than me. So, I only date up. And so, every man below at an eight, it doesn't exist. And so, all the women want to date the eights and the nines and tens. And there's three men for every 10. And so, we got 10 girls trying to date three men. And so, what do you think happens? Not much. And so, what do you think happens? The women end up saying, you know, I have to now date down. And so, the women who thinks they're eight, nines, and tens, they're actually threes. fours on a good date. And so the women who are fours and dating fours but think that they're tens, they're thinking, you now I'm dating down and it works. And so the key to happiness is for women to date down, but in actuality you're dating straight across. And so women, this is what I suggest you do. Stop thinking you're a 10. Think you're a one and life will be happy. That's not trashing men at all. Women at all. It's being realistic. I'm telling women what they actually is going on. Like women think they're tens a lot of times >> and they think that and women obviously want to date equal or up. >> And so if you're a 10, you can't date many men. >> The tens are not tens, they're fives. And so when they date a six, they're thinking, "Huh, I lowered my standards. I'm dating a six." But really, they're dating up, but they think they're dating down cuz they're tens. And they also think that they're tens because they've slept with a 10 because they're on Bumble. And a guy will have a one night stand, but they don't want to have any more relation with them. So they'll sleep with him for one night. And the women then think, "Hey, I slept with a 10 three times." >> So I'm clearly a winner. But meanwhile, the man only wanted her for one night and he's moving on to somebody that's at their level. They're like, "Hey, there's no one else tonight, so I'll take her." >> And then the women get brainwashed into thinking that they deserve these tens, rich, tall, 65, hot >> as partners. >> And so they can no longer date sevens because sevens are like down. I'm used to a 10. >> I got pick up tens all the time at bars. Yeah. >> One night standed, but we forget to add that in. But yeah. >> Yes. Exactly. One night stands at the bar. You got a 10. Great. But you're not going to get them to commit. >> Yeah. >> That's the problem. And so by now, hopefully you've already bought this. And if you're a woman, too bad you have to pay same price. I don't give you discounts. Doesn't look like that. I don't give a if you're a man or woman. I treat everyone as equal. And therefore, I think that we should have the same training space in gyms. I think we should pay the same amount of money to go to the gym. I think this is ridiculous. I think they need to do better. And if anyone hates on me, it's cuz you're a woman or you're a simp losing piece of and you shouldn't go to good life. There you go. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boo. Please like the video if you like it. If you don't, watch one of those. Maybe you'll like one of those. My goal is that you like three videos out of 10. And so if you think uh this video didn't provide any information, it's not this or that. Watch 10 other videos and see if you learn from three. Simple cookbooks, training books, coaching plans by me and my team. subscri uh apply by clicking the link in the description and buy more of these pre-workouts. Buy more of this stuff because I make lots of money when I sell them. The more you buy, the more money I make and the more jacked you get. And so it's a win-win. I become super ultra wealthy, which I already am. And you get jacked kind of like me. And so we both win. You see how this is win? And so when you can offer a win-win situation, this is when it's the best. Win lose would be I get rich and you lose muscle or don't gain. But see, here's the thing. There's a money back guarantee on these things. And so we both win. If you don't get jacked, you get your money back. That rhymes. I spit bars. It's like my palms being sweaty. I know you're gregging your duet. Steady. 50 keys of turquoise seas at the border already. >> Gregetti. >> I'm gay.