I mean, I'll have to perhaps make a Gregflixick documentary because there's so much to get into, including Togei challenging me literally to a race in my car. Coach Grean, I don't know where to start. Togei's on a tear. I've watched the videos. I can't believe what's happened, what's transpired. And so, guys, here you got to vote on what the title of this video is going to be. First potential title, Togei has AIDS. >> This is a problem. >> Alternative title, Togei, Chlamydia confirmed. >> This is a massive problem. >> And another one, Togei. She ain't going to let you hit. And by she, I'm talking about Sarah Safari after spending $70,000 taking her out on a date. Or perhaps the least likely to get stried from YouTube, Togei is back in debt. And so take your pick. From giving away cars, helping out the homeless, the cancer victims. Toi is a saint. And in the video, he calls out coach grass. Get turqu Greg Ducet. And so I'm sorry, Togi, but I'm the one you can trust, the guy that you need. The only persons that's going to tell you what you need to hear and not what you want to hear. And so when people say you have a healthy heart, they're lying. You're not healthy. I mean, I'll have to perhaps make a Greg Flick documentary because there's so much to get into, including Togei car. He wants to race Coach Greg. Sometimes people, they're just jerks. They don't care about you. Now, Togi, he's not one of those guys. I hope he's giving out free cars to other people. He's doing his best. He makes a lot of money. And so, please continue to do the right things. >> All right. Ready? Take it off. In 3 2 1 dinner, boom, house. And exciting is that we're gambling. We're in Vegas. >> And so, Togei and Sarah, they go to Vegas. And so, Togei, he's on his second date with Sarah and he has to level up. The first date, he was out ice skating. And so on this date, he drives her to Vegas in his Urus. I mean, already that is a big date. That's a big commitment. I mean, he must be expecting to hit. Immediately, he's gambling with her. $5,000. Who can do more chin-ups? And impressively so. Toi has legit chin-ups all the way down, all the way up. It appeared he could go all day. And so, he smokes her. >> I'm Matty, you know. I'm like literally like 100% Matty. >> You're not taking any tests? Nope. 200 milligrams. >> So, you watching? >> Yeah, but not like test test. >> And later in the video, he says, "Well, maybe it's 300, maybe it's 600. We're not exactly sure." And so, he's getting his testosterone prescribed by a doctor. Now, if you want to get your blood work taken, I am a part owner of Algo RX. They can get your blood work done. Qualified doctor is going to go over it and you can get whatever that you need, whether it's in Clomene or whether it's Seialis, Viagra, and so on. You can get them from Algo RX for significantly cheaper. And so if you're interested, click the link in description. Code Greg, 10% off. >> Also, this is not a joke at all. My license is suspended. >> Few moments later. >> All state police. Reason for this is your speak 108. >> This is what I think is going on. Toi is making up. And this is what you need to know. Toi is highly skilled with the ladies. You might not be aware of this, but Togei knows exactly what he's doing. And so what he's doing is he's invoking the fear response from his women. They are scared. Hey, I don't have a license. What happens if we get pulled over? What if we get in an accident? Let's race. Let's speed. He's throwing money on her. He's picking her up, dancing around with her. He's touching her, making contact. And so when a woman gets scared, the same emotional response occurs as when she's falling in love. And so it's very easy for a woman to think, you know, I'm scared and you cause me to do that. Maybe I actually love you. Am I falling for you? Do I like you? And so he's driving her in a Urus very, very fast and gets pulled over after telling her. If you have no license and a police officer pulls you over, do you know what happens? You get a ticket, they tow your vehicle or you can in fact go to jail. And what exactly does Togei get? He's driving 108 and a 70. He just gets a speeding ticket. And so if he had no license, like it's been revoked, no insurance, whatever. They don't just say, "Here's a speeding ticket. Drive off." That is not what happened. And so Togei, he has to be lying. There's no way that he has no license. There's no way he would get away with it. I don't have the time to go over the entire video. You can watch it on Sarah's channel if you'd like. But he takes her to the casino and loses about $70,000 with her gambling in the first 30 minutes. She says, "Hey, let's keep going." He's like, "Look, I don't have any more bandos. I'm I'm out." lays on the floor having a good time. Hey, let's go and get a steak. He has no more money. And so that was a very expensive date. And Togei here, listen, as your life coach, she ain't going to let you hit. >> I've seen you on YouTube. >> You see? Oh, that's >> I watch all the video. Thank you so much. That actually means the world to me. >> I mean, after losing the $70,000, he had a few hundred left to go. And so, he gives it out to random strangers. One guy is about 80 years of age. Oh, I know you, Togi. I watch your videos. I mean, is this even real life? Toi made Sarah feel all kinds of emotions from the looks of it. L M AO. And trust me, that's what the women want. The roller coaster of emotions, the ups and downs, the good with the bad. This is what the women are craving. You might be wondering yourself, what Togei been doing? What the I've been up to? Why have I not posted in months? And to be honest, I've been chilling. >> And so Togei's back from the road to $10 million, of which he made, I think it was around $4 million. He he put a deposit on a house. He bought several sports cars. He has the chains. And he doesn't now know what to do with his money nor with his time. And so he's decided life is boring when you have it made. when you're making bank, when you've achieved everything that life has to offer. Now, I would argue you could go into sports, reading, um maybe become a cyclist like Coach Greg, or lift weights, perhaps date and fall in love, have kids. There's a lot of things you can do, but losing all of your money and going back into debt in order to have a challenge to get back out of debt is not one of the things that should be high up on your list. >> People ask, "Does money make you happy?" Yes, definitely. Um, however, life has so much less potency when there's no urgency. >> And so, Tolki is not lying. He's actually making a very valid point. You can't just give up and retire. He basically had it made. So much so that he didn't really have to work. He didn't really have to grind. And life got in the way. He was basically retired. And so, notice, am I retired? I'm still recording videos. My friends are saying, "Hey, you have money. Why don't you just buy a house? go on an island and spend your time on the beach. Do you know how boring that would be? That sounds miserable. Two weeks on the beach perhaps, sure. But I have to grind. I have to have fun. I have to take on challenges and overcome them in order to have some pleasure in this world. >> It's pretty straightforward. Uh I got a text from my accountant technically like 4 months ago that I owe the IRS $200,000 for my taxes and I've not paid it yet. >> Owing 200k to IRS is very telling of how much money that he actually owes. It says he isn't making $10 million because if he did make $10 million, the IRS, I don't know what state he's from, but it perhaps is up to 50%, in Canada, it's 54%. And so if he only owes $200,000, let's call it about half, it means that you would have to make $400,000. Now, these might be quarterly payments. And so it's possible that he has to pay $800,000 in taxes. And so depending on his state, perhaps he may have actually made $2 million last year. It's possible. >> Technically, I owe Amex. Bro, I'm such a piece of sometimes. I owe Amex $100,000. I got a spending addiction, bro. I just go to like Nou every night. >> Toi is spending money so recklessly, it's acting as if he's already saved tens of millions of dollars. But he's very new to this and so he should in fact be investing some of his money in order to have a secure future. But well for Togei that is too boring. >> Joe Biden is sitting right there. >> A lot better than when I went to go eat. I forget at the place in Miami and P. Diddy was there. I'd rather see Joe Biden. >> Financial breakdown. I have Let's check the bank account. I have $477,000 cash money militia. >> I mean, where did all this money go? You had 10 million. Now you have 477,000. And so I'm thinking it was closer to four million, but perhaps it was only two. I can't really keep track of how much money he's making cuz he says this, he says that. I can't figure it out. But he does have a lot of money. $477,000 along with a house and cars. He is essentially wealthy for his age. He's doing very, very well. which actually I thought I had more. >> I don't know. It's not important. >> He's basically the opposite of meeps. She thinks she has no money. I'm like, babe, you know how much money you make. Go and look in your account. Oh. Oh, I had way more than I thought. I didn't know it had done that. I'm like, of course you did. And so most people I do think are like Togi. They have less money than they think. But if you're like Coach Greg and you're good with your money, you don't blast it all. You'll know exactly what you have. I'll sit there and go to the casino, lose $200,000, giving money back to the bad guy, the casino. And it's like, I could have changed a lot of lives with that 200,000, but instead I lost it on Six Hands of Blackjack. >> And so Togei, it's all about the dopamine. I mean, he literally gamles hundreds of thousands, if not millions of dollars each and every month, which gives him joy. And he knows that he's going to lose money. And so, why just go to the casinos and gamble and lose all that money? You know, you're eventually going to lose it. The gambling odds are set so that the casino is going to win. And so why give the money to the casino when you can give it to strangers or hardworking people in need? And so hey, I'm all for it. Togei is giving away free cars, cash, and so on to various people. How can you on this guy for that? This is a noble gesture, and it's going to make him happy. And in this world, what better is there than being happy? >> Like, I have no real problems. I'm healthy. I'm happy. I got food on the table. I'm blessed. >> Debatable. Healthy. Debatable. Happy? Sure. healthy. I know. >> If you somebody with it, there's a a 1% chance that you contract. >> I believe it's 1% if you had relations with somebody who has it, but odds as a whole in the general population, it's 001%. I actually looked this up. >> To be fair, either you got really unlucky or you baked an a person raw 100 times. How did even get popular, bro? Why is it one of the most popular STDs? Togei AIDS is not a very popular STD. It's not very common. What is very common is chlamyia and you know why. But if I had it, there's only 1%. I'd probably just go around crushing not telling no one everyone if you get you probably didn't. >> He would go around crushing it on anybody and not tell them about it. I mean this is a scary thought. And so we're all thinking toi is the nicest guy in the world. He's giving away free cars, but imagine if he's giving away aids for free. Hey, you've only got a one in a 100 chance. You know, he likes to gamble and so why not just not tell them that you have it and see what they get? Are you hearing it, people? It wouldn't be a Coach Greg video if I didn't plug Turk Builder Max. And so, Togei, he's trying to be healthier. He seems to be drinking less, which is great. using less recreational drugs, lowers his dose of testosterone, but if he wants to keep the gains and get locked in, Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum, it's even better. This is what you need to lock in. So, we're interested. Code Greg, 15% off. And remember, we're getting so many reviews coming in and the reviews are absolutely amazing. People keep rebying this. They're experiencing unbelievable gains and both in size and in strength as well as how they feel. And if you don't believe in this, you're thinking, "Well, maybe it doesn't work." If it doesn't work, there's a money back guarantee and on top of that, a $20 gift card. And so, you literally can try it risk-free. Now, if you've been scammed by Derek and other companies in the past where you've bought fake Auga Turkistanica, they promise it's a Juga, but it's actually Cyanosis and or other copycat plants. Just send us a proof of purchase and you're going to get 50% off. And so you get it for half price. And if that doesn't work, you still get that money back. And so what do you have to lose? Code Greg 15% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost your algorithm. Don't forget about the momentous clothing line. It's dropping August 1st. If you're interested in that, of course, go and hit the link. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And if you're interested in the cookbook, the training book, coaching plans by me and my team, as well as Algo RX for blood work and all your pharmaceutical medications, click the link in description. And until next time, I am out.