to see demons. He's already seeing them. >> Seeing like devils or like weird creatures like >> monsters, demons, whatever you want to call it. >> My life is bad. >> He's having hallucinations. I'm asking God for help. Crickets. >> Toi receives crickets because I personally don't think that anyone literally has the chat where it's a back and forth stream where you say, "Hey, Jesus. Hey, God. You know what? I'm having a hard day. And then suddenly hear a voice. >> I see that. >> Like I've literally like seen like devils or like weird creatures like like watching over me while I sleep. >> This is when you have to ask yourself, you know, is it worth it? Am I actually in control? Like what am I seeing right now? You need to talk to somebody. This is not normal. We had Greg Ducet on the podcast and we said, "Who do you think is the worst person on the platform?" And he says it's Togei because he is big into gambling and steroids. >> To pull it mildly, he said steroids, gambling, alcohol, and of course, recreational drugs. Basically everything. He promotes it all. It wasn't just a couple things. It was all of those things. and his fans often are teenagers who were vulnerable and likely to listen to him and to do the things that he does. >> I have to say I was wrong on every single front. He came in the nicest guy. Totally chill. I would just hang out with the guy. >> Never said he wasn't a nice guy. Never said he wasn't totally chill. Never said I wouldn't want to hang out with him. I said he's the worst influencer on the platform. as in he's going to do the most damage to the people watching it. And he's a negative influence to the people watching. That's what I said. Gambling ruins lives. Alcohol ruins lives. Sniffing creatine ruins lives. Everything he's promoting. And yes, that includes steroids ruins lives. I stick with what I said. Toi released a recent video, but better than that video is Toi gets deep about Jesus, steroids, and gambling episode 143 on the Bryce Crawford podcast. And so I'm watching this podcast and I'm thinking, poor Togei, somebody needs to do something. Toi, he has no idea what's going on. He doesn't know what's happening to him. And he thinks that perhaps Jesus can save him. For some people, they have no control over their lives. They don't know what to do. They don't know what to think. They perhaps have no reason to live. They're out drinking, gambling, doing drugs, steroids. They're doing everything trying to find something, a reason to stay on this earth. Toi, he almost died. You remember that overdose? And since that time, he's been hella generous. He's been giving money to charities. He's been helping people out. He's been trying to essentially be a positive influence to offset the horrific things that he's doing. He's battling within himself. Can he be a Christian? He's not ready for that. He likes partying too much. He likes drinking too much. He likes the steroids. He likes all of these things. And so, what is toi to do? I want you to listen to some of this video so you can understand exactly what's going on. That I'm not making this up. And I'm going explain how close Togei is to losing his mind, to literally not knowing where he is, perhaps developing schizophrenia. He needs to be careful. And so do you. Let's watch this. >> The month before last, I was dead sober, was working out a ton, taking a lot of steroids, doing a big transformation for a video. >> And so for a month there, he was doing really good. He stopped all of the recreational drugs. It was a whole month he was sober. I mean, he was still gambling and he was still abusing steroids, but hey, well, well, that's a start. >> And then I went out to do the David Dori vlog and we were supposed to be in Vegas for one day. I ended up in Vegas for I don't even really remember like maybe 2, 3 weeks. >> Does that look like a man in control? Did he has his life in order? >> Was doing a ton of like you name it. Everything under the sun that you Vegas happens in Vegas. So, I like don't remember. Did he then party a little bit? Or did he use the word a ton? That's like mucho, LOTS GRANDE. >> I DON'T SPEAK SPANISH >> FOR TWO OR 3 WEEKS AND can hardly remember it. That's a lot. It's serious. It's not minor drug abuse. It's serious drug addiction. I'm not trying to pull any punches and I don't want to sugarcoat this. It's normally very funny videos about Togei, but this is serious. >> And then I was like, "All right, we got to get locked in. go to Utah to like do a charity event. So then it's like full 360. You got to be sober. >> And so you see with Togei, it's all about balance. He's thinking if I party and do all those drugs for perhaps two or three weeks, well, I have to do the opposite. I have to be completely sober, go to charity functions, give away half my money because I'm trying to balance life. We have Jesus. We have the devil. And I don't want to be the devil's child. I want to be somewhere in the middle. I I don't want to be a bad person. And so I'm doing the best that I can. >> And then after that, I went on another gambling bender. In the last week, I streamed for like 50 hours. >> Now, he isn't David Gogggins. He's the Gogggins of gambling. But when you stay up for 50 hours straight while abusing recreational drugs, stimulants, and so on, it can stimulate or cause psychosis. like like watching over me while I sleep. Like I I'll be or like I'll be in my room having like I'll like see them with my eyes and it's like okay it's like whoa. >> And so with that dopamine dump, the serotonin, the awakefulness for multiple hours and or days along with dehydration, it can stimulate psychosis. It's when you go crazy, you start seeing things. You might think that people are chasing you down. And often times when it gets to this point, people have to go to rehab. they have to get checked in because they're losing their minds. There's something known as serotonin toxicity or dopamine storm. Now, I want to read this to you and see if that explains what Togi has been experiencing. When serotonin or dopamine is overstimulated for too long, for example, too frequently visiting your friend Molly, sniffing creatine, gambling, abusing Addies, your brain's perception circuits can remain stuck in overdrive. They won't shut down, and you'll begin to hallucinate and see things that aren't there. Things are moving, flying around. Perhaps it's a monster. Perhaps it's a goblin. Perhaps it's a demon. And they don't go away. Very scary. This is while you're awake. You're not sleeping. This is literally happening while you're awake. And so imagine you're having a horrible nightmare, but yet you're now awake. You're dreaming. You wake up. The nightmare is still there. This can cause anxiety, paranoia, or a sense of demonic presence. And so thinking, "The demons are after me. Perhaps I've been blessed for so long. How have I been blessed for this long? How am I this lucky? Perhaps it's not God. Perhaps it's not Jesus. Perhaps it's the devil. Yeah, I get it. Perhaps this is too deep for you. But I do think it's an important conversation. Togei is on the Bryce Crawford podcast talking about God. But what he should be on is a podcast talking about drug addiction, gambling, and so on. And so add to the fact that he's now sleepd deprived up gambling 50 hours. That he's dehydrated from using multiple stimulants. He's drinking alcohol, peeing out. and so on. And what do you think is going to happen? It becomes a blurred sensation between reality and fiction, what is real, what is not. And so if it gets at a point where you're seeing monsters and demons and things moving around and this is happening even at the end of the night and then perhaps in the morning or or anytime like this, this is when it becomes a medical emergency. This is when you have to ask yourself, you know, is it worth it? Am I actually in control? like what am I seeing right now? You need to talk to somebody, this is not normal. Trust me, as much as you want to think that this is just demons, that it's perhaps God. I don't want to burst your bubbles. But there is a second possibility. It's not demons. It's your mind playing tricks on you because you're on abusive levels of drugs. You're dehydrated and you no longer know what's going on. >> Where the is Jesus at? like I'm trying to have a conversation with God and I I believe in him because of >> the way that my existence. >> Do you need to find God or hear me out, do you need to stop doing drugs? Not that there's anything wrong with finding God. Hey, by all means, I'm not saying that I don't believe in God or that it's not real. What I'm saying is just because you're seeing demons and monsters and so on doesn't mean that you need to find God. If you continue to abuse drugs and so on, even if you find God, you probably going to still continue to see the demons. And so, if this has happened to you, you don't add in more drugs. You got to stop it. It's done. Right now, this is when you stop. You also don't add in marijuana, which is a drug. But some people are going to think, "Oh, yeah, but that'll help me to go to sleep." It can make it worse. You don't add in more alcohol, thinking, "Well, if I get really drunk, I'll then pass out." This is not what you do. You get hydrated. Cuz often times it's happening cuz you are overly dehydrated, >> very very very dehydrated. >> You're not staying hydrated. Your heart rate is increased. You're sweating. And so perhaps you're dehydrated in combination with the serotonin and dopamine crash that's going on. You got to get hydrated and you need to sober up. Now, if it doesn't clear up, please go to the hospital and be honest. Don't lie. Hey, I've done a bunch of drugs. I'm perk. And then now is the recovery week. I'm sober again. You caught me on I think like day three of sobriety. So my thoughts really clear up around like day five or so. >> The fact that he knows that it takes until day five for his thoughts to clear up, it tells you that he's done this a number of times. And what's scary is that we continue to worship this guy. We're cheering for him. We love it. It's like a train wreck that you can't look away from or a car crash with multiple bodies. The problem is Togei may one day be that body. You can cheer for him all you like, but if you truly did care about Togei, you wouldn't be cheering him for him to party for 2 weeks and to sober up for two weeks to go back and forth. You would be cheering for him to stop gambling, to stop partying, to stop using recreational drugs, to stop using steroids. But that wouldn't be so fun now, would it? And so those of you thinking, "Oh, Coach Greg, you're just a hater. Who's really the hater? The one that wants Togei to survive. >> But it's a pretty much chronic cycle of trying to lock in and like the ideal target is like 30 days sober. >> This is a drug addiction. He can't lock in for 30 days. And when he locks in for, for example, 2 weeks, what ends up happening? He then crashes out for 2 weeks. It's not a one-time slip up. >> If you can't be honest with yourself about the things that you're doing, good or bad, then how could you be honest with God? You know what I mean? So, I think that's like just the first step. The fact that you're just open and honest. >> So, he's saying, "Well, it's good that you're being honest." Well, his whole channel is about being honest. It's about telling the people what he's doing. That's why people watch him. If Togei was not a train wreck, if he didn't do anything wrong. If all he did was speak about the positives and none of the negatives, he wouldn't have his fans. And so when he talks about crashing out or sniffing creatine on uh Lady of the Streets perhaps derriè, well that is when people want to watch him. >> God knows everything about Togei, but in order for you to grow the personal relationship with God, you have to open up to him. >> So essentially what he's saying is Togei, you're being honest to the world. You're telling us about this and you're telling us about that, but you have to like sit there and talk to God. It's not about doing it in a video, in an interview. It's literally sitting there by yourself perhaps meditating and just talking to him and saying, "Hey, I did this. I don't want to do this anymore. Can you help me to stop?" Just sit there and contemplate life and talk to him literally and or her, whatever you believe. And go about your day while thinking about him being in your presence. That is what he's suggesting. And so if Togei just goes about his business saying, "Hey, I'm going to party for two weeks." And then makes a video and talks about it. He's not opening up to God. God already knows. If you believe in God, he already knows clearly. And so, you have to just tell him what you're doing and talk back and forth and think, you know, what would what are you saying for me to do? While you're seeing the demons moving around, monsters and so on, think, do you think I should do some more drugs tomorrow? And then just see what you think he says. You know, I'm not a priest. I'm not a religious expert, but I'm thinking probably going to say, you know what, Togei, you probably shouldn't. I've been given just the perfect amount of struggle in all my endeavors so that I fail and learn and it's building me like perfectly. He almost died. I mean, do I have to repeat that? He never experienced that kind of pain in his life. He was almost no longer with us, but yet he survived. But then he did it again. That doesn't mean you learn from your struggles. >> Sometimes it feels like almost like I'm the devil's favorite. >> Like look at my life. I gamble all this money. I do all these things and I'm so successful better than the.1%. He somewhat feels guilty about this. Perhaps he's feeling imposter syndrome where he's thinking, "How am I being so successful? I mean after all MY IQ IS 79." >> 79. AS A RESULT OF THIS, perhaps Togei, who's a very logical man, except for when he's gambling cuz he knows that this is a losing endeavor. You don't make money gambling long-term. Well, you can with sponsors and so on, but the rest of the people watching Togei who perhaps are motivated to gamble, they're on average all going to lose their money. This is how it works. And so, it's hard to cheer for promotions of things that we know are bad for other people. Like, if I sat and made videos right now and I said, "You know what? I think you should all go on test and trend because man look at that. Would you like those videos? I mean, think of it. If I did all those videos promoting those things, would I be a good role model? Would I be a good influence? I don't think so. Perhaps he feels a little bit of guilt. And so, because of that guilt, you've seen how he says, "We need to farm some more karma. We need to get a scheme. We need to farm some karma. And so, I'm going to give this person $10,000. That person $10,000. Give that person a car. Help these people with cancer. I'm going to give away half of my money because man, I've done some bad things. Wow, was I drunk and it's a good time. And who are the people that then approach toi at those fitness conventions and so on? A bunch of teenagers who look up to him. I also think if I were in Togei shoes, would I do any different? I just trying to be honest. If I was in Togei shoes and was offered, let's say it's a half a million dollars a month or let's say it's a million dollars a month. I don't know how much money he's making. Perhaps he's even making more money than coach Greg right now. Maybe he's making $3 million a month. I don't know. So much money that he can just give out a half a million a month and it's no big deal. Perhaps he's making $100 billion. I don't know. How do I know? Would I be able to say no? Could I say no? I believe now at 50, because I already have a lot of money, I could easily say no. But could I have said no at 23 when life would hand me a million dollars a month to promote gambling to abuse recreational drugs, steroids, and promote it to the world? I think out of gave into the temptation. It's like when people are saying, "Oh, I'm so faithful. I would never cheat on my wife." Bro, you're 5'4", bald, and weigh 300 lb. There is no temptation cuz no one's ever going TO DO THAT. DAMN. BUT WHAT IF YOU'RE A 6'3 good-looking Chad? Women throwing themselves at you. Is it still going to be easy for you to say no? If I'm a 23-year-old toy, I can't blame him for doing what he's doing because hey, life threw him those opportunities. And it's very difficult to say no. And so I'm not judging him because if I were in his shoes, I probably would be doing the exact same thing. I'm not trying to pretend that I'm better than Togei. And it's always when I'm at my lowest trying to make myself better. Like I've literally like seen like devils or like weird creatures like >> a lot to unpack. And so the demons and the monsters after my accident where I hit my head in Dominican Republic, some of you aware of this where I received brain damage. I experienced the same thing. The demons and the monsters. It's a very scary situation. And so when those things are happening, it's very scary. And so I can imagine how Togei's feeling while this is all going down. And so he's thinking, well, if I have a relationship with God, perhaps these demons will go away. I mean, does anyone want to have demons and uh monsters checking them out, floating around? No one wants that life. And so you pretty much do anything. And so you're thinking, how can I get a chance to talk to God? I'll donate half of my money. I'll do this. I'll do that. But remember, very difficult to stop taking drugs. You know, there's something called an addiction. They're addictive. And by addictive, it means it's very difficult to stop. Can you stop? Yes, you can. But it's an uphill battle. The more addicted you are, the harder it is to stop. The desire, it's overpowering. And so Toki's desire to receive dopamine from the drugs, from gambling, from drinking, from having party time, from having sexy time with the ladies perhaps or one even. Now remember, if you're religious, you're not allowed to do that before marriage. I mean, I struggle with that. I don't think that's for me. But hey, if you're religious in that and you can do that, hey, all the power to you. When my life is good, I'm thanking God, trying to talk to him. When my life is bad, I'm asking God for help. Crickets >> toi receives crickets because I personally don't think that anyone literally has the chat where it's a back and forth stream where you say, "Hey Jesus, hey God, you know what? I'm having a hard day." And then suddenly you hear a voice, >> I see that. >> I don't think it works like that. I don't think where you have a conversation. And so I think everyone feels crickets. And so I think that the way it works is you talk to God and you just feel it on your own. I think it comes out. It's almost like meditating. I don't believe there's an interactional conversation, a dialogue that's going on between yourself and Jesus. Now remember, not everyone has a Jesus or a God. There's Buddhists. There's um Allah alah. Perhaps Togei has to try ask forgiveness from God. But like there's guys and girls with I love Jesus in their Instagram bio and Bible verses in their Instagram bio and they're out here sleeping every night with random people. They're out here doing a bunch of drugs and all this other stuff. See, I think that's a problem. See, when as soon as you say that you're like Christian or or or whatever religious, then people assume that you're just some somehat perfect. That doesn't mean you don't sleep around, that you don't cheat on your partner, your wife, husband, and so on. That doesn't mean you don't do horrific things, that you're not out stealing things. We've seen what priests have been known to do in the past. There's some horrific thing that religious people do. Religious people are the same as non-religious people. The only difference is they believe in God. You are essentially the same. If you believe in the right-wing versus the leftwing, we're all still the same people. Cuz I get 100 DMs a day. You need Jesus. And I look at this I go to this person's page and I'm thinking, you don't look very Christian at all. Matter of fact, it looks like you got more problems than me. >> You know what? I actually think a lot of people who are Christians or say they're Christians do so because they have more problems than the rest of us and they're trying to get rid of those problems by being Christian and hoping that that somehow is going to motivate them to do better. You can be an atheist and almost essentially do no wrong. You don't believe in God, but you believe in being a good person. You're still people. We're all just people. Doesn't matter your height, your color, your sex. We're all people. People who are trying to navigate this world. So I listen to you but not all these people. But it seems like 90% of the people it's like you say Jesus loves me. So does the crackhead on the street with the sign. >> I don't think that you should differentiate. Just because the guy's a crackhead on the street and one guy's a priest or some guy has a million followers or a million dollars doesn't mean that that person is better than that person. We're both just people. We've just been through different struggles. And those different struggles and opportunities and luck have led to different situations. I'm the same as you. You're the same as me. I just got lucky in a different way. I made the most of it. I had a lot of good chances and here I am. We're all the same. >> They say they love God and they're, you know, a like whatever it might be. There's all these people and it's it's a huge turnoff to Christianity entirely. >> Of course, Togi makes some great points. Why should I be Christian if just because you're Christian doesn't mean that good things are going to happen? And what's with that eight-year-old that got cancer that believes in God? Where was God for that person? Well, here I am a a drug addict, gambling, promoting all this stuff and I'm a multi-millionaire. How do I get to have so much luck? Well, they do not. Whether you're a Christian, atheist, or whatever other religion, that is not how life works. A certain belief doesn't suddenly give you superpowers. You just believe. Now, if you want to believe in God and you want to do that, then by all means. If that helps you, great. But if you don't, also great. You have the power to choose. And so for Togei to end this video, I would like to have him have the power to choose to stop doing what he's doing, to stop abusing recreational drugs. I think that's likely the worst thing that he's doing, the gambling. He's being paid a ton of money to promote gambling. And so, how is this just going to turn that down? And so, he's trying to do a good thing. He's trying to give away half his money to charity cuz he's thinking, I'm making so money from promoting gambling where gambling ruins people's lives. Thousands of people's families wrecked because they're addicted to gambling and they cannot stop. Also, drugs and alcohol. Horrible. I'm not just talking about drinking and driving. I'm talking about things like spousal abuse or simply just depression or the cancer that it creates. I'm hoping Ki can just learn to say no. or as I like to say, the lowest dose that makes you happy. We're not perfect. I don't try to stand here and say you all need to do seven days a week of cardio and eat chicken, broccoli, and rice, eat perfectly all the time. Do the best that you can. Can you do better tomorrow than you did today? And can you do better today than you did yesterday? That's all you can ask for. All you can ask for is you do your best. I don't think Togei's best is two weeks on a bender followed by two weeks sober. I don't think that's his best. Perhaps it's one week sober, one day not sober, one week sober, one day not sober. Perhaps that's the best for him. But it's a heck of a lot better than going on two and three week benders and requiring 5 days before he thinks clearly to see demons. He's already seeing them, monsters, demons, whatever you want to call it. He's having hallucinations. And so hopefully Togei can do better. >> You need to do better. >> I don't know who you need to talk to. Perhaps it's God. Perhaps it's Jesus. Many people are writing you in your DMs saying you need to find Jesus. But just because you find Jesus also doesn't mean it's going to stop. You need to find yourself. Jesus perhaps can help, but in the end it's on you. You decide what you put into your body. What you do, what you say, it's on you. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost your like the video if you liked it. I know it's a different style of video than normal, but hey, I'm trying. Watch one of those two bloops. And until next time, I am out.