It's kind of the same idea is like if you think you might have chlamydia, just never get checked for chlamydia. >> See, if you think you might have chlamydia, just never test for it because you don't want it to be confirmed. And so Togei, he's avoiding that. And remember, this is the same guy that said if you had AIDS, he wouldn't tell anyone about it. He would just uh sleep around. And hey, that's like gambling. There's only a 1% chance you're going to get it anyway. And so you could possibly do it a 100 times before you actually get it. Cuz the second you get checked for chlamyia and you have chlamyia, then you definitely have chlamyia. >> It's so much better to know because there's actually medication that you can take and it'll clear it up like that. It's not that hard to fix to you can solve it within days. >> And when there's a chance of something, we can always assume for the better cuz I'm a glass half full kind of guy. >> Now you know why so many people don't get their blood work done. They don't want to know. You got to use this as a lesson to learn. A lot of men, they're too tough. They're too stubborn to go to the hospital, to go to the doctor, get checked out. Oh, I got some pain. You know, it's it's down my left arm a little bit, but it's nothing serious. Or shortness of breath, that kind of thing. And you're like, "No, I'm a man. I can tough it out." And you wait two extra weeks and then you go in, but by then it's too late. The same happens when you're using steroids. Oh, just two more weeks of trend. I mean, I'm having these heart palpitations. I have anxiety. I'll just keep going. Don't keep going. and go to the doctor right now. I found an old crypto wallet that I haven't used in months with 65,000. You know you have a lot of money when you forgot just randomly forgot about $65,000 you had in some other wallet. >> This is the part where we put uh $65,000 on one hand of Buckrot. And it's honestly kind of the only way to take care of this. Um unfortunately YouTube has banned online you know what. And so YouTube finally does something smart. They ban online, you know what? And so I think that's a good thing because a lot of people are younger and they're being influenced and if you're a teenager and you get influenced to start betting your money and then you lose and you're all of a sudden you're addicted and you're just a teenager, it's not going to end well. And so I think that's actually a good thing. >> Picture picture. Yes. What are you? That's what I'ming talking about. >> So, he bets $65,000 on a game that I have no idea how to play. I don't know if you pick a blue circle or a red circle. I'm not sure what the odds are, but I'm going to suggest that you don't play the game cuz whatever game it is, if they're doubling your money, there probably has less than A-50% chance of winning. >> The coolest way to celebrate would to just be banging a >> Next up on the list, he needs to celebrate. I mean, winning 65,000, one of the greatest feelings of all time. I'm going to argue he has greater feelings when he wins that game, when he becomes the Togurt champion of the world. But let's go with that. And so, what better way to celebrate than to have sexy time when a woman of the night, a street walker, if you will, he's going to hire her to serve him and he's going to then serve her all over her stomach. So giveaway number four, going to bang a and then we're going to give them like 20,000 bucks. >> He's trying to give back to the community. You know, the people that really work for it. And so who doesn't work harder than somebody who services men by the hour. And so we see our charm showing up at the door in the shorts in the long straight hair. Um ready to do the deed. She initiates body contact with the awkward hug and in 13 minutes she exits. And of course, remember this is just a skit. Nothing actually happened. This is all made believe. Made pretend. >> So what we're going to do is we're going to have a competition. We're going to have multiple people trying to catch fish and the first one to catch a fish gets 10 racks. >> And so next up was the goal to having a fishing tournament. However, no one really wanted to enter other than somebody who was underage. And so rather than that, he gave $10,000 to a drunk homeless man on the street. So he's super excited with the $10,000. I hope he understands that it's money. And he proceeds to continue talking to the rocks. That homeless guy Oded that night for sure. >> Just got a new car, but I don't I I decided I don't really need it. So I bought this for you right here. This is It's your car. Yeah. It's all yours. I bought it for you. Greg, did you spot the fact that he put Walter's car on Amex? That shit's going to get repossessed by the bank. And so, let's hope Togei can remember to make his payments because he often times is forgetting and you don't want it to get repoed. >> You You're kidding me. You're playing. >> No, it's not a joke at all. I I really mean it. >> And so, Toli has now become Mr. Beast. >> This have a nice heart. It's very important. I wish God give it to him more. He's very smart, nice, nice family, you know, healthy. >> Not going to say he's not a nice guy. He doesn't have a nice heart, but it's not healthy. Healthy and Togei are not synonymous. They don't go together. >> Dude, I don't know what's happened last been playing. It's been 15 hours. Finally grinded back to oneing game away, dude. Here we go. Okay. And so he's been continuously playing now for 15 hours. This is what he needs. He needs to be the champion. Imagine if he doesn't win. Sometimes in life there's things that they get a hold of you. They grab a hold of you and you can't let go. And so this game is it. He needs to be the best in the world. >> That's what I'ming said. That's what I'm That's number one in the [\h__\h] world. And so he's won it. I mean, if he had won a million dollars or done this, do you really think he would feel any different? It's about the same. I'm not kidding. He's so excited. >> I do not feel proud of this car because in the midst of a giveaway video where I'm supposed to give away all my money, I crashed out and I bought this car. And even worse, we ran out of money. >> And the reason for that was he bought a Urus, which he thinks is nice, but he has some regrets. And remember this is after finding $65,000 in some random wallet on his internet computer, whatever that is, and then doubling it. And so he managed to win $130,000 more than he had, but he's still $40,000 shy. It's because he spent 170K on a used urus. >> So we were perfectly on track to give 40k away to um a kid's medical bills. The good news is eventually he will have another video where he gives $40,000 to a kid who's um trying to survive cancer or something to that extent. >> I managed to spend $200,000 in one month on the I I don't even know how it's possible because >> he just lost track of his money. And so this is why you need to budget your money, why you need to be careful. And I mean Togei obviously he means well. He's trying to give back. He's doing some good deeds. He's kind of like the Mr. Beast of gambling, I would say. But he needs to work on his finances. The $200,000 that he spent, did he need to spend it? Could he have spent half and still had the same amount of things to show for it at the end of the month? Budgeting, it's not about being perfect. It's about living within your means. If you make $4,000 a month and spend four, you're actually richer than somebody who makes $10,000 a month and spends 11. They're living beyond their means, going further and further into debt while you're saving money. And so just because you're not making millions of dollars like Togei, it doesn't mean you can't be wealthy. If you spend more than you make, you're always going to live in fear. You're going to be stressed out about your income. But if you learn to save from a very young age, I'm talking about 18, 19 years of age, you should be saving money. I don't care if you make $10. Hey, save one. If you make $10,000, save a,000. A million, save a hundred bandos. The list goes on and on. And so, always save. And if you do so, you'll always have money no matter what. >> We ended up gambling away the cancer patients money and also ended up $200,000 in debt. But I'm more I overall I'm pretty happy with how the video went. >> And so overall, in the end, Togei's happy. Everybody wins. I'm sure we'll hear more from Togei. It wouldn't be a Coach Greg video if I didn't plug Turk Builder Max. And so Togei, he's trying to be healthier. He seems to be drinking less, which is great. Using less recreational drugs, lowers his dose of testosterone, but if he wants to keep the gains and get locked in, Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum, it's even better. This is what you need to lock in. So, if you're interested, code Greg, 15% off. And remember, we're getting so many reviews coming in and the reviews are absolutely amazing. And people keep rebying this. They're experiencing unbelievable gains in both in size and in strength as well as how they feel. And if you don't believe in this, you're thinking, "Well, maybe it doesn't work." If it doesn't work, there's a money back guarantee and on top of that, a $20 gift card. And so, you literally can try it risk-free. Now, if you've been scammed by Derek and other companies in the past where you've bought fake Auga Turkistanica, they promise it's a Juga, but it's actually Cyanosis and or other copycat plans, just send us a proof of purchase and you're going to get 50% off. And so, you get it for half price. And if that doesn't work, you still get that money back. And so, what do you have to lose? Code Greg, 15% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost your algorithm. Don't forget about the Momentous clothing line. is dropping August 1st. If you're interested in that, of course, go and hit the link. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. And if you're interested in the cookbook, the training book, coaching plans by me and my team, as well as Algo RX for blood work, and all your pharmaceutical medications, click the link in description. And until next time, I am out.