And so I have no idea how this could have been done with seven days only to think that perhaps there's proper lighting, a pump, I don't know, photo editing of some sorts because it looks like he's put on about 20 to 30 lbs of muscle and this is all in 7 days. Coach Greg and in today's video it's Togei cycle reveal. We're going over exactly what he's been taking. And unfortunately, he didn't include a zithroyiain for his chlamyia. And so, we're going to see, is this the ideal steroid supplement stack for Togei? Is he taking too little? Is he taking too much? Obviously, it's too much. And so, let's get right into it. >> Togei's back on cycle. I'm the one who built it for him. Here's 7 days of progress. And so the first thing you need to know is Togei didn't create this cycle. His coach is Tanner. Tanner.tarded. And he also works for Algo RX. Same company as Coach Greg. And so if you're interested, you can hire Tanner for coaching by reaching out to him in his DMs, Instagram, and so on. And or you can use code Tat for Algo RX. >> Here's seven days of progress. Here's how we did it. And so I have no idea how this could have been done with 7 days only to think that perhaps there's proper lighting, a pump, I don't know, photo editing of some sorts because it looks like he's put on about 20 to 30 lbs of muscle and this is all in 7 days. This transformation, if you can make that kind of change in an entire steroid cycle, trust me, you're doing good. And so there lies the problem. Most people, they have crazy expectations of what they can achieve. Hey, if I use steroids, I'll probably put on 45 lbs of muscle in 16 months, just like Hussein Farhat. He's actually natural, though. >> Most of the cosmetic look is coming from the use of the oral steroids. >> And so, what you need to understand is that when you use oral steroids versus injectable, it's going to take a lot longer for the injectables to kick in. And so, in one week of using, for example, testosterone and enthate or cipionate or any longest, you're hardly even going to notice its effects. Yeah. you're you're going to start feeling it to work, but you're not going to see a night and day transformation in your physique. And so injectables with a half-life of perhaps 5 days and or more for several of them like test andate or propriionate even was a couple days. If you compare it to orals, which could be several hours, 10 hours, or perhaps one day, you're going to see immediate changes in your physique from using orals versus injectables. And yes, it does depend on the type of injectable that you're doing. Test ACE or test suspension is going to be very very quick. But it's important to remember that if you're injecting steroids, it's very possible that you won't feel it for several days. Orals on the other hand, you have a much greater chance of feeling them very early on. >> The Superdraw is injectable superdraw, meaning it's less liver toxic and we're able to use a little bit more of it with less damage to the body. >> Here's the thing. Superdraw is not a safe steroid to use, especially in larger doses. I don't care if it's oral. I don't care if it's injectable. I've used this several times in the past. And I've coached many people to use this. And I'm telling you, 30 millig is a lot. Orally, 30 milligs is a lot. Injectable, it's a little bit stronger. And so, 25 mg of injectable is equal to about 30 millig oral. He's on 50 mg of injectable superdraw, which is like doing 60 milligs of oral, which is double any amount I've ever coached or taken myself. And so it is not a safe cycle. And so here's the thing. Masteron and Superdrrol are very, very similar except they add a methyl group to the superdraw. And so unfortunately the methyl group makes it much more harmful to the liver. It slows down its absorption in the liver. And so that makes it much more dangerous. Why would you use Superdrrol when you could have used Masterone instead? Now, I know there is a shortage of Master, but is it really that hard to get? I mean, I want people if they're going to go about this route to use the most safest products available. And Master, it's much safer than Super Draw. Now, if you're using Superdraw as an oral because hey, you want to add this to your stack to get an extra bang for your buck. Perhaps you're already on injectables and you want to add in an oral and you're thinking, I don't want to use Anavar this time, Windstrol Debball, and you want to use some SuperDrol, then 10 to at maximum 30 milligrams a day. That is what you should be doing. I'm not telling you to use steroids, and in fact, don't use steroids. I'm encouraging you to stay natural. But if you are using steroids, we're trying to limit the damages. Please don't use 50 milligrams of SuperDrill. >> If you're smart, you'll add glutathione on top of these compounds to minimize the liver toxicity even further. >> But if you're even smarter, you would have added in TUDCA. And so although glutathione is an amazing antioxidant, it doesn't cover the specific form of limmer damage that's being caused from the superdraw. Superdraw causes a chalistatic pattern of limmer damage. And so superdrol, it slows down bile flow while also harming the bile ducts. TUDCA on the other hand, it speeds up bile flow while also protecting the bile ducts. And so as you can see, TUDCA over glutathione. But why not use both? >> We both know that increasing his test is going to bring up his estrogen and make his gyno a little bit worse. But he feels best on this level of estrogen. >> Says who? Says Togei. Togei doesn't know how he feels. Toi's happy one day, the next day he's losing all his money. He's gambling all his money away or giving it to charity. And so, how do we know how Togei actually feels >> and so bringing in an AI is out of the question. He has money. He can afford the gynos surgery. We'll get to that later. >> Now, to increase gynecomastia on purpose, it it doesn't seem to make any sense. However, he says, "Look, he's going to get gynecomastia surgery." They want to talk about that later. And my opinion is this. Why not get it right now? We've seen the genetic anomaly. He had gynecomastia surgery. But did we not learn anything from genetic anomaly? He said that steroids ruined his brain cells. He says it damaged him. He couldn't think clearly. And that he was going on doses for too high for too long. Does that not sound like toi? I mean, look at this guy's cycle. Is he competing in a bodybuilding competition? Last I checked, Chi's just going to the casino and gambling. And so why are we going on these crazy steroid stacks? I mean, I'm Coach Greg. I'm 49 and you don't see me cycling up and cycling down other than on my bicycle. And so, what is up with Togei? Here's the trade-off. He's trading off looking cool, Jack flexing in the mirror, and so on for future organ function. And so, do you not see the before and after? Why not just pick somewhere in the middle? Hey, oh, that's just a stupid thing to do. Why would we main gain? Toi goes from having almost no muscle, well, in comparison to when he's on cycle, and so he goes jacked and he goes small back and forth. He trades having horrible liver damage, organ function, and so on in order to look more jacked for a couple of months, and then he has to come off. And we've seen his blood work. It's bad. Rea is one of the most hyped peptides out right now for body recmp and kind of for good reason. Improves your cholesterol, your insulin sensitivity, mitochondrial efficiency, basil metabolic rate, and reduces your appetite. >> Let's take some drugs to try to reduce our appetite to help us to burn more calories when you could just trade all of that for going for a walk. I mean, or heaven forbid, speed the pace up a little bit, maybe go for a brisk walk once in a while, do some cardio, but no, let's find every drug in the world that will prevent us from being healthy. Is taking an appetite suppressing drug like a GLP, is that actually healthy? Or would losing the weight through cardio and eating healthy, putting a fork down, would that not be a little bit healthier? Now, I'm not saying if you're morbidly obese that you shouldn't use a GLP ompic and so on. I'm all for it. But for Toby, who already looks very, very lean, he's in shape. Does bro look like he's fat? Why does he need this? >> The right dose for Shane is a milligram a week, but the right dose for you might be different. So, please read my guides. >> And so, Reetta is not some magic formula to improve your cholesterol. If you go out and take Reetta because you're trying to lower your cholesterol, this is not it. That's not what it's for. Studies show only a modest effect on LDL, but no effect on HDL. And we all know that when you take steroids, it dramatically lowers your HDL. And remember, these studies that are done were done on people who are morbidly obese. Last I checked, TOI isn't morbidly obese. And so, a lot of times we're thinking these things are safe. They were done. They were studied. They're safe for people who are morbidly obese who are trying to not be morbid. If you're 400 lb, it's safe for you to take it because hey, it's better for you to be 200 and 400. But if you're 180 pounds and you're already shredded, is it actually safe to take at this point? We don't have the studies to prove it. If Togei actually cared about his cholesterol, would he be abusing steroids? Remember, this is double the amount of superdraw that I would allow any person to go on. He's doing 50 milligrams of anavar, which is a very hefty dose, along with 400 milligrams of test. Why does he need all this? Was he not just on HRT? Could he not have just bumped up HRT a little bit higher? Let's say he was on 140 milligrams of HRT like Coach Greg. Well, why not go up to 200? Why don't you try that? But if you're already at 200, why not try 250? The longer you go on the same dose and avoid going on super high doses and very low doses, the better. Think of this analogy, alcohol. What do you think is safer? To have two drinks a day, 7 days a week, or have 14 drinks on Friday night? And so, when in doubt, spread it out. And I'm not talking about your legs, girls. Come on. Keep them closed for once. Damn. >> And so, a better drug that Togei could be taking over reatrion nitrexone. I can hardly pronounce it, but here's why he should be taking this drug. A, it's going to reduce his hunger cravings and so on. It makes you less hungry. And B, it's going to help him to stop gambling and drinking. Which drug do you think that toi should be on? The drug that helps you to decrease your gambling and drinking while also making you less hungry or the one that makes you less hungry that he doesn't actually need. Which of these drugs makes more sense? If you're a cigarette smoker and you're addicted to smoking, you could also take this drug. And so it's very beneficial. And so people out there who have problems. That's right. It's a problem when you're a compulsive gambler and you can't stop gambling and you think, "Hey, there's no hope for me." There are drugs in order to help you. And so what these drugs do is they work on the dopamine receptors of the brain. And so it reduces your cravings, the the feelings that you get from gambling and so on and makes it much easier to stop. same reason why it's easier to stop eating. Think of it. When you eat or have sex or anything, you have a dopamine surge that makes you want to keep doing that thing. So, why do you think it's so hard to put the fork down? You're eating the food and it tastes good. You're doing the drugs and it feels good. You're doing the gambling and everything's going on in your brain. If you could reduce that to cut out the noise, perhaps you wouldn't want to do it quite as much. And so the true excitement of a gambler is the anticipation or the excitement of what's to come. You're waiting for that ball to go around or for that horse to cross the finish line or if the quarterback's going to catch that ball and you're excited thinking if he does it, I'm going to be a champion. I'm going to win a million dollars. Whatever. That's what's going on. You really think Togei needs the money? I mean, why do you think that people keep gambling more and more and more? It's because they're chasing that high. It ain't so fun to bet $2 and win four when you've already bet a h 100,000 and won a million. And so he keeps gambling with higher and higher stakes to increase the high to increase the dopamine because like anything you get used to it. And so my advice, don't start. Because once you start the second cycle, it's going to be higher and higher and higher. If you put on 10 pounds of muscle in your first cycle and you repeat the cycle the second time, you will hardly notice it and you'll be frustrated. And so don't get into something that you don't want to finish because trust me, it ain't going to be one cycle. You all think that Hussein Farad did a 16week cycle that he just magically kept all his gains. Perhaps he had some form of polymorphism. You really think that's going to happen to you? that you're just going to join the gym, that you're going to go on some crazy cycle, get all the gains you're going to have, and instead of taking 10 years, you're going to do it in 10 months, and you stop and forever after you keep all that muscle. It doesn't work like that. And so, please don't do steroids. But rather than that, do you know what? You could keep gains from Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum. It's not going to affect your HPT axis. It's not going to lower your testosterone. You can go to the gym. you can train harder than last time and know with full certainty that you still are 100% natural. You're going to be healthy. You don't have to worry about your blood work. And so, if you're interested, code Greg 15% off. And remember, there is in fact a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. And you think it may not work for you. Also, I noticed there's A-50 milligrams of Anavar cycle. Now, Anavar is my favorite steroid. Now, I did remember the first video I ever did on Togei. Togei was saying that Annavar was for girls and it wasn't really something that guys could do. You remember that video? Guys, I remember everything. I may not remember names or how to pronounce things, but I remember certain events. >> Anon, it's like creatine plus, bro. It's literally the steroid for females. >> When I would take 25 milligrams and would go to the gym, on the drive over, I could feel my biceps flexing harder than last time. I could feel it. 50 millig, that is a lot. And so you don't need 50 milligrams. And so guys, if you haven't taken it before, 50 is way too much. If you're taking 20 milligs a day, that is a lot. You don't need more. Now, if you're an IPB pro bodybuilder, powerlifting champion, and so on, it makes sense. You perhaps have to abuse your body to that extent, take years off your life. But if you're just some bro uh named Togei and your job is to go gambling, why are we taking 50 milligrams of Anavar when we can hardly even lock in into the gym? Then for Togei, here's another problem. Anavar is nephrotoxic. Now perhaps not as much as other things, but it's bad for your kidneys. Toi doesn't have amazing kidneys. Isn't that the bro that almost died? And so remember, Togi has thalismia. And so when he gets blood work, he won't be able to see the damage that anavar and other compounds are doing to his kidneys. And so he needs to be careful. Remember, Togi is not normal. Togi has depressed body functions already, he's already been on damaging levels of performance-enhancing drugs. And so compared to normal people, his cycle needs to be lower. >> This is a problem. This is a massive problem. >> And so one of the first signs of chronic kidney disease is having lowered hemoglobin. And because of histhalismia, how would he know that? And so Togei, you need to be careful. This isn't the cycle for you. The doses are too high. When in doubt, spread it out. You're doing way too much too soon. Consider reaching out to Coach Greg. I'm certain I can point you to doing safer cycles than last time. I would suggest if you could get some Primo to do that instead. Also, lower the orals, lower the anavar. Get off the super draw. You don't need it. Take my advice. Don't take my advice. I'm just trying to help. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Remember, if you're looking for coaching from myself, of course, you can apply by clicking the link in the description. And if you're interested in anything, any of the medications from Algo RX, for example, in Clomine, Seialis, Viagra, Talmain, you name it, you can get it from Algo RX, including blood work. And it's dramatically lower prices than other HRT clinics like Mer Health and so on. And so if you need a doctor to prescribe you medications, Pharmarmacrade, they are the site for you. And so click the link in description, subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, not Algo RX algorithm. Don't forget to click one of those two bloops. Watch those and uh cookbooks, training books, coaching plans by me, my team, circle diet book. Until next time, I am out.