Number four, this is the best way in the world to track your progress. And this is way simpler, way easier, and it's guaranteed to work. Coach Greg, in today's video, the no BS guide to finally losing weight and keeping it off for the rest of your life. New Year's resolutions, new year, new you. How many times have you said that only to fail? Yep, I'm looking at you. You keep failing year after year. And so, what is going to make this year different? Well, I'll tell you what. You're literally going to do what I say in this video. And if you do what I say, it's guar faking that you're going to lose weight. Not maybe, not, oh, I wish I had, it's guaranteed. Number one, the use of GLPS. And I'm talking about reaurs or things like ompic. And so what the heck are these? They're peptides. You need to inject them. And some of these are in fact legal and you can get them from your doctor. Rea not legal right now. But the rest of them, they will almost guarantee that alone that you're going to lose weight. Your appetite, it's going to go down. Rid of the food noise. You're going to be less hungry. And by eating less food, clearly you're going to lose weight. And so all you people out there, 300, 400 lb, whatever, if you use these products, you will lose weight. And so, are they 100% safe? No. But here's what I know. You being fat, 100% you're not safe. Being fat is dangerous. And so by losing the fat, I believe it's safer, better, smarter to use the GLPS than to not use them. And so remember, if you're interested in losing weight, getting in clomophene, testosterone, all those things, you can go to algo RX, click the link, and use code Greg right now. Number two, this is to be in a calorie deficit. I don't care what you're taking. Even the GLPs, if you're not in a calorie deficit, you're not going to lose weight. Even if you take nothing, do nothing, don't do cardio, don't lose weight, don't do anything smart, only licorice. If you're in a calorie deficit, you are going to lose weight. And so, number two, what you need to do is get a method to track your calories. And so, the one that I'm going to suggest, it's Cal AI. And why is that? It does the same thing as an app called My Fitness Pal, only it's significantly cheaper. And so, if you're trying to save money, which obviously, who wouldn't want to save money? You're going to use Cal AI instead. Why is it that that's going to help? Well, three reasons. You can literally use the database. You write 100 g of rice cooked and it spits out the calories. Or perhaps it's a cheesecake and you write it in and you're thinking 1,000 calories in that cheesecake. Uh yeah, I'm not eating that. In comparison, perhaps you have some eggies as an example. I love eggies. And you realize there's only perhaps 300 calories in the portion you're going to eat. And so you look at the two and you're like, well, this one is 300 calories. This one is 1,000. You throw out the one that has a thousand and you eat the one that has 300. It allows you to make smarter choices. Now, you can, for example, take a photo. Perhaps you're eating an egg, a banana, whatever. And it can spit out the calories. Now, of course, it's not 100% accurate when you're taking photos, but it is in fact a good guess. Most of the time, you're going to use the barcode. You're going to scan it in, or you're going to write exactly what you're consuming. And by keeping track of the calories, it allows you to know whether or not you should eat them. I'm not saying you can't eat them, but you should understand going into it how many calories you're about to consume. It's smart shopping. And so what I like to tell people is eating food is the same thing as shopping. If I go to the store with me and there's a frigin jacket that she wants me to buy, this happened yesterday. I look at the jacket, I'm thinking, I I don't really like it all this much. It's a Louis Vuitton special edition, some form of a jacket. And before I go to buy it, because shouldn't I know the price? And so I say, "Well, how much does this cost?" And they say $14,000. And I'm thinking, I'm probably only going to wear this jacket three times. And so, is it really worth almost $5,000 per wear? And so for me, the ROI wasn't worth it. If I see a piece of cheesecake and it's a thousand calories, I might be thinking, why would I consume that? In comparison, I could have the same amount of cheesecake from my own cookbook for less than half the calories. And so, notice I didn't buy the Louis Vuitton jacket. Now, could I afford it? Yes. And could you afford to eat the cheesecake? Also, yes. But you're smart. You're not a [\h__\h] You're not a Mike Israel fan. And so, you don't buy it. You don't eat the cheesecake. All from using Cal AI. And so if you're interested, click the link and of course use code Greg GREG. Now remember, if you're not ready to quite dare use Oepic and all those things, you can of course use GLP max. It's my own brand. It's not going to reduce your appetite quite as much. 28%. It's still very, very good. Go from an eight out of 10 hunger to a six. Interested in this code, Greg. 15% off. Click the link in the description. one of the secrets of being lean. And listen, I'm not going to gatekeep just like how Algo RX is not going to gatekeep. I won't do that. Many people say cardio, it doesn't matter. It's not that important. Yeah, sure it's good for your health, but it's not going to burn off many calories. Weightlifting, it's much better. It boosts your metabolism. So, doing cardio is a secret to weight loss by far. Last night, I'm sore. I'm talking about so sore it's literally hard to walk myself and Mepsogram we say well let's do this bike race and so I'm like I'm so sore I'm going to take it easy I'm going to go slow I use a mountain bike it's so much slower I'm going to take my time and so I ride slow for an hour and a half I'm texting I'm doing work I'm chatting with me I'm having a good time and I'm going so easy I could literally have gone all day despite the fact that I'm sore or it just makes me feel good. It's known as zone 2 cardio. And in that hour and a half, I burned 1,067 calories. I was taking my time. I wasn't even trying. And that's on top of my metabolism, the calories that I'm burning at rest. And so, think of how much that makes a difference. If you did that every day for a week, that's over 7,000 calories. It's 2 lbs of fat in a week. It's over 100 pounds of fat in a year. And so if you're watching this right now and you're over 100 lbs overweight, that makes you morbidly obese, probably taking off 20 years off of your life. If you did the cardio that I did yesterday, and you did it every day of the week, you didn't use the GLPS, you didn't use cali, if all you did was that and ate exactly the same, in a year, you lose over 100 pounds of fat. Is that not amazing? And that's how easy it is. That's zone 2 cardio for a year. Now, mind you, an hour and a half a day, it's a commitment. But isn't it worth doing an hour and a half of cardio a day if it means you can live 20 years longer? To lose 100 lb, that to me is priceless. What you'll notice is when you lose 100 lbs, people are going to treat you different. And so, when you get up on that bike or the treadmill, whatever you chose to do, remember this. Is it not worth the little bit of suffering? You know, you're perhaps breathing a little bit harder. you're sweating to change your life. In one year, you can change your life. People will treat you better. You will feel better. Everything in your life is going to get better. Perhaps you'll be able to finally have sexy time when you grab that gun. You put it out of the way. You'll be able to see your downstairs. You'll be able to see yourself using the bathroom for once. Or if you're a woman, a man will be able to find you without rolling your belly over to find the wet spot. And so, trust me, it's worth it. And so number three, it's doing cardio and a lot of it and it doesn't need to be hard. And I'm not talking about the downstairs if that can't get hard, which probably it can if you're that much overweight, is to purchase harder than last time. Code Greg for 15% off. You don't need to do hit cardio. You just do steadystate cardio and over the year you're going to get faster than you could imagine. Trust me, if you're running, biking, whatever, and you start and you lose 100 lbs in the end, you're probably going to be running twice as fast as you were on day one. In a year, the transformation is incredible. It's going to be motivating. You're going to have enhanced dopamine levels. And so, please let 2026 be the year that you finally lose weight and keep it off for the rest of your life. Number four, this is the best way in the world to track your progress. A lot of people are going to say, you know, don't weigh yourself. It's discouraging. Or weigh yourself once a week every Friday in the morning. Or use a DEXA scam like Jeff Nippa is going to suggest. I suggest none of these. And this is way simpler, way easier, and it's guaranteed to work. Literally, when I say guaranteed, I mean it's impossible to do this. and to not know what to do to lose weight. It's guaranteed. The DEXA scam, you might in fact lose some fat and it might say you gained fat. How is that good? But with this, it tells you exactly what you need to do. This method can eliminate needing a coach. All you need to do is track your median weight. You weigh yourself every day of the week. If you forget a few days, it doesn't matter. You take the median. It's not the average. It's the median, which is the middle number. Remember, I used to teach math. You cross out the highs and the lows and you circle that median weight. That is the weight for the week. If you're trying to lose weight, you want that weight the next week to go down. If it doesn't go down, you're eating too many calories. You need to eat less and or you need to move more. You can do more cycling, more walking, more running, more going to the gym. And on top of that, you eat fewer calories. I don't care how many calories you're eating. If you told me you ate 5,000 calories a day or 1,000 calories a day, I don't care. If your weight went up, you ate too much and so you eat less. You don't need to track your calories. You just need to do less of the things that's making you gain weight. And so, you technically don't need to worry about anything. Now, obviously, if you're tracking your calories and you're eating, say it's 2,000 calories a day and you didn't lose weight, you lower it perhaps to 1,800 calories, whatever, you lower it a little bit. But even if you're not tracking your calories, you just go by instinct. If the weight's going up, I need to eat less. It's not hard. You look at that meal and you say, "Yep, I'm going to eat less." And so, I've been doing this since I was a teenager, tracking my median weight for my very first bodybuilding competition, which I started dieting at 17. Meepog, she's been doing it right now. And so, zoom in on this. This is her median weight. You see, we circle it on the sides. And so, this is happening in real life. Mepogram is an eye surgeon, and this is tracking median weight. Now, it might not be as neat as you'd want, but this is the reality. First week 133.9 median. The next week 133.5. You see it went down by4. The next week 133.1 down4 again. The next week 132.7 down.4. And then the next week 133.2 up.5. Now, if you're trying to lose weight and it goes up.5, what do you think you should do the next week? I'm literally asking you so you can learn. Pretend I'm teaching in school right now. Hopefully, there's a smart little boy or girl lifting their hand up and then Yes, Sally. You should eat less. Oh, excellent. YOU GOT IT. THAT'S all you need to do. Do you have to say how many calories less? No, just less than last time. And so, remember how easy it was to learn how hard to train? Harder than last time. Well, how many fewer calories do you have to eat? Less than last time. Fewer calories than last time. It's so simple. But no, but how many exactly to lose? Fewer than last time. I don't need you to know that there's 3,500 calories in a pound and if you subtract 500 calories per day times 7 is 3500 and you lose one pound of fat a week. Don't need to know that because if you continuously lose weight, eventually you're going to reach your goal. It's not a race. You don't have a prize for getting there the quickest. And in fact, the slower you lose weight, the better. And so, do you see how perfect this situation is? You lose weight the entire year. I mean, think of it. You've been eating improperly for perhaps the last 10, 20, perhaps even more years. And so, do you really need to solve all life's problems in the next 3 months? Or can you not wait? And so, you eat fewer calories and you continue to lose weight. Now, let's say it went up again. You eat less again. It's that simple. And if you want to make it easier, you do more cardio. That's it. And so when I coach people, I see their median weight and I look at it, I'm like, "Oh, you got to eat less this week." No, you know, you got to do more cardio. It's literally that easy. You don't need to be a genius. You just need to eat less or do more cardio and you're going to lose weight. That's it. Number five, lift weights. Now, I think you obviously knew this, but here's what you didn't know. You only need to lift weights twice a week. You were thinking I was going to say you got to lift five, six, maybe even seven days a week with a four day split. You got to do this and do that. Two days a week of lifting weights is going to get you 80% of the gains as if you had lifted every single day of the week. And so if you train like Mr. Olympia champions, C bum, Derek Lunsford, the list goes on and on. If you train like them, in comparison, you could train like myself. I only train twice a week. You're going to make 80% of the gains training like me as you do training like them. And so, yes, their methods are better, but the ROI, it's not as strong. Think of it. You have to train 6 days a week to make 20% more gains than 2 days a week. And so, by training 2 days a week, you're getting most of the benefits of lifting weights. And so, what you need to do, you go to the gym and you train your full body. You go harder than last time. You don't need to go for all day. And you leave and you have a life. Now, on those other days, days off, I suggest you do a lot of cardio zone, too. Especially if you're trying to lose weight. And so, this is my secret. You're learning everything that I've been doing that's allowed me to keep the weight and lose it for the rest of my life. Remember, I used to abuse steroids for over 10 years. I've told you this. I haven't lied about it. And what am I doing right now? I'm on 140 milligrams of testosterone a week. That's it. And so, you can believe me. You can disagree with me, but what I've done since those times where I've abused steroids, fat burners, all of those things, I've done more cardio. And so, by weightlifting less 2 days a week compared to six or seven and doing cardio six, seven, six, seven days a week, literally, that's what I'm doing. I've been able to maintain this physique for over 5 years without any steroid cycles whatsoever. And so, you can believe me, you cannot believe me. I really don't care. I'm just trying to tell you, trying to be honest on what you can do in order to get the body that you want. Now, could I be bigger? Yeah, I could. I could use steroids. I could get back on trend. I could train six days a week and put on more muscle. But do I need it? Do you need it? You just need to do better than you were doing yesterday and tomorrow do better than you were today. It's not about being perfect. It's about being better than you are. And so, this is all you need to do. And so, does that not encourage you? your New Year's resolution. You're going to lose weight, you're going to do this and do that. Is it realistic your goals? And so, why not just do the minimum amount that you need to do with enthusiasm and like what you're doing? And then you're going to do it for life. If you don't love lifting weights, you're not going to be able to do it every single day. If you don't love doing cardio, you also won't be able to do it every single day. It's about finding that balance for you between tracking your calories, eating the foods that you love and enjoying what you're doing with physicality. I love riding bikes and I like lifting weights and I like foods in my cookbook and so I got it made. I mean, how hard is it for me to lose weight? I don't have willpower. I don't have discipline. I have desire and I do what I want and because what I want is going to keep me fit. It's easy. I have it made. Now, if you haven't tried my cookbook, you got to try it. code Greg 15% off. There's about 200 delicious recipes of which I tend to eat five or 10 all of the time and then occasionally I sprinkle in some variety. Once you find the recipes that you like, the favorite ones, you add it into your diet and it becomes a staple. Most of the foods that I eat, I like eating from the cookbook. It's easy. It's simple. Anyone can make these recipes. These are recipes that I've developed over the course of my entire life. And so if you're interested, of course, get the cookbook, apply these, and you literally got it made. Even with excessively low levels of testosterone, every single one of you can still lose weight. It's guaranteed if you use the prior methods. Your testosterone levels are that of a girl. Girls can still lose weight. And so don't use that as an excuse. But if you want to make it easier, you know, just like riding a bike downhill, it's easier than going up the hill. You can of course go to Algo X. You can get things like inclapene or if you need a prescription for testosterone especially for people who are getting older who have lower levels of test. You can do whatever is suggested by algorax. Remember qualified doctors go over your blood work and tell you exactly what you need. And so it's not a BS scam that you're getting at some SARM's website. Remember these are legal prescription medications from doctors and it's significantly cheaper about half price of companies like Mer Health. And so please shop around. look at their price and compare it. Same with Cali. Look at their prices and go to My Fitness Pal and compare the prices and when you see how much money you're going to save and that you can use code Greg with Cali, you can make the best most informed decision for you. Hopefully, this was informative, educational, you learned something, and this will be the year that you lose weight. Ending it here. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, watch and like both of those two videos, and of course, get the cookbooks, the training books, code seco for the protein bars. It's literally $20 a box, 21 gram of protein, [snorts] 230 calories. You cannot go wrong. Get in track with Cali and of course use code Greg for Cali as well as Al Goreex. And until next time, I am out.