If the people like your product, if the people eager to pay, they're sweet, they're hardworking for your product, they got Allah will support you. How? It will give you more money. But not for fun, not for advertisement, you know, for luxury things, for reinvestment, to increase more products, to offer more things to the people. That's my philosophy. Usbekistsan is one of the richest cultures and one of the richest histories uh in uh central Asia and probably the world I would say. So this is a dry tajuga which is prepared for transportation to the factory to the extraction factory in Tashkin. Now we in Kashka region in Yakabok district and we are talking Mr. Hikmat. He is the chief of the farmers who are collecting auga turkistanica for us. So you can see how much they already uh prepared. Mr. Hikmmet, it's a pleasure to meet you. Did you ever expect that you would uh be having this yield or growing this kind of crop or collecting it I should say? Yeah, this is the first time ever we've been asked to start gathering and collecting and uh next year probably we will be prepared to get more to collect more and even start planting and that's what we are doing now. We are trying to make some experimental plantations uh to see if it works. For example, if we replant the roots and distribute, you know, using one root and cutting it in several then planting it during the autumn, then on the next spring probably we will see a good results. We hope so. Have you ever tried this? No. No. Never. So far. Are you aware that uh this here has a very high demand in the United States? No, of course. If I if I knew I would have I would I would started growing even much earlier that plan. Of course, Marvin, if we got some kind of traditional medicine people, right? Kind of folk doctors. I would say they name auguristanica as abro and this kind of national national medicine professionals they mostly use this plant ex kind of skin eczemas and also for uh healing of you know breathing disorders uh when you have the disorders for with your breathing like nervous which is caused by nervous disorders also. Would you say that this has helped you in terms of your own business? Yes, of course. Yes, of course. This is just the first year when we started. That's why we don't know yet the perspectives of that business. But we are ready to continue and next year if it grows more and we will be able to outsource more. Of course, it will benefit us in in in in I mean benefit to our income also increase our incomes. It benefits not only this forestry farm but also all the surrounding and living in in in neighborhood uh the population because then after they sub subcontract them for collection. One thing that is very important for consumers in America to realize is that this is not only ex exclusive to Turkiststanica. When you go to supermarket and pick up something like a can of tuna or any imported item whatsoever, there's so much labor and so much work that goes into it. It doesn't just appear in the grocery store shelf. In a sense, it's it's kind of being ungrateful where someone could just take, for example, food that they buy and throw it away. If they saw the journey that went into bringing that item onto your table, they would most likely think twice for throwing something away and being wasteful. In America and Canada, food waste is a terrible thing that's completely legal and actually encouraged with our laws based on like food safety standards where in other countries like Japan, it's illegal. The idea of waste is actually something that goes neglected because we have so much money and we're a first world country and we're out here in the third world country where they're much more conservative. I think that's how we should all be. You can always tell it's uh it's really uh auguristanic or not. If you have iridoids, if you have turistone, egististerone and most importantly adjugster can be found only adjug and it is minor egg destroyed. It can be found only by very proficient you know high competent and high qualified and advanced equipment. What would you say are the biggest accomplishments and the biggest challenges that your company faces? Of course we have uh now encountering key problem is the production our production capability and capacity. We need to increase the production of the extract because this year we probably will have the highest highest record uh stock of the raw materials of the hair. But next stage of course thinking we should think how to preserve Ajuga Turkiststanica in the nature but on the same time increase the supply to the consumers in North America in other countries. So this will be a bigger challenge for us I guess but I think we already started a good program for cultural cultivation. So we want to start it this year and we will continue uh investment in this uh in this domain and in this line of our business and in regards to quality set by the government for yeah are there any other people that are also uh electing that are they legally are they well it's uh uh we don't know exactly who else gets the quota uh because it's kind of you know it's it's decision of the government. We don't know it and it is done all online. It is all transparent now. So you do this all this application you submit online you will get it on your uh how to say on your personal it is called cabinet you have the you know uh internet cabinet maybe yes somebody else also applying for this quota and uh they also get some uh some herbs but you know in the end of the day if even they are collecting this for production of the same extract competition is always good for the market. So we don't we are not afraid of the competition. I I think the more competition we will have the more probability that we will start planting and uh increasing the natural outsourcing of the plants because many people will be interested. Many will start investing in the planting. Many will start investing in the farmers. In that sense we we are not afraid of competition. I would also say I would support such kind of competition. Um the farmers here seem to have a very um good setup with their cows and their crops and I was wondering um what is it that they would go out and harvest the sugar and really the answer is just like anything else. It's because it pays well. We hope that we can make a difference and give them more income streams and we hope that in the future it's possible that they can even grow it on an industrial level which would be considered a cash crop cuz like you don't need as much volumes as as food. Mhm. And it's just better uh return of investments. Infrastructure here is uh off and on with the cell phone signal. You don't see many telephone poles. quite important to establish a good relations, direct relations and especially with the leaders of the region. I mean normally they also have here kind of leadership style right and there is a leader in each village. So you can establish a good communication and relationship and then after through that leader you can establish a network here and organize also the collection and other processes. say so it's not only about money actually it's also about mutual respect and finding a good leader uh talented leaders in the regime so we are in the farm district where there's very little pollution huge facility this is where turf builder is made on site supporting the local economy here so we are here with Marv we came to the factory of Vida uh company in Nazar town it's in Pakistan and very Soon we go and see what is the production process. This is a pharmaceutical factory which produces both pharmaceutical products and food supplements. Uh the company has all sensates starting from from ISO and ending with G&B. So we're going to see it and we're going to see how the process goes on. Sanitation is key. We have our gowned up personnel, hair nets and protective equipment and now we are stepping into the production facility. So she's the laboratory specialist manager of the local R&D laboratory. Okay. In in VW company. Her name is Farida. It's a pleasure. We start with the physical and chemical laboratory checkup for the samples and probation. We use the special weight and scaling laboratory over there. that is physical and chemical checkup laboratory of the so key examination for the bacteria heavy metals and also uh irradiation is held here. So all the uh turk builder supplements are tested using various assays and this is I guess just for micro and heavy metals. Yeah. Right. Exactly. So you can comment on this yourself. So you can see here all these laboratory machines and apparatus used devices used for prior checkup of the extracts and all ingredients incoming for production. Right. We will start the thinking I mean the project from the beginning when it starts. So here they got the uh raw materials. So this is a border between production and warehousing. On on that side of warehouse they have the warehouse there. They keep the ingredients and raw materials. So raw materials are checked first and waited and then delivered through that window. Then it taken from here then it's stored here for production. So this is a small warehouse room for production shop. Okay. So here is we have the mixing and granulation. This is the mixing combination I mean where the melting and mixing all the human. So this is called human granulator where you where the finally the final substance is used together with the clean water which is already processed and purified. Let's see. It's necessary to make the granules to use the water and to produce the grams. Granles are necessary to make one standard uh substance for encapsulation. I see here we have the table special tables after the granulation humid granulation. It's still humid. That's why we need this oven. Oh, so it works. It's vacuum oven. Vacuum oven for the high temperature. And they have a special temperature for different types of the substances to make it more uh soft and to to to dry up basically. And here it's uh the special table where they put all these uh substances which already brought here from the after after being humid. Right. So they check it and they prepare here ovens plates for the ho to put the substances to get it more dried up or before it goes for encapsulation. After the granulation they take how to say how it is said Mar when they to they use the special mesh to get the special mesh. Yeah. With the grid. Yeah. So it they got particle size. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. And that all that substance is then brought here. So this is the mixing machine which is mixing all ingredients once more within the substance. So that one for industrial production scale that one because it's rotating like that you know in in two dimensions and that is for experimental one for the small. Here from that window we receive the ready substances for encapsulation here and it depends how are they received from the outside. No it's open there are two doors over there from from that side. So these rooms should not be uh open to each other right should not communicate at all. I see. Yeah. So you got all substances here and then it is decided here by production managers. Either this substance goes for tablets, making the tablets, printing the tablets or it goes for encapsulation or maybe it is humid one, right? I mean like liquid that it goes for bottling. This room is bringing out an odor of auga and that's is this Turk builder being made now? Uh currently it's produced maybe. Yeah. Turk platinum. That's platinum right there. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah. Because big size capsules you see that so it's it's called automatic machine. You need only one operator here final stage. So here you can see machine. Yeah. So this is automatic blistering machine where all the capsules after polishing grow up and put in the machine. So the this automatic machine produce the like that. What? Yeah. You also make pharmaceuticals. Uh yes, of course they are doing basically this company is pharmaceutical company and they can produce also supplements. But before the production of the supplement, you have to clean up wash up all the all the all the production rooms for at least 2 days. That's what they do using various materials which are standard for G&P process. Yes. All right. So this is one of the people that are behind this operation. Very brilliant minds, very experienced and they pretty much know every plant by heart. I I'm totally forgot your name. Zola Zola. So this is Zola from Paradise Flora. We want to know is is there a real risk of auga becoming endangered or going extinct with the way that we are collecting? Yes, we think so. Yeah, there is such a risk to some extent. Of course, it's still under consideration. Are we taking the right steps to make sure that we preserve the crop and hopefully actually we are doing very good and I think we are doing the right steps. We are educating people that this plant adjugist must be uh collected very safely uh with uh care. Uh so we teach them and we educate them that don't cut it with the roots right just take it the stems that kind of stuff and we are educating them and plus as you have seen we already started planting uh the the auga turkistanica checking uh various types of artificial art cultural cultivation of this plant and we will continue doing this. We teach people like uh we give them uh when when we delegate them the right to collect right when we subcontract them we also explain them that very important that you just cut the root uh uh cut the plant on the steam and you don't take the root because next year it is your interest to come and gather and uh collect again that plant. Okay. And uh we also explained them that it's very important checking and also how do you say to make mapping where you are taking this and then also to develop a traceability. So like we now know every each bag it's coming from where it's coming and we do the traceability we know from which region it comes and we know what is the concentration of fic droids in this case we can trace. Uh-huh. And also in parallel all the forestries where we uh where we placed our orders for collecting the auga, we also introduced a uh cultural planting. We explained them how to see how to plant the seeds and if the uh auga already kind of get grown up to the flourishing and flourishing is finished, we don't let uh collecting it. And based on this experimental plantations, next year we want to gather all the results, make a good conclusion and analysis of the output, the results we have and based on that we want then introduce artificial planting in the gardens of these farmers, you know, in the population who lives here. So that we want this to be a kind of popular herb which will be planted by the by the by the individuals who live here. Well, thank you for your support and we really are lucky to have met and has the market the western market for would you say that has negatively affected the reputation of the very honest work that you do like the word intera like a word a scam. Well, uh you know we well after all it's not our fault first of all and we cannot do anything about it. It was kind of thing which was uh above uh celebrities, promoters, dealers, traders, suppliers of this fake adjugate Turkistanica. They all had advance and advantage of selling fake uh adjuk turkistani because it was cheap and you could sell it with a good margins because it was cheap. That's why you know in the economy basically in the business there is no there is no perception of fair right there is only rationale and effectiveness. If people think it is effective and there is be and behind of this product there is a rationale like a good margin low cost and a huge availability of the product then it goes it's up to the market but then after of course always there is some stage when people see that okay this product may be good but it is not exactly what is advis advertised for right and we I think came to this exactly stage when Now all companies who are providing or claim to provide adjugristanica would have to justify. What are your top goals for doing business kind of code you buy? uh you know it's very important for me personally whatever I do basically we insbakistan of course we are very religious persons but I would say that also you have to adapt this and you have to use the same ideology same philosophy in the business business success in the business good profits come only if you do something which the gut likes or gut supports this is my philosophy if you do that if the people like your product. If the people eager to pay their sweet, their hardworking for your product, they got Allah will support you. How? It will give you more money. But not for fun, not for advertisement, you know, for luxury things, for reinvestment, to increase more products, to offer more things to the people. That's my philosophy.