ers Kalisinski, the miracle bear. He's just qualified for the Olympia. And I'm not talking about classic. I'm talking about open. And so he came out of literally nowhere. No one expected him to win. Well, I did, but well, most people did not. We all knew he put on almost 30 lbs of muscle. And so bro must have been just cruising on the lowest doses ever as the amount of muscle this put on it looked ridiculous. And so he was battling it out with none other than Quinton Irea man who about 5 years ago I said this guy has the world's best genetics and he should be competing in men's classic physique. Now he decided I don't want to listen to coach Greg. He's 6'2. He's a monster. He wanted to compete in open. I mean he and he's done I mean he's winning shows. He's at that level, but I really think he would shine in men's classic physique. S on the other hand, he moves up into open and wins. And so I keep telling the IFBB, but they only listened to me about a year after I make my prediction. They need to lower the weight classes. People are saying no, they need to raise them. Here is our sample size. Sample size of two. The last two guys that switched into open, Chris Bumstead, he switched to open and got second. Z, he switched into open and got first. What if Mike Somerfeld switched into open? Mike is better than Ers Kalisinski. We've already seen him beat him. And so if Mike switched into open, Mike would also win. And so if they lower the weight class and make it different kind of look, different people could be winning, then that would make sense. Perhaps guys like Logan Franklin or smaller guys like Brandon Hardy, you know, smaller guys, guys who are way under the weight cap. Here's he is flexing. Oh my goodness. Look at the quads. the striations. He's so freaking hard. It doesn't even make sense. Look at the fullness in the ch. You got to pause it right here. Are you kidding me right now? Look at this. Look, it's strided from head to toe. The quads, zippers, vasis, mediialis, lateralis, the coximus muscle, everything. And look at the striations in the pecs and the density of the shoulders and the arms. It's as if he just grew into his physique. It looks like saran wrap on his muscles. And so when you just put on brand new size, like right now, if my arms got bigger, they swell out. In comparison, when your muscles deflate, as in when you try to make weight for classic physique, you're not going to have that same shrink rack appearance. And so this look is ridiculous. And who would you got? Is this look better than Seabbum? I mean, you got to admit it's got to be very, very close. Seabbum at his best versus at his best. Who would actually come out on top? Add into this Keon Pearson, Mike Somerfeld, all of them, do they not all look like guys that could competing in open? And so, here's my opinion. I think that when you have different categories, they should be for different bodies. If you look good enough to place in the top three in an open show, then you really shouldn't be in classic physique. And so, essentially what we have in classic physique, it's bodybuilders who are pretty. They have pretty physiques. They have smaller waist. They have great shape, but they still can make that weight category. And so if you get a classic guy and you put him into open bodybuilding, then of course he's going to look amazing. And the quads, the lat spread, look at the size of the chest, shoulders, the smaller waist, the flared out quads. I mean, this looks ridiculous. But what about the arms? He had weak arm. What in the world? Look at the polymorphic feasure of the biceps. It's incredible. What has happened? He's put more muscle on his arms in the last several months than he's done in the last several years. And so this is a very hard physique to beat. Unbelievable. Look at the size. It is insane. And so he doesn't want to wait for 2 years to be a threat. He wants to be a threat right now at this year's Mr. Olympia. And from the side, the thickness, the granite hard physique. I mean, he literally looks like a rock. He's the opposite of the rock who's now a pebble. Bro looks like he's carved out of stone. And from the rear, what are we going to behold? Look at the density of the glutes. They're strided from top to bottom. The calves, the hamstrings. Crazy definition. Here comes the back. Great shape. Vtaper. Now, in comparison to his other body parts, it's not his strongest. His lower half is stronger than his upper, but he still has insane looking shoulders, a very small waist, and will be very competitive on the Olympia stage. And the lat spread, which is rarely done in men's classic physique, of course, he could use a little bit more width, but he's doing his best, but it's still a very strong pose because of his lower half. I am shocked he looks this good so fast. Unless he never planned to do classic and started putting on size right after the Olympia. I mean technically he's always done that. He's always been too big to make classic and then he has to lose all of his muscle to make weight. Game over. This is so impressive. >> This is what all the kids and teenagers around the world is looking crazy. >> Yo yo yo yo yo yo. I mean the a commentator, he just cannot believe this. >> Much bigger than I expected. >> I think he's bigger than anyone expected except for ers knew what he was doing. >> Arms are up like crazy. >> And yes, the arms are up like crazy. Clearly has a polymorphic feature of the arms. It allows you to put on more muscle well into your career just like Hussein Far had. And so a polymorphic feature, it's kind of like the polymorphism that Usain has. Except it only affects the biceps >> condition. Fantastic, guys. Earth is looking. Look at gun. What's happened to the guns? They've gotten larger than last time. Polymorphic feature in full force. And if you're new to the channel, this is a madeup word. It's all made up. It's a joke about Hussein Farad. It's a joke about Z. I don't want for the next year people say, "Oh, Coach Reg, you lied to us. You're a bad person." Earth's phenomenal condition. Definitely he's going to be in that top three hair today. >> Top three. What show is he watching? Top one. >> Arms are up like I've never seen in such a short time. Glutes are >> It's getting heated and tight up there. And so he's not impressed. He's like, "Hey, in classic physique they don't do this. They let me pose. Why are you putting your arm in my face?" He's hitting one man and he's going to flex and he's hitting the other. Spread it out, guys. spread it open. And so what you see is on the right Quinton Irea. He does not have the legs of Z. He doesn't have the shreds. Z is harder. And so Ers has this. Quinton needs to move down to classic physique. They need to swap it up. And so it isn't even close. Z is headed to the Olympia. And like I'm announcing this before the finals, the evening show. I don't know if he's actually won. I just used to be a judge and I know what to look for. And so if he doesn't win, then well, it's not going to happen. He's just going to win. So just take it from me. And so good luck to Z at the Olympia. I'm certain he has a great shot and expectation to make it into the top 10. I don't see him quite as a top five threat as of yet. I wouldn't put him quite up there with Derek Lunsford and Samson Dota, Hottie, Nick Walker, Martin Fitzwwater, but I think he's close to those guys. Like he's in the next grouping. like he could finish as high as sixth place if you're asking me and so best luck to Z as you can see classic physique the weight classes are off the guys who are in classic physique could compete in open I mean we had Wesley Vizer saying eventually they'll do open Raone Dino guys eventually he's going to do open men's bodybuilding as well and so we need to do something about classic physique to keep it classic because as it is right now the same guys could win both and so what is Ers's secret did in fact add in Turk Builder Max this year. I mean, how is this possible? Perhaps it was Turk Platinum. I can't be certain, but perhaps he began using the Turk and it got him a better physique than last time. If you're interested in supplements, code Greg, 15% off and getting your blood work done, Algo RX. And that's it. I got to go to do an event with Hussein and all this stuff. And so, until next time, watch the bloops and bye. Relax.