What you think burns fat? What burns more fat and it's in capital more fat? Walking slowly. She's right. Coach Greg and perhaps the most annoying female on the internet. She's more annoying than Coach Greg. Miss Carrie June mini beast official. She posts so much nonsense and BS, but hey, it's working for her. She's got over 5 million followers and she's very thick in the right places. She's got a lot of muscle. She's very short. She's like a female coach, Greg. Shorter than last time. She posted this video. There's so many videos I could attack, but this one, this one, it got me triggered. And so, it's funny is you probably are thinking that this is some kind of a drama video. It's literally the most educational video you're going to watch all day. And so stick around if you want to know how to burn body fat. What you think burns fat. And so she's jogging on the treadmill. Don't ask me why she's doing it bare feet. She's jogging along. She's doing great. And so she's right there. She's a mind readader. It says POV. What you think burns fat. And so cardio burns fat. And clearly at a moderate pace. She's not sprinting. She's not walking. She's going moderate. I don't know if it's zone 2 or zone 3. It's a comfortable place for her. Not everyone can run. Like Grandma Josephine, she finds running very difficult. My parents couldn't run very far, perhaps 100 meters. They're very, very old. Jogging burns fat. Correct. That's what you think. She going to say that it's not. You don't burn fat when you jog. Maybe you burn all carbs because how are you going to jog for let's call it an hour without burning fat? Le let's let's stick around. What burns more fat and it's in capital more fat. Now if she said what also burns fat I would have been like yes you can run, you can jog, you can walk all burns fat. What burns more fat? Walking slowly. What planet is she on? Perhaps it's krypton where jogging burns less fat than walking slow. Walking slow. How is that possible? I mean, let's consider this. Let's stretch this out. Would walking very slow burn more fat than walking briskly? Would that make sense? And so, is it the slower that you go, the more fat that you burn? I mean, she showed herself jogging. What if she joged slower? Jogging slower burns less fat than jogging quickly. And so cut it down. Walking briskly, does that burn less fat than walking slowly? And well, why don't we break it down even more? Why not just like crawl? Crawl slowly, sit down. Sit down and move your arms instead of that. Just sit down and don't move at all. I know. Lay down. The less movement that you do, the more fat that you burn. Does that make sense? Trying to set you up so that you can think for yourselves and make sense of this. And so essentially what she's saying is that the greater the intensity, the less fat that you burn. The slower that you go, the more fat that you burn. And so therefore, when you do your cardio, you should go very slow because that way you're burning more fat. And so here's what you need to know. Your body when it does cardio has two main sources of fuel. It has carbs and it has fat. The harder that you go, the greater the percentage of carbs it uses and the lower amount of fat. When you're going very slowly, for example, when she was walking, you're using a greater percentage of fat and less carbs. But as you pick up the pace, the percentage of fat goes down, increasing the percentage of carbs. Notice I use the word percentage. Let's do some real math. If you go harder, you burn more calories. Are we on the same page? I like to do bike riding, but this would apply exactly the same as running. If I go hard for an hour, not even going to go hard. If I go at a moderate pace, I burn off 800 calories in an hour. And so, for example, if I went in and joged right now, I very easily could jog and burn 800 calories in 1 hour. It wouldn't be hard for me, but remember, I am quite fit. If I go slow, as Miss Carrie June suggests, she suggests I go for a walk or perhaps I could go for a slower bike ride. Does it really matter? Rather than burning 800 calories in that hour, I would burn about 400 calories, about half. I'm going at a slower pace. It's easier and so it doesn't demand as many calories, but she's saying it burns more fat. Okay, so 800 calories in an hour of jogging or cycling hard, 400 calories in an hour of biking very easy or walking. Let's look at the numbers. When you're going at a harder pace, you're perhaps only burning off 25% of the calories from fat. 25% of 800, it's 200 calories. 200 calories I burn off as body fat. 600 is carbs. Makes sense, right? I'm going harder. I'm burning more carbs than fat. 200 calories of fat, 600 calories of carbs. Example B, I'm burning 400 calories. Because I'm going slower, a greater percentage of fat is being burned. And so I'm going to burn 50% fat. 50% of 400 is 200. That's the same. And also the 200 calories of carbs. And so if you run for an hour and burn off 800 calories, you burn off 200 calories of fat. If you walk for an hour, you burn off 400 calories. and 200 calories of fat. It's the same. And so she's saying you burn off more calories to fat. It's the same. But wait a minute, what about those extra 400 calories that you burn? What about that? Well, guess what happens following exercise or something known as epoch or post exercise oxygen consumption? And so your calorie burn is extended after you stop jogging for an hour. Your body continues to burn extra body fat. After you're done, you're sitting down. What a good run. I feel good. The endorphins are flowing. You're still burning more fat. And so, you both burn 200 calories, but guess what? The person who jogged is still burning more calories. They're still burning more fat, more so than the person who was walking. And get this, at the end of the day, calories in, calories out. And so because you burn 400 extra calories from carbs, do you know what your body is now doing? Now that it stopped exercising, it burns a higher percentage of fat. It's making up for the lack of fat that it burnt during that exercise session. Your body is smart. And so if one person goes for an hour and burns 800 calories and the other one goes for an hour and burns only 400 calories, one person is in a 400 calorie greater deficit than that of the other. And so at the end of the day, the person burns off 400 calories of fat more than person B. And so total for the day is 600 calories of fat in comparison to 200. And so, Miss Carrie June, the person who jogged burnt way more fat than the person who walked. When you consider the entirety of the day, in totality, way better to do exercise. Guess what? It gets better. It gets better. You thought this was it. And so remember, point one, the percentage of fat burned during slow cardio is higher, but the absolute total amount of calories can be significantly higher when you're doing harder bouts of cardio. Now, if it was just sprinting for 30 seconds or something like that, then yes, you would burn less fat. But who's doing cardio and only going for 30 seconds? And even if it was only 30 seconds, you'd be burning fat after you ended that run. And so you still win by doing harder cardio. Now, the higher the intensity, the greater the total calories burned. Higher intensities burn more calories. And the more calories that you burn, the greater the deficit and the more fat you're actually going to burn. Next, this one you need to understand, you need to pay attention. The harder that you train and the more often, the more your body adapts to burning fat as a fuel preferentially. What does that mean? If you go and do harder bouts of cardio, you're sprinting on a bike, you're jogging, you're running, your body learns to use a greater percentage of fat while doing so. And so the more often that you go hard zone 2, three, even four, your body is able to use more and more fat each and every time. And so if you continue to jog, your body will learn and or adapt to using that fat as fuel. And that's good. It allows you to go harder for longer and relying on fat for energy. And so when I, for example, rode the bike 19 minutes yesterday, I burn off 1,200 plus calories. And a large percentage of that, probably more than 50% was pure body fat. The rest of it was carbs. But if you're not used to training, your body wouldn't know how to burn all that fat and it would rely more on carbs. And so when you see elite level cyclists, marathon runners, triathletes, and so on, these people are using fat much more readily than you are because they train harder. And so if you never train hard, you don't enjoy these benefits. Your body is burning more carbs than fat and you would never know it. And so why not train harder? The harder you train, the more your body learns to burn fat, the more calories from fat that they're burning. And it's easier to be in a deficit. That is why I say it's much better to do cardio at a harder pace, harder than last time, if your end goal is to burn body fat and stay lean for the rest of your life. Other people, no, no, coach Greg, you're wrong. And it's like, why do I have to argue with these people every single day? >> Oh, when you go to the gym and lift weights, you burn more calories and your body has more muscle and it burns more fat. >> Well, cardio, I burn off 1,200 calories in an hour and a half. Show me the person who burns off 1,200 plus calories lifting weights in the gym. You know, I do a full body circuit and I train my full body twice a week. I have never burned off 1,200 calories in a lifting workout ever. And that extra muscle, does it in fact burn more fat? Yes. But not enough. 1,200 calories compared to the average person who goes to the gym, what do they burn? 300 400? You're not going to burn off 800 extra calories from having 20 lbs more muscle on your body. And remember, if you're training hard, sprinting on a bike, what do you think your legs are going to look like? You think your legs get bigger? Have you seen my quads? I hardly lift any weights with my legs. I do sprints on the bike and it builds my quads, hamstrings, calves, everything. Unfortunately, beginners burn predominantly carbs when intensity increases. It's because you're not fit. You're not adapted. But yet other people sit out there and they yap and say, >> "Oh, when you do cardio, your body adapts to it and it burns fewer calories." >> It does the opposite. It adapts and burns more fat. Did you know that? We use the word fat adapted. This is for people who've been training for months and or years. Your body learns to use fat for fuel over using carbs. This is amazing. This is what you want. And you'll get that from training harder than last time. And so advanced athletes, they burn more fat and more calories at the same time in comparison to people who are doing as Miss Carrie June says, which is walking slowly on a treadmill. Not only that, when you do harder bouts of cardio, your V2 max improves. And that means you can go literally even harder than last time. And so, for example, perhaps you can only jog like Mike isel 5 and a half miles an hour for a half of a mile. And this is it. I watched his fitness test. If Mike Isertell continued to jog 5 1/2 miles an hour, would go to six to 6 and a half. Perhaps eventually he would run an 8-minute mile. He would improve his V2 max. He would use more body fat while doing that run. And he would live longer than last time. As studies show that if you want to live longer than last time, the number one predictor of this is in fact your V2 max, which comes from doing harder bouts of cardio. No, it isn't your grip strength. It isn't how much muscle that you have. It's what is your V2 max. Do hard bouts of cardio and you will in fact live longer. What is the big picture for fat loss? Well, overall it's best to do both. And both I mean both easy cardio and harder cardio. You can't go all Well, you can, but it's not ideal. I could race bikes seven days a week for, for example, for an hour. Every day I race all out. I go for an hour. I'm going to be fit. But the body, it needs some time to recover. And so what's better is two or three times a week you go hard and the rest of the week you go slow. And so like Miss Carrie June is showing, you could do slower bouts of cardio. For example, about 150 minutes of cardio, do zone two. And so like my ride yesterday, it was very easy. my heart rate was just under 130 for 90 minutes, burning off about 1,240 calories, whatever. And on other days, for example, the day before, I'm riding at 300 plus watts, burning off about 1,000 calories in an hour. And so, very, very hard. Harder pace, improving my V2 max, followed by easier pace that burns fat, gets you fat adapted, and allows you to be healthy. that allows you to recover. Zone 2 for me, very, very easy. And so the day after that, I can go hard yet again. And so the term walking is best for fat loss, it's very, very misleading. It isn't better. It's in fact worse. Not that it's not beneficial, but it's clearly better to go harder than just walking. It's better to jog and or walk very intensely, very briskly, and try to improve that V2 max by going harder. You're improving your V2 max. You're improving your ability to use fat for fuel, increasing the percentage of fat being used while doing cardio in comparison to carbs. And so, the best message would be this. Start easy and day after day, week after week, month after month, continue to push yourself. Go a little bit harder, perhaps twice a week. Go hard. That is the best way to burn more fat. Because when you go hard, your body learns to burn more fat. And when you're going down easier, your easy will now be at a level up. Perhaps easy for you is walking 2 and 1/2 miles an hour on an incline. What if you could then move it up to three and a half? Imagine how much faster you would go, how many more calories you would burn, and how much more fat you would be using for fuel. That would be the ultimate. And so, if you want the secret to long-term fat loss, improve your V2 max, improve your cardio, go and do zone 250 minutes a week, and on top of that, do some intervals, push yourself, sprint, try hard. I like to say this message. I read this book in high school from Colbert Bailey. It said to become a better butter burner. And by butter, he's representing that word as being fat. It's a triple B's. A better butter burner. When you do hard cardio, you get better at burning fat. And since you're a better butter burner, you're burning more fat and you can do it for longer at a higher pace, which is the ultimate way to burn more fat than last time and to stay lean for the rest of your life. Now, if you're looking for the number one supplement to improve your cardio, it's most certainly GO2 Max. Don't you want to be here for your loved ones, your friends, your family, perhaps your kids, maybe even your dog? Improved cardio, improved fitness, improved V2 max going to have you living longer than ever before. And that's what you want. It's about improving not only the quality of life, but the quantity as well. Quality and quantity of life improved. This the number one supplement code Greg 15% off. And of course, if you're also looking to have that chisel physique, muscles, and so on, you're lifting in the gym, certainly you can use Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum, both of which will improve your cardio in particular if you're going for harder bouts of cardio, sprinting uphill, jogging uphill, and so on. These two in combination, amazing stack to include. And remember, if you don't benefit from it, there's literally a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card. Use code Greg for 15% off. Some people also if you're struggling with weight loss, you're heavier, perhaps you've heard of Ozepic and so on, why not try GLP max. This in pill form can reduce your appetite by 28%. Go from an 8 out of 10 hunger to a six on 10. Coaching clients to use this. Various people are using it, even Will Tennyson. And I'm telling you, it's very, very effective. I used it for 5 days and I had to stop. I have to eat a lot of calories. I'm not like you. I'm burning calories on the bike. And for me, it's actually harder to gain in those calories. When you burn as many calories as I do or elite level cyclist and so on, the struggle isn't to diet. The struggle is to eat enough food to give you enough energy to complete your workout. And so, if you want to play the reverse uno card, reverse uno your fat loss. You're struggling right now to to diet and lose weight, add up a ton of cardio and it will flip into reverse. Oh, you're having a hard time dieting. Try having a hard time getting enough calories. If you do enough cardio and you become a better butter burner, that's what's in store for you. And so, why not start training harder than last time? Grab yourself a sec, a Kaiko bar. 230 calories, 21 g of protein, and rewire your body. Train it to burn more fat. Not only during the exercise, but when you're resting as well. When you have a high functioning athletic body, for example, myself from racing bikes, I'm burning fat like no other. For example, yourself, if you're not doing cardio right now, your body is relying more on the carbs that you're eating and so on. Mine is relying on fat. I'm fat adapted. Why not adapt to burning more body fat than carbs? It will help reduce your appetite. It will be easier to remain in control. You do harder cardio. Your body adapts to this. It burns more calories. It burns more fat and allows you to go harder. Isn't that what you want? Stop being out of shape. Stop being a couch potato. Understand that I understand this and you perhaps do not. And I'm trying to help you. And I promise you, if you start doing more cardio, it will be much easier for you lose weight. You'll be significantly healthier. And it will help you to live a long and healthy life, which is what everyone wants. And if you don't want to do it for you, do it for your loved ones. If you're a parent, do you want to be around for your kids when they grow up, when they perhaps get married or get older, have grandchildren, and so on? Don't you want to be around for that? Don't you think they want you around for that? And so, start doing cardio, start giving a put the fork down, and live a healthy life. Interested in coaching? Click the link in description and apply right now. And if you need to get your blood work taken, remember some people have various illnesses, Graves disease, Hashimoto's, the list goes on and on. You never know what medications you may need. Perhaps you need inclined, perhaps you need Telmosartin. What do you need at Algo RX? Qualified medical doctors can prescribe to you prescription medications like that. couple sentences, couple minutes later, answer some questions and they can mail it to you prescription medications significantly cheaper than other companies. For example, at Merrick Health, it's going to be double the prices of Algorex. And so, if you're not making six figures plus a year and you don't have a lot of money, consider going to Algo RX for all your medical needs. You can get your blood work done, see if you're healthy. I highly recommend it. I'm actually a part owner. You want to get amazing clothing? Click the link in description. Get momentous clothing as well. Get the cookbooks, the circle diet book, my life work, how to lose weight, keep it off for the rest of your life. Follow the recipes in the cookbook. It will be significantly easier than last time. Don't forget code Greg for 15% off and on Algorx code Greg 10% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost out. Please like one of these videos, like them, like this video. And until next time, I am