It's worth it to me for sure. I didn't poop for two days because of the the percoetses. Then I started pooping with my diet. I've already pooped before I've gone to the bathroom. It's no problem. And Greg Ducet was there and he and I had a chance to hang out in real life and he looked at my legs and he was like, "Dude, you're shredded." And I was like, "Yeah." And then I showed him my love handles. He's like, "That sucks." And I was like, "Yeah, man." And so one other reason why he has more of a bloated stomach look despite the fact that his legs are shredded. Remember I was there. I witnessed it. I'm not a bullshitter. I'm not going to lie. It's not the body fat so much. It's the fact that he's perhaps eaten too much and he's using growth hormone and it does cause a distended abdomen. It's normal. And remember, I get accused of this all the time. I was never overly obese. If you saw my stomach last night, you'd say, "Oh my goodness, you need the surgery. Stomach is out to here. Meeps thinking, what is even going on?" I said, "You know what? I I have to come clean." I did. In fact, during my sleep, remember, I have narcolepsy and so on. I suffer from various sleep disorders. I went for a walk. I ate a dead squirrel. It's dying in my stomach and it doesn't smell very nice. These are some of the problems. Now, I was 196.8 8 lb this last night when I went to bed. Now I woke up this morning I was 189.2 and so I lost over 7 lb about 7 hours of sleep and I woke up like that. Okay. And so at night I look like an ogre like an ape. Actually that's giving the ape a compliment. I don't look very good. I'm bloated. But listen, it's still better than 99% of the population even with my massive GH gut despite the fact I'm not taking GH. So sometimes you just have to accept life that you cannot be perfect. Now what do women do? Well, they get a tummy tuck. They had surgery. Their skin is not what it once was. They perhaps diet down and their skin's a little loose. It doesn't look quite the same. It's normal. You get older. You get wrinkles. You start to sag. And what do women do? They get breast implants. What else could they get? They get lip filler. They get a facelift. Men can do this as well. They get their brows done, their eyelids done, their teeth done, their hair, Botox. What do they not get? Frig, we got Cali muscle getting blue eyeballs. Think of the things that they're doing. Is oho a as we say in Spanish. And so the reason we do all these things is because we actually think that it matters. This exterior shell that we walk in, we place so much more importance on it than what we are on the inside. And is it true? Does it actually matter? Of course it does. We select our mates based on how they appear. Oh, she's nice. She treats me like an angel. Who cares? Oh, he's so handsome. He's so good-looking. Yes, but he's a 5'6 manless. Oh, but is he 6'5 when he's sitting on his wallet? We care about the exterior stuff in this world and not so much about what's on the inside. And it's sad, but I am aware as is Dr. Mike. And so he decided to change his body because he knows how much people value it. And so is it true that people watch Dr. Mike's channel for his information? Of course it is. But do they also care about how he looks? Absolutely. If Mike was 6'2 and good-looking, shredded, look like Chris Bumstead, you don't think he'd have even more followers and even more money. As if he needed anymore. Pick any sport. Just think of a sport in your mind right now. It's volleyball, isn't it, you [\h__\h] perverts. men's volleyball. That's what I was thinking of in any case. But why I did it was because all of that stuff is worth it to me to finally be able to be like an actual person who looks like they do fitness. And so all of this was worth it to him so he can actually look like a person in fitness. Imagine how much he's been brainwashed by social media. The bleeding, the blood, the diapers, the tubes hanging out, the hole in his back, the bleeding into the cab, the painkillers, the agony, having to stop training in the gym for two whole months and jiu-jitsu for 3 months. The things that he loves most in this world. Imagine saying, "Hey, you can't have sexy time for 3 months because you want to look a little bit better. What's the point of looking better if I can't do the things I love?" For example, sexy time. And for me, it would be bike riding, going to the gym, sexy time, eating, and so on. It's not worth it. And so, my advice, I hope you don't get to the point of needing to do what Mike Israel has done. Now, the doctors, in my opinion, they're morons. They should have kept him in. Hey, you just had major extensive surgery. You're also obese. You've been on copious amounts of steroids. You likely have physiological problems, health conditions, but we're just going to let you go. Oh, yeah. go and get an Uber home and bleed all over his car. Really, what is wrong with medical society? We should be keeping people like this. This is a medical emergency, a surgery to this extent. It's not just, hey, here's the hack job. Go home and hang out. He went to a hotel. He had to hang around the hospital. It couldn't keep him there. What? First thing I remember waking up was like my shoulders and then my throat is super sore. And so confirmation Mike is tell he ain't no throat. In that hour like you go kind of in and out a little bit but I was like I have just existential dread. I just don't want to be anywhere. Two days of existential dread. I don't even know what it is but I don't want to experience it. Those two days in the the Double Tree Hotel in Chicago, Illinois were like hell, I guess. I wasn't on percoetses most of the time, just every now and again when I couldn't stand being alive anymore. Crazy pain in a hotel, not allowed to move. Okay. I bled all over the bed and I ended up sleeping in a puddle of my blood and Sarah fluid every night. sleeping in his blood and Sarah's fluid. I'm not a fan. You got to get the towel. No one wants to sleep in a wet spot. I didn't poop for 2 days cuz of the the percoetses. Then I started pooping with my diet. I've already pooped before I've gone to the bathroom. It's no problem. Before you assume that surgery is a shortcut or the easy way out because dieting is too hard. Walk that back. And so as hard as you think dieting is, this is worse. And in case you didn't know, mic isel literally is on, I believe it's reatring something that decreases your appetite so you're not as hungry. So regardless if you have extra fat cells, your hunger is actually going down. And so is dieting really that hard when you have access to drugs that can in fact change your life. And so, of course, I encourage you to get my cookbook. But remember, there are things that can make it easier. Do I think everyone should just go on these drugs automatically? Of course not. But if you actually need it, please talk to your doctor. And remember, you can get these products from Transcend, click the link in the description. And if you don't want to go to Transcend, GLP Max at HDLT supplements, you don't have to inject this. It's in a pill. Can decrease your hunger by up to 28%. Not going to completely take it away, but enough to make a difference. Perhaps you go from an 8 out of 10 hunger where it's very difficult to control your cravings to now with six on 10, which allows you to have control. Code Greg, 15% off. Crystal asked him how much the tissue weighed. He was like, "We took out approximately 4 lb of fat and skin." And so they removed 4 lb of fat and skin. And that is in fact a lot. Think of it. 4 lb. Mike was not morbidly obese. It's not like he had 35% body fat. And so 4 lbs of skin and fat, that's a lot to be removed from your body. So for me, it's worth it to me for sure. The love handle thing has been bothering me for too long. [\h__\h] And so for Mike, this is worth it. Those love handles been bothering him for too long now. For me, not even close to worth it. And I've seen other people, for example, obese a beast. He had lost couple hundred pounds. He's on the Ellen Jener show. He didn't bother to get the surgery. It didn't bother him. Other people, Nicocado Avocado, he got the surgery. He took off skin from the arms, stomach, the legs, and so on. He lost over 200 lb. Is it worth it for you? It depends. Is it worth it for me? Of course not. But what I can tell you if that you're in social media and you represent fitness, the pressure is probably 10 times higher than the average person. The entire world is scrutinizing everything you say or do as well as how you look. And so it very easily can lead to this. And so before you start posting all your progress photos on social media, remember there going to be people that are going to make fun of you. There going to be people there to put you down and to diminish your self-worth. The lower they can put you down, the higher they will in fact appear. And it's often times easier for people to put other people down than for them to go on the diet and train harder than last time in order to build themselves up. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. Of course, you want to get the T-plug stack, including GO2 Max as well as Turk Builder Max, get to the website, code Greg, 15% off. And of course the free diet and training programs, get over to the website.