He can't catch a break. It seems one negative thing after the other, but he's always in good spirits, saying, "Yeah, buddy." And making content, making everyone happy. He's very passionate. And so, we don't want anything to happen to Ronnie Coleman. >> Yeah, buddy. >> Coach Greg, in today's video, we're going to be going over exactly what happened to Ronnie Coleman. I'm sure by now you know that Ronnie Coleman was taken to hospital. He couldn't attend a fitness event and that everybody's been wondering what exactly happened. People saying he got sepsis, wondering if he had a heart attack. What exactly is going on? And so what Ronnie Coleman's family has stated is that it was sepsis, a blood infection in his body. However, no one as of yet has stated what exactly is the source of the infection. But I've come to the conclusion after analyzing all of the data that the source of this is almost certainly his heart. And so sepsis is when a localized infection actually goes systemic, which means throughout the body. And so it's no longer affecting that one small area. It's the entire body, and it's much more dangerous. Now, the most common causes of sepsis are pneumonia and a UTI. However, that's not what he has. A much less common would be, for example, IV drug use, but it's Ronnie. We know he isn't doing this. And so, what else might it be? And so, Ronnie Coleman was first admitted into hospital on June 29. And as of this day, it's now been 12 days. It's July 11th. The reason for his stay being so long, is because the doctors had a very difficult time finding the source of the infection. Had they have found it sooner, he could have gotten out a lot easier. And so he was treated with various forms of antibiotics, but none of it worked well enough to allow him to go home. And so the doctors must have been thinking, what exactly is the source of the infection? Could it be his prosthetic knees, the screws in his spine? Remember Ronnie Coleman? He can't catch a break. It seems one negative thing after the other. But he's always in good spirits, saying, "Yeah, buddy." and making content, making everyone happy. He's very passionate and so we don't want anything to happen to Ronnie Coleman. >> Yeah, buddy. >> Now, if it was in fact a prosthetic knee or the screws in the spine and so on, they would have been able to see this. They would have felt it. It would have been painful. It would have been redness, inflammation, and so they're able to rule that out. But what else could it be? They posted on Instagram that the doctors had to go through two very specialized forms of tests in order to find the source of the infection. And so what were those two tests? And so the two tests that were performed, one of which was a PET scan. And so this is a scan used to see various hot spots throughout the body, if they're metabolism is going haywire, if they're using extra nutrients and so on. And this is ideal when looking for cancers as well as infections. The other is a TE, which is an ultrasound that goes in through your mouth down your throat and examines the top of your heart. And following these two tests, they made announcement that Ronnie was going to be going through one minimally evasive heart surgery in order to improve or maintain his quality of life. The only thing that makes sense that fits this prescription to maintain quality of life, minimally invasive, is a tavi. That's where they go in through your artery in your arm and it goes through up to the heart and they can replace a valve. Minimally invasive. Remember, it's not open chest surgery. They're not going to have to break open his rib cage. None of this is going to happen. It's minimally evasive, but it is in fact heart surgery. And so, because of this, if you use your logic, you must see that he must have had a prior infective valve in his heart that needed to be replaced. because if it wasn't infective, he wouldn't have all these problems. If the valve actually was working properly, Ronnie wouldn't have had to go through any of this. And so, this is why I saying he can't catch a break. I mean, the various back surgeries that he went through, the knee injuries and so on, it seems like everything is going against Ronnie. And so, because I've already ruled out that Ronnie Coleman is an IV drug user, that would make sense to have this kind of a defective valve or let's say an infected valve. I do believe that it can't be that, that it had to have been an artificially implanted valve, not one that he was born with, because the chances of that getting infected are much greater. What I've then concluded is that Ronnie Coleman most likely had aortic stenosis in the past and because of that, they had to put a brand new aortic valve, an implant if you will, and this implant later became infected. And so because of all these events that transpired, because Ronnie has such bad luck, he would have been taken to hospital. This would have been the source of the infection and this is what he's been battling. And so this form of infection, it's very difficult to diagnose. You can't simply touch or feel for it. You can't find it. It's hidden in the heart. And that's why they would have used those two specific tests to determine the cause of the problem. Have you ever noticed that Ronnie is always wearing compression socks? This allows for the milking action to take place. It carries blood back to the heart. I once had to wear compression socks after having hip surgery. Very important. They say we don't want a blood clot to form. You have to wear these compression socks. And so Ronnie is always wearing these socks. And why do you think that is? I mean, it's not normal for a regular person of perfect health to have to wear compression socks. These compression socks may be an indication that he's experienced heart failure. You might be thinking, well, why? Well, he is in fact black, which carries a greater risk. He did in fact abuse steroids in the past. And of course, there's genetic factors and so on. He's also sitting in a wheelchair all the time, which could cause pooling of the water into the ankles and lower legs and so on. But it's very likely that he does have heart failure. And so, notice Ronnie Coleman, he has on his neck, you see the large diameter, the width of this vein. Whenever you see Ronnie Coleman, you almost always see a distended jugular vein. Even at rest, sitting there doing nothing, it's very large. And so that is a sign of heart failure. And so Ronnie Coleman, I do believe he has a very poor baseline of health with previous history. Perhaps he had a heart attack, heart failure, valve replacement, and so on. And so something like this, when you get an infection, a systemic infection, it's very difficult to overcome. Now, if he were 20 years of age, 100% natural, was healthy, it wouldn't be nearly as dangerous. But as you get older, it becomes much more severe. During sepsis, your heart is what's keeping you alive. Its ability to keep blood pressure high enough to pump out blood throughout the body. That is a must. And so Ronnie Coleman, because of his advanced age, because it's more difficult to pluck blood effectively throughout the body when you have a history of these issues, it made it much more of a scary issue. In order to keep enough blood flowing throughout the body, due to the fact that there's a decrease in stroke volume, the heart has to beat a lot faster. But eventually, it can't keep up and this heart just suddenly stops. And so what's happening is your immune system is responding to the infection. It's causing vasoddilation. This is when the veins and arteries, they get bigger. This happens to such an extreme degree that the organs lose blood flow. Now that we've gotten all the bad stuff out of the way, what is the cure? How do we solve the problem? What happens is you give the patient vasopressors so that the veins no longer are massive. They shrink back down to normal, increasing blood pressure. And of course, on top of that, you give the patient antibiotics to treat the infection. And so, of course, in this situation, the valve was seeding the infection, and so they had to remove the valve and put in a new one in order to solve the problem. Unfortunately, this is not something that you just get over in a matter of days, weeks, or even months. It can take months and or years to get back to normal, if ever. Likely, he'll be suffering some form of brain fog. Will be a little bit difficult to think. After all, his body was going through a lot. And so we're wishing Ronnie the best. We pray for his speedy recovery. Hopefully he returns to form both physically and mentally. Wishing him the best. Hopefully this clears up everything. Did my best to follow the story to see what actually is happening. And so unfortunately I wish I could just end the video by saying Ronnie Coleman is going to be 100% back to himself next week, but it doesn't seem to be the case. I can only report what's fact. I don't want to exaggerate or lie. And so it's going to be very hard for Ronnie to get back to normal. We're hoping he can come as close to a full recovery as possible. That he's in good spirits. He always seems to be in the past. And hopefully he gets back to the gym saying lightweight baby yet again. Lightweight. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm. Please like the video if you liked it. I know it's a sad video to make, but if you enjoyed learning about this, please like and subscribe to the channel. Don't forget to watch those two bloops. Of course, if you're abusing performance-enhancing drugs, I would strongly suggest you do not. There are things that you perhaps are not ready for that can happen later down the line. And so, wait. There are so many negative outcomes that can happen from abusing steroids. And so, please play safe, be careful, and until next time, I am out.