I mean, I understand the girls are more attracted to you cuz they're looking up at you. You're more imposing. You take up more space, but if you're walking on crutches in order to be taller, do you think that's going to impress the ladies? This is no different, in my opinion, than people who resort to taking steroids. Coach Greg, and in today's video, we're cooked. I understand that it's important to be tall, but do you really need to go from 5 foot seven to 6'5 on his way to 9 ft? And so, we've got a guy going through limb lengthening surgery, and I do believe he's broken the record. He was once a 5'7 manlet, almost as short as Coach Greg, and now he's 6'5. Bro is looks maxing. And in today's society, we're starting to understand just how important it is to be tall. If you're tall, you don't get it. You just go about your day. You're six foot. Perhaps you're six foot two and you don't understand all of the shortcomings, pun intended, of being shorter than last time. It's kind of like when a woman is hot or beautiful, they have pretty privilege. When you're tall, you have tall privilege. And so if you're a 10 out of 10, I'm talking about the hottest man in the world, just visually stunning. And they find out they're 5 foot six, you're at best in eight. It's it's it I'm sorry. You can't change that. And so a guy like Chris Bumstead, if he were 5'6, he wouldn't have won an Olympia. And so it's more important than you think. And there's actually stats on this. Even Mike Israel was talking about it. For example, if you could snap your fingers and be an inch taller, it'd be worth about $32,000. That's how much more money you have to make when you're shorter in order to make up for your lack of height. If you're six feet tall versus 5 foot6, you need to make about $150,000 a year in order to make up for the fact that you're shorter. All things being equal, you have the same personality, the same looks, the same job. If you're shorter, women don't want you quite as much. And so this guy, he realized this and says enough is enough. Essentially, he pulled a Mike Israel. Mike Israel realized, hey, you know what? uh stomach's not attractive. People don't like distended bellies. They don't like love handles. They don't like this. They don't like that. And he's getting every surgery possible in order to look better. And so, here's the thing. If I could snap my fingers and grow, let's call it 6 in taller and be 6 feet tall, I would very easily, very quickly pay a million dollar. It would only cost me perhaps, I don't know, $150,000 to do this surgery. And I could in fact do it, but I don't want to go through all the pain and the discomfort and having to relearn how to walk as well as the dangers of these surgeries. It's not as if it's 100% safe. And so I choose not to do it. But if I could just take a pill, somehow I magically grow taller like Jack in the Beantock. I would do it. And if it was a million dollars, I'm doing it. Well, how much would I actually pay? Would I pay 5 million to be 5 in taller? Yeah, I would pay $5 million to be five inches taller. A million dollars per inch, that's worth it to me, but I wouldn't do this surgery. The pain, the risk, all of these things, there's no way I would do it. I can understand why people want to do it because being taller is cool. It'd be the same thing like saying, "Hey, would you swallow a pill? Would you take, for example, a GLP, a semiglutide, trozipide, if you could lose 10, 20, 30, 50 lbs? How much would that be worth to you? If I were 300 lb fat right now and someone said, "Hey, you can lose 100 pounds of fat and you look like old coach Greg yet again. How much would you pay?" I'd say every cent I have. All the money would be gone. I would trade it in like that. And so for people who are morbidly obese, obese, and so on. You can literally do this and it's actually very cheap. And so for example, you can click the link in description and order GLP-1 known as ompic as well as tzipotide and other things like clomophene, seialis and so on directly from a doctor. Prescription medications very easy to qualify. You only need to answer a few questions and it's significantly cheaper than other places like Mer Health. I do understand it. I understand why people would want to be skinnier. I understand why people would want to be taller. But to get taller, you literally need to learn to rewalk again. This guy has been going through these surgeries where they break your leg and it grows back and you need to learn to walk again. I mean, he's on crutches. Is being 6'5 worth it if you are on crutches? I mean, I understand the girls are more attracted to you cuz they're looking up at you. You're more imposing. You take up more space. But if you're walking on crutches in order to be taller, do you think that's going to impress the ladies? This is no different in my opinion than people who resort to taking steroids. You're trying to look more attractive. You're trying to look smack and so you take steroids. Losing weight makes you more attractive. Building more muscle makes you more attractive. Being taller makes you more attractive. Breast implants makes you more attractive. eyeliner, filler, makeup, the paint, the dentures, the coloring of the teeth, the lip filler, the the wigs, the tans, the body snatch clothing. All of this is an attempt to look better. And so, does it not make sense that men would in fact break their legs in order to grow taller? Of course it does. But there's got to be a limit somewhere. Once you've taken it too far, you've taken it too far. It's a Gregism. A and so when you grow to 6'5 which is now deemed as less attractive than 6'3 there's a limit like once you grow a certain height you're kind of like a freak personally I think 62 63 that's about your peak and if you're under 5' 9 it's progressively getting worse I mean let's be on let me point this like most of you are guys out there but there's some women watching let's say you had a choice between dating a man who's 6'2, he's a millionaire, he's attractive, or 5'2, millionaire, and he's attractive. Would you do it? I asked Beep, I don't care about height. Mean is my girlfriend. She says, "No, height's not a factor." She's like, "I'm with you, aren't I?" I'm like, "Yeah, okay. That's a good point. That's a point in your favor. How many men have you dated in your lifetime who are as short as me?" None. How many men were even close to my height? She's like, "Well, I did like a guy. He was pretty short. How How tall was he?" 5'9". She's like, "Yeah, he was really sure he was 5'9"? I'm like, "Okay, so you're saying that at 34 years of age, you like short guys as much as tall guys, and the shortest guy you've ever liked in your entire lifetime was 5'9"? I think I win the debate. You met me and you liked me, but I also was a famous multi-millionaire who you got to know. You watched my videos. What if on the first date we'd showed up and I was 5 foot two, then shorter than you? She said immediately, "No." And so what I'm saying is height matters. I don't tell you what you want to hear. I tell you what you need to hear. And height matters. And so as good as I was for her, if I had have been 5'2, she couldn't have handled it. It wouldn't have been enough. She says, "You know, at minimum, he has to be taller than me." Bro is now 6'5. How many [\h__\h] out there does he want who are over 6'5? There's not many. And so why is he continuing to grow taller? I believe it becomes a disease, an obsession, mental illness. Just like when the girls keep getting the lip filler, they keep on growing. They got the hot dog mouths. It's like, bro, you're not a better throat goat just cuz your lips are the size of hot dogs. It's not more attractive. Or all those women who are getting more junk in the trunk, the BBLs and so on, and it looks so freaking fake. How do they think that's attractive? It's a mental illness. I don't think they go into it thinking, "I'm going to want to look horrible on purpose." I think they go into it thinking, "I just want a little bit bigger." And that little bit bigger gives them more attention and they want a little bit more and a little bit more. Same with bodybuilding or women's bikini and so on. You take a little bit of steroids and you grow some more muscle. You get some more positive feedback, positive attention, increased dopamine, and so you keep chasing that high, the high of hearing all those compliments. Will you ever be able to walk without crutches? Genuine question. I'm sorry, but this is not a success. That's merely selfhatred. Please seek out for therapy before any surgery from now on because I believe it's getting addictive. You are already very handsome. I wish you could see that. Yeah, he's handsome at 5'7 though. I can relate. 5' 6, 5' 7. A lot of women, they're looking over you. And literally, they are. you're here and they're looking over you and so they're not interested. Now, I'm not saying men out there should go and get Lanny limb lengthening surgeries whatsoever, but I am saying you should probably go and buy shoes that are a little bit taller. There are shoes out there where the heels are a little bit higher, maybe 2 in instead of one instead of a half. And so, if it's worth $32,000 per inch, think of how much 2in taller shoes are worth. to the same extent with the hair extensions or the breast implants, you get a little bit of a breast implant and no one's going to say anything. You went from a B cup to a D cup. Hey, you know, it is what it is. But when you go from a B to, I don't know, a W and certain measurements just are way out of proportion, you've taken it too far. That's sad. Is this the male equivalent of a girl getting a boob job or a BBL because of insecurities? Well, kind of, but no. And here's the difference. Breast implants, for example, it only takes you a few weeks to basically get back to normal. Lymph lengthening, it's going to be a year and or more, and the risks are extensive. Now, a BBL, it's starting to be a bit more comparable because in a BBL, you're probably going to be out for about 6 months. It takes a long time to recover and during that time, you're probably not exercising. You're probably not lifting weights the same. And so you might be really fit at the time of your BBL, but by the time you can get back to regular training, you've now lost 10 pounds of muscle and you just don't look as good. And so imagine how much muscle you're going to lose during the process of getting your legs longer than last time. A lot. Bro is literally on crutches. And so Bro has better hair than last time. It already looks, I'm going to say way above average. Like better hair than Coach Greg, I believe. Better than most people. And so he already has amazing hair and then he goes and gets hair transplant surgery. That would be equivalent to somebody who's already 6'1 getting limb lengthening surgery to be taller. You're already tall. Why would you do that? It makes no sense. And FYI, when you get your legs lengthened by 10 in, you're going to look weird. If you add 3 in, probably going to go look normal. I mean myself, the reason I'm so short is cuz my tibas, that's the lower bone and below the knee, that is exceptionally short. It's as short as somebody like 5'2. And so when I'm sitting down next to people who are about 5 foot 10 and 11, I'm the same height as them because my upper body is of a very normal, call it classically normal height, like 510, 5'11, a little bit above average, but my legs are very, very short in comparison. And so if I were to add three inches, perhaps even five to my legs, I would probably look normal. But if I added 10, I'm looking like I'm walking on stilts. And so it now looks grotesque. And so rather than standing out in a good way, you're standing out for something that looks weird. And so to the same extent, guys are adding oils in the arms and so on. a little bit of oil where you don't notice it. Perhaps you add one inch to your arms, it probably looks good because people can't tell that it's weird. But if you add in 3 4 in worth of oil and you start doing the bicep and it looks weird and grotesque, it's standing out for all the wrong reasons. We're actually seeing this sometimes in bodybuilding, Mr. Olympia and so on. We're seeing guys arms that just don't look shredded. Like I'm in my offseason. I'm 50 and I have more detail in my arm than guys who are on the Olympia stage. This shouldn't be when a guy flexes his arm. It should be peel. You see the Pac-Man? There should be a line, a split perhaps in the bicep. And if you poke your arm, there should be a gap. It's not a thigh gap. It's an arm gap. It's your bicep. There's two muscles here. You see the hole? You should be able to do that. And so when guys are flexing, you should be able to see that. if you can. It's a bunch of synthol or hyaluronic acid, a bunch of oils, and it's distorting the bodies and it starts to look weird. And so, you got to be careful. Too much of a good thing is bad. Does that make sense? Here's the cheaper way to do this. Okay, if you guys want to know what it's like, there's something known as stilts. So, you buy extra long pants and you wear stilts and you can walk around like that. When I go to circuses and stuff, there's guys on stilts and they're very, very tall. And so rather than spending $150,000 and suffering for a year and or more and having to relearn to walk again and being susceptible to all the vascular diseases, all the different problems with your muscles cuz think of it, it's stretched out 10 in. How do you think the muscles are working effectively? Your veins, arteries, everything has to be now stretched out. Is it going to function properly? Your body wasn't meant to do that. Now, if you only stretch it out perhaps, let's say 3 in, maybe it's not a big deal, but when you start stretching out 6 7 8 9 10, it's got to be bad. He's so proud of himself as he walks on the plane limping, having to hold himself up with his arms. He's so proud. It It excites him there. And so, he went from having no problem sitting on planes. Trust me, I can sit in regular class. I don't need business class. My legs have all kinds of room. I can travel. It's not a problem. But when you add 10 in to your legs, now all of a sudden you barely fit in your seat. I mean, he's limping with crutches. He can barely get onto this train subway thing. He's trying to become the tallest man in the world. It's not going to happen from being 5'7, unless of course you're using stilts. And so, it's so much easier to just go and buy a pair of stilts. Like, why are we needing to do this? It looks just as ridiculous. People are going to think he's on stilts and he's learning to rewalk again. I mean, bro looks like the catabolic twig. He looks like a stick. Why would you want to do that to yourself? If you stopped at 185 cm, what's that like 6'2? You would look perfect and still have a chance to move fairly normal again. Why would you do too much at that expense? Still wearing height booster shoes. Well, I mean, honestly, wear the height booster shoes over getting this surgery. I mean, if you feel that insecure about your height, I'd much rather see people wear height booster shoes than go through all these extensive surgeries. To the same extent, if a woman is unhappy with her B-cup, don't they sell bras with the inserts in it already? I mean, don't most bras come with the the little pad inside and so where the pad inside? There's so many of these things. Don't they sell squeams? Is that underwear that squeezes all the fat so that you don't look like a fatty? I mean, get those things. This is normal. Wear stripes or don't I don't know. Wear black. Doesn't that hide the fat that you have? And so, isn't that cute? Her grandmother sees them taller than him. Do you know what grandmas don't care about? They don't care about your height. I promise you, there isn't a single grandma out there that thinks you need to get limb lengthening surgery in order to be taller. I mean, it's right up there with you're thinking that your grandma cares about the size of your downstairs >> brother. She does not. There's no way grandma cares about this. She wants to feed you some cookies and some lasagna and whatever. Your grandma isn't going to make fun of you for not being tall. I don't know about you, but shouldn't there be some kind of a medical exam you have to pass or some kind of a psychological assessment before they agree to doing these surgeries? He was 5 foot7 and then he did the surgery and it grew him up to six foot one. Okay, it probably took him a year to get through all that. He finally recovered and then after that he's like, "You know what? I want to do it again." And that doctor had to sign off on that and say, "Yeah, that's a good idea." Shouldn't doctor's number one priority be your health and making sure that you keep it? And so, how on earth could a doctor with good conscience agree to do this surgery? The doctor should have said immediately, "No, you've already grown 6 in taller. That is the max. We're not going to do this again." But yet, he agrees to it. I mean, what amount of money is worth ruining a guy's health and your reputation as a doctor? If I go to the doctor and say, "You know what, Doc? I don't like having arms. Get rid of them." Is he going to do it? I mean, is there not some kind of code of ethics that doctors have to follow, and you can't just do whatever somebody wants? Well, actually, no. There probably isn't. I mean, there's women that want to be men and men want to be women and they're what? They're 14 years of age and they put them on these hormones or actually they're probably 12. Oh, yeah. You're going to give you these hormones. You're 12. How do you know what you want to do? How do you know for certain that that's the right move? But yet, they'll prescribe testosterone. They're 12 years of age and they're transitioning at 12. How do you know what you want to do when you're 12? Is that what's going on? Like, where do we put a stop to this? Next step, get your muscles back. That's not going to happen. The muscles are a certain size and if you stretch them out to be that long, you're not going to have the same width, it's in other words, the volume of the muscle. Think of it as like the volume of your private member. If you got, for example, a 7 by six, 7 in long and 6 in around, if you stretch it out and say, "Oh, I want it to be 10 in." Now, the thickness is going to go down. Does that kind of make sense? So, you can't just grow taller and expect the muscles to grow outwards. they're going to be stretched out. I mean, I I I feel like people understand that. Hopefully, people understand this. And so, if you do get limb lengthening surgery, you're not going to have the same amount of muscle. It's going to be extremely small. I want to be the tallest man alive. There's a difference between wanting and needing. I want to be the tallest man in the world. Well, okay, I want to be the strongest man in the world, but I'm not willing to do the things that I have to do to get there. And even if I did, I couldn't do it. Just like you. You could be the tallest man in the world, maybe. I argue that you could. Let's say you keep lengthening your limbs another couple of feet, but you won't be able to walk. And so, is it really worth it? I mean, you'll be famous, or shall I say infamous. Honestly, I don't think it's worth it. Something that I do think is worth it is getting Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum. It's not going to make you disabled. It's not going to have you walking on crutches, but it can give you more energy. It's going to have you train harder than last time, build more muscle, recover better, and so if you're interested in something legit that you literally have a money back guarantee and a $20 gift card, I certainly doubt they're going to give this guy his money back if he can't ever walk again. Click the link in description, code Greg, 15% off. And if you're looking to lose weight, you don't want to use the GLPS or the trozipide from Algo RX, you can of use GLP max from HDLT supplements. Again, code Greg 15% off. Top that off with Gest Platinum for increased testosterone levels and you got an amazing stack. Code Greg 15% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the algorithm, like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch any of those two bloops. And of course, we got the cookbooks, the training books, coaching plans by me, my team, the momentous clothing line. Get to the website, enter code Greg for most of the things. You'd probably be able to use it. And until next time, I am