I was 22 when I first officially got into bodybuilding when I got my first coach. And he immediately put me on so much gear. So much gear. >> There are many coaches that have had athletes, they actually have caused their athletes to pass away. They're no longer with us because of their protocols. But you still can't blame the coaches. It's on you, Coach Greg. And finally, we have a female who's open, honest, and transparent, explains everything that happened to her as a direct result of using performance-enhancing drugs, mainly steroids. And so, her video has gone viral. She posts one video and in 4 days, 170,000 views from her very first video. The people in the comments, they of course know that I'm going to make a response video. Her name is Hannah Hussein. And so I'm thinking, is this Hussein's sister Hussein Far Hat who many people think is a fake natural? And so she is not pretending to be a fake natty. She is open, honest about everything that she's been taking. And she's trying to stop you from making the same mistakes that she made. Some of the haters who they just they just hate me. They don't understand me. They write things like this. God, I hope he leaves this lady alone. As if I'm going to tear her down. a woman who explains the dangers. I'm only going to promote it. And so, do you think that she hates me? Do you think that she doesn't want me to cover her? >> Oh, you're such a bad person. Coach Greg, he just yaps. He puts everyone down. >> Well, let's see what she thinks. I love your videos, Greg. And she tags my name. Does that sound like I'm a hater? Remember, this is a female bodybuilder. And so, those of you who thought, >> "Oh, isn't coach Greg canceled? Isn't he that misogynist who hates on women?" She literally says she loves my videos. And so I strongly encourage you to go and watch her video. And she's now posted two videos and I'm sure she's going to keep going. >> Hi everybody. Um, welcome to my very first YouTube video. >> In the first 5 seconds, you can already see the very first side effects. And that of course is her voice. It's very obvious. You can hear it. >> Um, and welcome to my channel. >> She addresses the elephant in the room. She literally says, "One of the side effects of using performance-enhancing drugs is your voice can very easily change. The greater the doses and for the longer you use them, the more likely it's going to change. And once it's changed, it's most likely permanent." >> I wanted to create this platform to tell my story to hopefully help somebody make smarter decisions. >> And so, it's very important. She wants people to make smarter decisions than last time. She started very young, around 22 years of age, probably thinking, you know, I have great genetics and if I take a few substances, well, I'm going to put on more muscle. She listened to the wrong coach. And here are the results. >> I am currently still bodybuilding. I do plan on doing my prodebut. >> She isn't retired. She isn't quitting. She's going to continue to do this. And so, she's made some mistakes, but she loves bodybuilding. She loves everything about it. She loves the journey, but it did come at a cost. She used performance-enhancing drugs. >> Starting with I'll just jump right in. Obviously, my voice um the elephant in the room. I'm not trans. >> The fact that she had to say I'm not trans, that says it right there. And remember, just because you look attractive, just because you have a feminine body, a feminine face, it doesn't mean that you're not on steroids. When you first look at this woman, she doesn't appear manly. I don't see facial hair. I don't see her shaving. She doesn't look like she's going to scream out, "Go David." >> She doesn't look like that. But yet, she still abused steroids. And so, just because you're on steroids, it doesn't mean you're not feminine. But it can certainly change your voice. >> It is quite literally everywhere. And it even if the industry says that it's tested, there's a good chance they're not actually testing. Just because somebody says that the sport is tested or that they're females or that they're not actually using it only certain women are. It's the majority. It's not a few. It's a few who are not. And so not using steroids. Being natural is an exception rather than the rule. >> If you're enhanced, which most people are, um, just being completely transparent, there's not a whole lot of natties out there. There's a lot of fake natties. There's not a whole lot of real natties. >> As you go up the ladder from novice to perhaps intermediate to advanced, you're going from local amateur shows to the national shows to the pro stage. The odds or the chances that people are naturally, they keep getting smaller. Unless you have supreme genetics, you know, you're one in a million and so on, the chances of you earning an IPB pro card are slim to none. And so the majority of males and females, even in the bikini category, the majority are fake natties and are openly not natural. >> From my experience being in this sport or whatever you want to call it. Some people don't call it a sport, whatever. >> And so it's a pageantry at best or a risky endeavor at worst. And so, hey, take your pick. My personal belief is it's not actually a sport where judging people on something they have nothing to do with what you work out for. I mean, what sport do you do completely different things than you do at the competition? And so, you're training with weights. You're flexing and so on. But at the competition, you're posing. And so, I personally don't think it's a sport. If it were in fact a sport, would we actually see this in the Olympics? I really don't think so. >> It's gotten better that I've seen in the past couple years. um people being honest, but it's still not completely honest in my opinion. >> And so my opinion is it hasn't gotten better in the last couple years. I mean, how many women are open about their steroid use? For example, they come out and make a video and say, you know what I used for my last cycle? It was three IUs of GH. It was 30 millig of Trenolone. It was 30 milligs of anavar as well as LGD, Austrian, IGF-1, and the list goes on and on and on. sometimes more than 20 substances deep. I don't see that. I mean, if you've seen that, send me the videos because practically every video from a female who is open about it, I'm talking about her. And so, it's not open. It's not transparent. It's kept hush hush, especially amongst the females because when you're a woman, you're very nervous to openly speak out. I mean, did I not just do a video on Alex Hormos's wife where her voice was completely different and she swears 100% natural? >> They actually didn't really know if they wanted to become more of a Red Lobster or more of a McDonald's. >> I don't think so. And so, why not just be open? Yes, I used Anavar. Yes, I use Tren. >> One of my first mistakes when I first got into bodybuilding was listening to the wrong people. And so she says the main problem was when she started listening to the wrong people. And so let's talk about that. Who are the wrong people? Everyone. Everyone is wrong. How would they be correct? Who is the correct person to listen to? Is it your boyfriend? You know, bros at the gym. Yeah. I want you to take anavar. I want you to put on more muscle. You're going to look more sexy. I want you to lose weight. Take anavar. Trust me, it won't hurt you. Start with 20 or maybe 40 milligrams a day. And so, can you trust your boyfriend? Is your boyfriend educated on it? Just because your boyfriend's on test and trend and has larger arms than Larry Wheels, doesn't mean they know about steroids, especially amongst females. And so, if you can't trust your boyfriend, who else can you trust? Can you trust your coach? Coaches primarily are motivated by money. And you're thinking, "No, they just want to help people." Yes, they want to help people, but they want to help them achieve their goals. And in order to do that, they're thinking, "Hey, what are your goals?" And in order to do that, they ask you, "Hey, what are your goals?" I want to turn pro. Everyone wants to turn pro. And so, I'm willing to do anything. What should I do? Oh, so you're hiring me to get you a pro card, and you're willing to do anything. And so, this is what you can take. They're not thinking, "Well, if she takes this, she's going to get a deeper voice. She's going to lose her hair. She's going to get acne. She's gonna have clitoral enlargement. She's going to have a deeper voice shave." They're not saying any of these things. Well, some are, but they're going to downplay it. Oh, as long as you listen to me. Remember, I'm your coach. If you listen to me, it won't happen to you. I promise. And then you know what that coach then does? They show the before and the after. Look at how much difference. Wow, what a coach. I want to hire that coach. How many pros did you turn? 25? 100? Wow, you're such an amazing coach. Coach B, here's the before and here's after. Well, I see that you lost a little bit of weight, but I don't see much muscle growth. And a coach is thinking this was in three months. What do you expect? 20 lbs of muscle. Well, that coach, they turn pro. And so, the main difference among coaches is the amount of drugs you're allowing. That's right. Letting and or telling their clients to take. And so, I don't even need to name them. You already know who they are. Whichever coach has got the most clients to turn IFBB pro as a female, they're pushing hella drugs on their clients. And their clients, they don't care. When you're young, you turned a blind eye. You don't care about the side effects. Even if they said there side effects, won't happen to me. It won't happen to me. That's those people. I won't get a deeper voice. And if I do, oh, it'll go away as soon as I stop. I got into it in a time before social media was really a thing. >> She said she got into it in 2013, before social media was a thing. Social media has been around for decades now. It may not be as prevalent it is right now. But I'm certainly positive, 100% certain that if you looked hard enough, even 10 to 15 years ago, you would know that if you're a female using steroids, you can get negative side effects. Everyone knows that. And so if it's 2025 right now and you take a steroid and you say, "I didn't know better." You knew better, but you chose to ignore it. You turned a blind eye. You didn't want to be aware of it. There's no way you can tell me that you think that you can use steroids and that you're immune to any of the side effects. >> Coaches were not vetted. They were not um nobody was qualified to to do what they were doing. >> And do you think it's any different now? How are they vetted? How are they any better? Oh, they've watched Coach Greg's videos. They've watched Tik Tok videos. They've watched other people talk about it. That is not enough. I would argue that in today's world, it's even worse. Hey, I'm a coach. I'm 20 years of age. I've been training for a couple months. And so, hey, Chad GBT, how much can she take? How much LGD? How much steroids can this person take? And so, is Chat GBT always correct? I mean, every time I ask Chach TV a question, I have to ask it twice, and the second time it changes the answer. It doesn't even know what time zone I'm in half the time. And so many coaches, they pretend that they know the answers because all they have to do is know 5% more than you do. And you think they know what they're talking about. They're coaching you. What drug should I take? Oh, you can take this. And if they don't know the answer, well, they'll watch a YouTube video. Perhaps Derek explain it. Perhaps Coach Greg. Perhaps bro down the street or perhaps you just listen to Togei saying steroids they're not actually all that bad or like Dura says that everyone should do the dad cycle. It's actually gotten worse. There are more coaches in 2025 than there were in 2013 when I was competing in my younger days. It was rare for someone to have a bodybuilding coach. I remember going to competition and someone said, "Did you know that this guy hired that guy to coach them? Oh my goodness, they actually have a coach. That was very, very rare." And so if you could beat that person, it was like, wow, you beat someone with a coach. Now everyone has a coach. But the problem is the more coaches there are, the more they are that are unqualified. And even if they are qualified, how do you know? Is it bro has a PhD, a doctorate? Do they have experience in it? Have they taken it themselves? And so the only way to be a very good coach is to have both knowledge, experience, and have a variety of athletes that you've trained. And so look at their clients. If they made dramatic before and after transformations quickly, it's from steroids. It's not from hard work. It's not from a special diet plan, from training with three reps in reserve. It's from taking hella steroids andor sarmms. >> A coach had approached me. >> And so the coach approached her. And so this is a great technique among coaches. And so this is what coaches will do. They walk up to every single person and say, "Wow, you look good. You ever thought of competing?" You know, if you competed, you could probably get a pro card. I see your genetics, your structure, how long you've been training, only 3 years, only 7 years, only one month. I can get you a pro card. You should compete. And if you hire me, I'll get you to the top. Now, sometimes they charge you, sometimes they don't. If you're a very attractive female, often times they'll coach you for free with the hopes of getting into your pants. Hey, I'm speaking the truth. And so, even if they are legitimate, they're not trying to get into your pants. They're probably trying to get something out of you. If I coach you and you look amazing and win, that could put me on a pedestal amongst other coaches. I'm the best coach cuz look what I did to her. She was normal and now she's a pro. You find a diamond in the rough with amazing genetics. You coach them, put them on several SARMs and steroids, and all of a sudden they're amazing. And now you're a very soughtafter coach. Why? Because you have this before and after transformation. And so be very wary of people who simply have before and after transformations. >> I told him what I wanted. I told him I wanted to be as muscular as I could. I told him that I, you know, was willing to do whatever it took. Um, which was probably not the best words that I could have chosen. >> Clearly, she says to her coach, "I will do whatever it takes. I want to turn pro." And so, when you're the coach, you're giving the client what you want. And so, can we in fact blame the coach? If you go up to the coach and say, "I will take whatever. I want to win." And that coach tells you then what to do. I don't think you can blame the coaches. The coaches should of course explain all the dangers, the pros and the cons. But if the person hires the coach and says, "I'll take whatever." It's on you. In the end, whatever that coach says for you to do, it's on you whether or not you're going to do it. And so, why not get a second opinion? If your coach says, "You know what? It's your first show. You really should take 50 milligrams of Anavar if you want to win your very first bikini competition. Now, it's certainly going to build a lot of muscle, but perhaps that's not a very safe dose for you to take. And so, why not ask someone say, "This coach said 50 milligrams first competition. What do you think?" And they say, "Did you say 50 or did they say five?" Maybe you made a mistake. Maybe you didn't understand it. I remember coaching one female client in the past and she had hired an IFBB Pro bodybuilder. Oh, he must know so much. Not going to say his name. Should I say his name? No. Very good bodybuilder, former Olympia champion. Sh. And he's black. He says to her, 50 mg of primo. And so she's trying to buy the primo from me and I'm thinking, well, is it oral or injectable? She doesn't know. I then said, is it daily or weekly? She didn't know. I look at her program from this IFBB Pro, former Mr. Olympia who's black and it literally says 50 milligs of primo. It doesn't say daily. It doesn't say weekly. And I'm saying, "Okay, you're in your very first bikini competition. Do you want to take Primo as an injectable or as an oral?" She I'm not injecting. What are you talking about? I'm like, "All right, so then it's oral, but do you really want to take 50 milligs of Primo? I think that's a lot. I think that he meant you should take 50 milligs of injectable Primo per week." She didn't know. She didn't ask. I can't remember what she took at this time. I think I convinced her to take 10 milligrams of Anavar and said, "I'm not sure." She was very good competitor and after competing one or two times, she retired. Now, she didn't change her voice, but had she have done the 50 mg of primo, what do you think would have happened? And so, you need to be careful. I was 22 when I first officially got into bodybuilding, when I got my first coach. And he immediately put me on so much gear. So much gear. >> And so what I hope you do in the future, Hannah Hussein, is you literally go over all these cycles. I would love to make videos talking about exactly what you're taking. Was it 50 milligs of primo? Was it 100? Was it deca? What exactly was going on? And so let me give you this advice. The first cycle, it needs to be your smallest. Less is more. The lowest dose that makes you happy. Anything that you take, you're going to notice. You see, with steroids and SARMMS, it's not lean your progression. If you take 10 milligrams, you're not going to get double the gains as five. And so, if you can take very low doses and make really good gains, you're less likely to get the negative side effects. But if you just take higher doses, eventually you are going to get side effects. That is for certain. And so why not go with the mindset of less is more. I'm going to see how low a dose I can take and still get those gains because you can always go up, but once you've gone up, it's very hard to come down. I also coached someone in the past. She was using performance-enhancing drugs. I coached her to use PDS. She was using Anavar. At her maximum, it was 20 milligs a day. Very strong dose for a female. But once she got to the higher level, she decided to hire a different coach. The coach then said, "You only took 20 mg of anavar and you have a physique like that. This is remarkable. It's incredible." And so I want you to take 300 milligrams of Deca and a whole bunch of other drugs. And she told me about this. I said, "You can't do that. It's so high." But they're saying, "Well, I want to go to the Mr. Olympia, but if you do that irreversible damage, you're going to have a deeper voice. You're going to have facial hair. You can't take these doses. And so, I'm certainly happy that she listened to me rather than the new coach. But some coaches, they don't care. And so, here's the thing with females. You have far fewer androgen receptors than that of your males. And so, a female taking the same dose as a male is going to get astronomical, horrendous side effects. In average, a female needs to take 10 to 12 times lower doses than that of a male. And so if a woman is taking 20 milligrams of anavar, it's equivalent to a man taking about 200 to 240. And so as a man, you're thinking, I would never take 200 milligrams of anavar. You might go as high as 100 for a very short period of time. And so divide that by 10. Women on 10 milligrams of anavar, it's a very, very strong cycle. And so you need to be careful. He actually told me that there was no risks. >> Imagine having a coach that says there are no risks. I mean, I certainly hope that all of your coaches describe the risks. But if they don't, if they give you a cycle and they don't explain any of the side effects, the consequences, the pros versus the cons, you need to get a new coach. Even if you hire them and say, "I want to take steroids. I'm open to it." They should at least warn you of the dangers. If you say, "Hey, you know what? I don't want to get verilization. I don't want to lose my hair. I don't want to do all these things. I don't want to inject. And they say, "Oh, that's okay. We can just use orals. We'll just take anar." Or if you say, "I don't want to use steroids." And they say, "Oh, that's no problem. We got something called SARMMS, selective androgen receptor modulator." And if they say, "Don't worry, those don't cause any negative side effects." You need to move on. With all things that build muscle, you have to be careful. When you take PDs, you're playing Russian roulette with your health. 2.7% of the population have a dilated aorta. If you take androgens, it's going to increase blood pressure. And so with this increase in blood pressure, you could get an aortic aneurysm or you also could get a heart attack. There's so many things you can get. And so you do need to be careful. You don't know if your genetics are great for using steroids or really bad. You'll only know when it's too late. And so if you do decide to use steroids, you need to be careful and you have to not think that it can't happen to you. When you're young, it's hard to think that way. She was 22. She thought she was invincible. How is it any different for anyone else? Do you think that Chris Bumstead or Sam Sulick is thinking, hey, you know, one day I'm going to die of a heart attack. Or do you thinking I love making the gains? >> And that's why my very first um mistake was listening to the wrong people. And so again, she made a mistake of listening to the wrong people. I'm going to argue that everyone is the wrong people. Unless they're warning you of not doing it, caution you, saying, "I wouldn't do that. You should lower the dose." Unless they're saying that they're the wrong