 naringin,boxing,liśmy mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage transformation like this. The only problem is that out of 100 people, 99 are not going to make this transformation. And I don't care about seven months in seven years. Most people with steroids will never in their entire life look this good. And he did it in seven months. And so that is the temptation to use steroids. People, they make it look like it's way better than it actually is. Now, I'm not saying that steroids, performance-enhancing drugs, that they don't work. But most people, 99 plus percent of them, are not going to get results like this. Based on what I'm seeing, Bro looks like he went to the gym for seven years. On top of that, used steroids and got a proper tan. What was your stack? A, it doesn't matter. Because whatever the stack is, insert stack A, stack B, stack C. If you copy it, you're not going to get the same results. Just because he got amazing results from whatever stack that it was, doesn't mean that you will. And so you should not copy it. Let's say his transformation was five times as good as this. He literally looked like Chris Bumstead at the end of it. What was your stack, bro? It doesn't matter. You could copy it and you will not get the same results. And so regardless of it's a good stack, a stupid stack, the best stack in the world, the worst stack, high doses, low doses, it doesn't teach you anything. Looks like all I gotta do is get lean. No, you need to put on 40 pounds of muscle and get lean. This isn't just a guy that went on a diet, got a six pack. This is a guy who put on so much muscle and got lean that almost no one would put on this much muscle in their entire life. Looking great. I mean, these questions are so stupid. Did you notice a huge difference being on gear and off? No, I noticed no difference at all. I clearly looked the same on the left as on the right. I mean, I don't think so. I think I just recovered faster. No, there was no difference whatsoever. You know, I didn't notice that every single day I went to do the bench press, it was up 10 pounds. I didn't know that every week I stood off the scale, I gained a pound of muscle. I didn't notice that my libido was through the roof. I didn't notice that more girls than ever before talked to me and more bros asked me how big my biceps were. Nope. Never noticed. Do you really think you can make this kind of a transformation and not notice anything? That you can jump on steroids, so much steroids so that you make a transformation like this and that you barely notice the difference. Guys, we're not talking about him adding in some BPC-157 and asking you, hey, did you notice that your injury healed a little bit quicker? We're not talking about, hey, you added in five milligrams of Cialis. How much did it improve your erection quality? It's not in Clomaphene that we're talking about. Hey, did you notice that now that your testosterone levels are doubled, did you feel any different? It's not as simple as that. This guy is blasting everything to make a transformation like this. And as much as I'd love to tell you that bro just used Turk Builder Max and Turk Platinum, unfortunately, it's not going to make that much of a difference. And of course, it's way better than creatine, of which we sell as well. But Turk is not going to help you put on 40 pounds of muscle in seven months. It doesn't do that. And so if you want to get in Clomaphene, HRT, Talmasartin, Cialis, all these things, you can go to Algor X. And so of course, you know, we get your Turk straight from Uzbekistan. You know, it's legit. We've been vindicated. Money back guarantee. $50 gift card. And also the G-Test Platinum, the G-O2 Max, whatever you need, we got you covered, including your blue lobster. How much easier was it to gain muscle and to cut fat? A lot easier. I mean, how is he going to quantify? It was 107.4% easier to burn fat and it was 1038% easier to build muscle. It was way easier to do both. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. The Rock knows it doesn't matter. Some percentage, you're going to put on muscle 10 times faster, at least on steroids than you are when you're natural. Burning fat, it's going to make it easier, but it's not easy to burn fat. You still have to eat in a calorie deficit. Were you blasting for the full seven months? And what was the diet like? I mean, why even ask these questions if bro isn't going to answer? And so the answer is, of course, he was blasting for the full seven months. Why would you show a before and after transformation after seven months and you only used it for the first three months? For the first three months, he put on 50 pounds of muscle, then went off, trained for four more months, lost some of those gains. And then after seven months, he showed you his after. When you show a before and after, you clearly show the worst before and the best after. And it took seven months. And so it doesn't take a genius to factor in that, of course, he was taking performance enhancing drugs for the entirety of the seven months. Use your brains, fellas. And so he actually answers this question. Are you kidding me? And this is the answer that he came up with. I mean, is he a politician? Like bro, I've always put my best effort into training, diet and recovery before even touching gear. So I'd say the latter. Gear is just an amplifier of your training and diet. I mean, how much copium is he on? This is insane. Oh no, it's just diet, training, cardio, all the good things. And here's just the amplifier. We're looking at your before and your after. Let us remind you of what you look like. And you've always trained hard. You've always done it the proper way. You've always done anything. And that got you to here, which is pretty damn good. And then in seven months, it got you to there. And so here isn't just an amplifier. It put him into the oblivion. Were you blasting for the full seven months? And what was your diet like? Two blasts and one cruise here. That doesn't say anything. People have different definitions of what a blast is and what a cruise. For example, this could be what he means. I did 800 tests, 800 EQ, 800 Mastron and 800 Tren. I did that on my blast. Then I cruised on 800 tests. And I did that for two weeks. And then I went back to my original cycle. I blasted, cruised and went back on a blast. Meanwhile, the 800 milligrams of test for most people, that would be a blast. And so depending on the person that you're talking to, they're going to say, you know, I was just cruising, cruising on 500 tests, you know, nothing. And then basically I was half natural. And then I went on a blast. It says nothing. And so you learn nothing. That teaches you nothing. If 1 million people who are using steroids, listen and read that answer, they all, 1 million of them would learn nothing. What do you learn from that? Two blasts and a cruise. Do you listen to that and think, okay, I really like those results. I too am going to go on a blast, going to cruise and then blast off yet again. And I should make some great gains. How does that help? How long was the blast? How long was the cruise? How long was the next blast? What did you blast on? What did you cruise on? And what was your blood work? Nothing is stated. There's no explanation. Oh, I put on 15 pounds of muscle in the first 15 days of my blast. And then I cruised for 30 days. Then I blasted for four. There's no explanation whatsoever. And so you learn nothing, nothing at all. It's like, hey, coach Greg, I once saw you were obese and then you lost weight. How did you do that? I went on a calorie deficit. Every single human being that loses body fat was in a calorie deficit. And so you taught nothing. Even the phone got on a diet. Well, good observation. Hey, amazing physique. 25 milligrams of var is as effective as 50 milligrams of var without the cholesterol side effects. By the way, how have your blood changed? So he literally just asked, is 25 milligrams of anivar just as effective as 50 milligrams of anivar, but without the negative side effects? Does that even make any logical sense whatsoever? Like why even ask that question? Is a low dose of steroids going to build as much muscle as a higher dose of steroids, but without any of the side effects? And so I could re-translate that into, is 25 the maximum amount of anivar that a person can take in order to get gains? No, you're obviously going to make way more gains with 50 milligrams of anivar than you are at 25. And without the negative side effects, both have negative side effects. And so specifically, HDL, we have the good cholesterol. When you take anivar at 25 milligrams, your good cholesterol, it goes down. It's not good. At 50 milligrams, it goes down more. And you know what else happens? Your bench goes up more and your biceps get bigger and you get more hugeness and you like it more. And so the more benefit you get from the steroids, the more side effects you get from the steroids. That is how it works. It's not going to give you maximum results at 25 in comparison to 50. And 25, you can't take that much and experience no negative side effects whatsoever. And if you're a woman, well, at 25 milligrams, expect your voice to turn into a man, expect you to eventually turn into a man. It's too much. That's why people cycle these things. By the way, how have your bloods changed? He doesn't respond because they changed poorly, negatively. You really think this guy went to Al Gorex, got his blood work done, read all of his biomarkers, made sure that he's perfectly balanced in line with all of his health? Of course not. When you blast like this, you don't have good blood work. And so what you hope is it's not horrific. When you do blast some steroids this bad, you're hoping, I hope it's not horribly awful. It's kind of like when you don't show up to class and you didn't study enough and you show up to write the exam, you're not thinking, I hope I still get an A, maybe not an A+. You're thinking, hopefully I don't flunk out of this. All you're hoping for is a pass. And so when you do your blood work and you're abusing steroids, you just hope that by some miracle, it's not so bad that the doctor's going to say you can never do steroids ever again. How much TRT did you use melanotan? No melanotan and just actual tanning, but I'm hopping on Melano 2 next week. TRT dose is usually 150 to 200. The blast dose is 300 to 400. Never past 400. I just don't respond well past that point and I get too much water attention. Raise your hand out there, you, if you believe that his blast was only 400 milligrams of test and that he cruised on an HRT dose of 150 to 200. Not many people are seeing hands raised. And why is that? Because 400 milligrams of tests is less than a minute people's blast. I'm on 140 milligrams of tests a week and that is actually a high HRT dose. And so if you're on 150 to 200, that is actually a lot. I would not call that HRT. I would call it more sport TRT or health optimization therapy. It's certainly not replacement doses. Those are very high. Natural. If not, what did you take? Why even ask if he's natural? I mean, it's an insult to think that he might've done this while being natural. Think of it. There's one bulk in between here. It was just 400 tests and 50 milligrams of VAR. Then the right photo is mid shred, 350 tests and 50 milligrams of VAR and 400 milligrams of Masteron Prope and two milligrams of RETA. We've now discovered that it isn't just 400 milligrams of tests and a little bit less tests while on his HRT. He's added in Mastron and he's added in a significant amount of VAR. 50 milligrams. It's actually a lot, especially when taken for consecutive weeks and or months. And the two milligrams of RETA, it's certainly going to reduce his appetite, reduce his cravings. And so essentially he didn't have to change his diet whatsoever. He could eat whatever he wants, whatever he wants. And with the addition of the RETA, well, his body has less cravings and so he's going to eat fewer calories. Now remember, Algorx is not going to prescribe you Mastron and high doses of tests. But if you want a prescription for HRT and or Inclomiphene and or various peptides to make you less hungry, to make you not eat your face off, they can do that. And remember, on average, half the price of Merrick Health. And so please do yourself a favor, compare prices. I want you to shop around. I want to make sure that you're getting the best possible deal. And if there's any possible way that any other HRT clinic out there is going to give you a cheaper price at Algorx, we'll never go to Algorx, but you're not going to find it. Although I dare you to try. And when you go to Algorx and you do purchase, code Greg 10% off to save you even more. Any side effects from Mastron, how'd you like it? Mast is my favorite compound other than test. Mast doesn't give me sides. If anything, it lowers estrogenics related sides. When he says he doesn't get any negative side effects, he's talking about negative side effects that he can see or that he can feel. So in other words, he doesn't get gynecomastia. Mastron doesn't convert to estrogen. You're not going to get gyno. And it generally allows you to build lean, dry tissue without a lot of body fat. And so it gives you a lean, athletic appearance. Now remember, that only happens if you already have lowish body fat percentage. If you're 25% and you take Mastron, you're not suddenly going to look vascular lean and like an athlete. Now, myself personally, what his cycle looks like, it's almost exactly what I would have been doing. Testosterone combined with Mastron combined with Anivar. Anivar was my favorite steroid that I could visually notice and see and feel. Aside from actually testosterone, because that is generally the base. You can't just do what you can, but you shouldn't just use Anivar on its own. And so you need some testosterone in there. And Mastron in higher doses is going to add to the cycle strength and help you to build more muscle without gaining a lot of water, the gynecomastia, the bloating and so on. And so what he's doing, it actually makes a lot of sense. And that is, of course, if you don't care about living your longest and best life, if you're abusing steroids, you're likely going to take years off of your life. You don't really know that. And I would argue that if he made this many gains this quickly in seven months, his dosing was too high. Whether or not he's telling the truth, we'll never know. He could be lying. He could be telling the truth. He could have just amazing genetics responding like crazy. But if he's making this kind of a response, did he really need the 50 milligrams of Anivar? Could he have not done it with 25? Did he need that much testosterone or could he not have stayed on HRT? You've seen the before and after. Why would you need to blast when you make that kind of a transformation? He trained how many years natural to get that before physique of which he earned through quality hard work. But then he blasts steroids in order to go and make more gains in seven months than he did in seven years. Why not lower the doses? The lowest dose that makes you happy. Did he really need to take that much? I don't think so. Why Retta and test at the same time? I'm going to answer that because Bro wanted to make a transformation. He wanted to get leaner and put on more muscle at the same time. Some of you think you need to bulk and then you cut. You go on testosterone and then you bulk up, you eat your face off and then after you go off the test, you then go on Retta and then you can shred. If you do that, you're going to lose so much more weight in the after and you're going to hate your life. Why not do both of them at the same time? Hey, listen, I don't think you should use steroids. I don't think you should do all these things. But if you're going to do it, then it makes sense to do both at the same time. How many bodybuilders do you think, for example, getting ready for the Olympia or the Arnolds are using Retta and test at the same time? Perhaps you're not using Retta. Perhaps it's terzipitide. Perhaps it's ozimpic, but it's a GLP. They're doing that to reduce the food noise. They're doing that so they can reduce the cravings. They want to have a lean, aesthetic, six-pack looking, shredded, massive looking physique. And that can be done by the use of using pharmacology. The Retta, the GLPs, the testosterone, the mastron, the anavar, all those are going to help you to build more muscle. And if you eat less junk food, shit food, you're going to build muscle and get shredded at the same time. And that's it. Hopefully you learned something. We're just trying to be honest with you. And frankly, this guy, he's not natural, but he's admitting it. He's telling you what he's doing. Maybe he's being truthful. I'm not 100% sure it's plausible. And so, hey, you know, at least he's out there showing you his work, showing you his progress and saying, this was done with steroids. He didn't try to claim natural. He at least admitted that he did this. He did that. He answered a lot of your questions. And so I see nothing wrong with this. Now, hopefully he's getting his blood work done. Hopefully his blood work isn't horrific because imagine if he posted this and then the third slide over was his HDL tanked, his blood pressure through the roof. If this was true, he should tell people about it. He avoided answering the question that came to asking about his blood work. And so if you show all the good about using steroids, the before and after Bravo, I mean, look at the frigging changes. It looks like he trained for seven years. But if you don't talk about the bad, the blood pressure, the HDL, the cholesterol, the liver enzymes, all the bad things, you're going to encourage more people to do it. Because honestly, if I'd never seen steroids in my entire life and I just saw that and I'm like, so 400 tests and Mastron and VAR and Reda and that's what I get, I'd probably want to do it. Especially if he says, oh, I didn't experience any negative side effects. No negative side effects and all that muscle and you look like that, I want it. And so you need somebody like a coach, Greg, or other people to say, look, yeah, you build a lot of muscle, but a lot of shitty things can happen. Let's just keep it real. Let's be honest, but let's not make it look better than steroids actually are. Let's present both sides of the story. Although he doesn't present any side effects that he's talked about, perhaps the blood work does. And so unless we see the blood work, we don't know the actual damage that he's done. I would encourage you to stay natural as long as humanly possible. If you haven't tried Turk Builder Max or Turk Platinum, why haven't you? Get on it. And if you don't experience significant growth, you get your money back. It's a 100% money back guarantee. And on top of that, a $50 gift card. Get the Geo2 Max, get Blue Lobstered, get out there, train harder than last time, do all the things, get the freaking cookbook, train harder than last time. And don't forget to use code Greg while you're at it to save yourself 15% off. Now, remember, we're looking for HLT sponsored athletes. We have over 3000 total athletes in total varying levels of sponsorship, as you know, and so depending on how large a volume and how much you can do, we would love to sponsor you please apply by clicking the link in the description. And also if you have a store or a gym and you want all these supplements in your store gym, then please reach out, click the link description. I can't wait to announce to the world the 1000s of stores that we're going to be in in the very near future. Very exciting. And until next time, I am out.