Mike is innocent. This wasn't the correct paper. At this point, are you thinking maybe I I screwed up? Maybe I got the wrong paper. Like, what were you actually thinking? >> The mistake, Greg, was never mine at any point, >> Coach Greg. And I'm here with Solomon Nelson. Is that correct? >> Yes. >> Solomon recently exposed Dr. Mike Isertell for a thesis that was, let's just say, not very good. Did you expect that video to go viral like that? >> I mean, I knew it would get some attention, but I had no idea it would blow up like that much. >> I really wanted to know this. What made you interested in Dr. Mike in the first place? Cuz not I only know of two people that have read that thesis was my friends. Um, his wife had read it and told me about how many mistakes there was in it and was explaining how bad it really was. And then you read it >> and so what made you want to read that in the first place? What got you interested in Mike? Were you a fan of Dr. Mike for a while or just take take us through that. >> I was originally as a teenage lifter I guess you could say beguiled by him. Um I'll concede that there is a lot to be beguiled by otherwise obviously he wouldn't have as many followers as he does and you know he has some interesting contributions like the stimulus to fatigue ratio model um which sometimes I wish he had written his dissertation about since that actually seems original worthwhile and practical um yeah in short I guess I see why people like him because I too liked him at one point but I did come to see cracks in the facade Um, in short, some strange advice that really didn't stand up to scrutiny. >> So, for a while, you're a fan of him, but rather than listening to everything he was saying, eventually things changed and you were no longer thinking that what he was saying made sense. Is there >> is there a moment you remember, okay, I I don't like what he's saying right now, or was it a slow and steady like uh change of heart? >> Probably the latter. I just generally have a passion for dispelling in this space, I would say. And you know, I think when someone uses science to push misinformation, it kind of magnifies the damage. Do you know what I mean? >> So perhaps he was saying some things that you didn't agree with, like when he said, you know, it's healthy to drink one or two glasses of wine a day because it has cardiovascular benefits even though it can cause cancer and it's been proven to be bad. and he went on a podcast. Is that is has he said multiple things similar to that that just are not true and he said how can he just sit there and say that with confidence? I >> I mean absolutely that that that was my um that was my estimation of of much of his advice. And you know bad advice alone I don't really have a problem with. You know if it's Joe Sixpack just pushing some random nonsense and he has no credibility then who really cares? um it it's not as bad when uh some kind of obvious uh con man or fraud pushes misinformation and yet people treat as if it's worse because I guess it's easier to punch down whereas I think it's the opposite. I think it's actually worse when someone leans on credentials to push misinformation. >> Yeah, absolutely. I I think that when somebody says something from a PhD, you almost assume everything they say is correct. But if they just said, "Hey, I'm just some guy. I'm just Mike and this is what I think. Well, you can think a lot of things. They don't have to necessarily be correct. But when Mike says Dr. Mike here, Dr. Mike here, Dr. Mike here, it's almost like you're assuming it has to be correct. >> Yeah, absolutely. That's that's damaging, you know, because, okay, here's another reason why it's damaging. Supposing you're, you know, a teenager, you're getting started in the space, and someone who professes to be super science-based gives you a really terrible program. you know, one where you've run yourself into the ground with excessive training volumes, your joints ache, you're not making any progress. What are you to think when you got that program from someone who said, "I'm Mr. Science, right? If you can't progress and you're broken following a program that is advertised as the most scientifically backed, then what are you supposed to believe? It can't be the program because it was written by Mr. Science." And so I feel that's why it's more important to concentrate on people such as Mike Israel. We should hold these science-based folks to a higher standard. >> Yeah, I believe I believe so. And so one thing that bothered me was when that you made that video talking about some of the mistakes and giving your opinion on what you thought about that paper and then people were criticizing you for saying negative things or for bringing up the past. But when somebody flashes their doctor and says, "This is me. I'm smart. I do this." Shouldn't you be able to challenge that paper to say, "Is it really that good? Should we really just automatically believe what you're saying?" >> Yeah. And and I get Okay. One way of looking at that, Greg, is I I really do believe that arguments should be evaluated on their own merits. As in, regardless of someone's credentials, an argument can be true or false. You can spout complete nonsense with a PhD or uh truths without one. It's completely irrelevant to the actual substance of the arguments themselves. >> The days after you do the paper, Mike is not saying anything. He's just kind of staying quiet. I mean, if I were Mike, I would have just made a video and said, "Yeah, you know, this is what happened and let's move on." I I should have put more effort. I'm not proud of that paper. I think people would have moved on very quickly. But instead of that, he ignored it and his friend Milo Wolf does a video attacking myself, yourself, other people, and basically says, "You should be sued or potentially could get sued for not doing your due diligence to getting the wrong paper almost as if it was done on purpose." And goes full boore to say, "Mike is innocent. This wasn't the correct paper." And so at this point, are you thinking maybe I I screwed up? Maybe I got the wrong paper? Like what were you actually thinking? >> The mistake, Greg, was never mine at any point when uh the it was just a draft, bro. Trust me, explanation was given. It still wasn't at any point my mistake. I mean, as you put it yourself, it's totally unreasonable standard to expect, say, a movie reviewer who uh unintentionally reviews a draft of a movie that has been presented as the final copy. It is unreasonable to expect the reviewer to have asked the creator of the movie or the producer of the movie if that screening was in fact the final version of the movie and not a draft. Yeah, it's ridiculous. >> East Tennessee State University website. So, this claiming that I made a mistake in reviewing and it turned out not to be a mistake anyway, but it was asinine. Greg, >> I want to say Milo is basically challenging you saying you didn't write Mike Isertel to find out if that was his actual final paper. Like, would any reasonable person have done that? And even if you had, is he somehow expected to give you a response to that? Like, why would he even respond? He's probably just going to lift you ghosted. So, I think it's ridiculous to assume so. How long did it take you to make that video? Was it a month? Was it 40 hours a week for a month straight? How long did you put the work in for? >> I mean, I guess it would be about as long as it would take a a doctoral exam plus editing. So, yeah, it was it was definitely more than a month. >> And so, you're working on another video now. Is it soon going to be >> Oh, yeah. I've I've been working about 20 hours a day on this video. Well, thanks to owing to recent developments, I'm taking it in a new direction. Another brutal truth nuke being dropped. >> Yeah. With making videos, it's so now, so for example, we wake up this morning and see what Mike's posted. We weren't even planning on talking about this in this way, but because of the newer events, everything shifts a different way. It's hard with social media to keep up with what's what's happening on a daily basis. >> It's mental, isn't it? Like, >> yeah, that's why my videos are so quick, to the point. They're reactionary. A lot of people will criticize me saying, "Well, all you're doing is reacting. You're not doing anything." I'm like, "I'm explaining and teaching while reacting to somebody who presented misinformation." That's what I'm doing. >> Yeah. Absolutely. That's a silly criticism. I mean, I here's the thing, like the truth takes, it's like a tree that takes a thousand years to grow and only a day to chop down, you know? And I admire that. You know, my sister, she has something really funny. My sister Olympia, she goes, "The devil works hard, but Greg just works harder." >> I enjoy it. I think it's a good time. It's fun for me. It's like when you're obsessed about something and you can't sleep and you're working all day and it's enjoyable. Does it really feel like work when that's what you want to do? >> You said something to me that really struck me in our direct messages. Every day is like a dream. I I know what that's like now. >> Every day feels amazing. Every day I wake up and I'm excited about everything that's happening. And so I can never feel bad because things are so good. Experienced so much fun in my life that it just I'm just really happy. I wish everyone could feel that way. >> Are you especially happy today now that you have a total ducet victory on your hands? >> To be full transparency, me and my brother were on the phone talking about Mike and I said maybe he's like joking about this. Maybe he's just saying you know I admit it and then tomorrow he'll say no it wasn't my first draft. Like I'm still not sure if Mike is actually apologizing or saying this is it. It's like a paragraph on Instagram and it doesn't address half the things. So I'm like, is this it? Is this all he's going to say? >> Yeah. I'm I'm curious. We'll see. I mean, it's a rapidly developing situation. Hey, >> and Milo Wolf wanted you to take your video down now because you're spreading Yeah. You didn't know this. You're spreading misinformation. You should take your video down. And you read the comments. you should take your video down. How don't you know better? Like, now that you know it's the it's not the final draft, your video is based on a lie. You could be sued. >> And I'm thinking, is he now going to make a video and apologize to you and for me and say, "I can't believe Mike lied to me. Is he going to take his video down?" >> Sorry, you're you're referring to Milo there. Yeah. I I was never going to I was never going to say, "Whoopsie, sorry, I reviewed a draft." It's like, "No, I'm not stupid." >> Yeah. It's ridiculous. And so I just want to see is Milo going to take his video down now that he knows that he's like that is all based on a lie start to finish. That's a lie. I don't know if Milo's the one that made that lie. I don't know if Mike told Milo. Milo's just defending his friend. I can respect that. Hey, it's your best friend. Say we're good friend. And somebody says, "Hey, that's your first draft." And he says to Mike, "Hey, is this your first draft?" No, no, no. That's the wrong draft. Here it is. Milo's gonna say, "Oh, those jerks, they they're trying to tear you down because they're biased against you. You've done 10 videos against Mike. I've done 20 and so we just don't like them. Or are we just talking about the truth?" Just because we say negative things sometimes doesn't mean we're biased. >> It means we're accurate. So, definitely guys, be sure to follow Solomon, follow his journey, see the excellent videos he does. Personally, I thought he should have got a PhD for just the analysis of Mike's PhD. >> Oh, thank you. So, so I'm looking forward to seeing more videos. >> Thank you so so very much, Greg. Um, yeah, you can find me on my YouTube channel. It's just my birth name, Solomon Nelson. Uh, I'm because I'm terribly uncreative. Yeah, big video in the works. Comes out soon. Uh, like I know Thank you, Greg is a meme, but I mean >> as >> Thank you, Greg. >> When everyone anytime anyone says thank you, Greg, it's almost daily at some point for whatever. >> That's cool. I immediately have a flood of laughter and dopamine in my head. Like, it just it makes me laugh, right? I'm like, "Thank you, Greg." Sometimes I'll respond. Like, >> it just makes me laugh so much. It's hilarious. All right. And until next time, we're out.