Here we have Sikar Garforce very confident he's natural at this point cuz I was coaching him the whole period. You know that would be like me saying oh I'm confident that Hussein's natural because I coached him. That means nothing. >> 12% body fat according to the bodpot a client of mine >> according to the bod pod 12% body fat. It's higher than that. I mean, it's possible if his back is shredded, but I can almost certainly tell that it's not. I can see a shadow in the mirror in the back. But remember, he's not flexing. If you're standing like this and you can't really see your abdominals as much because your your stomach is sticking out, you can't tell how lean someone is to the same extent. Look at my legs. Just just watch the difference. Do I look like I have crazy quads? Do can you estimate my body fat percentage? And so often times people give me their body fats. They give me photos and they look like this or they'll send me photos like this. I don't know. Do they look like that when you flex them? You can't tell someone's body fat percentage from average photo with average lighting. You need to see what do you look like on your best day with perhaps lighting from outside in the morning before eating a bunch of food. Not when you're bloated and not when you're pumped and at the gym because everything is going to look different. You need to understand what are the context of these photos. Is he have the proper tan? Is it the proper lighting? Does he know how to properly display his physique? And so 12.5% body fat is probably a little bit higher than that. Again, we don't see his back. Unless this is the same gentleman to the right with 12.6% body fat. It's probably about accurate. 12.6% from comparing the front to the back. That's not the same person. This one has hair and no tattoo. 12.5% is likely closer to 14, perhaps a little bit more, unless he's peeled in the back, which I don't believe he is 12.6% looking great. My opinion, he looks leaner than Meno Henselman, who said he was 10% body fat. Now notice, however, you can see his legs, but is he flexing them? Again, if you just stand like this, how can you see how lean the person is to the side? You're just standing like this. Can you see if I'm lean? What if I flex like that? What if you move? When you're ultra peeled, if you did this to the side, this would be moving. It would be twitching and hovering around. You should be able to see lines on the side of your leg. And so in a still photo without flexing, you can't see exactly what body fat they have >> because muscle mass also decreases your body fat percentage. So with more muscle mass, you can basically have more fat and still be at a lower body fat percentage. >> This is actually true. The more muscle that you have, the leaner you're going to be. Think of it like this. If you have 20 lb of fat and you're 200 lb natty, you have 10% body fat. It's a lot of muscle. Now, imagine you go on steroids for perhaps 3 years. And imagine you'd then put on 50 lbs of muscle in 3 years taking performance-enhancing drugs and you're now 250 lbs with the same 20 lb of body fat. Your body fat is now 8%. You didn't make any change whatsoever. Your body fat's the same, but you simply added 50 lbs of muscle. Your body fat percentage has dropped from 10 to eight. That is significant. And so, guys with more muscle, Mr. Olympia competitors and so on. Samson Dota, for example, he's going to have less fat on a smaller area of his body. It's going to be more stretched out. And so, his body fat is going to look significantly leaner with the same pounds of fat as you perhaps may have. And so, 15% body fat. I always say this is the ideal health standard. You don't need to be any leaner to this to get any health benefits. This should be your goal for most people. And so you can see this is what 15% body fat actually looks like. He's lean front and back, not crazy shredded, and he has some definition in his quads. And we don't know how much he's flexing, but it's a great physique. And here we see 17.4%. I'm sorry, it's going to be 20% and or more. It's just not accurate. I mean, you can guess with the bod pods and the scam testing and so on, but it's not going to be accurate. And so this 17.4%, it's not 17.4%. It's definitely going to be higher. Now, it's possible if he has legs like mine, this 17% could in fact be true. I doubt it, though. I doubt he has legs as lean as mine. Now, if he has his lower body is reflective of his upper body, it's going to be 20% body fat and or more >> and 17% body fat. And it's only at this point for many muscular individuals that you truly lose all abdominal definition. I mean, honestly, did you see his abs? He was 17.4%. And we've seen men who clearly have over 20% body fat. For example, Eddie Hall, and he still has a six-pack. >> Many lifters have the idea that if they see the faintest shimmer of their abs, they are almost at 10% body fat. >> Yeah. No, no one thinks this. No, nobody. Not one person thinks that if you're leaning back and you're looking for the best lighting, you're saying, "Wait, I think I see a line here. Maybe that's an ab." They're not thinking they're at 10% body fat. People are not that stupid because they've watched my videos. They know that if you don't have abs, what did I say in the past? That you're fat. Talking about bodybuilders. If you don't have any abs and you're a man, you can't see any outline of your abs. You're not only close to 10% body fat, you're fat. And what's fat? Fat is over 20% body fat. Obese for men over 25% body fat. And so if you don't have any shimmer, glimpse, or hope of seeing any abdominals, you're probably fat and likely getting on obesity. >> 19% body fat. Kind of skinny fat. >> Yeah, this guy isn't skinny fat. 19% body fat. A, that's not fat. Fat starts above 20%. And skinny. He doesn't really look skinny. He looks normal. He looks like he has a little bit of abdominals. Honestly, I can see some of his obliques, some of his abs. And so this guy, he actually looks leaner than the guy he said was 17.6% body fat. And he doesn't look very skinny. He appears to have wider shoulders and unfortunately a little bit of a wider waist. He's more of a straight up and down shape. >> 20% body fat. Again, in favorable lighting, you still have some semblance of abdominal definition. >> And again, 20% body fat. I do believe that to be true. We see 20.3. However, why isn't Menow showing their legs? I mean, did he not just say at the start of the video, "Unfortunately, body fat percentages are all wrong on the internet. They don't have evidence base." And he said, "You need to see their full bodies." And so, why doesn't he show us their legs? >> Show the legs, bro. >> Why is he showing so many examples, 50 actual men's DEXA scans, but only shows part of their bodies? The people they want to know. And so, what do his legs look like? >> Show the legs. And without it, how does that show you what 20% body fat actually looks like? >> Here we have sick far Garforce. Very confident he's natural at this point because I was coaching him the whole period. >> You know, I'm very confident he's natural because I was coaching him at this point. Now, I'm not saying that he's not natural. I believe he's natural. I'm just looking and I'm thinking, "Yeah, I believe he's natural." But to just say, "Hey, I'm confidently saying he's natural because I coached him." That would be like me saying, "Oh, I'm confident that Hussein's natural because I coached them." That means nothing. Means nothing. I've literally coached other people who are coached by other individuals on what steroids to take in secret. They didn't want to tell their coach, "Hey, Coach Greg, I'm going to hire you. Can you tell me what to take?" Absolutely. The coach is posting their before and after transformations. Look at my amazing transformation of my client, 100% natural. And I'm thinking, "Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I can't say anything cuz I promise not to tell whatever. And so when I said Hussein was natural, it was based on the blood work. When you get randomly tested and they have no knowledge and they look their best, they're not passing blood work unless they're actually natural. That's just how it works. And if they do it multiple times, three in one year, very, very likely they're natural. And so despite the fact that the optics looks like he's not natural, it isn't true. Now, I've seen guys like, what's that guy's name? Skullfield. Jeffrey Scoffield. He's saying, "Yeah, well, look at him growing gyno." I mean, my original video, I mentioned the gyno. And if you can see right here, see that before photo before he ever hit the gym, you know, about five years prior. He was about 16. Maybe people said that was his start point. in two or three years he put on all that muscle. It was a couple years before he started lifting weights. You see the gyno that he has right there before lifting weights. It's childhood gyno. He had it when he was younger before lifting weights. And so to say, oh, he got gyno from lifting weights and using steroids. It was there before. And so you can't say it grew while taking steroids if it was there before. It would be analogous to saying, "Oh, steroids gave him acne." and you show a photo of them before taking steroids and they had acne, you get it. >> And this is another client of mine on his fat loss journey. Starting at 16% body fat, going to 11% and then 8%, he actually managed to build a decent amount of muscle in the process. >> I mean, do we know if he built any muscle in the process naturally? We don't know if he was actually natural. I mean, just because somebody says they're natural doesn't guarantee that they are. I mean, if you post the blood work, then that would help. Whatever. >> Another client of mine, 18% to 8% body fat. >> Does anyone think that this 8% body fat is the same as that shredded peeled man who had 8% body fat near the start of this video? Look at his body. It's very, very lean. He could be 8% body fat, but the other 8% body fat was a lot leaner. And so, there's no way they're both 8% body fat. If you put them both in an MRI machine, which can accurately test body fat, and I mean very accurate, this man would have more body fat than that man. Hence the proof that the DEXA scam, the InBody scam, these are just scans that test you and estimate your body fat. >> Which is also a good illustration that lighting can have a huge effect on how lean somebody looks. >> Why is it these guys like Menow don't just stand there in the camera and flex the abdominals? Why do they all show their best photos with the tan and the oil and the angles and they're like, "This is my body." It seems like all these guys, they claim, "Hey, look at how I look and so you can listen to me because I know what I'm doing. Why don't you look like that right now? Why is it back then?" Well, I don't know when this photo was taken, months ago, years ago. Who knows? Why can't you just show us how you look right now? You got to wear the collared shirt and hide. I mean, Derek used to show his physique off. He had the bowling ball delts. Where did they go? I mean, Derek we know is not taking Coach Greg's Turk, that's for sure. But I think he was perhaps taking his own. And what happened to all his muscle? A guy who we know is on performance enhancing drugs. You think Derek is natural right now, but yet he's lost all his muscle. And so, if you're interested in lowering your body fat percentage, looking leaner, building muscle, you know, why not take Turk Builder Max? It's going to help you to give you more energy, train harder than last time, put on more muscle, and so as long as you don't eat too many calories, you're going to look significantly leaner. Code Greg, 15% off. Of course, we got the cookbooks, the most amazing Seco Protein bar in the world. You got to try this one. All of course, money back guarantee, $20 gift card. Head to the website. The Seco Bar is half price. You don't even need to put something else into the cart. You can just buy one. I believe there's a limit of one because we are selling out faster than last time. Head to the website code Greg 15% off for all the supplements including GO2 max, GLP, Turk Platinum, Gest Platinum, GLP Max in order to help you lose weight. The list goes on and on. Get over there. And until next time, I am out.