encencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencencenc is replacing Sebum as the next Classic Physique Mr. Olympia champion. A lot of people are rooting for Ramon Dino. Ramon Dino, everyone thought he's the next champion. He was battling it back and forth with Chris Bumstead. He's got millions of followers, millions of fans, hoping he can bring home the title to Brazil. And he just released a shocking video. It says, Ramon Dino, Asustador, Aguin, Pogay, Fence. That's not even, I can't even read it. It's not even Spanish. As soon as you see the new and improved Ramon Dino, you're thinking, has he done it? Look at the size. And we're starting off from the rear. Look at the hamstrings. He has glutes. There's some lines in the glutes. Massive looking back, he's huge. I mean, no doubt he's put on at least 10 pounds of muscle. And as he turns to the front, look at the vascularity in the quads. Look at the biceps, the small waist, the wide shoulders. He's certainly blown up. He's bigger than ever before. Side pose. Look how thick he is. Mepstagram, you're a fan of Ramon Dino, right? You like him with the special tan. Check out the new version of Ramon Dino. Come have a look. So what do you think? You don't want to be in the video? Okay. She doesn't have enough makeup on. I'm just like, I'm in my pajama. I'm half naked. So what are we seeing? Okay. What do you think? He looks small. He looks short. He doesn't look peeled. He looks fat. Wait. Did you say small? He doesn't have a proper tan. Did you say small though? Like Loki, why does the trainer look bigger than him? The trainer's a monster. Yeah, but you, so you think this is small. Okay. Well, I just saw his forearm in the, in the shot. His forearm is his most well-known famous body part is his forearm. This is the best body part he has. Okay. No, he's not small. It's just short. It's just the guy in the back is huge. So it's good. Anyways. Um, it's a good thing. I'm a lot taller than five foot six when I'm sitting on my wallet because he's five foot 11. I know this guy, but sometimes with iPhone, I don't know what it is. Maybe what about to the front? He looks, he looks short. He looks like a, all right. So he looks like a short gremlin. Yeah. So your opinion is he looked better before because he's gotten too big, too thick. Look. Yeah. He's just big, but not, he looks bigger than C-bomb. He looks like he's inflated, like so bubbly, but I don't see the definition maybe that I'd like to see. Remember he's eight weeks out. He's very round. If you're a bodybuilder out there and somebody says you look round and full, I guess that's a good kind of a compliment eight weeks out. Do you think that if I were coaching him in eight weeks, do you think he would be mind blowing shredded by then? If you were coaching him? Yeah. Doesn't he look as lean as I am or leaner? What percent body fat do you think this is? I didn't like the back. All right. Let's look at this back that you don't like. Like the front is, maybe it's just a bad lighting. He has a small waist. Yeah, of course. He has a small waist. That's for sure. I don't know. I guess it's bad lighting there. I don't know. All right. And so Mepsogram, very unimpressed. This is a mid physique. Like I'm usually drooling. She's usually drooling. She loves Ramon Dino, but she only loves him when he's sub four percent body fat on stage with the proper tan. When I showed him in the offseason without the tan, she was like, who's that? It was unsubscribed. So she only likes Ramon Dino when he's stage ready with proper tan at sub five percent body fat. But yes, she's with Coach Greg. But you're close to that all year round though. And so apparently I'm close to Ramon Dino on stage year round. This is Coach Greg. No, but maybe not this size. He's not on a size. On 140 milligrams of test a week. But I mean, you're leaning tan all year round. But I weigh 190. He weighs like 260 here. I don't need this much size. And also he's 5'11". It's like... He's five inches taller than me. That's a lot of inches. For the... So you prefer now short guys, even though you said he looks short. I don't know. I do have the proper tan. You showed me this clip a bit earlier. And I didn't... Like it took me a while to recognize him, to be honest. And I wasn't like, wow. Like when I saw One Punch Man, I was like, wow. All right. And so she's got an eye. Hey, she doesn't have a clue about how good Ramon Dino is. But One Punch Man, let's talk about him. And so One Punch Man, in my opinion, has the best genetics for classic physique in the Mr. Olympia. Now you're thinking, no, it's Mike Sommerfeld. Mike Sommerfeld, listen, Mike Sommerfeld has the best bodybuilding genetics. Hey, Mike Sommerfeld is a bodybuilder. He looks thick. He looks massive. He looks beastly. Has the smallest weights, the widest shoulders, incredible size. I feel like those are not the adjectives that I would want to use to describe classic physique. Bodybuilding, absolutely. If I just said, hey, I'm talking about Keon Pearson. Well, that would make sense. Derek Lunsford. Again, it makes sense. But it's classic physique. Can it not be something a little bit different? And so why is it that the exact same bodybuilder that wins bodybuilding wins classic physique? Why is there a difference? Why don't we just say, hey, y'all compete with no height and weight categories and we'll pick the best bodybuilder. Well, we already have that. It's called bodybuilding. And so classic physique, what's the difference? Height and weight categories. What's the point? What's the point? Basically, classic physique becomes the same thing as bodybuilding. And so who do I think is going to win the Mr. Olympia? I think it's going to be Mike Sommerfeld by a landslide. And why? Because he's thicker and bigger and looks more like a bodybuilder. But he doesn't look more classic physique. Now let's look at One Punch Man. And so One Punch Man, I was a fan ever since I saw him at the Toronto Pro where he dominated the competition. He then competed at the Olympia and he didn't quite have enough size. He was about 10 pounds under the weight class. He's since filled out that weight class. He's added about 10 pounds of muscle. He's looking huge. And so I expect him to be in the first call out making the top five. Don't you want to see things stirred up? I want to see changes. Classic physique. Who has the best classic physique? If Seabom was the standard with the small waist and the wide shoulders and the crazy physique, look at the proportions of One Punch Man. Look how small his waist is. He has the smallest waist, I do believe, in the IFBB. He's peeled. He's shredded. And eight weeks out from competition, he's significantly leaner than any of these competitors. He's far leaner than Ramon Dino. And oh, I didn't mention this yet, but Ramon Dino put on all this muscle. But yet Ramon Dino is already at the top of his weight class. He can't put on all that muscle. And so even though he's bigger right now, Mepstagram described him as looking bubbly or like a balloon. He's going to have to be deflated. It's going to be poof. And come the competition time, he's going to be significantly smaller. He can't weigh in at 250, 260 pounds. If he did so, he would be in open bodybuilding. His weight cap is about 227 pounds. And so he's going to be a lot smaller and he isn't going to win. One Punch Man, however, I mean, look at this exquisite physique. He just competed a couple weeks ago. The quads look amazing. Biceps full. Doesn't have any of that synth oil oil. Glutes are dialed in top to bottom. Hamstrings amazing. Much better legs than sebum. Christmas tree detail. V taper. Wide shoulders. Small waist. Abs. Flared thighs. This is the classic physique that we should be looking for. This is the man who should be the champion. And I know he can't beat Mike Sommerfeld because Mike Sommerfeld is thicker and bigger. But is that really what we're looking for? Hey, in a straight up bodybuilding competition, Mike Sommerfeld beats One Punch Man. But this is classic physique. And so why can't somebody with a classic physique win? And so let's now talk about Logan Franklin. Logan Franklin. Many people admire this man's physique. But he doesn't have the shoulder width and the size of Mike Sommerfeld. And so Mike Sommerfeld, he beat him. But should he though? Can we not develop a different category so it's not just about the biggest bodybuilder that wins? Can't we make it something else? And so Logan Franklin unfortunately doesn't have the size to compete with these other competitors. And what about Terrence Ruffin? You can't have a Mr. Olympia without having Terrence Ruffin in the top five. He's an exquisite poser. He knows what he's doing. He has a small waist. But unfortunately for him, he lacks in the height department. And as you know, Mepsogram, she needs the guys to be tall. Hey, he looks too short. Ramon Dino, he's only 5'11". Ruff Diesel. Do you know who that guy is? I compete against him. Did you know? He won the show that I got fourth in when I did the show. He's only 5'5". He's shorter than Coach Greg. Jeez. Jeez, she says. He's even shorter than Coach Greg. Holy shit. He probably doesn't make Coach Greg money. So then he's really 5'5". He makes decent money. He's probably making hundreds of thousands. He's not a seven-figure... Oh. I can't even end it because he is literally a black guy. This is him now. This is the up one. Oh, I'm a fan. Great posing. He's peeled. He's got the proper tan. Oh, yeah. Skin color is bang on. No, but I'm a fan, yeah. Yeah, that's pretty freaking good. He's good? A small waist. I feel like he has a smaller waist than Ramon Dino. I would say. Let me see some good photos here. This is him in his offseason. What do you think of him there? This is him like not... This is him at like 6.5% body fat. It's okay. So, you guys. Mepstagram likes 5% body fat. And anything over 8, it's like really... Some of you guys want to have single-digit body fat. She's like, what are you talking about? 9. Sub 8. I'm only into sub 8. This is the photo that she's like, well... It's just... You know what it is? It's kind of off here. I like the glaze. There's no glaze. I want it to shine like... It's a bit like matte. And so... I want him to be oiled up. Babe, we're not talking about the new Ferrari that I bought. It's like... That is... He's a little soft. Yeah. And I don't have body dysmorphia. Thank God you don't. This is how much confidence that I have. No, but you're... I don't look anything like this guy. You're perfect. Even at my best, it didn't look like this guy at all. There's something about you that it looks just as good. It's probably the wallet. Hey, want to tell them what you got yesterday? Oh, oh my gosh. So much. I got a Dior bracelet. A Dior bag. Two... Three Dior bags. Well, yeah. Three Dior bags. What else did we get? Like the Louis Vuitton bag. Did we say the Dior bracelet? Yeah. The three bags. I'm wearing it right now. And that was a Thursday. That was just a random Thursday for no reason. It wasn't my birthday. It wasn't... So I bought myself a Ferrari and so she didn't feel bad about it. So she gets a couple things. It's now been confirmed. It's the wallet. No, it's not the wallet. It's my height. It's how fast I'm on a bike on Zwift. It's a lot of watts per kilo there. It's a pretty... You guys, if you haven't seen me sprint, it's pretty impressive. I haven't announced to the world, but I plan on competing in the 50 plus in bodybuilding again when I come back. It's pretty exciting. That is the most exciting thing I've heard all year. And I'm not even going to use performance enhancing drugs. Well, aside from the HRT that I'm on right now. Get on your chair right now and show us your... You're ready. Okay. And so am I ready right now? Let's see. Is this enough to compete in... I don't think so. I think that I can't take out... Show the legs, bro. I don't think I can take out... Oh, for no reason. Well, I don't think that I can beat Terrence Ruffin or One Punch Man. They showed me the 40 plus Masters Olympia guys in the 212. And I was like, I feel like I could be all right there. I just don't have the size. I could get the conditioning. But like, I don't want to use test and trend in the whole... Yeah, it's okay. If I used all those drugs, I'm sure I could be pretty damn good. Yes, but you're still good. But like, I have to do it within the realms of being natural. I'm not natural. I'm on HRT, but you get it. I have to be healthy. I can't have my blood work. I don't want Coach Greg dying. Yeah, I don't want to die. And so I plan to, I think, do a competition in the 50 plus. I'll probably do some non-tested pro show. I'm so excited, guys. I'm shaking how excited I am to see that. Oh, my God. She's shaking. I'm going to be in the freaking audience being like, go, David. I'm not David. Go, Greg. Yeah. Who's David? This one's got a side dude named David. If they don't get the joke, they don't watch enough Coach Greg. This is true, but some people are going to be like, hey, that's for the streets. Okay, imagine me. What does that guy say that's for the streets, guy? You're for the streets. With the, yeah. Freddie. Freddie, yeah. Freddie, Freddie. Well, yeah. Doesn't he have a zigzag thing? Oh, yeah. The thunderstorm. Yeah, thunderstorm, zigzag for the streets, David. Stay woke in the streets, eh? Big brr. Big brr. That's right. That's the thing. You've got a good memory. And so we have Mike Sommerfeld who's going to win. Who's going to get second? Honestly, if it was, I would vote for Terrence. I think Terrence is going to get second. Who do you think is going to win? I really like Niall. I like Niall to win, but he's not going to win. Next year, though. He. It'll take a few years to get. I don't think he has the genetics to have enough size here. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. To beat Mike Sommerfeld. If you were sitting here, this dealt would be there, and this dealt would be there. I know. And it's. He makes no sense how much muscle this guy. Did you guys know I compete against Mike Sommerfeld as well? Oh my goodness, this guy is good. This guy has ridonkulous potential. If I could trade physiques with anyone in the show, that's the physique I choose. That is the best potential physique in that show. Craziest vacuum. Like, rivals Chris Bumstead's vacuum. I mean, maybe he could win the Mr. Olympia. Mike Sommerfeld, he just shows up in this shape. Like, literally, I'm looking at this guy, and I'm like, man, he would be good if he dieted. And he beats me in off-season mode, in my opinion. And so, this guy, Neil Hill, he's coaching him. He coaches Aldura, I know. This guy, he coaches him. And I'm like, well, it's not hard to coach a guy with those kind of genetics. I'm like, all bro has to do is, like, show up shredded. He's killing. Like, he's so good. It's like coaching sebum. Sebum, go to the gym, and don't eat too much. And show up. These guys have such amazing genetics. And so, one punch, man, what place do we think he's actually going to get? We want him to win. He's my favorite. But do you think he'll make top five? I think he's getting top five, but I think he's getting fifth. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think that Ramon Dino will beat him, but I think Ramon Dino will be definitely not in the top two. We have Erz! I almost said talk about Erz Kalisinski. Erz, I love him. Erz getting third. Go, Erz. Erz is getting third. He's a cool guy. He has amazing physique. Did you all know I compete against Erz? Like, it was his first show. And he was 20 pounds under the weight class. I have photos with him. And I'm like, bro, how much do you weigh? And literally, I'm looking up to this guy. He's like 5'11". And he's like, oh, I'm 20 pounds under my limit. I'm like, you look like that, and you can weigh 20 pounds more? Here I was at the limit. I had to dehydrate to make the weight class. And I'm like, there's no more pounds. And he looks twice of my size. And so, the weight height thing, it depends on the length of your femur. I have short, lower, like tibia, fibula. This part of my body is short. This is why I'm a manlet. I'm actually upper body. I'm like 5'11". So when you're 5'11", and you sit down next to me, I'm the same height. I just have short little T-Rex legs right here. I'm the same height as Hussein. He's 5'11 and a half. I just have short legs. So I don't get all the pounds out of the people. So really, I should be allowed to weigh like 210 or something. But it doesn't work out for me. And so because I have short legs, it doesn't work. This is why I think the classic physique, height, weight stuff, it's kind of bullshit. You have to be born a certain way. Which is why Mike Semmerfeld can weigh so much. His bone structure is just set up so that he can weigh a lot. The whole thing is a setup. It's interesting. The setup has changed. For years, I preached to the IPB, and I said, you know, the weight classes are incorrect for classic physique. You should change them. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So sooner or later, they changed them all. They did. And so the lighter weight classes were being discriminated against. They added pounds. So my weight class for pro is now 193. Now, when I make my comeback, I think I'm going to do the 212 category because I feel like I'm not really classic physique. Like my idea of classic physique is like the super small waist and like more like the Nile One Punch Man physique. I'm more like a bodybuilder, especially now that I'm older. When I hear my comeback, it makes me feel some type of way. And so here's the problem with the comeback. See, I have no tricep here because I have multiple bike accidents. And so the tricep has disappeared. The side muscle here. There's no surgeries for that, eh? You said that. They're supposed to have surgery, but I'm in Canada. And so I don't know. We're waiting for the surgery. When I'm 60 or so. I was like, you could get filler. I can't extend the arm. Like when I do this, I can barely like the arm. The tendon is too long. I don't understand it that much. The tendon is too long. They have to shorten the tendon because I can't lift. So my tricep is so weak and I have all these injuries. I can't bench press anymore. I can't really train legs. So I mostly bike ride and I train twice a week and I look like this. Yeah. Everyone that you meet in real life and you're like, by the way, I just trained twice a week and I bike ride. They can't believe this. Yeah. I know. People probably think I'm on trend or maybe I have some weird polymorphism or something that just so you keep all the gains, even though you just bike race. I mean, it could be that I'm taking my own blue lobster. It could be that I take the frigging Turk Builder Max Turk Platinum. Actually, I want to take this one now. It's way better for me. And the Geo 2 Max and all the goodies. Or they just think I'm on trend, but it is what it is. And so, okay. So we've got Mike Sommerfeld in first. We've got Terrence in second. We've got Erz in third. Fourth. Who do we have left? Well, we already said fifth was going to be One Punch Man. And so Logan Franklin in fourth and One Punch Man in fifth. That's your prediction. That's where it's got to be. Is Logan going to get as peeled as he was at the Arnold's? I don't think he can do it. I'm switching it. One Punch Man in fourth and Logan Franklin in fifth. And there's this guy from... He's like 23 or 25. He's going to be in there. Okay. I think he's better than Logan. Logan's going to be sixth. Okay. Yeah. You guys know the 23-year-old guy. He's going to be there. Okay. He's going to be fifth. One Punch Man fourth. And I don't know everyone's names. I barely know my name. I have freaking brain damage. You guys lucky I can name anybody in a video. So that guy, he's like in his early 20s. And so there you have it. There's my predictions. And I'd also like to say that anyone that decides to take Turk Platinum, you're going to win. Yeah. It's pretty... Well, it's guaranteed because it's better than steroids. I'm joking. People don't know what I'm joking anymore. And so it is good. It's better than creatine. That's not a joke. But it's not as good as steroids. And if you want to buy it, code Greg, 15% off. And also if you want to be coached by me, apply by clicking the link in the description. Coaching harder than last time. It's a very fun thing, especially on the phone and the calls with the people to help them. That's a good time for me. So if you're interested, apply by clicking the link. Also, Momentous Clothing. You can get that by applying there. And if you're interested in blood work or getting medications, pharmaceutical from doctors, prescriptions, and it only takes you a couple of minutes for way cheaper than like Merrick Health and stuff. And I'm talking about like Cialis and Viagra, Talmisartan and Clomiphene, peptides, all that kind of stuff. Apply by clicking the link in the description. It's very quick. You fill out a couple sentences like the questionnaire. And a doctor is going to literally prescribe prescription medications. Not some sketchy shit that you get on some SARM site and you don't even know what it is. Actual pharmaceutical grade. They even for $250 have a doctor that goes over all of this and tells you exactly what to do and all this stuff. It's amazing what they can do. It's very cheap and it's so amazing that I am now part owner. This is how good they were. I'm like, I got to get on this company because the prices are so cheap. Like I couldn't believe that it was so cheap compared to everyone else. And so if you don't have a lot of money, this is to come for you. If you're a millionaire, multimillionaire, it doesn't really matter. You can go to the other companies. You can go to Merrick Health. If you have millions of dollars, it's fine. But if you don't have millions of dollars and you're wanting to save some money, you know, save up so you can buy a Ferrari and so on. Perhaps some Dior. Then you go on that website and then you put the money you save there towards stuff for your girlfriend or yourself. Whatever it may be. Subscribe. Click the bell button. Comment to boost the album. Like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch one of those two bloops. You can get the cookbook. You know, the amazing cookbook. Low calorie, delicious recipes. I eat these all the time. I can maintain my lean physique. You know, almost as lean as, who was the guy? Almost as lean as Terrence Ruffin's year round at 49 by eating from my cookbook. Oh, there's even this. I stopped taking, I took it for five days. It worked so well to stop taking it. I was losing energy because I wasn't eating enough because I bike ride. It's actually the secret. It's not just this. It's also because I bike ride all the time and I do a lot of cardio and it's the secret to being lean. And so that's actually the truth. This actually helps a lot. The cookbook, it gives me the low calorie recipes. So I don't feel like cheating on a diet all the time and stuff like that. And so if you're interested, of course, get that. And until next time, I am out.