I don't know what is wrong with people at this young of an age. They think that it's cool to be famous for being a for being an idiot, for abusing your body to this extent, that it's going to cause these things. How could he not be intelligent enough to say, you know what, I'm going to listen to my body. I'm going to stop, Coach Greg. And again, we got another guy. Look at his acne. He's abusing steroids. This needs to stop. The guy's name is Scar Ziz. Probably his hero or his idol was a guy who was no longer with us. His name is Ziz. Aziz was known for having an aesthetic physique. Does this guy have an aesthetic physique? Well, maybe, but not with all the scars from all the acne. And so he takes his name and adds to all the scars he's getting from this horrendous acne, from abusing steroids, and shows it off to the world to act cool, to think, "Oh, this is going to get me famous." There seems to be a problem. People don't care if they're famous or infamous. Infamous is famous for doing something wrong. And so he doesn't care if the world hates him so long as they notice him. Well, they're going to notice his scars. says he's 6'3 and that he's actually 18 years of age. I was thinking he was 16, but it doesn't make it that much better. In his most viral video, we can see him flexing and he's pinned it. He loves this video. He's proud of this. And so, he has a six-pack. He's got the abdominals. He has a small waist. He has an amazing vtaper. And so, he does have the aesthetics. But would any of you abuse steroids in order to look like this? This is not what anyone wants. I mean, his body is speaking out in Braille, saying, "Please stop." I mean, how did it end for Ziz? Last I checked, he's no longer with us. And if you continue to do this, what do you think's going to happen to yourself? It's hormonal acne. 25,000 likes. How many of you think that it's just regular acne, you know, just from being a teenager, and that it's not from abusing performance-enhancing drugs? There's a difference between acne and steroids. Take care of yourself, man. 23,000 people, they actually care. Hey, look, you don't want to do this. It's not worth it. I don't know what is wrong with people at this young of an age. They think that it's cool to be famous for being a for being an idiot, for abusing your body to this extent, that it's going to cause these things. How can he not be intelligent enough to say, you know what, I'm going to listen to my body. I'm going to stop. That's embarrassing. 33,000 likes. Now, not everyone gets embarrassed. This guy, he doesn't give a Every post is worse than the last. He shows off his acne. If anything, I kind of think he's proud of it. Some people, they are proud of the stupid things that they do. They lean into it. And so, he's leaning into it. Not even acne anymore. That's just an alien species in you. And of course, the Joker's 100% natural. 14,000 people are laughing about that. Why are people hating this? It's just acne. It's not just acne. This isn't just normal acne. It's going to scar. It's probably painful. I mean, we've had people with acne like this. They lay down in bed. The juices, they drip out into the sheets. It sticks to the sheet. And then when they get off of the bed, it's pulling out their skin. It's painful. Or if you're laying down to do the bench press and you have to arch your back and it's painful. This is what we're talking about. And so, no, it's not just acne. It's not like having an improper tan. It says, "Nah, not worth it." And his response, Scar says, the actual creator, "Working out is worth it. You can work out without abusing performance-enhancing drugs. That is not a requirement. You don't need steroids in order to work out. Yeah. Nah, guys. Trust. I'm natty. And so he says I am. Here's the thing. Maybe he is natural. I mean, I'm assuming he's a fake natty. I'm assuming that this is a joke. I'm assuming a lot of things. But let's give him the benefit of the doubt. Let's say that he is in fact natural. He needs to figure out what's going on. The acne looks gregorous. bro, why would you do this to yourself? And he says, why not? And so that sounds like he is in fact doing it to himself and he's admitting it. And so I don't know what to say. Perhaps he's natural. If he is, I feel bad for him. If he actually is natural and he didn't do this to himself, well, I feel bad. I apologize. If you're actually natural and I'm doing a video saying, "Hey, you got to stop taking stairs and so on," then that is my bad. But based on this comment, based on what I'm seeing, I think he's a fake natty. And so what I noticed is that in several of the videos, he doesn't actually show his face, but he does show his face in some of them. So I'm not certain if he's trying to hide the fact that he doesn't want everyone to know who he is. They simply focus on and highlight all of the acne scars. And so why would he do that? I'm not certain, but it seems like he's trying to be known for the acne more so than the totality of his physique, including his face. I mean, most people who show their physiques on Instagram, Tik Tok, and so on, they show the face and the body. They're trying to look hot. And often times, more often than not, they're showing photos from the front, the flex, the front, the abs, the looking to the side. And a lot less often are they facing to the rear. Sometimes you got to you got to show off that aesthetic back, but for the most part, they want to show their faces just like all the Tik Tok chicks and so on. They're showing off their glutes, but they're turning around because they want to show their face. And so, they're showing off the ass as well as the face. They're showing both. This guy, for the most part, he doesn't show the face. And so, why is that? Well, his name is Scars. And so, I believe that what he wants is just to be famous for anything. and he thinks that his best chance is to show the scars and focus on them. And so, excellent physique, small waist, wide shoulders, lats are excellent, the most muscular. He's got amazing traps. He knows how to pose very well. He's aesthetic. The only thing wrong with this is he has the horrendous acne in particular on the chest and on his back. I mean, it's some of the worst that I've ever seen. And so I don't understand why he wouldn't go to see a skin doctor and get some Accutane or something to clear this up. Does he in fact want this? And based on the amount of muscle that he has, the fact that he's only 18 years of age, it is a way above average looking physique. And so it's likely that it's from steroids. He does have some puffiness around the nipple. Not enough to know for certain that he's on steroids, but it does look like little bit of gyno. It might be gyno, but it is highly sus. And so if it is steroids, he needs to stop. And if it's not steroids, he also needs to stop. Stop, drop, and roll. I'm kidding. He needs to stop and go to the doctor. Get it checked out. And is he in fact 6'3 and 18? I mean, in today's day and age, people will say anything. They'll say they're 14 when they're 18. They'll say they're 16 when they're 18. They'll say they're 25 when they're 10. They'll do anything. And so, I don't know what we can believe and what we won't believe. And so, he's had his channel for only about 2 months. He's trying to get popular. And as the post went by, he continued to post more and more shirtless photos. At first, he was covered up. And then I figure he just thought, you know what? I'm going to lean into it. I'm called scars ziz. I'm going to show all the horrendous scars all over my body. I mean, this is just pure rage bait. I mean, there's no way he thinks that other people want to look like this. He's proud of himself. He's showing his physique and perhaps it's love everybody, love yourself, body positivity and so on. And so perhaps this is that. But what I see is no one wants to look like this. And steroids can actually cause this. And so whether or not it's been caused by steroids, it's a warning. If you take steroids and you at all get any of these side effects, you need to stop. And better yet, don't start in the first place. I mean, he's trying to look aesthetic. He's flexing his muscles and all I see are the pimples. All I see is the red the pizza the pizza sauce. I don't know what he can do. I would I mean I can't understand how he wouldn't go see a doctor. I don't know where he's from. What's going on, but anyone that has this, they have to know that it's not desirable. I actually think he wants to make it look even worse. I mean, he's got spotlights down on his back. He's posing his back to the camera, trying to make his waist look as small as possible. His lats are popping out. He's squeaking around the scapulas. He's dancing around, popping his shoulders in and out. And it's like, for what? This is just gross. >> At least no one wants to get this. I mean, it's one thing to see it on someone else and think, well, damn, thank God I don't have that. But there are people that are abusing steroids that are getting this exact same thing. And so, this is a warning. If your body is speaking out to you in braille, just don't >> stop it. Get some help. And so I'm going to end this video by saying if he's actually natural, then I apologize in advance for this video, saying that you're not. I don't know for sure if you are, but if you aren't natural, you need to stop. And for those of you watching this that are perhaps unsure if you should take steroids, steroids can cause this. Now, imagine this. Imagine that he is natural and he wants to have that Greek god aesthetic. He wants to look more jacked than last time. Imagine if this guy actually took steroids. If you start off looking like this and you add in steroids, it's going to make it far worse. Steroids, they give almost anyone acne. Even if you have perfect skin, it's probably going to cause some kind of blemishes, some kind of problems. But if you already have problems to begin with, is not made for you. You're not cut out for this. If he is in fact 100% natural and he's trying to be proud of his physique and not have people make fun of him, well, maybe write down a comment or two and say, "Hey, I can't do anything about it. I'm 100% natural. I'm going to my doctor. I don't wish this on anyone, but hey, I have to live with this and I'm proud of my body." And so, if you're actually natural, say so in a message. Say, you know, I'm 100% natural. These acne scars have with me for years. I don't know what to do. Can I get any help from anyone? Are there any doctors out there that could prescribe me something that perhaps you have some suggestions on what I can do to alleviate this problem? Because I know a lot of teenagers, a lot of people in their 20s and so on have a lot of acne problems. And so perhaps they can watch this guy and learn from him. Perhaps you can make it better. And so scars is the balls in your court. Do what you will with this. I mean, I suggest you go to the doctor if you're not natural. Stop. If you are natural, then perhaps ask in the comment sections for people to help you out. And one thing that you can take that's not going to cause you to get acne that can in fact help you build muscle is a juga turkistanica. This is what you want, not the other companies that sell you fake auga proven. I don't have time to go over it in detail. Turk Builder Max far exceeds label claims. And so if you want to use actual Jugga with a money back guarantee and on top of that a $20 gift card, you can use it riskfree. Head to the website code Greg 15% off. Also back in stock, we have Gest Platinum and Gest Max as well as GLPMAX. And so if you're looking to increase your testosterone levels or you're looking to decrease your appetite, you can get these supplements yet again on the website code Greg 15% off. Subscribe, click the bell button, comment to boost the out of them. Please like the video if you liked it. Don't forget to watch any of those two bloops. And also coaching plans by me and my team. Remember, you can apply to have coaching by Coach Greg. Apply by clicking the link in description. You can also get the cookbooks, training books, coaching plans by me. I just said that. And until next time, one in a million, I'm out.