I started to develop insomnia and fell into a pretty bad depression. But do you know what can cause depression? Taking steroids and then going off. Hoach Greg. And in today's video, and it's not clickbait, Zack Efron comes clean on what he took pies for Baywatch. It's long been speculated, we've done nattier knots on him in the past, that he was not natural for Baywatch, but he finally admits it. It was in Men's Health, very popular magazine. He outlines the dangers, the pressure to people are going to say, "Oh, he took a shortcut. He did it the easy way. Anyone could do it if they did what he did." No, the guy still has amazing genetics. He still worked harder than last time, and he is still suffering the ramifications of what he took to this day. And so it's been 5 years since his role as Baywatch. He's still suffering to this day and he's currently bulking up for his next role. He no longer wants to look shredded. Efron said he is currently bulking up for an undisclosed movie role. He is no longer interested in looking as muscly as he did for the 2017 film Baywatch. And so he's done with getting shredded. He does not believe that it's healthy, that anyone should strive for singledigit body fat. That Baywatch look, I don't know if that's really attainable. There's just too little water in the skin. It looks CGIed and that required Lasix. Lasix. He quite literally is saying he admits to taking a performance enhancing drug only available by prescription from a doctor. Lasix is a very powerful and dangerous diuretic often used by bodybuilders, powerlters, people trying to lose an extreme amount of weight in a short period of time. Bodybuilders in the past have literally died from taking this frozen up on stage. But that's what it took for him to get that chiseled, dry, strided look for the movie Baywatch. And so he says, "I don't need to do that. I'd much rather have two to three extra percentages of body fat. And so what Zach doesn't know is that diuretics don't lower your body fat percentage. They simply dry you out. They cause you to excrete more urine, which causes the body to be dehydrated, which allows the muscles to burst through the skin. Why do you think bodybuilders, those doing photooots and so on, use a peak week? They are trying to prime their bodies to look perfect on show day. When a bodybuilder sets foot on stage or a model gets a picture in a magazine, that is not how they look every single day. That is how they look after they are dehydrated, primed, doing the proper diet, everything to look perfect for 1 minute, 1 hour perhaps on stage. And so the desire for these shredded physiques appear to have started with Brad Pitt in the movie Fight Club. Brad Pitt, Zack Refron. Not huge, guys. Certainly not the size of an IFBB Pro Men's Physique competitor, but they look much bigger than they really are. The shreds combined with the pump, the lighting, and so on gets these guys looking like they're abusing tons of PDS. Aside from the diuretics, Efron also stuck to a diet consisting of organic protein and leafy greens and lots of working out. And so clearly the guy is overtraining. He's getting up to get that shredded physique that so many people want to have. I started to develop insomnia and fell into a pretty bad depression. But do you know what can cause depression? Taking steroids and then going off. You take steroids whether it's HRT or not. You train harder than last time. You develop insomnia. You're starving yourself. You're hardly eating. And you do the movie. And then you stop the steroids. It's done. No, the movie's over. Once you stop, your testosterone levels, which were through the roof, suddenly crash. And with that crash in testosterone, coupled with the fact that you're gaining weight, looking worse day by day, people making fun of you, saying, "Oh, where'd your body go? You got a dad bot." This happens to so many bodybuilders, fitness models, or just regular day-to-day people who take PDS and stop. Something about that experience burned me out. I had a really hard time reentering. And think of it, this is a multi-millionaire. Has access to the best resources, trainers, psychologists in the world. And it's 5 years later and he's still suffering from the ramifications of abusing PDs for a movie role. And with his new approach, which bans the extremes, doesn't need to use PDs, doesn't need to use diuretics, Efron now has a healthier and more sustainable physique. It's all about sustainability. Remember what I keep saying. Remember that dream physique? Halfway there. You're not getting it. Set realistic goals, realistic standards, something that you can maintain for the rest of your life. He's never going back. He likes that extra two to 3% body fat too much. Exactly. If you're striving to get too lean, we all have a predetermined genetic set point. Uh somewhere where our body fat should be. And if you get below that bottom end, you will suffer no matter who you are. And so any of you watching this dieting right now, if you don't have enough energy, you don't feel good, it's because you're trying too hard. Quite literally, you are doing too much. You have too few calories. You're training too hard, doing too much cardio. you're taking on too much because you're trying to achieve an unrealistic beauty standard for yourself. For most people, 15% body fat, that is about the ideal percent for your health. But not for everyone. Some people, they just don't have the genetics to get that lean. If you have more fat cells, increase ghrelin levels, you're more hungry, you can't function optimally at 15%. And so depending on your genetics, strive to be at a healthy body fat percentage, one you can maintain, feel good at, have pumps and energy in the gym, and just maintain it. And from there, you can maintain for the rest of your life. You don't need to bulk and cut. You can just be healthy, train harder than last time, get gains in the gym. And so Zaffron, he wanted to raise awareness of the long-term ramifications of that level of training had on him. If you diet and train to this extent to get that type of physique, your body is simply going to push back. It's not realistic. 99.9% of the population cannot look like Zack Efron without doing long-term damage to the body. Imagine being on a low calorie diet, not eating the foods you enjoy for months on end, doing grueling workouts while taking PDs and popping Lasix to shred the body of water to look ripped for your movie scenes. Imagine how dangerous that can be. Not only physically, but mentally, as Zach explains in this interview. And so it's the hopes of him doing this interview to come clean, so to speak, to warn other people, do not copy this. And yes, I do get it. We want to look great. We want to be proud of our physiques. We want to build confidence. But you don't need to be shredded to do so. It's not about being perfect. It's about being better than you are, about doing your best. Hope you enjoyed the video and in it here. Remember, looking for harder than last time supplements, also cookbooks, low calorie, delicious, high volume, high protein meals. Use code Greg, 10% off. Go to gregducet.com or hdltsups.com. Like the video if you liked it. Subscribe and then click that bell button to get notified. Comment for the algorithm. Don't forget to watch at least one of those bloops over there. And until next time, I am out.