 alrigh y'all, I made it through my first week of classes, and it was a lot, alright, it was a lot. And when I wanted to start this series and really just kind of documenting things again, to be honest, I'll probably do every two weeks, but as we all know, in the beginning of a new journey or a new goal or a new habit or new whatever, the beginning, like the first few weeks are so tough to like get into a groove and there's just like a lot of newness, right? There's a lot of new things in terms of changes to schedule, in terms of emotions, in terms of just things that are just changing. So I felt like, alright, this is the first week and I'm having a lot of these like feels, and I know how important it is to document this kind of stuff. But if you guys are like OG followers and you listened to the breast-og vlogs back in the day, nine years ago, you remember that I did a video like every week for the first month, and I know that like this is so different, right, than that, because that was like a surgery and like literally every day I felt like there was a new thing and just like a new feeling. So this is certainly very different, but I just know that in the beginning there was a lot, and so anyone who's also embarking on like a new journey or anyone who is maybe going back to school or thinking about it, I feel like this first month will be really, really key. So hi, if you're new here, I'm Lauren. I am going back to school to get my master's in clinical mental health counseling, and my life is very different than the last time I went and got my first master's degree in exercise science. So I am running a full-time business. I'm in a relationship. I have great just relationships in my life. I have a lot of things to balance and figure out as a 32-year-old with a home, and just life is just very different. So this series is just my attempt to document some of the things that I'm learning in school, and then also just some of the things that I'm learning on how to handle and navigate just when life is life-ing, and it's a lot. So these first few videos, I'm probably going to do a lot of just like sit-down recap type stuff like this, and there will definitely be times as the videos progress as I get like more into the semester, where I'll probably find something super relevant and valuable to share, you know, from class, right, and be able to hopefully share it on here, or different routines, you know, like morning routines, night routines, all of that that is really working for me. I'm still in the process of kind of sorting all of that out. So that's the first thing I wanted to touch on. If you guys listened to the last video, which I would encourage you to, you know, just kind of shameless plug, and really also just to see kind of like what this program is about and why I'm going back to school to become a therapist. But I go over, I created this like skeleton of a schedule, which is kind of what I'm calling it, and honestly, it made such a difference, like biggest like helpful thing that I did before school started, and I did this with the intention of, all right, I want to set up like just like a skeleton of a schedule, and I don't want to get all of that out every single thing detailed out because that is very overwhelming to me. But I know, okay, I'm going to wake up, I'm going to do this. These are the days that I have to be here at this time. And it was so valuable to me. And honestly, last week, outside of one day, because I had two appointments back to back that I normally wouldn't have, I was able to stick to my schedule and it was amazing. But like on that day, I didn't get upset at myself that I didn't, you know, do everything perfectly. It was just like, all right, this came up, this is like real life, and that's where it's going to work. I have obviously limited days that I can set, you know, appointments and things like that now, just like between my work schedule and my school schedule. So really, really happy that I did that. And even just like figuring out like the commute times and all that, like I pretty much nailed it, very proud of myself. I mean, I've gone to USF before, so this isn't like totally new, but going at this time, like just like all of that, right? So overall, first week was great. If you guys like I said, listen to that last video, that was, I filmed it the day before I started classes. So I only gone to orientation. So I really had no idea what I was walking into. And obviously, anybody who's fun to school, you will read the syllabi and you're like, hello, what is this? It was so overwhelming. And all the professors are honestly amazing. I am so grateful for just all of their knowledge and their expertise in so many just like different areas, which I really, really loved. Everybody also has a lot of experience outside of just teaching, which is really awesome that they can bring that experience into the classroom. So I'm just really excited to learn from such a wide like array of professors with like all these different backgrounds. And I made some friends in class. So that was great. Everybody is very like warm and welcoming and open, which makes sense for all in this program to become, you know, counselors and all the teachers themselves are, you know, counselors too. So it just makes sense that everybody is like like that, but it is just a very, very different than the other programs that I've been in. And it's a lot more interactive, which again, also makes sense. And I expected that, but it's just going to be very different than like previous classes I've been in for both my undergrad and my last graduate degree. So I'm excited to see like how that unfolds. I am like a little nervous. The one class skills and techniques, like we are already like going to be diving into doing like role plays and things like that, like which I guess I knew was going to happen soon. But part of me was like, oh, maybe that'll be next semester after we learn some more like theory. But they're like, nope, we're just going right into this. And which is very exciting, but also just a little bit nerve wracking. I'm not going to lie, I'm a little nervous. But thankfully I do have a lot of experience like speaking in front of people. So I'm not necessarily nervous like about that. It's more so just like remembering like, okay, what are some of the things that I should be doing, not be doing, and kind of like those checklists. And you know, there's other people who have come in, you know, some of the classes have like a teaching assistant. And then even during orientation, we had a few people come in who were previous graduates and they were like, it's very awkward when you're doing those things in the beginning. And like everybody feels that way, but you will get better. So I'm like, okay, okay, gonna feel awkward. Check already feel awkward. So just in life in general. So this will just be a little bit extra so I can handle it. But I am very excited for just kind of learning all of that. I will say the amount of reading is definitely going to be an adjustment. And y'all know like I love reading. I love, love, love reading. So my favorite thing. So I could just sit around and read. I'm so happy. I just love reading and learning and sharing information. Like it's just my favorite. But it is just a lot for four classes. And like reading is very different, obviously, than just reading and like synthesizing and processing things that like I'm going to be tested on and like have to reenact and do. So it's just different than me. Like I could of course just like go through it quickly. But I'm really trying to just like, okay, really read and synthesize and like understand as much as I can while I'm doing it. And that just is a different kind of reading, you know. So it is an adjustment in terms of the workload there with like the readings and the assignments and the writing and all of that. But I put everything, I think all properly into like my Google calendar so I can like very easily see like, all right, this week I have to do this and this and this. So it is, it is just going to be an adjustment and that also has been one of the biggest adjustments is figuring out like, okay, hey, gunna have to be like the boundary queen. Especially because I'm someone who notoriously always just like says yes to a lot of things because I love opportunities and I never want to turn down something and I definitely recognize that like have to say no in some instances and I'm very big on advocating that for a client. So this is not something that is like totally new for me, but I've just been in a place in my life where I can just say yes to really everything or I can just pick up and go somewhere. And I've had the ability to work, you know, virtually anywhere. And while you can still do this work, obviously not on the class times, but do my work virtually, it is just going to be a lot harder to do that because I have to be so diligent with my time. That like even, you know, thinking of things that I need to go do, right? Okay, that's a two hour drive. Like, all right, what could I do in that two hour drive that would like set me up? Like, I mean, it's like that's where I'm at. Like if I have to go somewhere, I have to start to factor in those things or like, okay, do I say no because those were a few hours that like I really need to like study or I had a quiz this weekend already. So like I had to like the first week, like had to do that. And that's what graduate programs are, but it's just like, I knew all this, but it just was still kind of like the realization of like, oh, okay, all the freedom that I had is not that it's gone, but it's going to be pretty minimal. And that's challenging because I'm in a place in my life right now that I have so many great friendships and I want to be able to do, you know, all the things that I normally do. And a lot of my friends are not in Tampa, so I do have to go travel and see them, which is fine. It's always historically been fine, but that takes time on both parties ends. And then most importantly, my relationship with Chris is long distance and that has been, you know, our norm for our entire relationship for the past year. It's been over a year. It's crazy. But that is just something that it's, you know, previously I could spend, you know, as much time as I wanted, as I wanted, but you know, like spend, hey, I come up for a week or do whatever. Now it's going to be a lot more difficult to do that and be like, all right, I can come for a weekend, you know, so, and even just like our talking times, you know, like us connecting at night. Usually when we're FaceTiming and stuff and I'm taking nighttime classes. So there's a big learning curve with everything we made at work. Fantastic last week and he's very, very understanding of all this. So it's been great. But yeah, there's just a lot of changes kind of on that end in terms of like my schedule. And I just, I have to be super, super diligent with my time because otherwise there is just entirely too many things for me to do right now between my coaching clients between relaunching my mentorship program and then also schoolwork and just a few other things that I've already committed to. That I was like, yeah, of course I can do that. Huh, why did I do that? But I did it and I do not back out on commitments. It's just not who I am. So going to make it work. Going to figure it out. But September is about to be a busy month. But I do love it. I already feel so much better being this like dialed in and over the summer I had so much travel, which was amazing. But I had a lot of travel and had quite a bit of international travel. So I spoke in Australia at the end of April. I spoke in Singapore in June and then I went with my family to Ireland in July. So literally like those three international trips, just like the travel, the time zone changes alone totally kicked my ass. And then I got super sick at the, was it the end? I mean, it was like the beginning of August. I was sick for almost two weeks. It was brutal. So I feel like I have just been like very off of a schedule for like quite some time. And I also knew I gave myself some grace like, okay, the last week before classes started, I was like, yeah, I'm going to sleep in. Like it's okay because I'm not going to be able to do that moving forward. And I am certainly not. But it's also been great because I wake up and I have so much purpose and I'm like, all right, got to get up. I have my morning routine to do. Got to do this, this and this. So it's, you know, there's pros and cons to everything in life. And I'm just in the season of going to be focused, going to be dialed in. And there's some really great things that are going to come from that. So lots of emotions though this week. I'm not going to lie. I'm feeling pretty put together right now as I'm doing this video, but not going to lie. There have been lots of ups and downs over the whole week. And you know, some days where I'm like, oh my gosh, I am so overwhelmed. How the fuck am I going to do all of this? Like, I don't know. Um, you know, am I capable really, you know, but as soon as those thoughts come up, I'm like, I squashed that. And I'm like, no, like you are. That's why you're in this. That's why you were called to do this. You have all the skills to accomplish this. You just have to like be diligent, be organized and really be like open to learning. So I know that I'm doing the right thing. It's just, it's just a lot. And I think that's one thing too that I want to end the video on where a lot of times in general, and this is something I talk with clients about all the time is just, you know, we want to kind of erase anxiety or erase negative emotions. And that's just not possible. Right. What we can do though, because especially if we have anxiety around like a big situation that like we cannot change, whether it's real or this like future predicted thing or whatever it might be, we can control. Okay. How are my daily actions setting me up for success or not? Right. Like what are some things that I can do that are in my control that can put me in a better position and what are some things that I can take away that are not putting me in a good position. So that's what I'm really trying to focus on and really ground myself and center myself with all of that. So just wanted to give a one week in update as things kind of progress with school. I cannot wait to share more stuff in terms of like what I'm learning and then also just like in general, as I get into this routine, I want to give it like a few weeks of like, okay, how, how is my morning routine like looking? Is that something that is, you know, replicatable, et cetera, et cetera. Yes, here's what I'm doing for my nighttime routine. Also, we dress business casual for this program. So while I'm certainly not getting like dressed to the nines, it is also like a change for me. So, you know, just like dressing business casual for like, you know, meadhead self, me who's always in like athlete leader, definitely different. But yeah, lots of exciting things to come and I'm very appreciative for anybody who has listened to the first video and also this video. We're back on this channel. And if you guys have any recommendations for me in terms of topics you would like me to cover, please drop those in the comments. And if you have any way that you have ever read and studied and like process and synthesize information quicker, also let me know that. All right, guys, this is still can't close out the video. Oh, maybe one day, maybe by the end of this, I'll learn how to do that. But today is not that day.