 rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests rests we manage it if we've already started. So first and foremost, I am not a clinical psychologist, um, or an eating disorder specialist. Um, I have had an eating disorder growing up. Um, I had, I was anorexic for many years. Um, and because of that, I do not like to throw around words like, you know, anorexic or bulimia or, you know, things like that. Um, or even like, you know, depression and anxiety without, you know, it's a very serious conversation, right? So you may not necessarily have binge eating disorder truly, but you may have binge tendencies after the show. I would say that almost every single person probably falls into the binge tendency category after a show, not everybody, but most. Um, and then some people of course will develop a true binge eating disorder. Um, and then possibly even like a, you know, binge purge cycle. So because of that, um, I will probably say like binge tendencies instead of like binge eating disorder. Um, and I'm just very cognizant of that and my understanding of it and like what people truly go through when they struggle with like a real true eating disorder. And it happens for like years and years and years. So, but with that, I love, I'm just like real stuttering over here. Um, maybe I need some more coffee. No, I'm actually good. Um, this, this video is just very important. So I'm getting a little like a little nervous. Um, cause I want to make sure that I do a good job at it. Just being honest. Um, and most people probably would edit this out, but I'm not going to edit these because I'm lazy and, um, that's just the truth. Anyways. Okay. Take 87. Binging after your show, overeating after your show. It happens to a lot of us. Um, and that is just because basically you have dieted for a very long time and gotten to a very low body fat level to where your body most likely does not want to be. Now I have a theory that people who are naturally leaner than others don't experience this as much because they don't have to necessarily either lose as much weight or it's not as challenging for them to get super lean. Like there are people that you can talk to who like, you are like crushing and they're very lean and they're like, yeah, I'm good. And they're not like lying saying like, I'm fine. Like they're actually like pretty okay. And then there's some people who struggle like really, really hard to lose like 10 pounds. And a lot of that I do think has to do with kind of our just like body fat settling points that like everybody has. Um, and that's just the reality of genetics. Doesn't mean that you can't get lean for this day. It just means that it might be a lot harder for you. And afterwards you might deal with these kinds of side effects more so than maybe others. Um, and then of course, couple that with like, if you're like a foodie, like me, then you want to eat all the things just because you want to eat all the things on top of your brain screaming at YouTube, eat all the things. Um, because you've now gotten to a super low body fat level to where your body was basically like, Hey, like, are you okay? Like we're kind of concerned. Like if this was like, you know, back in the day, uh, you know, a few hundred million years ago, like you would be dying. Um, and your body is basically telling you like, Hey, like you're slowly dying. Like we need you to go eat food. Um, so when you understand like biology and how bodies work, that makes a lot of sense. Right. Um, so you have all these things going on, right? Like you have the stimulation of the show. You have the, like, it's over. I can finally eat this. You have like friends and family who are very well, well meaning who like want to, cause basically all prep, you like talked about like all the things that you wanted to eat and the places that you wanted to go. And then you told this to people and they were like, let's go do it all like right now. And they're totally fine to do it because like they've not been dieting for that whole time. Um, so them having like a free meal or two, like really isn't going to do much to them. But then if you have all these meals back to back to back to back, that can really add up. Um, and then what ends up happening, generally speaking, so, so say like you do go out, right? Like after your show, um, like this is just kind of like the classic scenario. Like you go out after your show, um, you maybe have some, you know, high calorie stuff, whatever next day you maybe go out to have a few meals. Okay. You're good. But then what the problem start to happen is not necessarily just like the overeating. It's the like overeating by yourself and like feeling like you can't stop and like feeling like you don't have control and then saying bucket and keep going. That's when the problem is. Right. Um, and that's what I would call it the binge eating tendencies after the show. And, um, I've been there like, I mean, I can't like almost every single time after a show. Um, and you know, after this set of shows, I, I knew shit was going to get real. Um, because I had been dieting for so long and I already had a little bit of a taste of that after, um, after a show I did in Omaha, I had like a week, um, cause I had eight weeks in between Omaha and Tampa. So I had, um, and then that week I was traveling to, um, Chicago for junior nationals. And if anybody's been to Chicago, it's like super foodie heaven. Um, so on top of being like, well, I have time and feeling run down and then having a few free meals and then having like, well, let me just keep eating like those kinds of things. It can get really out of hand really quick. And then, so I knew that after this set of shows, it was going to be really, really challenging. Um, and I've basically the best way that I found, and I'm not going to be under any delusion and tell people that I have not overeaten. Um, there have been times where I've, I've felt that pull of like, I can't stop. I just need to eat this because I can, I can finally eat it. And then, but I don't want to do it tomorrow because I want to start fresh tomorrow. So let me just eat. That's happened. Um, but I would say that there's been no like huge blowout binges, which has been really good. Um, and generally speaking, like I would just have like maybe a few things and then I'm okay, like stop. Like you need to stop. Now the calories were still happened. Like no matter how, how much of a better place it is mentally, like the calories were still there. So it's not like I didn't eat them. Um, and I've been like perfect on my plan, but it's been drastically better than previous years. Um, and I would say that the biggest thing is just me being like open and honest with myself and other people. Um, normally what happens when you overeat or you have a kind of like, you know, a binge or whatever, you're usually not going to do that with other people. Like you might like kind of eat a lot with like a friend or something, but like I'm talking about like the, like, I hate myself. I can't stop eating things. That's usually by yourself. Right. And you're probably going to hide that from people. Cause nobody wants to like to be around people doing that. Like, you're not like, yeah, I want to be really shameful. And like, I want to be out of control totally. And just like eat this all in front of you. Like, no, like that's going to be by yourself. And this can be something to hide. Um, and for me, what I found was that first of all, I had to be honest with myself. Like, why am I doing this? Right. Like, why do I consistently put myself in these bad positions? Right. Like everything's going really good. I had an awesome diet. Now I'm going to try to set up for a successful offseason. Why do I fuck this up? Right. And you have to have that uncomfortable talk with yourself. And for me, it really stems down to like, when things are going good, I like to make them harder on myself. Um, because deep down I am not happy with myself or what I've accomplished or what I'm doing. Um, and that's something internally that I need to work on. And that can present in a bunch of different ways. Um, as far as like business stuff, like that usually presents and like being overwhelmed and like anxiety and like feeling like I'm just like a fucking failure. Um, and then with like a show like afterwards, because like everything's super heightened with food, it can happen. It can present itself through, you know, like food. Um, and just like using that, um, as the way to make it harder on myself. Cause that's the one thing that I'm trying to be on top of, but I just, you know, kind of sabotage myself because I'm unhappy with myself. So nobody wants to like have that conversation with themselves. Like, Hey, I, I think I'm a piece of shit. This is why I like, no, that's not fun, but you have to sit down and say, why am I doing this? Why am I putting myself in these situations? Um, and that's how the only way you're going to be able to correct them. And then having a support system that you can communicate this with is so key. Um, so for me this year, I really, you know, again, wanting to hide and like not talk about it. That's normal. Um, and, but instead I've really tried to bring Ryan and cliff in on the conversation and just be honest with them. Um, and that's also hard because, um, you know, obviously Ryan's my, you know, boyfriend, significant mother, and you don't want to talk about that with them somehow, you know, cause you're just like, like, first of all, like he's a guy, you can get it. He's like, well, just, why don't you stop eating? And you're like, it's not that easy. Like if it was, then I would just stop. Obviously. Um, usually men don't understand the emotional side of food as well as women do. Um, but just in general, like that's just kind of like something that you just like, I generally don't want to talk to him about. Um, but I've tried to force myself to, because I know that he, you know, we live together and you know, like he wants like the best for me. Um, same thing with cliff. Like I feel like almost like I'm letting him down as a client if I'm not a hundred percent perfect, um, which is why I would want to, that would be why I would want to avoid having that conversation. Like, yeah, things are pretty good. I was like, maybe like a little bit off, but like, uh, no, like now I'm trying to like, actually like, Hey, pros are this week, cons are this week. This is how things have gone. Like, and just be really open and have like a conversation about like these kinds of things. Um, and that I think has really, really helped me a lot so far. And like I said, by no means that I've been perfect these past, you know, two weeks. Um, but it is better than it's been previously. And all I can do is be better than I have been previously. Um, and you know, other off seasons, I've just gone completely, like, I don't want to prep food. I don't want to like look at my scale, like fucking number, like macros, like whatever. And you know, this time I'm, I'm doing a lot better as far as like having, you know, most of my meals and then pretty much just having like, if I like something else a little bit over that. Um, but not like so balls to the wall, like the heroes prep. And then here is just like doing whatever the fuck you want. Um, I'm not over here. Um, again, kind of like all the other videos, kind of like somewhere in the middle, right? Like you have to have some kind of like everything in life is like chaos and order. Like Jordan Peterson, that shit, um, chaos. It's all about balancing the chaos and order. And you have to have both in your life, but you have to know how to live with it, like harmony of both of them. Once you've had the taste of like good food again, you're just like, fuck this meal prep shit. Um, and it can be like, really don't want that. So I do think that having some more like treat stuff within your day is going to be helpful so that you don't totally fall off the wagon, but you also don't want to have too much of that. And like exclusively that, because that can really be easy to just like end up overeating and like then just binging. Cause you're like, well, I've already eaten so much of this. I might as well. That's kind of what happened to me with some stuff. I was like, yeah, I'll just fit it in. Like, it'd be like good. And then you're like, well, I'm already started eating this. Like might as well just keep beating it. And you're like, God damn it. Why am I like this? That's what happened with nuts and more this week. Don't buy that shit. If you do not have fat macros or the, um, you know, with control, cause that shit is so good. Um, but again, I didn't eat the jar in one day, right? Which I could definitely do that easily. Um, I had it most, I had it every day and I probably had maybe a little bit like extra than I had like accounted for, but it was better than just like sitting down with one jar and like eating it, which I've done that too. Not with nuts and more, but just in general. So there's really no right or wrong. Like any of this post show stuff that I've talked about. Um, there's been so many things that I've covered. I know. Um, and there really is no right or wrong way. You guys, it's all about what works for you. And at the end of the day, you have to balance the chaos and the order within your life and within your crazy post competition brain. Um, but no matter what it is, have a plan, the plan can change, but sitting down and having some sort of plan for your week, you know, the first few weeks afterwards is going to be really, really helpful to have somebody that you can talk to, whether it's a coach, mentor, significant other family, friend, other competitor, whatever it is, somebody that you can open up and talk to three, be honest with yourself and have those conversations that we don't want to have with ourselves. Um, that is going to be the only way that you're going to be able to handle all these changes. And if you're just like feeling a lot of like feels and stuff, write it down, you know, just journal it out. Like just get it out. Um, you know, what did I do wrong? What did I do right? What can I do better? You know, all these things, like, what am I struggling with? How do I, you know, avoid that? Like, how do I set up my environment better? Like having these conversations with yourself and then other people, but first it has to start with you taking personal responsibility for it. Um, and knowing that you can only be better than your last offseason or your last post show period. Um, and there really is no right or wrong way to do it. And you just have to figure out what works for you in your context, in your life. So this wraps up the post competition series. Thank you guys so, so much for tuning in. This was really fun. Um, and I wanted to do it as it was fresh in my brain and I get so many questions cause I know in like a few weeks I'm going to like completely, not completely forget about all this, but it's just not as like, it doesn't hit as home. It doesn't hit home as hard. Right. Um, cause in a few weeks I'll be like way more normal. Um, so thank you guys again for tuning in and I promise to be back on the YouTube train. It's going to be videos just like this, no vlogs. Sorry. I know a lot of people asking for vlogs, but for right now it's not happening. So thank you guys so much for tuning in. Have a great day and I'll catch y'all next time.