 Hey y'all! Alright, we're back with part 2 of our series, and this one is, I want to talk about how high protein can be beneficial in the off-season, or higher protein. So, recently, one of the more recent studies that we've done in the lab, looked at this exact relationship, so explain the design. The design. So, we recruited aspiring female physique athletes only. So, these females had either participated in a physique competition, or had a desire to do so within the next year. We recruited them all in the off-season, so they weren't dieting, and we basically said, we're going to randomly assign you to one of two groups. One group was given a high amount of protein. The other group was given a low amount of protein. It was at least 2.4 grams of protein per kilogram of body mass in the high group. And the low group got no more than 1.2 grams. So, as you can see here, there was a big difference in protein intake between these groups. The only difference between the two groups was, one group ate a lot of protein, one group did not eat a lot of protein. As an example, I'm rounding here, but a 125 pound female would have gotten about 145 grams of protein per day, something like that. Yeah, it's about 1.2. I'm trying to do the math real quick. I was trying to be all slick about that, and I'm trying to do the math. It's a little over. It's about 1.1. Yeah, about 1.1. 1.1 grams per pound. Per pound, yes. And then it was .55. .55 for the lower end. For all of the stupid Americans who can't do the metric system. And we had them, so they did that. They tracked their macros every day for eight-week period. We had them resistance train four days per week in our lab. Every single set, every single rep was supervised. Lauren actually designed the workouts. We had, basically, a two-day upper body, two-day of lower body. And either had a figure or bikini split, depending on which one you wanted. Yes. I mean, they were mostly the same, but the figure had bench pressing, whereas the bikini didn't. They had a shoulder overhead press substitute. Overhead press substitute. Yeah, they had an overhead press variation, and then the figure had benching. And then the figure was just more of an overall balanced look, a little bit more back training, a little bit more quad training, whereas bikini was, understandably, a little bit more shoulder, glutes, hamstrings. But it was a very well-balanced program, for the most part, for both. So what we did was, for eight weeks, we followed them, watched them work out. Before the study and after the study, we measured their metabolic rate and their body composition. So we looked at how much fat did they gain or lose, how much muscle mass did they gain or lose. And we actually had intended this study to go on a following semester, but the results were so profound, we stopped the study. Yes. Because the high protein group gained significantly more muscle mass than the lower protein group. They gained four and a half, on average, four and a half pounds of muscle in eight weeks. The lower protein group only gained one and a half pounds of muscle. And one other thing that I just looked at, there were nine... Great damn impressive. ...nine subjects in the... No, eight subjects in the high protein group. Every single subject, I don't think you know this, but every single subject gained muscle mass in the high protein group. In the lower protein group, three out of the nine actually lost muscle mass over the eight week training. So interesting. How many people were there in? Uh, 17. I mean, we, we recruited about, well, here's another thing. We recruited about 40, about 28. Go see our previous video for why we're being, being like this. But yeah, you recruit 40 to finish with, uh... Half of that, practically. Um, but yeah, some weren't strong enough to get into this study. Other ones couldn't handle the high or low protein. Um, some just dropped out because they couldn't attend that many training sessions. But yeah, it was 17 subjects that finished that we analyzed. And it's... Every single person in the higher protein group... Gained muscle mass. And only a... There was a, there was a 33% chance when you're eating 0.55 grams of protein per kilogram per pound of body mass, that you would lose muscle mass. Even though you're weight training four days per week. The other really interesting thing about the study was the high protein group actually ingested a couple hundred calories more every day. Wasn't it, you know the exact number. It was 420, I think. Yeah, it was like 420, 38 or... Yeah. It was... We're so nerdy, we totally... It was 423.5. Let's just say, hundreds of more calories every single day. Now, all in the form of protein. Yeah. And they didn't gain... And these were people who sent in your diet logs every week. Like, they checked in basically every week, um, sent in diet logs. So it wasn't just like, oh, I think I ate this much. Like, these were people who were dedicated. They had training too on how to track, right? Wasn't that... They all had a personalized nutrition coach. And what they turned in was their macros every single day. So it's not like they... Like, even for my study, we didn't have that... It wasn't that sophisticated, you know? Like, so we were going on a lot more, like, hope and faith, um, and three-day diet logs. Whereas this was every single day and they had some more coaching on it. The reason we had less coaching on mine was because it would have made one group more biased than the other because mine was meal plan versus macro. But because this was all macro, you could coach people as they needed. Some people knew what they were. Some people didn't. And then it kind of worked out that way. But yeah, I remember that, like, 400 extra calories. Now, the only, I guess, criticism we have, um, that we've talked about is the, um, it was in the off-season. Yes. So, um, but this is really interesting. So can this apply to prep? We're not sure. We'll have to do a study. Um, but I do think it has profound effects for the off-season. Um, and even if there was an error, you know, with the machines picking up, you know, cause you can never know if it's 100% certain, right? Like, obviously. But that's still... Yeah, that's why you have 17 subjects. Exactly. That's why you have all the subjects and the four and a half pounds was the average. It wasn't just like one person. It was a bunch of people. So it could have been wrong that many times, but I think there's definitely some kind of trend there that we can't overlook. That's for certain. And when you say, would this apply to a dieting population, what we can borrow from is the obese, the obese population studies where we know that higher protein in an obese population maintains lean body mass. We just, we don't, there's no study yet. So it only makes sense that it would help. Um, as far as the additional calories, that's kind of where I would question. Um, as far as the, it would have to be 400 extra calories, but if there are extra calories, should you delegate those to protein or other macronutrients? But again, those are, we don't know. Those are the nuances, but in any case in the offseason, you're typically looking to add more muscle mass. So, uh, an easy way to do that is to eat a little bit more protein and, uh, to train hard. So I think that that, I mean, that was such a cool study. I remember when you, I think you like called me and you told me this stuff. Like I was just like blown away. Oh, I was, I was excited. We were super excited. I was more excited that we didn't have to continue the study. We didn't have to do another round of recruitment. Um, I remember you have to do that if, um, if there's not enough power. So usually the way you have power in studies is from the amount of subjects. Yes. Yep. I'm saying my stats, right? My little easy, easy stats that I know. Yeah. The more subjects, the better the design. Yes. Cause you, you, if you don't have enough subjects and you say there was no. It's hard to pick up a result. Yes. And you say there's no significant differences. Usually it's just because there weren't enough people. So that's why some bad scientists like we've talked about, well, um, what's that called? Bootstrapping or whatever was that weird word? Yeah. Was that really awkward word where they're like, oh, well, if there was a hundred more people, it would have shown this. Well, you don't know. They're like. Yeah. Is that what it's called? Bootstrapping. I think that's the term that, yeah. That basically says let's multiply these three subjects and let's pretend they were 3,000 subjects. Yeah. It's like, okay, you can't, you can't really do that. But yeah, the problem with that is the same variability is carried across the 3,000. I would say just do the work and recruit more subjects. Yeah. So don't bootstrap if you're listening. Um, but yeah, so that's a really cool practical applications. Um, if you're looking to gain muscling offseason, as most of us are, it can't hurt to eat a little bit more protein. Uh, specifically in this research design, it was 2.4 grams per kilogram or 1.1 grams per pound, which actually I found is like a sweet spot. Most clients that have around one to 1.2 grams per pound I've found is kind of a good place for satiety also, as well as muscle building. So take that into consideration. Um, that's not published yet, right? No, we, I actually have Brad Schoenfeld helping me write that up. Okay. So you know, it's going to be good. We are close. Um, probably next week. I'm anticipating that we submit it to the, uh, to the journal that we're, that we're targeting for publication. So that'll mean probably a few months, a few weeks that'll be out. It could mean a few months or it could mean about a year. Yeah. Depends on the review process. Depends on the reviewers. Yes. Uh, but in any case that will be out at some point soon-ish. Uh, everything in science takes a lot longer than you think it should. Uh, so, but I'll definitely let you guys know as soon as that's out and, um, you guys can read it then hopefully. Thank you so much for watching, uh, part two. If you haven't watched part one, definitely go check that out. We talk about why no study is perfect. Uh, and then definitely tune in for part three as well. All right. Thank you.