 welcome back to another episode of the Loco Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and today I'm joined by my friend, Josie Hamming. Hi. Hank. She's giving peace signs to the camera because she keeps looking at the camera. Okay, it was one time. One time? But I'm done now? You're done now? Yeah, just had to... Okay. Had to do it once. Okay. Well, anyways, I'm super happy we did this. I know, I'm excited. We were like, let's just get some coffee and then we'll podcast, and we were literally talking for like... Yeah, whoops, wasted all your time. Like an hour and a half, and we were like, oh fuck, we actually need to go podcast. So... Yeah, how do we take everything we talked about for the last two hours and just shorten it into this podcast? I almost said disintegrate it instead of... Dissect? No. There's a word that should be there. No, it's not disintegrate. Or dissect. Yeah, the others are the D. I know, I gave you a new option to do it. I thought maybe it might spark the other word. Okay, so Jose Hamhawk... Dude, spark on. They asked for my name anywhere I go to eat. I give them Josie, they call out Jose. I'm just wondering how people miss the eye. Because then if I, at Starbucks, I get my drink and it's spelled correctly. Yeah. Yeah. J-O-S-I-E. And yet they call out Jose. I'm like... That's me again. That's me. Look around, yep, I'm the only one in here. Awesome. I get Laura all the time and it bothers me so much because I've never introduced myself as Laura once. Well... Once. Makes sense. Because it's not my name. It's not your name. Not my name. And I get it, like I spelled my name weird. I get that. I start to be able to spell my name right. But Laura? And there's something against Laura's. But then I've talked to... It's really an enunciate to N. I'm like, Laura-N? Yeah. Lauren. So you'll laugh at me. So we were making a video of me and Sam. It's on my TikTok, shameless plug. Just kidding, there's like five videos on there. That's her handle with the handle. It's just my name. So Laura... Well now you know her name. So we were doing like a review. And like, have you ever had the like caramel creams? That's like a candy your grandma would have. I mean, is it hard? Or you said caramel cream and now I'm wondering if it's like taffy? It's like... Like the Werther's? No. Okay. No, it's like soft caramel with like cream on the inside. This is not even worse and worse. Okay, so anyways, I was like, oh, I love these. And I was like, I love circus peanuts. This is getting better. I guess I said it really quickly. So it sounded like circus penis, obviously. And then Sam just like stops and we're videoing this and she just stares at me. And she's like, you really need to enunciate peanuts. Peanut. I was like, maybe I just speak incorrectly. Like is this a myth? You're starting to think it's me. Maybe people just need to listen better. Yeah, there we go. It's not a you thing. It's never me. Never. I'm taking, I'm untaking ownership. Yeah. All right, well, we're four minutes in. Oh. And hey, hey, so classic of us. So just ramble about nothing. I'm literally crying. Okay. I love it though. Honestly, this is my least favorite question or like a little bit. I know, I know. It's like what people do. Give me a little, a little hit. Well, where'd you grow up? Jose. I was born and raised in Michigan. Then I moved to Florida when I was 20, lived there until 26 and now moved up and moved to Tennessee. Hey, had to get out after you're in Florida for a while. I mean, I know you're still there. I know. Um, if you don't go to the beach and you don't drink and you want to be outside, it's really flat and it's hot. All it's hot as balls here too. You're not wrong. But there are stops what you do at least Hills, mountains, different sorts of foliage. You know, there are and new, new faces, new people. So yeah, now I've been here for a couple months and work from home. Do you like brand development, social media stuff? Because I had been competing in CrossFit for years and then COVID happened. Everything was kind of shutting down. I got injured. Had all these things happen at once. And I was like, this is just the sign to take a break. And also just like the longevity of it. I was like, this feels selfish of me to like continue to put so much time and effort into this sport when like my passion lies in helping other people. And so it's just like not fulfilling that side of me. It's like, I got to change things up. So how did you get into CrossFit first? Um, did you play sports growing up? Yeah. I was like, I was doing a lot of football, like in school and like a travel team. And loved it. Wanted to go to school and play in college and then just became too much. My dad was pushing it and he wrote up a contract. And in the contract, it did say that I had to do CrossFit on top of my other training. At least three times a week because he was doing CrossFit and he loved it. And he was like, this is going to be really beneficial. And I'm like, I get it. But also I am 16. So I'm now like doing softball training four days of the week and then CrossFit three days out of the week. And then I just said, I'm not going to play softball anymore. And I just dove head first and CrossFit loved it. So he was right. I did like it. But you're like, thanks. Totally threw in the towel with softball. But I'm honestly really thankful that I did because CrossFit saved my life. I hate saying that because I feel like that's so cliche for people to say who do CrossFit. But like when I started, I was not in a good place. 16 reckless drinking drugs, smoking cigarettes. Not proud, not proud. It was just like a weird time to be alive. And then I started CrossFit and I was like, okay, I can't keep doing all these things and be an athlete. But you could do that with softball, a problem? Yeah, I mean, I feel like it didn't hinder it as much. I mean, I would show up to games like hungover as a teenager. As a teenager, you can kind of get away with it, but also like, still not great. And it wasn't affecting your performance. Yeah. But with CrossFit, you felt that. With CrossFit, yeah, I was just like, you just learned so much about yourself and you like want to be better. And so slowly, but surely I just like started making little changes and then started competing honestly like a year into it. Went to regionals with a team. And then when I moved to Florida, I went to one gym, didn't really vibe there. You got to find your right community, find your people. So I went to this other gym because they had a lot of competitors and just kept training. Like went to regionals with them a couple of times and I just love it. I don't know one specific thing that I love. I just love the community aspect, the way it challenges you, the way you have to show up every day and push yourself to reach new limits. Instead of just like settling for like, this is good enough. It's like you're always chasing the next thing. Did you do the team competitions or was it just so low self? I did team until I think it was 2019 because a lot of the CrossFit stuff was changing and the people I was competing with decided they weren't going to compete anymore. And I was like, well, I still want to do this. I'm like, I'm here to compete. So you do your thing, I'll do mine. And then I went solo, excuse me, sorry. I went the individual route, which like is a very different competition. It was fun. Like your weaknesses stand out a lot more. So you learn so much more about you as an athlete, but also your strengths are able to shine through like in those moments. So yeah, with the team CrossFit, I feel like that's so different because it's not just about it's like any team sport, right? It's not just about you. It's about your team. So I feel like that creates a different sense of community as well. But like anybody I talk to who does CrossFit, even if they do it casually and like don't compete, they all say like the community and the gym. If you found the right gym, they all love that. And I've never done CrossFit. Yeah, it's like a immediate friends. It's so cool. Especially like now that I've been in more of a traditional gym for the last year, year. Yeah, year. So different. It's so different. So different. Even if you have a training partner. Yeah. Traditional like just weightlifting, bodybuilding is so the training for physique is very different. So I've done almost everything. Well, not almost everything, but I've done a lot of things like Ben. Done it all. I've done it all. Retiring, throwing in the towel, seen it, done it. Got a lot of t-shirts. They were really shitty through the mall way. They need to stop printing t-shirts for swag bags. Just don't hand me swag bags. Or just swag bags. Yeah, just like literally don't hand me anything. Don't even look at me. Shake my hand. Thank you. So like powerlifting, right? If you are at the powerlifting gym or even just training like typically people who do powerlifting have like a little community and that is so different, right? And then Jiu Jitsu obviously is a very weird and intimate sport, but you like immediately become friends because it's like hey, I'm going to kill you. I'm going to straddle you right now. I'm going to sit on your chest and then you're going to choke me. Day one. With like cotton pajama. It's very strange. And her sweat's going to be in my mouth. In my mouth. I'm very close with everybody at our gym, clearly. Everyone has good hygiene. Not everyone. It's really fun. I have developed, like I was always super hygienic, but I've like developed even weirder obsessive tendencies. You're covered in other people's sweat. Yeah, it's kind of an issue. But I literally have to shower multiple times a day, even if I don't train Jiu Jitsu. That sense of like, I love training Jiu Jitsu, but it's really not convenient for my life. So I haven't really been training that much. Like in that way. Just like the time. Yeah, you can't obviously can't do it whenever you want. You know, you have to go to a class. Whereas I was so used to bodybuilding, like, I mean, you can just go to the gym whenever you want by yourself. I typically am not somebody who ever, I have had training partners over the years, but I always kind of gravitated towards training solo. I don't know. I just do. But when you train Jiu Jitsu, like you can't just have also one person, right? There has to be multiple people. Right. And then at least with our school, like it's a smaller school. So the times aren't really convenient. They're like a lot later. So like I have an early flight or like something going on. I can't really go train, but like the only like I miss our like group, you know, and I still hang out with a lot of the friends outside of it. A lot of us go to the range and stuff together too. So like we still do like just more violence. So it's just kind of a, you know, violent community. I love it. But everybody's great. So it's like, I get that whole thing where you're like, I want to show up not just for me, but like for my people. Yeah. I have like people relying on you and like holding you accountable and like you do your shit and then you can like kind of hang out and talk and like, how's that? It's cool because at a CrossFit gym, you can show up and people will just hop in a workout. You know, like sometimes it's a class program one or sometimes people do their own programming, but like everyone knows the movements and they're all scalable. So it's like, if you don't want to work out by yourself because you don't maybe push as hard on your own, you can just jump in. And I think that's so cool because everyone knows the drill. You know, like at a traditional gym, people want to work out. They don't know the drill. They don't know the drill. I was like, hey, lots of talking, lots of resting. Let's lift. Like we can chat, but also like we're on the clock. You know what I mean? People, it's just different. And I guess that's also just been ingrained in my brain that like, hey, we're on intervals right now. So control your breathing in 10 minutes when these intervals are done. Oh, we got all the time in the world. Like just wait. And that's what's so interesting to me about CrossFit is like, it'll be like this crazy workout, but it's like 15 minutes. And then it's like done. Whereas like if you're like a bodybuilder, you could be at the gym for two hours. And that, I mean, you have to do that for like there's, it's just a different way of training because you're trying to get a different type of stimulus. So you can't do that type of training in that time. It just doesn't work. I mean, like the second I started doing programming from my coach, it was like two hours twice a day, four or five times a week. And so at that time, like that's a job. You know, like I was also working at the gym at that time. But yeah, it's. But to be a high level CrossFit athlete, you have to train like that. I don't think anybody like you literally have no choice. If you want to make a run for it in the competition world, gotta just put in the time. Was that your goal to like what the games is so that I'm really stupid right now. But no, it's fine. When I was competing on a team, it was my goal. It honestly makes me a little nervous to think about going there as an individual and also like not that I couldn't do it and I would. But where I always like kind of held myself back was you have to give up everything. Like there's a big sacrifice when you want to go from competing at like they're called different things now, but like regionals or their sanctioned events is one thing. But to go to the games, you're on a strict schedule like your eat, sleep, train, repeat, no traveling, no like extracurriculars. I mean you can, but it's like to a certain degree, you know, and I just kept finding myself like wanting to go on vacations, but it was always revolved around like where's the closest gym. And then you'd like are in a new place just working out, you know, and I was just like, then is that really like what I want to do. Like I love working out and I love working hard and the competition aspect is really fine. Like the CrossFit Games just happened and I watched it all weekend and I was like, you know, like it just found that spark that I've been waiting for for quite some time. Then battling some injuries so all good. But yeah, it's it was just something that I was like, you work all year to like plan these competitions and if you don't have a team or at least one person to help you, it's really overwhelming. Like it's expensive to book these hotels if you don't have sponsors or all of the logistics of competing for like a three day comp. You have to get there earlier. Just like, yeah, it's just a different level right like when you want to, I think at some point, once you're good enough, you can't just casually do it right like when when you just get. Yeah, like when you just got started, you know, okay, hey, not a big deal. But now that you've gotten to a certain level, it's like me with bodybuilding. I did that for eight years. I did it at the highest level. And I wouldn't I wouldn't just be like, well, let me like maybe die. Like, no, I've done 23 shows. Yeah, like I'm going to do my absolute best, right, which means giving up a lot and that's part of that's part of it. Yeah. And it's not something that's like a bad or like a negative, but you have to be willing to accept all of those parts. Not just when you watch the games and you're like, that looks great. Right. Right. Or like, you can watch a show and be like, oh my God, that looks so cool. Or like you think that's a big misconception is like people want to just show up and work out. You can do that. But people forget that those athletes competing there are going home recovering, like rolling out stretching, going to yoga or massages, drinking enough water. Their diets are on point. They're sleeping enough. Like they're doing all the things right. And that's what it takes. And I did that for a while, but life things just kept happening. And I was just like, I maybe just need some time. And then you get up for a while and you're like, I don't know if I could ever go back to training for two hours, dude. Like, it's so it's so great. It's just such a different life when you're in it. It's your normal. When you come out of it, it's just like, oh, there's no way. It's just like when you go to school. Like you have to slowly build back up. Like everybody says, like once you grab, like if you want to continue to pursue higher education, like you have to continue to go. Because like once you like take a break, like a lot of people try and take a break between the masters and PhD. And that like lull period for a lot of people, not everybody, but for a lot of people. Like once you got out of that routine of like being a student who's like not really able to like do other things. Like you're just so in that habitual nature of what and then you get out of it and you're like, wait, this is like real life. So it's kind of the same thing. You probably picked up another job or something and now you're trying to fit in school on top of something like a new schedule. Different life. Right. And the same thing with training and the same thing with competing. And again, if you like want to just do it casually, like that's different. But if you really want to be good and if you've been good, you're never just going to do it casually. Yeah. Right. You're never going to be like, oh, I know. No show. No show. Why would you do that? You know, it would be a waste of time and it would be like it just, it would literally be pointless. Yeah. So I think that for a lot of people, like the allure of doing a lot of things in fitness is like because they see that end result. And we try and talk about that a lot on the podcast, especially with, you know, competing because people see, especially like with bodybuilding, you know, they see the end result. And it's so glamorous. You know what I mean? Like everybody has like these like sparkly suits, their hair, their makeup and like everything like they peaked. Like that is like the best you look like for like an hour for like nine months. You know what I mean? There's so much that goes into it. And there's, and you look like a wet, sad, noodle, like 90% of the time. Yeah. You're super hungry and your eyes are sunken in like. That's why I could never do it. Like someone just approached me the other day at the gym. Like some guy was like complimenting me and then also asking if I did any, any shows. And I'm like, no, not really my vibe because I like to eat. I'm like, I won't give up cheeseburger suit. I won't do it. I don't want to. And I don't even feel bad about saying that. You know what I mean? Like you have to want like, I know myself that will not make me happy. But I will say what this time off from CrossFit. Like I like to just use my fitness in different ways, you know, and it was like now that I'm out of the gym or not spending as much time there, I have an opportunity to just like, oh, if I want to go ride a bike, I can't walk mess up my training. Dude, same. If I want to go climb a mountain, I don't have to worry about getting hurt or something happening with my training or not. I'm going to be tired. So after it's just like so nice to take that mental break. And then I feel like it'll just lead me to my next adventure. But I have no idea what that looks like right now. And so you, so you were competing at a high level for many years. And then what was the injury or injuries? I had a few and I was really just kind of like working through them. As we do. Like 20. Yeah. Everything's fine. This is fine. My legs. In 2015, when I moved down to Florida, I was working out trying to like max out or PR a snatch. And you're, everyone kind of knows like three attempts is really like after that, just try another day. Didn't want to, wanted to do it that day. So my arms buckled and the barbell dropped on my back and spat me out the front, like pushed my hips to the ground, shot me out the front. And I was just like, am I paralyzed? Oh fuck. But then I had already, I had committed to a competition the next weekend. And I was like, I can't cancel on them. I'll figure it out. So I flew all the way back to Michigan because there was a team comp. I was like, I'm not going to make these girls miss it. Yeah. Oh dude. I was hurting. Yeah. We had to grab up. Oh shit. I was in tears. I literally couldn't walk. Like so bad. And so like that's just a reoccurring injury. I was in your back. Like what, like what? Did I go get a number? No. But, um, You're like allegedly. I'm like, hmmm, feels like a disc thing, but I operate best if I just don't know. I know that's not great advice, but I honestly, You're like, hey, I came on the podcast to tell everybody this. Don't figure out the real problem. Avoid it. Don't figure out the root of the issue. Just tell yourself you're fine. No, but I do feel like if I knew that something were actually wrong or like, I don't know, a doctor said you shouldn't be doing this sport because this could happen. It would like be in the back of my head the whole time. But I know my body well enough. Like I know the differences in pain and like if it's skeletal or muscular, like in the moment when I should let up all those things and I was like, I'm going to be the doctor. No, but really like that mentality of just being like, I'm good until my body says I'm not like I don't need a doctor to like cover his bases or her bases and be like, hmmm, I wouldn't, you know, because I want to keep doing it. So it was my back and then on my shoulder and then I had a hernia repaired last year and that was way more intense than I thought. Everyone's like, oh, it's nothing or like they see my scar and it's like, oh my gosh, it's so small. And I'm like, so it's, I understand that it's just a couple inches, but it's in the center of your abdomen, like above my belly button. Do you know that you use your core for everything? Like the doctor made it sound like I would just be up and moving in three days or so. Couldn't even stand up straight in three days. Couldn't stand up straight. Yeah, no, those are pretty serious. And I like really had too much time on my hands, but just like sat there and realized how important fitness was to me. Like it's such an outlet, whatever it looks like, whether it's just walking outside. Like I'm also, I like to be independent. I don't want to ask for help. So all these things I was just like, wow, I take so much for granted. Like it was kind of an eye opener of being like, damn, if I couldn't walk or I couldn't go to the gym or I couldn't do these things. Like I'm just grateful that I am able to, you know, a new appreciation. So yeah, but really once I quit coaching in 2020, I was coaching across the gym. Once I quit coaching, I was still training, but when I was working in the gym, I would like warm up with the athletes. I would cool down with them. So I was stretching, I was moving, but I think once I stopped doing all of that and I was just working out on my own, I stopped stretching as much. I would train and then go sit down and my body just crumbled. Like I've, and it was years of doing it. Yeah, you know, it was probably like the injuries were finally like catching up. They always do. Yeah, always. And I knew I was going to bite me in the ass and I'm totally paying for it and wouldn't recommend. I mean, there are some things that I tried to fix, but also like everyone gets a shoulder injury, but also I'm not going to quit my sport. It's not as bad. Like it's not falling off my body. I'm just going to keep going. It's part of when you get into something like that, you know, you are going to expect something, you know, there are certain sports that have a higher injury risk. And just if you do anything repetitively, you're going to run into some issues. And I think again, like it's all about like setting your expectation and understanding, okay, what am I willing to give? Am I willing to give up? What do I not want to do? You know, and then that has to guide your decisions because if you're like, listen, like I don't want to do like when I was training, you did two more. And I was like, okay, I really enjoy this, but like it's pretty fucking brutal. Right. And everything is super repetitive. And you typically do a lot of things on one side of your body. And like it's like the same motion over and over and over again. But like in a different way than like lifting, right? Like obviously when you're squatting, like you're doing the same motion, but like contorted. Yeah. So it's not like a normal motion. It's like, hey, we're trying to do like a joint manipulation over and over and over again. And obviously you're going to tap like you're not going to let somebody rip your shoulder off, but shit happens. You know, one of my training partners, she was just, you know, rolling and was doing a normal move. And then something just went the wrong way and she had her whole ACL blew out. She was just casually at the gym. You know what I mean? So it's like, there's a really high risk of just anything, but you have to understand, okay, how much do I want to give this? Am I doing this casually? Am I doing this just for fun? Right. And I felt like, you know, I was still training. I was in pain. I knew I was in pain, but if something like that were to have happened, I would have no choice. But I didn't ever want to take the chance or the time to hear that something was wrong and I would have to take a break because that's hard to come back from. You know, I was just like, maybe it's just my, that's called gaslighting yourself. No, but I mean, I'm looking back now, I'm like, there were so many things that I could have done better, but I was also like young and a lot of it, I was like working so many hours in the gym. I wasn't always on point like from the beginning with my diet and all of that. And it just was like, neglectful. And now as I get older, You get away with it when you're younger. Yeah. And now I'm like, they warned me. They warned me. It's just like with all the, like the dieting, right? So whether you're dieting for, you know, competitions or just in general, right? Like we always talk about on here, like there's like a compounding effect of diets. And, you know, the more and more that you do it, you're going to have natural adaptations, metabolically, hormonally, all of these things psychologically. And these are all normal aspects of dieting. But if you do it over and over and over again, and you don't take any time off, all these things build upon each other. And it doesn't matter how resilient you think you are, it's going to catch up. You know what I mean? So at some point you have to say, okay, what can I do to mitigate this? But that also is important from like a coaching perspective because you really enjoy coaching. So now I don't think it was like all in vain because now it's like, hey, you can relay this to other people. Yeah. I mean, they have to be able to listen. Yeah. I'm just so hard on myself that like, if anybody else were to come to me and explain the pain they're having that I have, you know, just switch world. I would be like really important for you to, to read this. You know, like I would have given way better advice to somebody else, but to me, I was just so hard headed. And I love learning the hard way to just try to be better about it. But there are just some things that I am better at spotting in the moment being like, okay, like recognize this in yourself, slow down, take a step back, whatever it may be. But when it comes to like athletic stuff, I'm like, keep going. Don't be a bitch because I felt like that's what people were going to say to me. So I'm like, won't say a word. And then it was before my hernia surgery. We were like CrossFit was in semi quarter finals stages, whatever. I drove down from Orlando to Miami. That's where my coaches are. And I was going to compete down there just so they could like be there, guide me, whatever. And I don't usually work out on Thursdays, but they wanted to do, yeah, rest it. Oh, it'll make sense. Because I go like Monday, whatever, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday's like active recovery day, Friday, Saturday. Like fuck Thursdays. I just play by play hour by hour. I would wake up at approximately 5am. But I drove down there, the workouts got released and they were like, hey, I think it would be a good idea to knock this out of the way. And it was just like a max lift. And somebody else, yeah, mind you, I had just sat in the car for four hours. Yeah, I was already thinking this already sounds. And I knew, I took a look inward and I was like, dude, probably not your best idea. But your coaches are saying based on the workouts, based on how this is laid out, it wouldn't be a bad idea to knock this out. And I'm like, I can do it. Fuck, don't be a bitch. Blew out my quad day one.  literally first event for it was a friend squat for three reps or something. My quad just like it didn't fully tear because it wasn't like super bruised but I could not bend at the knee without collapsing. I was just like mmm should have listened to myself. Damn. Yeah so injury upon injury here we are. Kicking it. I'm like slowly trying to add CrossFit stuff back into my workouts because I really just love the way they feel but ever since my hernia repair some of the gymnastics stuff I'm gonna say I bet it's probably the gymnastics stuff right? That's how I got it in the first place. So I was like I'm 16 watch me jump on this pull-up bar. Okay so bad. I feel like that's the hardest part I mean obviously unless you're a gymnast but most people aren't and then they try to get into this and I feel like that stuff is for a lot of people so challenging. The like body awareness, the coordination is the struggle but so fun to teach. Like I loved that stuff because it's so important to know like how to move your body properly you know and people don't really even realize how they're maybe compensating for something or like you know not using proper muscle groups or how to be more efficient in ways and that's what I like to get out of that. Yeah because I mean unless you do a sport that is involved with that there really is no need for a lot of body awareness you know unless you're like a wrestler or a gymnast or something like that. Like why would you need that? None of the sports that I did growing up did you need any body awareness which is very apparent. And when you watch someone just jump up there and do it you're like looks easy. You get up there flopping around like hmm I'm missing a piece. Something about this doesn't feel the same as what they were doing. And it's always this stuff that looks so easy like people make it look effortless that's like the absolute hardest. Yeah like like a deadlift. Love using that as an example because people just think it's so simple. I'm like there is a technique to that. Yeah or like oh my god how does somebody lift that much? It's like well because they have the right form and they're lifting. Steroids. Yeah. No that's not it. You know technique goes so far. You just are literally like flopping around. You're doing it wrong. That's why. You're lifting with your back anyway. But I love that one because it's always the lift that people bring up and they're like oh I hurt my back with a deadlift. I'm like that doesn't surprise me. Yeah like because you probably watched in a lot of cases people just watch it like someone else do it and they're like I can pick up a bar from the ground. Not knowing what muscles to engage at all. How to set up where the bar goes, where the weight distribution is and they're just like picked it up. Yeah with your L5. You sure did. And how do you feel? Yeah that will be my only rep for the day thank you. Yeah wherever again. Weird I'm picking up water aerobics. Dude my grandma does water aerobics she loves it. Stop. I'm dead serious I was so excited to hear that. She just oh yeah I went to water aerobics. Me and my girls. Because it's so cute. That's amazing. But no seriously like as my grandma has gotten pretty sick recently and she was never super active. She was only like a healthy body weight. And thankfully I think that wards off obviously a lot of issues. She used to dance but like you know wasn't really anything. No she used to take dance classes. Like what? Dance. What kind of dance? Like top dance. Like dancing classes. I don't know if grandma was whipping out the tango or what. She was like twerking. I'm just trying to make sure I get the right grandma in a hip hop class with her sweatpants. Basically. No she used to do that but like she just was never really super active. And watching her age and just like deteriorate so quickly now it's like it's so scary. Because like you know you learn about this in school you read about it. Like you under like I understand the mechanisms and then you really start to see it and you're like oh my gosh you go downhill so quickly. And people don't realize how much movement can like affect the longevity of your life. Like just move your body. You don't have to do crossfit. You don't have to do bodybuilding. Go for a walk. Fuck yeah. Trainers. Hey we're trainers. We work out. I frequently. No just kidding. Bad joke. Didn't even know where I was going to go with it. I'm going to stop myself right there. Like a sick joke. We actually do stand up. If you guys want to come check it out tonight. What's his name from Joker. No we wouldn't. We just wouldn't be able to wrap it up. We would like ladies you done an hour ago. Yeah trying to figure out how to circle back to the initial. Well we'll figure it out. Look at the way I am going to go sidebar here because we're talking about grandma in hip hop class and what I really want to do is the freaking bouncy shoes. Zumba they're just like jumping around. You've never seen that. You remember like moon boots back in the day. Okay. Imagine like an upgraded version. They're like roller skates but with a trampoline on the bottom. Well worst description ever should never advertise for anything. Yeah. Okay. So. This is a little sad because I wanted you to be so excited because it looks so spastic like you literally are just bouncing around the whole time like moving and grooving. It's usually I see people on a video. I want to parking lot just vibe into music. It's like Zumba on steroids. It looks so fun. I'm going to show you. Yeah I'll do it later. You know what. I have not. Yeah we can go back to the main focus here. I really want you to be excited about that because I know that you would do it with me. Oh for sure. I would eat shit and that would be hilarious. I would tape my ankle so hard. Actually I need to wear like to help with the thickest thing. I have so many concussions. Really. Yeah from riding horses. Yeah. Yeah. It all makes sense. Wow. Okay you answered my question as I said it so that was awkward and looked at you. You're like I'm the interviewer now. I'd rather talk about you. What. I am sweating so bad right now. Do you ever have that where you're like you know you had an awkward pause and I got a little bit of that. I just uncontrolled my laugh which is like a huge issue. Yeah because I was just like. Don't worry. Everything is already tuned out. No dude stay with us. We've got good stuff coming up. And next up are the trampolines. No literally one of the first podcasts that I ever did with Rick our therapist. If you've been listening for a long time you know this story and he asked me you'll die this. He was like hey we're going to go through like an exercise and I was like okay. And he's like so on like a scale of like one to ten like how was your day. And I was like what. I like literally like I froze up and he was like and he didn't know. No but what he was trying to do was like if I would have said seven he would have said well then why weren't you with this or why weren't you this to try to like recalibrate like your mindset. Yeah it was it was it was a valid drill but I can't answer questions like that on the spot. And then I had to go through and I was like well I'm I'm not sure and then and then I was like well what about like I just threw out a number he said people would have this one and I was like I was visibly. They took all of it. I literally was visibly drenched and he said he's like you are sweating and I was like oh my god I'm bringing attention to normal for me. And then he's like okay how about you ask me the question and I'll answer it how it should have been normal person right and then you mirror me. And I was like so how was you know what's your day and then he's like well I was driving here and my AC went out and I was like oh my god seriously and he's like this is the drill this is all fake. No my AC didn't go out I'm trying to give you a role play Lauren so there was like a five minute meltdown bro I am dripping sweat and I was like it's the lights he's like no I think you're just like you keep bringing this up. The more you tell me that it's actually me the more insecure I'm feeling and the number is going down on the scale. I said seven now I'm at a three you know what crushed my confidence because of this podcast. Yeah but one a scale from one to five way worse than one to ten I'm always going seven seven is I'm always going seven. I don't care what it is what it's about not the seven is you know I'm never really too good at anything. But it's never too bad but it's never too bad like dude way. Maybe it was the herniated surgery that was it that was it too. Plomidine. Wow hit pretty close rock bottom not rock bottom but saw it. Good see you just start crying. Flashbacks me alone in my apartment so sad no sunlight. Oh were you that just not when you were by yourself depressed. Not good gonna work out got fat. We were eating our feelings tried to manage it but I was just like yeah you couldn't really do much. Yeah like all your normal outlets were very lost in that time. Yeah that's so hard fitness and even just like the people I was surrounding myself with like that was kind of also changing. So that's brutal that's brutal in and of itself. I got really good at Amazon Prime. What does that mean was buying lots of books. So I could sit and read you know let me at least do some brain stuff if I'm just gonna sit here. Yeah yeah anyway what was I gonna say. I could segue though I don't know you're gonna find traveling boots but no when you can't work your grandma. No I was actually gonna tell you about the weird time that recently that I paused and just stared at someone accidentally. I just moved here a couple months ago. Go to this gym. This girl had come up to me to compliment me but I didn't know it was a compliment like I. She worded it so weird that I was like am I having a stroke. Repeat that one more time. She was like oh I'm so glad you're here because I never like to be the biggest person in the room. I was just like looking at her height dude I'm like you know I'm not like that much taller than you like I'm so confused because I don't. Look at myself and be like yeah yeah no I just feel so very normal and so when people approach me like that I'm like I have no idea what you're talking about. Give me some context clues I don't like to be the biggest person I'm like I literally did this for seven seconds. Yeah it was so awkward because I was like trying to put the pieces together like what are we talking about. So I'm like out of breath my brain's not working. Not firing on all cylinders and she's coming at me with a back like weird compliment very nice of her once I eventually figured out. It's just like I definitely fucked that up. Haven't seen her since. So this is a how to make friends and influence people podcast right. You wrote the second you wrote the volume to. I did I have a did you read that one I have a little piece in there and says don't do anything I do. If you if you do opposite of me you will be smooth sailing so many people will like you. But if you're like me it's going to be a tough road as I said I like to take the heart and everything and I guess that doesn't stop at making friends because. I have no idea. Well yeah that's because you know just both be like. All right next and then I realize all my people because if you can just laugh off an awkward moment. I feel so much better like handshakes I always mess them up. I'm like I don't know if guys want a handshake. I like don't really know you but you know me or something like that and so are we hugging are we. Oh we're doing the bro hug guys step on your foot. I broke a guy's sunglasses one time. Wow panic hugs I'm like a hug person but if the other person isn't ready for a hug it becomes very weird and also if you don't really know somebody and you're kind of doing the like weird hug. And then I don't put my arm because I am always sweating. I'm drenched right now not my. Unfortunately the first one sir is just like a deodorant. All my friends know that I'm just always sweating. It's horrible and obviously I live in horrible conditions. And my face is always sweating like number one place I sweat my face like. Oh that upper lip baby nice shelf nice shelf to place him sweat droplets. And so my makeup is like you wanted to stay on not today bitch. No setting powder no nothing like nothing works. But you have great skin so well thank you. You make up well I am wearing I mean I wore it but like it by the end of the day it's like whoa hey. Last lights turn those up. Oh my god the greaser over here yeah and school you know I have dress codes my nightmare. Well I went to a Catholic school so I had to wear a uniform even more of a nightmare for me because I mean it's easy because it was way easier. Yeah you don't have to be. I have an over thinking issue so I feel like if I would have had to choose. Yes I do think that's different but also I don't think those skirts would be my best. Yeah well then we all just kept making them shorter and shorter every year. Yeah schoolgirl things and then they finally get cool and then finally they're like y'all get khaki pants and. It all rocks and khaki's it's better than that knee length skirt. Oh yeah like my legs aren't built for that. I'm sure you look great in it me. As I said I have cancels and kneeling skirts that are flowy. Come on what do I have to work with. Anyway sweating dress codes always had to have our shoulders covered. I always had pit stains. It was so embarrassing so embarrassing that was I swear to God I'm traumatized from that. Like you like raise my hand in school just always keeping it pinned to my side. Hello question. Could we get a show of hands to me. I'm missing a little bit higher. Jose is that you. Jose. Present. No seriously like that was probably my favorite part about moving to Florida. I was like no sleeves ever. I will not wear a shirt. I won't wear a shirt. And I feel so suffocated like so claustrophobic. I'm like get this material off of me. I've never seen you. I won't do it. First of all because my pit stains were from the middle of my bicep to down by where your bra is. I mean you're also like you're pretty big. Pretty muscular. Let me take up more space here. What did she say? You're the biggest person in the world. I didn't say that. I would never say. I literally thought she was talking about how tall I was. I am so confused right now. We're like the same height. Don't know what you're saying. So it took me a minute to realize she meant muscular. But yeah who designed women's t-shirts? I don't know. I don't. I'm not sure what the other pids are crying. I'm either wearing like a bra tank or like this kind of situation. Or like the oversized. Really? If it's loose. Got room. So I can just drip down. Nothing to catch it. Just falling out. You get a little airflow. I am so sorry if I'm the worst guest you've ever had on this podcast. I'm sure that I was supposed to have a really awesome message. But sometimes I get a little sidetrack. I mean I feel like there's been good messages. And hey we all sweat. I do have good things to say. Sometimes I just get lost in those moon boots. I just self-sabotaging. But also I can recognize what I'm doing. Yeah women sweat. Women sweat. I had so many women like DME. I thought you said a Chicago CD. I thought you said a Chicago CD. I was like hmm. Tie this. Show me the relevance. So I can get on board. You're like yes I'm here for it. I'm supportive. The musical. It's a classic. Yeah. No honestly. So women DME you out sweating? No. I was actually going to go serious for a second. They did. They're like you can get Botox in your armpits. I'm like and then erupt from the inside. Where is all of this going to go? Yeah I don't know. I mean obviously I get Botox in my face. But I'm not too sure about the I'm not sure how I feel about stopping sweating. That just feels very. I know that Botox isn't natural. I know that Botox is natural. I know that Botox is natural. I know that Botox isn't natural. Right. But my face being frozen isn't natural. Is a natural response? That you should not be blocking. In my opinion. Yeah I feel like that just sounds like. Like I'm going to overheat. Where else is it going to go? I can't do that. I can't do that to myself. I don't remember the serious note I was going to try to say. Women DME you. No. Let me circle us back. I'm trying to circle it back. No I was going to bring up how we were talking about earlier. I was going to bring back. We were talking earlier about being misunderstood. And I literally this is what I do. I'll just be silly goose. Just talking about random stuff because I think it's fun or just interesting to talk about. And then I'm like why do people just think I'm a hyper and stupid. Because I never actually share knowledge about anything because I don't think people are going to listen to me. Or. So it's easier to sabotage it. Yeah I mean. I think I've just had so many experiences where I go full blown therapists and just like my dad's a psychologist so it's just what I know. I like to sit and listen. It is something I enjoy just hearing people out. But people don't actually get that sad of me because most of the time it's like in a setting where like that's not the vibe to sit and chat. But yeah there have been times where it's like somebody that I know and they want to vent and I'll like have them take a second and like look inward. And I'm like oh dude don't get all deep on me. I'm like well once you get punished for that I'm like silly. It's like remember when Trotter so you guys have listened to the podcast Mike Trotter was on maybe like two months ago. His interview was awesome so definitely check that out. And I like this one. I'm like oh I like this one. I just can't. Dude I'm going to lose sleep over this one. Can't lose any more sleep. No so he I came up to him at Summer Smash and I just had this look on my face like I was going to say something weird which I did which we don't need to talk about that here but and then he was like you know dude he's like it's always something deep or weird with you and I was like what? And he's like every conversation is either super deep or super weird. You and me? We are alike. Like we're either going in or we're off the charts because what's the in between? Like I'm not just going to be like so where are they? So that's what I was saying with that intro I'm like I know this is necessary but those are things that I'm like this is going to sound so boring. Like people with like dating stuff will just ask these questions like that's not what I'm worried about. I'm worried about hey it's five minutes in and we're talking about like conspiracy theories What would you do if I just if I was a pickle would you love me? So if I got in a car accident and I didn't look the same way that I do now would you stick around? No literally we were at a bar I was like with a few friends and then this is 20 minutes into meeting someone I've never spoken to before and I'm talking about the Soviet concentration camps and I was like this is why people think I'm insane. It's like you just get a second where like other people are talking and you can just sit back and be like hmm wait. I'm always having like 18 conversations I'm having this conversation then I'm observing and then I'm thinking about something else and then I'm like okay wait I know this is weird but I can't stop and I'm like the gulags and I'm just like oh my god what just talk about anything that's normal Yeah I can't but also I think honestly it's good to have people like us who will just not to toot my own horn but like I do think that Is this one of these weird back-handed compliments? No but I do think that people want like those conversations are interesting to other people but they don't want to be the person to bring it up like so everyone just thinks like oh we have to do the tip of the hill Yeah like where are you from what do you do and sometimes I do want to know somebody like I will also add an appropriate time or maybe inappropriate just hey I see I'm watching all of you you're all bored why are we doing this I'm gonna just toss this in and see what you guys do with it because now we're all interested like sometimes you just need to do that Yeah and I got a lot of thoughts dude I'll spew them out There's too many thoughts Oh you're bored let me just go through my roll adductors of things I've been thinking about in the last ten minutes There's like eighty seven times that are open and I'm like hold on which one are we gonna Come on Brain get it together This is coming out but then there it is as I'm trying to say it two sentences happen at the same time Or sometimes if I'm really out of it I'll have zero thoughts and then I'll just be like just keep skimming pat each other and then I'm like we're just gonna just free falling I hope I catch up to something I was always at the worst times I just can't think of anything and then the awkward pauses happen because people do expect us to be like talkative and a little off maybe almost like scripted so then when I can't say anything then I'm just like I should maybe just come up with a script like a little backup in case of an emergency these are like avocados hmm well long version or short version one time somebody said they tasted like penis and now I'm like oh god you ruined it for me now I ruined it for all of you and I'm so sorry I heard it on tiktok and I was like so anyway I don't even know where this stuff frequently asked questions like I should have a planned answer so when I hear that Q word under hypnosis just thing have an answer but instead I'm like come up with something new because I use this on the last person I'm like I'm still me but I'm still trying to come up with a new way to say it why? stick to the script dude I'm like I gotta have a new way to say this because what if somebody overhears me saying it the same way I got issues like you might want to talk to your dad about that nah and jumping off I do believe this is where we sign off I'm gonna get my radio voice to hand it over to you and I am horrible at closing out podcasts but this was a fun experience this was an experience and now I want to go buy an avocado and just sit with that for a moment get a few different ones like it ripe over the ripe ones that shouldn't be edible like not ready, not ripe not edible like so hard you can't do and where can people find you in case they're dying for more Jose Hamilton at Josie Hamming on all platforms ok which is what platforms Instagram Twitter you'd be using Twitter randomly decided let me see what's up over here that's where the real stuff happens people are real on Twitter and I said I'll share some of my thoughts oh really I mean it's just different because sometimes if I try to record myself on an Instagram story I'm like this was fun here in my head or like the way I record it or like oh what if I send it don't think twice because that's what people do on Twitter and it's so fun so just like all those random thoughts live on Twitter because how weird of me to pull up Instagram and be like hey you guys ever seen that those moon skates or twangling skates and then people would just be like ok so Instagram is more of like the professional side of me Twitter just throwing all my thoughts out I feel like I had another one what other platforms exist no currently I believe those are the only ones I just have two Instagram accounts yeahokchill is just my dumping grounds for everything that doesn't make it on my main platform how did I not know about this I don't really advertise it because there's just weird stuff out there I like pulled my phone out follow it right away we will put all of that in the show notes thank you for coming on this was super fun I'm sorry I am so just no we love it I love it I'm speaking for everybody here and for more information on any of our coaching services or anything sick outro you know what you guys know you know the vibe baby everybody knows that I'm terrible at outros teamlocosit.com peace and I'm out