 Welcome back to another episode of the Locofit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and this week I'm joined by Rick, our team mental health counselor, and we're going to talk about a really interesting topic. When you brought this up, I was like, yes, actually, I love this, because, yes, like, now you guys are going to laugh when you hear about it, because this is something that I see... Struggle with? Rick's dedicating this podcast to me. No, fuck you, I'm pretty good in post control. Also, just FYI, everybody, if my voice is still a little on the fritz, it is because we had an amazing event this weekend, and notoriously, I always lose my voice. We actually had a move, we were supposed to record this yesterday, but I was like, hey, I am still struggling, like, this is not going to... So you get a little nice raspy morning voice from me, everybody, which honestly isn't that much worse than my normal, awful voice. But in any case, this is something that I see with clients a lot, and actually something that I saw when I was doing my research, and this has been pretty well documented, even in the eating behavior literature, which is an interesting kind of overplay between, obviously, what you do and what I do. So without further ado, we are talking about impulse control. I realize I didn't even say what we were talking about, and I was just hyping it up so much. So we are going to be talking about impulse control, and you are going to explain through more clinical lens, kind of more of the background behind it, and then we can get into some of the practical stuff as well. Sure. So impulse control is pretty common for most people. You don't need to have any real, like, deviant history. You mean lack of impulse control? Not just, I think in various aspects of people's lives, there can be, everybody can kind of struggle with impulse control from time to time. So this is a fairly common phenomenon. It doesn't mean that you are mentally ill or that you have some serious problems, and impulse control can kind of take many different shapes and forms throughout a person's life. And so sometimes it's just good when you recognize, like, hey, I feel triggered by this, or this is something that you recognize that you keep doing over and over again, like, what are some simple steps that I can use that you have to be aware of the steps, and so it starts on this real conscious level, and you have to make a strong effort. But once you are aware of the steps and you start implementing them, it does become a little easier. But always remember that ignoring or fighting against an urge or an impulse to do something is always a challenge. And so it's difficult. It's not something that, like, we become like some Zen master where nothing ever, you know, feels impulsive, whether it's to, you know, punch a wall or reach for a candy bar or your favorite food, you know, whatever it is. Like, we have these urges that kind of come over us. And so recognizing the environment that they're in can be a big part of it, where and when the triggers might be present, they're strongest. And then developing the skills to be as proactive as you can in managing it. It'll help. Yeah, I think this is kind of like so many of the conversations that we have. And I feel like we're kind of like fighting against, like, the current narrative of all these things. Like, you're going to have things that you want to be impulsive about, you know, and like, that doesn't mean, like you said, that you have all these, like, litany of problems. And this doesn't mean that just because you have a good handle on it, that you're never going to have those impulses ever again. Right? Like, it's going to come up with that. At least that thought is going to happen. So it's more about figuring out, like you said, the environment and how can you set that up. And that's usually where I try to start with clients too. It's like, okay, we can be reactive to whatever situation. But like, what can we do before you get to this breaking point? Because there was like five steps before. And you maybe hadn't recognized them quite yet, but we can start to figure those out. And then we can, you know, not get into this really bad situation. So there's like early defenses and then there's late defenses. Yeah, and they're like, oh, fuck, well, what do we do now? Okay, so the idea is that we're not scrambling to make changes based on those kinds of things. But it does take a lot of reflection and detachment to figure, okay, before step five, there was obviously four other steps. And what can I do? Environment is huge, which I'm pretty sure we're going to get to. And I'm going to stop ruining the intro of the podcast. I think talking about the environment is pretty critical. First thing I always ask people to do is to define what the impulse is that they're having a difficult time controlling, whether that's eating, whether that's gambling, whether it's arguing or drug use or drinking, whatever the impulse is. What is it? Like, what are we struggling with? And what are the benefits of you not engaging in this impulse? Right? Let's kind of define the goals clearly. Like, is this causing significant pain in your life? Is it creating other issues that, you know, might be happening at work and within your relationships, within you personally, your physical health, your mental health, whatever it is. Like, let's just get a good understanding of what the urge and the impulse is and why we want to change it. Like, what's the motivation underneath changing this impulse and this urge? Hold on. Before we go further, I really like the idea of defining it, which sounds so obvious. But I think a lot of times people are like, I have a problem with this or I don't have a problem with that, but they're not really able to articulate what it is or how it's affecting their life. So then they don't really, the magnitude of it maybe seems smaller. Right? They're like, oh, this is not a big deal. Right? And what is a big deal is different to everybody. Right? Of course, like how that, how you respond, how your environment responds. But I think that just by defining what the potential problem is, is a very under recognized important step. Because then you're able to really say, okay, I have a problem with this and this is what that means to me because we could have the same issue in front of us. Like, I have a problem with coffee, which you don't, but let's just pretend that for a moment you do, right? Whatever it is, like, I have a problem with this, but like, we're defining it differently. So like, until we actually do that, I don't think we can really recognize the magnitude of it. Would you agree with that? Yeah. And some of the interventions can be tailored or shifted depending on what it is. And so I like it because it gives a clear definition and every time we use vague language, it can, it, it's just easily to, it's, it's, sorry, it's early in the morning guys. It's easier to manipulate and to fall off track as opposed to when I specifically know something. And again, when we start talking about environment, like, if I know the environment that it's in and where it is and what it is, I can start to avoid and be more proactive, especially early on. Right. One of the things that I discourage a lot is putting yourself in a position where you have to challenge yourself like right away. Like if you have a problem with drinking, right, maybe not the best idea to just walk into a bar and order a drink and let it sit in front of you and test your impulse control. Yeah. Right. You're putting yourself in a really high risk situation. And so like, let's take baby steps with this. Like if we can identify where the triggers or the urges might be the strongest, it's like, okay, how can we work to avoid these potential dangerous situations at first and then work into it later? Does that make sense? Absolutely. Okay. The second thing would be obviously starting to identify once we've defined what the impulse is and why we want to change it. Let's start looking at some of the parameters around where and how the impulse is created for some people. Impulses can be like time of the day, like they wake up in the morning and they feel a certain way or perhaps like the sun is setting. So that part of the evening seems like kind of like, oh, I want this or I'm feeling an urge to do this. And what I want people to understand is cravings and urges are, you know, I'm sure there's a literal definition between the differences between them, but most people use them interchangeably. Like I'm feeling an urge to do this is also very similar to a lot of people saying I have a craving to do this. Right. But what I want you to understand is those urges and cravings are temporary. What I mean is they kind of have this evolution where they started a baseline and then you initially start to feel something and so they escalate and they get to a peak, but that peak can't sustain. Now, initially that peak might last for a while and which is what makes the urge very difficult to resist. Right. Because it's like intense and you're like, I want this. I'm craving this. I really want to give into it. And then when you're kind of timeline, that peak starts to drop and you eventually return back to baseline. And so one of the methods to start to get people to understand is that like this urge that feels really strong. If you can deny it long enough, you can start to get control over it and it loses its intensity as things progress. It doesn't stay that intense, especially if you get into the habit and the routine of denying it. And so that becomes kind of an important caveat. It's like, OK, I can test myself. One of the ways that we start doing that is like, OK, how long can you sit present with the urge before you act on it? Right. And for some people, that's like 10 seconds. Other people, it's like a minute. For some people that are like, I can, I can deal with this a little bit longer. And so the longer you delay, the easier it becomes to manage it. And when you know that it's temporary and it's only like it's got a short shelf life, it becomes much easier and more man. It is so interesting how it really does just completely drop off, right? Like something that two days ago felt like it was like the biggest deal in the world. Then all of a sudden you're like, oh, wait, I didn't even like care about that, you know? And it's funny. So I just finished 75 hard like we were talking about. I had a client who just finished as well a day after me and like, you know, she had been talking about like, you know, not anything out of control, but just wanting like a donut, you know? And then she was like, honestly, like, I don't even really want it. It was more like exciting to think about it. She's like, I didn't even have it. Like I didn't even really actually want it. It was more like, I'm finishing this up and, you know, I'm really excited. And it was even, you know, we were joking about this before, but like, obviously, everybody knows like I, you know, very openly talked about 75 hard. The hardest thing was not socially drinking. And this past weekend we had this big event. It was my birthday weekend, like all this stuff, like, you know, and I had a few drinks. Like I enjoyed myself, but I was there was no like, it's I'm going to get like, like, I don't know. It's just, it's so interesting. Like once you like get past a certain point of like that craving or that impulse. And this is not even like large scale future things. This is like, and even in the moment, like, oh my gosh, I got to do this like right now. Right. And then you like realize that if you don't, you're like five minutes later, you're like, wait, I didn't even think about that anymore. And there's like a sense of, um, that's the right word. Empowerment. I don't know, inner like strength that you get when you are able to, and I feel like deny has like a really negative connotation nowadays, but when you're able to deny yourself something and it is moving you in a positive direction. The fact that you're able to do that is very like, it's empowering, fulfilling, like confidence, but I'm not really sure what the phrase I'm thinking of. Um, or like the emotion, but there is something that's like, yeah, I felt that and my didn't have to have it. Right. Impulse sometimes can become habits. And it's difficult to break that cycle. And it's like, it's not so much that your body's craving it or that, you know, you have to do this. And I think sometimes we kind of get into these routines where we don't recognize that the impulse is just a part of our daily routine or a part of our habitual nature. And it's like, if I can create a new habit around it, I understand it on a deeper level and I don't have to give into it. And that is so powerful and again, very underrated. Like so many of the things you think that you're craving or need right now is just because habitually you have that every day at 12, 15, you do this, you know what I mean? And it can be silly stuff. Like even like here, right? They were at the, I'm pointing, which nobody can see unless you're watching. We're in the office and they, you know, they have like snacks and stuff sometimes. And now what they've started doing is like they have a whole glass canister of the peanut butter filled pretzels, which is like the super salty ones. Like all of my favorite things like salty peanut butter, crunchy, like it's the best thing. All it needs is dark chocolate, but thank God they don't have those here. Thank God. But it's something that's like, oh, I'm heating my food up. Like, let me just grab a few, you know. And it's so easy for that to be like, well, when I'm here, that's what I do. And even for someone like me who's hyper aware of these things, not like in like a disordered way, but I'm just very aware of what I'm eating and my surroundings. I'll have to be like, whoa, no, every time you go there to the kitchen, you don't need this. You know what I mean? Like it's okay to say no. But even that it can get into a habit in a few days. And then you're like, oh my gosh, like things like that really happen quickly. And that's a very small example. It's not like peanut butter pretzels are ruined in my life, but it's an example of something that's larger that could happen in that sense. Yeah, absolutely. And so sometimes one of the techniques that you can use into breaking impulse control is by changing the habits and the structure around it. So like if every day you take your lunch at 12 o'clock and you always go to the vending machine because you want something salty or sweet or whatever it is. It's like, okay, maybe changing the time that you eat your lunch. Maybe it's an hour earlier. Maybe it's an hour later. And what you recognize is by breaking the habits and the patterns around the impulse. Sometimes it's like, oh, I don't need that. Like for me, one of my things is I still like Coca-Cola, right? I enjoy a Coke and I like to have one at lunch. Like that's the time for me to have it sometimes. Not a diet? Are you like anti-diet Coke? It just tastes like shit to me. I can't stand diet Coke. I don't like any soda. So what about there's like, there's like all these like variations of them. There's like Diet Coke and then there's one Coke. No, hold on. We'll leave it at that. But there's also, please explain this to me. There's Diet Coke, which is the silver can, right? And then there's Coke Zero. What the fuck's the difference? It's like a red can, isn't it? Coke Zero is also... Coke Zero Zero Sugar, right? Yes, which Diet Coke also is. I don't know. Maybe the sweetener in it. Maybe the sweetener is different, but maybe you can try that Rick. I tried Coke Zero. It doesn't taste the same either. You're like, lay off my case. Let me have a fucking Coke. But the idea becomes if you can, if I've recognized that if I, to change the impulse to have one, by simply changing the time that I eat lunch, if I eat lunch an hour earlier, I'm like, I'm still in the morning. I can't try Coke, right? 12 o' one, yep. And sometimes if I get later in the day, and I've been good with what I've been eating and drinking, I'm kind of like, I don't want to ruin this. The day's almost over. And so you start to create different environments, and that helps by controlling the urge or the impulse. If it's especially an urge or an impulse that is really detrimental to you, sometimes that can help, just in helping increase your success rate. It's funny, I was going to ask, does changing the time of doing things, would that be a recommended strategy? I mean, literally you just said that to me. I was like, okay, perfect. And it's like, we obviously talk about, we want to create habits, right? We want people to create habits. We want people to reduce the cognitive effort in their day-to-day life so that they are making better decisions. However, sometimes, that's great for a positive habit, but sometimes when we're talking about breaking, maybe negative habits, we have to create more change, instead of being similar. So I think that there's a time for change in terms of maybe more negative behaviors that you are trying to work through, which is not to be confused with creating a schedule for positive behaviors. But that also speaks to the timing thing, speaks to why so many people talk about and recommend doing harder things earlier, especially when it comes to something like physical activity, when it's really easy to push that off maybe later in the day. But if, hey, I got up and I was active, whether it was like a walk or a cardio session or a lift, and then I had a good breakfast, now you're on the right foot, you're on the right path. And then to your point, okay, well, I've already done all this kind of all day at three o'clock. Do I really want to deviate now? Because I've already had these good things. But if you're waiting all day, maybe it kind of gets into that mindset of, well, it was kind of already a little bit off. So what's another this? One of the reasons I like the delay technique is because you tell yourself mentally, I'm going to have it. I'm just going to do it later. And so if you realize you don't really need it, and then you don't need it, right? Why? Because the urge is a spike. It has its peak and then it starts to come down. And so if like at noon comes around and you're craving something, you're itching for that coke, and you tell yourself like, okay, cool, I'm going to have it later. I'm just not going to have it now. And so you tell yourself like, okay, you're not denying yourself, like you're not resisting the urge, so to speak. You know, you're not denying yourself this thing that you say that you want or that you tell yourself that you need, which you absolutely don't. There's very few things in life that we need. You know, it's kind of coming from that irrational mindset again. But you just tell yourself like, okay, cool, I'll have it later. And you're delaying the urge. And so what it does is it's like, it's kind of like, okay, at its peak, I'm telling myself I'm going to have it. So I'm kind of satisfying that. But I give it a little bit more time and giving it a little bit more time, the urge drops. That peak comes back down to baseline and it's like, oh, it's now three o'clock. Do I want this? It's like, no, I don't need to. Like I'm really good on my water for the day or I've eaten, you know, a good meal. It's like, I don't really need that. And I don't need the energy that it's going to bring or the sugar spike or whatever it is. And so sometimes by delaying it, you're just simply saying, you're not telling yourself I'm not going to have it. You just say, look, I'll give into it later. But giving into it later doesn't, you don't need to because the urge, that spike has gone down. And so now it's more of a rational thought rather than like something you felt powerless over. Would you agree that like the, there's like a big social kind of change in the idea of denying things for yourself? I see this in our space quite a bit. Meaning that when people talk about having, you know, you could say denying or I would say maybe regulating yourself, right? To say, you know, I don't really need this right now. Some people would say like in terms of like, you know, food and beverages and things of that nature, that listening to that voice and saying, no, I need this right now because my body is telling me that. Right. So there's this idea of any kind of what I would call regulations that people would call restriction in like a negative sense. So do you see this kind of in anything with your space or not so much? Like just in general, I feel like there's a kind of a shift of like, no, if you want it and it feels good, you should do it. It's kind of the, the notion that I'm talking about. I mean, if I wanted it, it feels good. Like, isn't that what every addict wants to hear? I mean, at what point do you do you recognize that if what I'm talking about isn't harmful? Fine. Then I guess there's nothing wrong. Why are we trying to control the impulse? Right. Some people would say that it's not harmful, but it's like, again, we know like, I'm not asking about what other people would say. And I think this is the part and I think this is where some of this stuff gets a little too preachy for me. Is if you're working with somebody one on one, I like, I'm going to ask you, Lauren, I'm going to say, Lauren, is this a problem for you? Not what your magazine says, not what social media says, not what a thousand other influencers will say. Is it a problem for you? If so, let's talk about that. Like what is the problem? Is it affecting your work? Is it affecting your body? Is it affecting your relationships? Is it affecting your sleep? You know, where or how is this impacting you? Because sometimes we can kind of force ourselves into this. I don't know this like construct. Like I've seen what everybody else is saying. And so I'm trying to force myself into what their perception is. You know, you listen to a hundred other podcasts or these other people who are supposed to be influencers or experts in their field. And it's kind of like, I'm trying to force this rather than recognizing what is existing in my life. And so work on understanding and finding your own voice. Like how does this fit within your life? Not what other people say. It's not their life. You know, they're putting out content and that's fine and that's wonderful and it's probably going to help a great majority of people. But you know, if it's harmful to you and you want to change it, then there's nothing wrong with that. You know, I think there's certain things, sure, that we can take this to an extreme. It's like if you're telling yourself you never want to have another candy bar, right? Well, are you telling that because you're a diabetic and it can be potentially life-threatening? Or are you telling yourself that because you just want to lose weight for a while and you want to have a stricter approach and have more control over your sweets and not feel as compelled to eat crappy food all the time? So I think there's a scale there and I think you really want to evaluate it on an individual level. Absolutely. And that's why I asked because I knew you would say something along those lines. And I think that that is what is most important here, right? We're talking about how does this affect you? And this also goes for anything that we talk about, right? Like I feel like a lot of what we do, at least in my mind, is that we try to provide this like framework, right? So that people can start to think in these different ways on their own and we never want to be like preachy because there's one thing that both of us know there's a lot of different ways to do things, right? And I think that that is so, so important and that does get lost a lot, especially in these types of conversations. And especially on things like social media and platforms like that where there's these quick sound bites. And it's more complicated to explain something in 90 seconds than it is 10 seconds to be like, no, you should never do this. Right. Okay, well, where is the nuance here? You know what I mean? Like how is this allowing someone to think for themselves? How is this affecting their life? So I think that using applying any of this stuff through your own lens and what is that goes back to that definition. Like how is this a problem for you? How does this present in your life negatively? What are some of the upsides? What are the upsides of taking it away? Like all of that. And I think that that is so crucial and this messaging, I feel like it's kind of blurry now. At least that's what I see maybe in just our space. And I'll just leave it at that. All right, so let me get into some kind of concrete steps that people can take to control urges and impulses. Obviously the first one we talked about was delay. And again, going back to understanding your environment to a second step would be what are the environmental factors that are triggering this? Like are there people, places, situations? Like understand all of those things? Like are there certain people that trigger these reactions or these impulses? Are there places that trigger these urges or impulses? Are there situations that you might find yourself in that would trigger these urges or impulses? And so understanding people, places and situations is a really big component in being proactive and having a strategy. If I can't avoid it, having a strategy going into it. So delay, remember, remind yourself that the urges temporary and it will eventually fade. And if you can delay the urge, that's great. Understanding people, places and situations. One of the other steps that is very common that people will talk about all the time is what's called thought stopping. Thought stopping is a very traditional cognitive behavioral therapy approach. It's a technique that most people are very familiar with. And the idea of it is to interrupt the urge while it's happening by picturing a stop sign in your head. So if you're like, I really want to go do this. I really want to act on whatever this impulse is. You're like, all right, nope, I'm going to stop. Stop that thought right quick. Like stop and I'm literally going to close my eyes and picture a bright red stop sign in my head. And the reason I'm doing this is to interrupt the thought process. Right. You've talked about how like there's five steps. Well, what good is knowing the five steps if I can't interrupt or stop myself at any point in those steps. And so this idea of thought stopping is really important of being able to recognize and this is where defining it comes in. Right. Because if it's left as some ambiguous vague thing that I don't really know, it's very difficult to know when I need to intervene. So one of the first interventions is to thought stop is to close your eyes and to picture a stop sign. And you want to train yourself into doing this over and over again. If any of you have had therapists in the past, I'm sure you've heard some version of this. Like this is a very common, these are very well known and accepted techniques within our community to help people develop. And so by doing thought stopping, you're just kind of interrupting the urge. It's kind of like, even if it's at its peak, it's kind of like, we're just going to hit pause and there's like this line that comes through the middle of it. And it's like, oh, what is that? And so we're going to stop and focus on that for a second. The next thought that usually comes into play or the next technique that we start to use is what we call thought switching. Right. And so here's where thought switching again relates to how we're going to define it. So for example, like I have and I've had clients in the past to struggle with like sexual urges, right? And so one of the things that we'll teach is we'll say, all right, we're going to interrupt that thought and we're going to stop that thought. And why it's important to have a good understanding is so if we're talking about like a sexual urge, one of the things I'll have them do is I'll say, we're going to replace that thought with something that is not aggressive and not sexual. And so what is something that's not sexual? So they might be thinking, and some of them might be like, well, I'm going to picture football. I'm like, well, football is kind of aggressive. So let's not talk about football. You know, let's think about rebuilding a car engine or homework assignments that you're going to do that night. And so all of a sudden what they're doing is they've interrupted the thought and they're replacing it with something that is almost, that is a, not sexual, which is going to feed into the urge or potentially aggressive or whatever it is. So when you're switching your thoughts, it's important to switch your thoughts to kind of the opposite of what the urge might be, which is why defining it is really important and having go to strategies of like, okay, what am I going to think about when I'm feeling this urge? And what am I going to be doing in its place? Right? So these are two basic fundamental things that most people struggle with and are really good techniques to start to develop early on. Yeah, I think that's so great because it's not like, oh, I had this thought and then I'm not going to think about it anymore. And then your mind just goes blank, right? Like, like there, there has to be something else, like you said, to kind of change that or insert something new that you're thinking about. Because the chances of you having some type of urge and then all of a sudden just be like, nope, I'm not thinking about it. And then it like going away is probably pretty hard. And I would say that this obviously can be used in a behavioral sense, right? Like some behavioral things that we're trying to change. But also as I'm hearing this, even some of our thought patterns, right? Like some people have like negative thought patterns and like loops. This is also going to be super, super impactful because how like, of course, especially when you are so in your head with these thoughts, okay, hey, I'm stopping this, but now we need to refill that with something else because otherwise we're just, that's just going to be three seconds and then we're going to go right back to it. So recognize, okay, hey, no, I'm having this thought. We know where this goes. Okay, what else can I think about now in its place? This can go for behavioral things as well as just thought patterns and processes. Yeah, and the thing of urges and impulses is energy, right? That energy is going to exist. Where's it going to go? Right? Do I want to give the energy and urge into the impulse that I'm trying to avoid? Or do I give that energy in a different direction? Where does that energy going to go? And that oftentimes is identifying alternative behaviors for whatever it is that you're doing. Right? And so sometimes it can be making your hands busy. You know, like, it's just like, okay, I'm going to put my effort and energy into solving this puzzle. I'm going to do, I'm going to build something. I'm going to create an outlet for the urge for the impulse for the energy to go into that is healthy, that is constructive, that is not whatever is causing me harm or pain. If you've ever been a client of mine, you'd know that if you've struggled with any type of overeating tendencies, this is exactly, I use that phrase. Like, I need you to go do something lightly active, right? Like, I need you to, you know, wipe down the counters. I need you to go fold some laundry. I need you to go, you know, for a three minute walk. Doesn't need to be something long and obsessive. But I find that, and I guess I didn't know the background, but that makes so much sense in terms of looking at it as energy. Because anytime I've struggled with something like that personally, doing something that is lightly active really, really helps. And a lot of clients benefit from that. And it again, doesn't need to be obsessive, you know, but there's something to that. And then, like we talked about that impulse now just kind of drops off. And it becomes much easier to manage. So I love that. And so yeah, when you're adding a behavior to do with it, like it's not only delaying it, so it's allowing more time for the urge and impulse to drop. But you're actually doing something different. And positive. And positive. You probably have laundry default. You probably have a dirty mirror, I'm just saying. So listen, if your house is cleaner because of it. There's no dirty mirrors in Lauren's house. Because I have a lot of impulses, as Rick alluded to earlier.  and alfalfa-pyridine. So I trade one OCD for another. Just kidding. Nothing wrong with clean mirrors. Another kind of technique that will help people is what we call impulse or urge charting. And this is for those of you who enjoy writing. This is a really good thing. Sometimes I'll tell people to carry a little journal with them. If you can't carry a journal, like a little index card. And what you want to do, so like within your small notebook or your index card, you want to make a note. And so what you're going to do is you're going to stop, like when you sense the urge, you're going to stop immediately and you're going to pull out your notepad. And you're going to interrupt the urge and you're going to give yourself more time. So you're just basically going to write. So this is kind of like a different behavior. And so whatever the urge is, I want you to write out, okay, I'm having the urge to do this. And then I want you to immediately identify what the opposite is of that urge and do the opposite. Right. And so again, urge charting or impulse charting is like, okay, there's some people who just process better by writing. And so they're like, okay, I'm going to stop and I'm going to grab my pen and I'm going to grab my notebook out and I'm going to write down like what I'm doing. And so this is kind of like utilizing that interrupting space to stop myself before I act on the impulse. And the energy aspect too, because there is a small physical energy against doing something light. It doesn't mean you have to go run a mile, but just physically pulling out, you know, a pad of paper, writing it down. That's what daily marathon. Yeah. Oh my God. There's like, there was like this meme and it was like, every time you think about having sex, go for a walk. And then it's like the first video and then it's like some of it's like, I've been walking for three weeks and seven hours and whatever it's like this whole like I haven't stopped walking for two months. But yeah, I love the physical writing aspect of that because I do think that there we just take things more seriously too. I feel like when we when we do that versus, you know, doing pulling your phone out and putting that in your notes is better than not doing anything. Right. Like I would probably agree. You would probably agree that that's better, but best. There's not good, but there's better than fast would be probably physically writing something. Yeah. Anything that you can use to interrupt the pattern is really beneficial. And so even using the charting, I've had people pull out their card and they just start writing stop, stop, stop. And that's the thought stopping part. And then they'll act opposite the urge, whatever the urge is, like, and obviously you'll know what the urge is. And if you're doing your homework, it's kind of like, well, what are some, if I'm changing this, what are some of the things that I can do that are actually acting opposite of the urge? Right? Whatever that is. So if it's like, I want to cook a colo, I'm going to go grab an apple, right, instead or whatever it is. And so it's like, I want to cook fine, I'm going to grab an apple. And so you kind of temporarily interrupt and you pacify it with something that's completely different and healthy. Right. And so these next few steps I'm going to give you are more for what I would call like more of our dangerous impulses. Obviously, like eating and, you know, the urge to say something or to blurt something out is a little different than somebody who's dealing with more serious or potentially dangerous or threatening impulses, like, and that can be, you know, the urge to scream and yell at somebody, it can be the urge to punch a wall, it can be the urge to act, you know, in violent or aggressive ways or self destructive ways. And so one of the techniques that we kind of work to teach people that we call covert sensitization. And again, this is for more like deeper pathology kind of things, this is more severe. So one of the things that we have people do is engage and write out what your fantasy is in that space. Okay, like, and let's play it out. So you're going to write down like what the urge is, and I'm going to do this, and this is what that would be. And so you write out kind of what the scene would be, we call it the deviant scene, right, and get detailed as you can. And then what we want to do is, underneath that, there's two primary motivating factors for people to control or want to change a behavior, either it causes them pain, or it's causing somebody else pain. And so with covert sensitization, basically, what we're doing is we're allowing the person to write out what the fantasy is that they really want to do if it's like punch the wall or get up and beat the hell out of somebody or do something else. What they're doing is they're writing that out. And then what we're going to do is right below that, you're going to attach the negative ending that's going to come with you doing that. So if the negative ending is me getting up and assaulting this person, or the urge is for me to assault this person, the negative ending that I'm going to attach to it is I get arrested, I go to jail, I lose my job, I lose my family, I have all these really negative things that come from this. And so a lot of times what people struggle with is when the urge or impulse is so strong, they ignore the consequences of their behavior. Right. So the consequences almost become like this subconscious or unconscious thing that they're completely unaware of. And if we can draw attention back to what the consequences are and realize that the consequences are way more severe and long lasting than just the impulses, like the impulse is usually a temporary fix. It's like a feel good high for the moment. But the consequences of it have this like ripple effect that sometimes is very difficult to measure unless you're consciously aware of it. And so that negative ending is either going to be for you like, okay, if I act on this urge to go assault somebody, these are the bad things that are going to happen to me. The other side of that might be here's the fantasy of me acting on an impulse to go assault someone. What are the things that are going to happen to them? Like they might go to the hospital, I might kill them, you know, they might lose their family, they might lose their job. And so sometimes it's just about identifying what the motivating factor for the change is for that person. Does that make sense? Absolutely. And obviously, that like you said, this is gonna be for more serious things, but super important, like you're what you were talking about with the the consequences, like we often don't think of the consequences. We're just thinking of like that immediate moment, especially when we're so blinded during that like, like that agitated state of like, I need to do this, or I feel like I need to do this, that we're not really thinking of those consequences unless we know them. And that's why like planning that kind of stuff out, like, not only like, what are you trying to do, but what are you trying to not do or like have not happened? Like, what are you running like, away from in a positive way, meaning like, we want to get the hell out here, like we don't want to be going that way. And it's hard to conceptualize that until you've actually worked through it, like, who and what do I not want to be. And I think that like most people are not doing that, because it takes a lot of reflection. And it's also, it makes you really accountable, right? And then you have to you have to be wanting and willing to be accountable to that. And then that's like, Oh, man. Well, and all of these are baby steps. And trust me, when you have an urge to do something, it's really strong. And even if you're not downplaying that at all, like, Oh, just pull out my index card. And all of a sudden I get cured of this in a week. Like, no, this is especially when we're talking about these more deviant and aggressive and harmful things. Like that's obviously going to be very different than me saying, Oh, three days in a row, I got peanut butter pretzels versus Hey, I'm cutting myself. And I've almost died three times, like a little bit different. Yeah. And so many times too, once you once we're able to stop the urge one time, we can then come back a day later and be like, Okay, what consequences did we avoid? Right. And also what you'll notice too is the urge isn't as strong. Why? Because it's temporary. Right. And so it's like, Okay, I understand that I'll always feel intense anxiety. I'll feel this strong energy or urge to always want to do this. But I'm recognizing that if I follow these steps, I avoid the negative consequences that come with it. And that is more valuable to me in terms of understanding I have control. I don't have to give into this impulse that while it's hard and not ultimately what I want to do, I possess the ability to do that. And so sometimes, you know, this is where, again, for those of you that don't know, I used to work in a prison. And so like guys acting opposite the urge was very difficult for them to do. But oftentimes what we would do is we would dissect it later. It's like, All right, we're going to write it out, we're going to write what your fantasy is, we're going to act what the negative consequences are for you. And when you get them to do it, like sometimes you'd see them like pacing and fistballed up because they're getting ready to go beat the hell out of somebody. And it's like, Okay, like this is part of the process. And it's like, repeat what the consequences are. And they're like, Fuck you, you know, I hate you, I'm fine. But the consequences are this. And they do that. And it's like, Okay, great, you're aware, like, just this one time, let's try it, like, he's going to be there another week, he's not going anywhere, he's in jail with you. Right. So if you really want to beat him up, he'll always be there. But for right now, let's just try and walk away. And then the next day, they're like, I'm glad I didn't do it. Right. Why? Because now they're not on lockdown, they didn't get their sentence extended, or whatever it was. And so what you recognize is by being able to master the impulse control model, it doesn't make the impulse less intense, initially. But what it does do is it starts to give you a greater sense of control, where you don't feel as helpless. And if you feel helpless, you're more likely to engage in the impulse that you're experiencing. Whereas if you recognize like, Okay, I do have some control over this, and I can change this stuff, even if it still feels intense, you start to recognize that you're not helpless, that you have some mastery over it, and you start to utilize these skills. And so kind of the last thing I'll talk about is what we call the five steps of impulse control. And I wanted to go through each of the steps so that you can kind of see how we put all of this together. And so this is just a simple five step model to kind of follow. The first thing that you want to do is when you're feeling the urge or the impulse to do something, whether that shoplift or steel, something, whatever it is. First thing you want to do is sit and take a break. You're just going to sit and you're going to breathe for for as long as you can, I guess, if it's 10 seconds, fine, you're just going to take a couple of deep breaths and you're going to breathe because oftentimes what's also happening physiologically is that when we're feeling the urge or the impulse, it mimics anxiety very much, right? So our breathing can become more shallow and rapid. The tension in our body starts to rise, like our muscles start to constrict, we become so focused on what this is, like we kind of have that, you know, single mindset that sitting and taking a break and breathing allows oxygen to flow, it decreases all the physiological signs that we're feeling. The next thing you want to do is consider the consequences of what you're about to do, right? This is I'm sitting down, I'm taking a break, I'm breathing, what are the consequences of me doing this if I do this? And so that's recognizing what the urge is, the impulses and what the negative behaviors are or the consequences that are going to follow. The next thing you want to do, tell yourself to stop, you're going to stop that thought, how are you going to do that? You're going to picture a stop sign in your head. The next thing you're going to do is you're going to thought switch, you're going to go right to that technique, what is it that I'm, what's the opposite urge, what's the opposite of this urge? And I'm going to implement that step. And then the next thing you're going to do is get up and walk away. If that's walking away from the vending machine, if that's walking away from McDonald's, if that's walking away from another person, if that's leaving the room, if it's avoiding the situation that you're in, whatever it is, you're going to walk away. And what you recognize is sometimes physical distance can be very helpful when managing an impulse, right? If the person's not in front of me, I don't have to act on it. If the item isn't there or I don't have access to it, like it certainly is more difficult to have to go home, leave my house and seek it out versus if I'm in the presence of this, I can walk away and suddenly that spike begins to drop much quicker. I think those are amazing steps and such a great way to wrap this up. So definitely rewind this, you guys, if you want and definitely take notes on this, pull out your index card and have this written down. But like seriously, this can also be on the card or the journal as kind of a reminder when you're maybe first getting started with this, because I know, right, the five steps down. Yeah, as just a quick reminder, okay, this is what I need to be doing, because this is something that is small scale and large scale, right? Like this literally controls everything and it's so key and it can be applied literally to so many behaviors and also like I said earlier, those like thought processes and mindset that maybe people are struggling with. So this was a great episode. If you guys enjoyed this, please share it. That is the best way that we can grow the show and also share these messages for information about working with Rick. What is your email? Full circle therapy FL at gmail.com. And for more information on our coaching services and our app, you can visit teamlocofit.com and we will talk to you guys next week.