 welcome back to another episode of The Loco Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and today I'm joined by Coach Carina, filled with the giggles. We were just having a whole debate about where do red cherries come from, well first of all, where do maraschino cherries come from? Because you distinguished them as, I like white cherries and dark cherry, and I was like, what's a dark cherry? But where does the maraschino cherry come from? They're not red one. They're like hot... not red. They're like hot red. I'm sorry, I don't know why that's so funny, and I totally ruined the intro. No, you didn't. It's fine. We make it funny because we're funny. And actually, so everybody's gonna be listening to this, the week between Christmas and New Year's, which is kind of just like a weird, kind of a weird week anyway, right? It's always like this, like... No one knows what day it is. And there's so much that's happening with the holiday season, and then wrapping everything up, and then it's like goal setting and all these different things, but that's actually what we wanted to talk about today, which is goal setting for the New Year, and there are so many different ways to approach this, right? Like there's a million different podcasts you could listen to, books you could read, so we're gonna really interject a lot of kind of coaching, anecdotes, and personal stories to make it a little bit more relatable, and I guess you could say fun, and maybe some giggles, because we're just in a giggly mood. I mean, we're normally giggly. Because every time I record a podcast, I'm delusional because I haven't slept. Bro, I think... It's literally every time we have a podcast scheduled, I just don't sleep. We had this scheduled for like weeks too. It's not like we like, like, sprang this last minute. It's just like your body, like your internal clock is like, Oh, you're gonna be on a podcast? Oh, girl. Yeah, my Oro Ring score was like 42 this morning. Has your Oro Ring been like, not staying charged as long? Yes, but there is like, Ring firmware update. I haven't done it yet, but no, there's not... Are y'all taking a note from Apple or some shit? That was really in my head when I thought like, it was just some conspiracy, like I gotta get a new ring or something? No, like you just have to update the software, which I haven't done yet, because I literally just saw it today when I... It's a new off-hat. ...when I saw that I had to score a 42 and slept for two hours and 43 minutes. Excellent. Anyways, watch me do so well on this podcast on NoSleep. No, we're gonna kill it. Goal setting in the new year. First and foremost, I want to open this up and say... Open this up. Like, what am I... Open it up. Open this up. Open mic. Oh my God, that would be horrifying. Anyways, okay. Giving yourself time and space to reflect on the year. And like, this is going to be absolutely essential, no matter what goal you're trying to set, what you're trying to work towards, or what you're gonna try to avoid. If you don't do this, it is just so easy to fall into those same behaviors. So really creating that time to say, okay, what worked? What didn't? Do I need to hold myself to a higher standard? What am I actively pursuing? What am I avoiding? All of those things, taking an hour to do that is so powerful. And I think that a lot of times, we have this idea of what we're doing right or what we're doing wrong, but we often will snowball it into making it either a lot worse or even sometimes a lot better. No, no, I got this. And then when you really take five minutes to examine your behaviors, you're like, girl, what are you doing? We need to work on this. So a big thing is just giving yourself that actual time to do it and literally carving that out. Yeah, I think hindsight is 20-20, right? So use that advantage of looking back and understanding, okay, what worked, what didn't. And then using the mistakes and things you've learned to create a new trajectory, to create a better aim for the following year. Yeah, because without that, everything, like I said, just kind of feels like scattered, you know, and you really want to have an aim for your goals, regardless of what they are. But that aim is not just the positive stuff that you're working towards. It also is the maybe patterns or behaviors or things that you're trying to avoid. And at least for me, like that's sometimes even more powerful than like the thing that I'm working towards. It's like, what do I need to like take away or maybe just not have right now that is going to be a hindrance for me. Yeah, because I think a lot of us go into like a mode of autopilot where it's very easy and comfortable to fall into a lot of habits that we're not serving us. So it actually takes a lot of hard work, effort and mindfulness of maybe I should be off my phone by 8 p.m. Maybe I should make sure I don't have certain things in the house when I know. It makes it really hard for me to stick to a certain dietary goal. Absolutely. So first and foremost, we're going to cover three things for goal setting. And like we said, this is not an exhaustive list. There's a million different ways that you can, you know, set goals and work towards them. But these are really, really practical things that have helped us and our clients. So first, you want to pick a big and large and looming goal, but you're going to need to break this down into steps. And this is really where I think people either they either set a goal that's too big and they don't really have those other smaller steps in place. So then they feel so far away from it or they pick a goal that's so easy that like it's not even really challenging, you know, and you're kind of like, oh, yeah, yeah. Of course I can do that. I'll do it by the end of the week. Well, that's not going to help. Yeah, and then they never do it. Yeah. Absolutely. I think I've seen a lot of clients struggle with the former example you set. So having a goal that's so large and lofty that they're like overwhelmed by all the work that they have to do. And they go, well, I'm just, I'm never going to lose the weight I want to lose or I'm never going to be able to build that much muscle or I'm never going to be able to acquire that skill and whatever left I'm trying to do and cross-flipped, paralypting, etc. But it's like, yeah, if you think of it as the entire marathon, your entire fitness journey is just going to continue to go on forever and it should be big and looming like that is what causes you to grow. It's good to have lofty goals like that, but it, I feel like is unwise to not break it down into chunks that you are able to eat one at a time. And also then it allows you to break things into seasons, right? So it can be like, you know, okay, like say my goal is, you know, to deadlift 300 pounds, right? Like, whoa, we got a while, but I've done it once, one time it was, that was a lot. But like, right, so that's the goal, like I'm not going to get there in maybe even one training block at this point. It could be several training blocks that it's going to take for me to get there. And then same if you have like a large fat loss goal, right? You're not going to probably do that in one diet cycle. Right? Yeah. Say comfortably speaking, like you need to lose like 40 pounds. And of course there could be, you know, that's just a trajectory. There could be some body recomb, there could be all these things. But let's just say you need to lose 40 pounds. Yeah, we could probably diet 40 pounds off of somebody in one like fail swoop because we have, but that's really going to be determined, determined on, you know, is someone starting at a really high place? Right? That's going to obviously be different. But even, even if not like 40 pounds is a lot to lose, even if you are a larger person. So we really need to think about, okay, we could do this in one time, but wouldn't it maybe be more wise to your point to break this up into two different cycles? Yeah. Okay, we're going to, you know, get to an actual maintenance place, be really consistent, focus on these habits. Then now we're ready to diet. We go through, we lose maybe 25 pounds. Yeah. Then we reverse again. And now we're going to gain some weight back, which is understandable. But now we're starting the next diet cycle much lower. And then we're actually going to be able to go down and down. And then that's how you're able to actually attack those goals because losing 40 pounds once means literally nothing. Like do we actually want to lose the 40 pounds? Yes. Then we could say, okay, now that's going to take us a few years. But if you say that like, oh, it's going to take me a few years, then there's no sense of urgency. Right. It's like, oh, well, I'll get there in a few years. Right. And then, but that's where like breaking it down can create urgency for goals that are more so realistic. And so I think too, like just the sustainability of breaking it down into chunks like that. Right. Because you have that reward, that like dopamine hit of, okay, like I've gotten this far. I can continue to keep going. And over time, like I will be able to complete the lofty goal. But that's such an important strategy is if you have a large goal, weight loss, building muscle, building strength, et cetera, breaking it down into chunks and seasons and chapters is going to be I think super wise on both like the coach and athlete aspects. Yeah. And this goes forever. I mean, this goes for personal development. This goes for, you know, studying for a certification, you know, like there's a certification that I'm probably going to start doing and I'm looking at it. I'm like, all right, there's all these chapters. I'm like, okay, no, let's break this down. Am I going to do this? And how many am I going to tackle, you know, in a month? And then all these things, because if I said, oh, let me just cram for it, well, I'm not really learning anything. But if I just say, hey, I'm going to take it by this dead, this deadline, no matter what, and then that deadline gets there. And then I'm having to like scramble and like push everything together. Yeah. It's also not helping. So setting up a game plan for really all things, fat loss, muscle building, health related, especially things that are going to take a long time. This is so, so key. So the second point is going to be discerning between when you need redirection of your goals and then also when you maybe need to be held accountable to your goals. Yeah. And these two things can feel, they can actually present very similarly. So there's like this very tight line of like, where do we like make that turn? But both of those are incredibly important because we can set a goal, right? Let's say it is the beginning of the year for, you know, all intense purposes. Hey, January 1st, I'm going to, here's my large looming goal. Here's how I'm going to break it down. I'm working towards it. And then I don't know, it's May. And now you've hit this crossroads, right? And it's either like, okay, do I need to redirect? Is this goal no longer serving me? Is the way that I'm achieving these goals no longer serving me? Do I need to redirect my focus to other goals and other areas that are more pertinent? Or am I convincing myself that because I'm really like not interested anymore in doing this kind of work towards this goal? And I'm just kind of slacking. So I'm not getting the rewards that I want to because of my lack of focus, which then maybe, okay, now I need to be held accountable. But those two things look and feel very similar. And that will often sound like clients saying, well, like, I just feel like my heart's not in it anymore. And well, that's why like the heart is deceitful. And that's why we don't rely on our feelings. Yeah. Somewhere in the Bible, it says that. Um, I'm bad. Like, I can't remember the verse, but anyways. Um, yeah, that's why, like we tell our clients all the time, emotions are fleeting. That's why we do have to rely on our discipline now. Um, de, we definitely want a client to enjoy the process. So if they do get to a point where like, I am just miserable, then that's a case by case basis. But most of the time when someone says like, ah, my heart's just not in it because there's this one weekend, I really want to go and party on a boat all day and drink all day, even though I'm like 12 weeks out from a show. Like, no. Yeah. We just need to like put that aside for one day. We can get on that boat once your show is over. Um, situations like that. Yeah. Being able to distinguish, okay, do we need to kind of push through this temporary feeling or, um, you know, are we just really needing to be held accountable? And I think that you made a really great point there. Like for that example, right? Like something fun came up and I want to do this. This is maybe going to be ear me off. Well, is this something that is like one time or is this something that has happened, you know, maybe even just a few times? Or is this something that's like nagging and persistent every day you feel this like heaviness and like this just like not an alignment kind of feeling. That's very different than saying I would like to go enjoy this one thing, but to your point, you could probably go do any other time. Right. Um, or I mean, to be honest, you could still go on the boat and just not drink, but that's a whole different. And that's coming from me. So that's like a whole different. If you got a boat, you went Tampa with a boat. We'll bring you energy drinks. Boat plug. Yeah. Free coaching. No, I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. We're really trying to get on this boat. I did not sign up on this. Not Coastal. That's a lot of good. Just kidding. But really, if you have a nice one. Anyways, back on it. It's all gel. It's a weird week. It's not even the week that we're recording this, but we're just in a funny mood. No. A lot of times those are singular events or let's say you had like a crazy week or even a crazy two weeks. And then the client will be like, this maybe just doesn't feel right. It's like nothing would be feeling right at this point. Especially in like philosophies and contest prep. There are times where, and that's where it's so helpful to have like an objective point of view or wise counsel to be like, Hey, I'm here to just like, I know everything sucks, but I'm going to like push you through. That's so important. Oh my God. Yes. Especially when we're talking about contest prep, like that's a whole different beast. You know what I mean? Because literally there are so, there are so many days, especially towards the end, that are so brutal, just given like the low body fat. And there is no logic there. Like there's no logical thinking. It's all emotional at that point, which is why you really have to say, okay, there's a singular goal. Let me focus on this. Let me continue to execute. But on a less extreme example, again, there's weeks, you know, you had a really stressful week at work. You had to travel. You had some family drama. You and your partner had an argument. You got your period, whatever. All these things might happen in one fucking week. And then you're like, no, this fat loss phase isn't working. And it's like, well, maybe this week wasn't the best determining factor, right? Right. Now a month in a row of things happening and then, okay, hey, maybe let's, maybe let's have a diet break. Yeah. We don't need to scratch the whole thing, but maybe, maybe let's adjust our method. And then after a few weeks of adjusting a method, well, let's see. And I do that a lot with clients. Like when we're kind of in this weird phase of like, yeah, do we want to keep pushing? Do we not? Yeah. And then it's like, all right, well, let's at least maybe take a diet break for a few weeks. We'll have a few meals, you know, that are kind of untracked. And then let's regroup or let's go to habits for the next four weeks and work on these other goals that you have. And then, okay, let's revisit it now. Where do we want to start? And that's really where the beauty of obviously coaching is going to come in is because we can be that person who is discerning from a, you know, detached perspective. That discernment is so hard when you're in the middle of it. And it's totally possible to achieve it, but it does take a lot of reflection. So yeah, I would say that there's sometimes it's not just like the goal that needs to be scrapped. Maybe it's like the method of achieving that goal can be adjusted and altered. And sometimes it's just like a tiny, small thing and then everything feels so much better. Yeah. I mean, like, effort fatigue is real. So like just when you've been grinding for so long and then you're like, I feel like either I'm not getting anywhere or I just need a break or a redirection. Like you mentioned diet breaks are super helpful. Deload weeks when it comes to training. And sometimes I'll have people like, de-load for two to four weeks because they're just feeling so run down or just be like, hey, like take a week out of the gym in general, because they're just feeling like this and getting to a point of burnout. And that's not what we want either. Like I want all my clients to look forward to go to train and like I want our plan to make their lives better and not feel like it's adding more stress or it's making them feel worse. Obviously, like there has to be some discipline. There has to be some like self denial in the sense like you're going to have to sacrifice something for a goal that you want. But it's being able to be honest with yourself and know like, am I just a little tired from pushing or do I really need to change directions because like this is no longer the goal I want to pursue. Yeah. And then after that, it's okay. Let's take a few weeks to maybe just reflect on some of the changes that have been happening in your life and your environment and those kind of stressors. And then after that, and when things have maybe calmed down or gotten more normal, all right, let's maybe potentially change our method. And then if after that point, it's not working, then we can maybe redirect. But it is something where we don't want to make these rash changes, especially when there's a lot of things going on in someone's life. I'm not going to be like, Hey, let's just pull the plug on this goal completely redirect because then it's like, that's a whole nother energy source. You know what I mean? But they have to to abide by sometimes, yeah, small changes. Hey, let's, you know, not track dinner or hey, let's get back into tracking because sometimes as much as we obviously advocate for being intuitive and tracking habits, we very much advocate for tracking macros and that making people's lives a lot easier as well. So sometimes it's about adding that back in or you know what, like work is really crazy this time of year, your training is programmed for four days, but three days is more is going to be better for the next month. Well, that's one small tweak that instead someone might have looked at their four week four day program and said, I can't do this. And now they train no days, right? But instead now we're training just three days and now they're hitting all of their sessions. Yeah. So a lot of times we could testify things, be all guilty of this, like I'm just as guilty as everybody listening, you know what I mean? So it's like, it's one of those things like, Oh, well, the week already started getting away. Why is it getting away? Why? What can I change right now that will make things a little bit easier? And I, you know, you still have to make sacrifices. Like this is not to say that every day is going to feel great. It's going to feel like rainbows and sunshine and the fucking gym or you're going to want to eat your stupid meals sometimes. But like you just, that's anything in life. You know, like that's not, that doesn't mean that we need to change your goal because you're like, I'm really tired of chicken. Well, join the club. You know, because like, Oh, we want you to like punish you and make you feel bad. It's like, sometimes we have to do things. It's like, you know, maybe I don't want this right now, but it's what I prepped. It's what I have. I don't have time to do something else and that is going to take me off of this. So I'm going to be here. I think so many people who step into like this world of health and fitness, like for the most part have this mentality of like all or nothing, like I'm doing things a hundred percent or I'm just not going to train at all and feel guilty that they have to go from four to three training days a week. And like, no, like that is way better than you not training at all. It's way better that you maybe track some habits and not track your food at all. And you'd like an idiot. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah, let's not, let's not do that. And that is, of course, that's like the crux of everything that we do is trying to find that, you know, balance. I've always wanted to find a different word besides balance because I really feel like that's not the word, you know what I mean? Because it's not, maybe you still say it structured flexibility. Yeah, structured flexibility. I think is the epitome of all of this, you know what I mean? Like there is some structure and there is some flexibility and we can't have, it's just like flexible restraint. Like you can't have one without the other if we're talking about both. If we're trying to achieve all of these things, we have to have both of them. And I think it's really good to think about it like as a spectrum of like being super flexible and being super strict. We want to be somewhere in the middle. Sometimes you have to like teeter a bit more on the strict side, depending on your goals. Sometimes you have to teeter a bit more on the flexible side, depending on your circumstances. Yeah. And that was actually one of the main things that I actually took away from Andrew Huberman's lecture was, and we talked about a lot of things obviously, it's like a whole hour long lecture, but he rooted a lot of things in a continuum, right? And he talked about sliding up and down the continuum for different effects. So I think that's a really nice way of framing things because it's like, okay, that is now we're no longer like a balance. That means, okay, well, you know, we're never going to achieve perfect balance. So then I guess we'll just be, we're either always trying to achieve that and then we never feel like we are. Like we always feel like, oh, I'm not balanced. Or we're like, well, fuck it, balance doesn't exist. So I must be one or the other here. And then that leads us to feeling not so great either. So the idea of kind of that spectrum of that continuum and like you're, you are choosing how to slide up and down it. And we're talking about, you know, flexibility and restraint. Obviously there's going to be two different areas. But just in general, like your goals, like all of these things, like you can pretty much look at almost anything in that lens. And sure, like being in the middle might be the best thing, but also it might not be. Like sometimes you have to be on either end of that. And that's also okay. But that's where that discernment comes in. And then lastly, for goals, which ties very nicely into this, it's just having support and accountability. And this is so important. You know, no one is going to wake up and change, you know, a habit or a behavior or their life. That's why me and Lauren text each other every morning. Are you up? Are you up? No, we, well, we were supposed to do that last week. We both like effectively were like, she's like, Hey, I need to be held accountable for content. And I'm like, same. Okay, let's do that. We'll, we'll set up a text. I was like, and also can we do like a morning text because, and I need an evening text, like my life is just like, crazy right now. We just need like an automated text service. Are you in bed? Go to sleep, bitch. Yeah. Literally, it was just like yelling at us. It's like Gordon Ramsay's voice over. Oh my God, that would be hilarious. But yes, you're not going to change any habit, whether it's something silly. Well, it's not silly what time you wake up, but like that's a, what seems to be a really small habit, but like something like that, like, Hey, we need to hold each other accountable here. Because that's really going to help us. Like we both obviously are capable of waking up at a certain time, like no shit. But sometimes external circumstances pull you out of that and you just need a little bit of help. So having support is so important. That's of course why coaching is so vital and so life changing for people is because now you are being held accountable in a different way. Right. There's just no two ways around it, but whether it's a coach, whether it's a friend or a partner or, you know, coworkers, whoever it is, doesn't matter who your accountability and your support system is. You are ultimately the one that has to do the work. And, you know, people can sign up for coaching and knock it a lot out of it because they don't want to share enough and they don't want to put in the work to make those changes. And you, we could create the best, what we think plan, ask the right questions, but someone still has to be willing to share and be vulnerable and be open so that we can reciprocate and then they have to make those changes. Same thing as therapy. Like you, I went, one of my first therapy sessions, um, you know, as an adult, I went in and pretty much I talked my way around everything because that's how I know how to do things. And I literally left there kind of feeling like he was like, why are you here? You know, because I was like, and that's how I felt like, Oh, well, I'm fine. I was like, well, I just wasted my time. Like he didn't say anything. And then I was like, well, no, because you wasted his time because you weren't willing to be vulnerable and actually share things that were fucking useful. You talked and danced your way around things. So like you can say, I'm going to therapy or like, I'm on a new training program, but like, are you going into the gym with intention? Are you trying to actually make these changes? So everything that you do is going to come down to that. Um, and you are responsible for doing that work. And that all stems from our daily habits and our behaviors and our mindset. So like, what are some of the behaviors that you find that when you're doing them, you feel better? Like, like it makes everything better. Oh, one thing that like truly is has such a domino effect on every aspect of my life is being very strict about my screen time in the evening and going to bed on time, because that is just one thing that like, if I slip in the wrong direction, I will either be in like a rabbit hole of working on my computer, like in my bed till 11 or midnight or just scrolling because I just don't, don't want to do something that's better for me or more productive, like actually read a book or try to like do some breath work or meditate. Like I just kind of want to like let my brain go on autopilot when it feels good in that moment, but it feels terrible the next day and the following day. It feels so bad the next day. Yeah. I definitely have something to do with the light and the screen because it's not just the, I don't know, there's just something about it. Like literally, I feel like my eyes literally hurt. I think it's just like the, yeah, the shortest, but I mean, besides like the melatonin suppression and dopamine suppression for the following day. But yeah, like you were mentioning, I feel like having an objective point of view, that accountability coach friend or whatever, at least for me has always helped me rationalize decisions that I want to make based on emotion. Because if you have someone who is not emotional and can help you see logic when you are feeling emotional, because it really is hard to make logical decisions and wise decisions when you are feeling emotional, tired, stressed, et cetera, having that person to tell you like it's, it's not that terrible. Let's walk it down. Like you don't have to catastrophize is so helpful. And to piggyback off the last thing you said, man, like I, and I feel like everyone can relate to this in some way, shape or form, like be there, had a friend or family member, like we tried so hard to help. You can bring a horse to water, but you can't make a drink. And so that's the touch on the aspect of we, you can pay for the most expensive coaching, you can have like the best gym equipment in your house. You can have an ordering, an Apple watch, all of the supplies, but if like your intention is not there, if you're not willing to do that work, hiring a coach will not automatically help you achieve your goals. You have to be honest with yourself and ask yourself, like, is this the work I want to do? Hopefully the answer is yes, because we would love to help you get there. But it's also being honest with your thought, honest with yourself in that sense of like, okay, I'm signing up for this. And just having the realization that like there's a lot of work that I have to put in, even though I'm hiring someone to help me, because yes, we do a lot of the work, but like you have to meet us halfway. Oh, absolutely. Like it's not like you're outsourcing someone to wash your car. You know, like, hey, I want this done and I don't have time to do it. Someone else is going to do it for me. Right. Oh, I need to get my house painted. I'm going to pay someone to do that. Like those are transactional things. When we're talking about making internal changes, that is going to be something that can be led and guided and supported, but it has to be intrinsically motivated. And you have to be the one who are doing those things. And I just found that for me, like the, there are certain habits and behaviors that really, really help me. And then certain things that really, really hurt me and like pull me off the the screen time at night is certainly one of them just because like, again, it's, it is so, it's so much easier. I mean, at least reading is not passive to me, like at all. Like if I'm tired, like I'm, I mean, my brain is trying because I don't read. Maybe if I read like fiction books, it would be different. You know what I mean? But I don't, I don't read any fiction books. So everything that I'm reading, like I am trying to be intentional about it. And that's why I've actually started. I've always kind of done this a little bit like underline or highlight, but I, now pretty much will not let myself read unless I can do that because for how my brain works, actively doing something keeps me, even if I don't go back and read that necessarily, just retain it a bit more somehow. Yeah. I retain it. And I'm just taking that effort, that bout of effort more seriously. If I'm underlining it or, you know, doing something, not just like, Oh yeah, that was a cool page. You know, like I'm actually doing that. It's keeping me more active. So like at the end of the night, if you are tired, like, yeah, it is hard because reading actually is intentional. Breathwork and meditating is very intentional and tiresome. I remember I was in the middle of a meditation class like a few weeks ago and I literally was like really trying to obviously channel everything and do all that. And I was like, Oh my God, I am so tired. Like it's, it seems so like ridiculous. But it was like, I was just tired. I don't have a channel that you know what I mean? Because it was like, this is a lot of effort. Yeah. You're not just sitting there. No. You know, like it is very intentional. So to your point, yeah, like scrolling is easy because there was no effort involved in watching something. Yeah. But then that is going to like what is going to affect you in the long term. So screen time at night is a huge, huge one. And the part of it too is like it is comforting in a weird way. Yeah. Like if you're by yourself, it is comforting. Yeah. It sounds like a strange thing. Yeah. Yeah. Like, comforting is the only word I could think of. Yeah. Like comforting, you just like don't feel as lonely like because there are some videos on TikTok that you're like, oh my gosh, this is so funny. I relate to this. Yeah. Yeah. And it's even, it's even different than like watching a show. Yeah. Cause I feel like a watching a show, you're still like observing, but I feel like obviously with social media, you kind of feel like you're in it a little more. Yeah. Especially with the way that people film. Shit. Now like you just feel so like immersive and that's like a little fucking screen. It's crazy. Well, yeah, because like social, like that is the, I think genius, like behind social media, it's like creating content that resonates with you so that you hit that like button so that you share it with someone. And so yeah. I do want to talk about one thing that just popped up because I feel like for whatever reason I work with clients who really struggle with this a lot, but I do know that there are a lot of people who are probably listening to this podcast who've never stepped inside a gym before. And I think that the like anxiety around like going to the gym and like starting that as well. I've just have a few people in mind who I'm thinking about, like just being in their heads and thinking about all the things they tell themselves when they're getting ready to go to the gym, they're like getting dressed and they're like, like I can't do it. And it's, and there are so many strategies and habits that I've helped those people come up with to help keep them accountable. And so I think it's super important for us to create a plan for those people as well. So if you've never been into the gym. And like it's, it is gym intimidation, a little bit intimidating. One thing that has always helped me, even though I've been training for like 10 plus years now, there are still times where I really don't feel like going to work out. Some things that really helped me personally, especially like being in CrossFit is just the community aspect. And one thing, the first thing that I will try to recommend to most people because like, I feel like we do need community. We are like tribal beings is if you're a little bit nervous to go in by yourself and you've never been, try to have a friend.  go with you or schedule a time with someone or like, like scheduling an appointment or a date, like, we are going to me at the gym at this time. Has been super helpful for me, has been super helpful for clients that I've worked with, but what are some recommendations that you would make for someone who's never stepped inside a gym before, who might have a little bit of like anxiety around starting it for the first time, etc. I would definitely say to maybe consider either hiring an in-person trainer or even starting with a group-based gym. So there's some that, you know, if CrossFit, you know, obviously CrossFit is a lot, that's not something that we would probably recommend for somebody who's just starting out, starting working out. I mean, there's obviously modifications, but you know, even like a kind of a bootcamp class style, that works so great for a lot of people when they're first starting because it's going to be high energy, you know exactly how long you're dedicating towards it and it's, you know, Yeah, you're being told what to do and there's a lot of other people there. So I would say that either getting a trainer or going to one of these classes could be really, really useful just because this is now and it also, you know, maybe the one-on-one situation could be a little overwhelming for some people, but now if we're in a group, say it's, you know, like a bootcamp class of 10 people, you know, not all eyes are on you, right, but there's still enough people, but you're still having the guidance and it's still high energy. Yeah, it's kind of like or even like a spin class, right? Like something like that is going to be, you know, like pretty dark, you know, nobody's really going to be, you know, noticing stuff. So you won't have to feel as intimidated there. And then from there, I would say it's really important to continuously push yourself there and say, okay, I tried this, I did this, how am I going to keep going, how am I going to keep growing from here? Okay, now, maybe I did hire a trainer or maybe I'm at these bootcamp classes, maybe I also get a gym membership and go once a week or twice a week on my own or maybe now I step foot, you know, and do this on, you know, alone or I do get a personal trainer or whatever it might be. I think that it is important to, to stick with something that says, okay, I'm going to do this and, you know, make sure that I'm kind of leveling up constantly because it is really easy to fall into that. But dude, even I feel like that sometimes going to the gym, I mean, literally it's been like 15 years of lifting. Like I know what I'm doing. I felt a lot of this, a lot more kind of when I was in that between stage of not really competing anymore, people still knew that. Like I always, I kind of started going in and feeling like, well, people are going to look at me because I'm obviously like, don't look like I'm competing. And it's like, well, it's kind of like that like embarrassment thing, almost, you know what I mean? So that, that's certainly something like, I know a lot of people will struggle with, you know, maybe they had, you know, lost a lot of weight before, then they gained it back and then they don't want to, you know, I've worked with many clients like that, you know, for whatever reason, you know, they come to me, hey, you know, I was at this body cop before this happened. Now I'm here and now I don't know what to do. You know, so I would say that, you know, there might be people who make comments and whatever, but for the most part, nobody's really tell me who it is. Because I will go beat them up. I'm just kidding. Oh yeah, I'm going to do some damage. Cheat them up. Just kidding. Just kidding. Please don't come for me. She like swings from like the CrossFit rope and just like kicks me. Yeah. You just little like, don't do that. I just get so frustrated with people who are like mean and disrespectful. You know, but you know, most people, Protective Karina side. Yeah, whoa. But no, most people are not going to be saying anything, you know. Yeah. Most people, honestly, most people are going to notice it's, it's all internally. I don't really notice anyone because I'm just so focused on myself. I am not thinking about you. I'm like, how do these boots look? Yeah, it lets me honest. Most people are there in their own, they're in their own head, but I get it, you know. So maybe, maybe you have to go to a new gym, you know, maybe if you're like, this is too, like this brings up too many memories, too many past things. So that's like holding you, every time you walk into a facility and all you think about is your old self and now you just have these negative thoughts, get the fuck out of there. Yeah, I don't care. I don't care how fucking good the gym is. I mean, there's a handful of gyms that I would say, okay, that gym's worth it because it's a good gym. But generally speaking, most people are going to normal ass gyms. So if that's you, I would definitely consider moving your environment because if you're putting yourself in a situation where you feel awful every time you go somewhere, you're now going to continue to view yourself in that lens. So it's probably a better idea to maybe switch facilities until, you know, maybe, it's like you would talk about like, looping it back to the beginning, like, sometimes having, you maybe need to have certain things out of the house right now. And some people might say, oh, that means you don't have a good relationship with food. That's too much. That's, no, it's not. That's knowing yourself and having an understanding of what may be challenging you. Yeah. You wouldn't tell an alcoholic or somebody who, Yeah. Or somebody who struggled with alcohol before. Oh, just keep this in your house. It'll be fine. You're not fine. You're not drinking it right now. No. I mean, that's such like a, I understand what people are saying, you know, to some degree. Yeah. I understand the concept and the framework. But at the same time, it's not always a solution. Right. Now, does your house need to be literally just, you know, tilapia and salmon filets? I mean, no. No. Right? Like that's not like, hold up. No, let's not do that. Here we go. I'm in some issues, but let's get some steak in there. Yeah. He's getting, but like, that is not, you know, that's not, we're not trying to say you need to have this like absolutely perfect, you know, environment, but you do want to set your environment up for success. Like that is absolutely critical. Like nobody makes good choices when they have a bad environment. And, and even if you did, why the fuck would you do that? Like why are you making it harder on yourself? Why not make something? You're already doing something hard. Yeah. Make this hard thing easier on yourself. Yeah. It doesn't mean that it's easy. It just means that you're making it easier for yourself. Instead of harder. Yeah. Like you're purposefully making it harder and like the more that you do that, the more barriers you're putting up for yourself. And then maybe, maybe you really need to reflect and say, okay, is this because I'm really too scared to make this change? Because every time you look back and you continuously self-sabotage on something, it's because you don't think that you can actually rise to that level and like make those behavior changes. Yeah. Absolutely. And I did want to like, we've got back to our beginners too. I think that's what I love so much about our app as well. Sometimes personal trainers can be quite pricey, but we provide so many options for training programs. We have video tutorials for every single movement and just everything's very well progressed. And so if you're someone who is stepping into this world for the first time and maybe even a personal trainer is a little bit too nerve-wracking, would absolutely recommend the Redefine Healthy app. Yeah. And we have at home, there is a few different options. So you can choose three or four days of lifting, build muscle or lose fat at home or gym. And 45 or 75 minute duration. So there's a lot of different options that you can choose. And there's a ton of exercise adjustments in there. Like you can make adjustments on the fly if you need to and swap things out. And like you said, the videos, like that was a big reason why I wanted to use that platform because of the videos. And it's been really helpful. So many of my clients who are using it are like, oh, thank you so much. Like I like don't have to like screenshot things anymore or like, you know, like maybe you know most things, but there's like two things on there that you're like, wait, how do I do that again? Yeah. So yeah, we have a lot of really great options on there as well as the meal options as well too. So definitely there's so many ways that you can reach your goals. Like I mentioned, this is not going to be like the only podcast on goal setting, right? Yeah. There's a lot of different ways, but I wanted to, you know, we wanted to break down this framework of kind of how to look at your goals. And first I would really say sit down and give yourself an hour, you know, to really reflect on what were some of the things that worked this year, what did it, where do I want to change, where do I want to like put my focus and my energy this year and then go from there. Yeah. For me too, something that I always do. I mean, at least it helps me. It's like trying to envision where my or what my life will look like if I attain that goal. And if I follow all these steps to attain that goal and what my life will look like, if I don't, and if I do the total opposite, you have something to run toward and something to run from too, which is super helpful. Absolutely. And I think that that's a really critical piece that a lot of people forget about. Yeah. They just see what they're working towards, but then because that's, What are the consequences? Yeah, because that's still out of like sight and out of mind, essentially out of the picture. When we don't achieve it, we're like, oh, okay, whatever, but we don't really realize that we're slipping back into these other things that are actually like taking us 10 steps backwards. And then that's when you kind of look up and you're like, wait, where am I? Like, who am I? That's where those kinds of things. Or it's been three years and I'm still in the same spot. And that's like where it's really insidious. Like it's not this like big thing that happened. It's like these small, tiny steps. Sneaky. Backward. Sneaky, sneaky. All right. So if you guys are interested in the app, like Karina mentioned, you can go to redefinehealthyapp.com, check out that for coaching and more information on that. You can visit teamlocofit.com. We hope you guys have an amazing New Year's, New Year's Eve, whatever you celebrate. We have to go somewhere because I got a cute Ash shirt. So it's a very holiday shirt. The edition. I'm sure it's going to be popping. Yes. Okay, let's do it. Hope you guys have a great holiday and we'll talk to you next year. Bye. So cheesy.