 welcome back to another episode of the LocoFit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlin, and this week I'm joined by our team and health counselor, Rick, and we're gonna talk about ways to improve connecting with your partner. And I'm really excited to get into this, and I think this is something that comes a little bit more naturally in the beginning of a relationship, just because there's all these positive feelings and there's all this newness of the relationship and just getting to know someone, but certainly that does taper off at some point, and that's actually where the real great stuff of a relationship does happen, but this connection and building upon that as the relationship progresses is so important. Yeah, and I think this is a really misunderstood aspect of relationships because when you get past the initial dating phase, when you're with somebody, whether it's six months a year or whatever it is, the beginning of the relationship you're filled with, tons of excitement, the relationship is new, and so it's constantly on your mind, and so you're thinking of like, fundates and things to do because everything that you're doing in the beginning of the relationship is the first time you're doing it with this person. And then what ends up happening is, is as we kind of move away from the euphoric phase of the beginning of a relationship, and we start to get into what a relationship is a year, two years, three years, four years down the road, where it gets lost are the small moments of connection that actually exist, which are bids for each other's attention and connection that get lost. And all too often I think one of the things that happens is people tend to replace these things with acts of like these grand gestures that don't carry the same value as the small moments in the relationship throughout the day, and throughout the week, throughout the month, et cetera. And so I think sometimes people lose the ability to understand the right ways to connect with each other because with the exception, you know, when you're talking about breakups, which is ironically the topic of our next podcast, going through a breakup, what does that mean? The majority of relationships don't end because of abuse or infidelity even. They end because there's an emotional distance between you and your partner. There's a resentment that has set in, there's an emotional gap that comes, and so it's just like we're kind of, we're frustrated completely with each other, and so we're separating. It's not every relationship isn't ending because the result of an affair or some sort of physical or psychological abuse. And so this is why this episode is particularly important and this skill to develop is particularly important in saving and maintaining your relationship because without it, your relationship is going to suffer in the long run. Does that make a little bit of sense? Yeah, and I think it's a great point that you made there in terms of people making maybe these grandiose gestures, you know what I mean? Like, oh, here is an expensive bag, or here's a trip or something big that we're gonna plan or a party or whatever it might be, right? And it's like, oh, that'll be something, they'll really understand the magnitude of how much I feel for them, but then it's like all those little things, so the day-to-day stuff is really what kind of adds up over time in terms of somebody maybe either developing some resentment or kind of moving apart. I think it was Peterson who said this, but it was like every time you walk in the door, like when you come home, like literally every day you're gonna walk in, and if you come in in a bad mood, or you're angry, or you're loud, or you're hostile, or whatever, every time you greet someone, like that is something that could be very different, all those negative emotions versus a positive emotion. That's something that you do every day that a lot of people don't even think about because they're coming in, and they might have all the right in the world to have those feelings, but it's like if someone is being met with that every day, like how can you expect the partner to be like, oh, I'm excited for them to come home, because it's like, oh shit, what's gonna happen? Like they're very volatile, and of course there has to be a level of understanding, like not every day you're gonna wake, you know, you're gonna come home and be like, oh my God, it was the best day ever, but there has to be some level of communication there and some awareness really. So yeah, let's get into it. Yeah, so what is a bid? What is a bid? Please, because I was really struggling with this, you guys had no idea. I was like, a bid? Like I like this idea, but I'm really not sure, so please clear it up for us Rick, because I think every, maybe not, maybe it's just I'm alone here, alone here, but I think that this was a confusing thing. You pick up on so many other things, like from this realm, I just think why is this is hard for you, I don't get it. Never heard this term. The term bid. Like in this context. Oh, okay. Well, so the term in and of itself, like when we're talking about responding to bids or bids for connection, and it does come from the Gottman Institute. So it's not like, you know, traditional, like for example, like schizophrenia, right? That's a term that every clinician, everybody uses because it comes from the DSM. So unless you kind of subscribe to Gottman or follow some of their teachings, you might not have heard it phrased as a bid, but almost every relationship counselor on some level, not counselor, but theologian, whatever, developing, who's ever developing some of the material, there's some form of ways to connect, strategies, steps, things to do to connect emotionally to the relationship. So the best way to kind of think about a bid for your partner's attention is, this is nothing more than your partner's attempt to connect with you for attention or emotional connection in some way, shape, or form. And so you have basically three ways to respond to somebody's bid, essentially two, let's just call it two. You can either turn toward the bid or you can turn away from the bid, right? There's a third one where it's turning against the bid, which is, you know, more punitive in nature, but essentially that's also turning away from the bid. And so when we talk about turning away, it basically means somebody's doing something in the relationship where they're looking for help. So a bid can be verbal or nonverbal, okay? It's an action, it can be a gesture, it can literally be a request, even a verbal request. So- Hold on, let me stop you. So this is something that you are requesting or you're doing for someone or both? I'm doing, like if I'm in a relationship, I'm going to say or do something perhaps subtly or not subtly to get attention from the person that I'm with because I want connection, I want somebody to connect with me. So like one of the more common ones is people will talk about the sigh, right? So like somebody lets out a sigh. Okay, so we're going to pretend you and I are dating. Oh, great. So you're sitting on the couch, I'm sitting on the couch, I let out a sigh. What's your response? You ignore it, perhaps, right? No. What would you say? What the fuck, I'm just gonna, what the fuck are you sighing about again? No, I would, you know, question where that's coming from. Let's say I'm in a positive mood. I'm gonna check in and ask why you're sighing. No, even if we're in an argument, I would definitely do that as well. So yes. Okay, so that's a good example though. That's a perfect example of you turning toward the bit and responding in the way that I would want people to respond to you because I've told everybody before who's ever listened to this and listened to me talk about relationships, like take the guesswork out of it, tell somebody exactly what you want. And as time rolls on and people become more comfortable voicing their opinions and asking for things, that becomes easier to do. But a lot of times we still require, or we still rely on kind of like subtle ways to engage the person without necessarily telling them I'm looking for attention or I want connection or something like that. So if I let out the sigh and I'm like, and you're like, hey, what's wrong Rick? What you've done is respond to me and you've actually asked a question. You've shown interest, you've taken it, you've made effort and now I can engage. I can be like, this is causing me frustration at work. At, you know, my mom is bothering me or my sister or whatever the situation is. Well, now I'm dialoguing with you and what are we doing? We're connecting. And so in this moment of frustration or sadness or depression or loneliness, make some sort of attempt, either verbally or non-verbally to connect with you. And based off of your response, I either get that connection or you turn away from that connection. So you either turn toward me and start to engage in that relationship where you turn away from it. Yeah, I could be like, what's wrong? But obviously that's the same phrase, but how I said it, the person is certainly, like I'm definitely turning away from it and the person is probably not going to want to be open or maybe they will, but then they're just upset, you know? Well, and sometimes how you say something, and I've expressed this to people too, how you say something is actually more important sometimes than what you're actually saying. And somebody's like, give me an example. And I was struggling to come up with one. That's a perfect example. And so I came up with this one. It was much more relatable. There's a song by Ice Tea called Cop Killer, okay? He's screaming the word cop killer. When it first came out, it was horribly offensive to everybody because of the way he was saying it. And I said, but yet no one has a problem with the Eric Clapton song, I Shot the Sheriff, right? Like when you think about it, like, I shot the sheriff, like it's this catchy little melody, it's there. And then you hear Ice Tea going like cop killer and he's like screaming it. They're talking about the same thing, but you have a very different reaction to one or the other. Why? Because of the way that the message is presented. So how you say something sometimes is actually more important than what you're saying because people will infer based off of what they feel. And so Lauren said she was interested. That's what her words said. But what she really said, what's fuck off? What's wrong with you? Again, I don't want to deal with this. Or yeah, what's wrong? And then I'm like scrolling or I'm trying to like, if we're on the couch, try to watch something or go do something in the other room, like, yeah, what's going on? But you're not really being engaged with the person. And so what you've just done is it's like, I asked you what was wrong and you didn't say it. It's like, no, you didn't really ask. You weren't there, you weren't connecting with me. You didn't actually care. I could pick up more on your sarcasm, which mattered more in that moment than what you were actually saying. Because what you were saying didn't matter. It's what I could feel. And so understanding that how you say something, the inference behind it, is more important than what you're actually describing to the person. I mean, you can read studies. I've seen studies that go from like 70% up to 90% of all communication is done non-verbally. And so what is that really saying? It's not so much what you're saying. It's the energy that you're carrying with it. It's your mannerisms. It's your gestures. It's the effort or attention that you're putting into something. It's all the things that aren't being said but are being done. And so when it comes to a bid, turning away from a bid looks more like not responding at all, ignoring your partner completely, which is really very common. Just kind of not really engaging in that aspect of the relationship, not asking questions, being like, oh, that sucks. Now, sometimes that's what's needed. It's a difference between being like, that kind of sucks and not caring versus God that sucks. And what a difficult thing it is to deal with that at work. Very different in that space. Turning against the bid might be really questioning the person and turning into them. And like, why are you upset again? Now, why are you upset again? Yeah, same phrase. But said very differently. And so what I'm really doing is I'm coming at you from an accusatory perspective. And when you go back and look at the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, now I'm criticizing you. And so defensiveness is going to start to creep in. Because when I approach you like that, what are you going to do? You're going to get defensive and you're going to start arguing back. Why are you coming at me like that? I can't talk about my work anymore. I can't talk about my family anymore. It starts to make the person defensive. Yeah, like, oh, this happened again? Or like, you said this last time, like, why would you let that happen again? It's like, well, fuck, I don't know. That's why we're talking about it. So I think that there's like, sometimes I do, not sometimes, I do know that a lot of people mean certain things in the right way. But sometimes their context maybe comes off wrong. Or their tone does. Like maybe that's the only way they know how to communicate. Especially with people who have very strong personalities. Like there are some people who are just going to be very like, here's what's the problem? Let's figure out the solution right now. And it's like, hey, sometimes you want to just be like, here's the situation. I just want to talk through it. I don't necessarily need to have a final answer, final dissertation right now. But that's going to be obviously a personality mismatch. There's just going to be some people. I would say a lot of couples probably struggle with that. Some people are just very, very aggressive in terms of trying to figure something out right then and there. And I would say that typically not always, of course, but generally speaking, men are very like that. In my experience, there's a problem. Well, we're going to find a solution right now. And it's like, whoa, maybe not. And then for a lot of women, not all, but for many, it's more of a longer, slower process. And maybe I'm biasing this because that's how I process things. But in talking with a lot of friends and clients as well, I do know that there is definitely a different emotional level to conversations in terms of just being able to express those things and work through it in a verbal way instead of just we need a solution right now. It's like, maybe I'm just saying it, and then we can address it another time. And then, but I feel like there are some people who just have very strong personalities who want to close that right now. Like, OK, what's the problem? Let's figure it out. Hey. Hey. Yeah. And that's not always, I know, it's not always a male-female thing. But I would say generally, maybe more, maybe more generally. I don't know. Do you see that in your couple counseling? Absolutely. Not even in couples counseling. Just in men and women, we tend to process things differently. And so we are speaking in general terms, because not everything is applicable to every person. But generally speaking, when men hear a problem, they think about it more linearly and from this logic perspective. Because they aren't as conditioned to process emotions. So if we're looking at an emotional mind, a reasoning mind, men tend to go more from that reasoning mind in terms of, oh, you're having an issue with so-and-so at work, or this is creating a problem in your life. Do this. Here's the steps that I would do. First of all, you didn't even ask for my solution. Men have a tendency to kind of volunteer those things. And that's something that even I've had to learn to do over the years when people are talking about something like, I might be like, we'll try this. And I have to shut up and mind my own business and wait for somebody to actually ask for, what do you think I should do? Or what guidance, what suggestions do you have? And sometimes it's not even that direct. Sometimes it's like, OK, well, what options have you explored? Like, your husband's not responding in the way that you want him to. So what have you been doing to get him to think about things differently, how have you been communicating that, et cetera? And you start going down that road. But I think, yeah, men tend to listen to a situation and immediately try and find a solution versus what sometimes people are really asking for is just that you're listening and that you're sharing this space with me. And it doesn't have to be anything else other And guys, it can actually be really freeing. I don't know how many men listen to the podcast, but it can be really freeing sometimes when somebody's telling you something to not have to come up with a solution for it. To be like, wow, that's tough. Or that sounds really hard. Or how sad, how depressing. Or here's a better thing. Sometimes ask them a question. Here's one. How did you handle that? What are you going to do about that? That sounds challenging. Have you thought about what the solution for that's going to look like? And then the person might be like, yes, I have. I've thought about this. Or no, I haven't. What do you think? What would you do, Mike? You're good at business or whatever. What's your take on it? Now we're dialoguing. Yeah. And this goes for other relationships as well, not just romantic relationships. So as you're saying that, one individual, you might respond one way in a romantic relationship, but then in your professional life, in your professional relationships, or your friendships, you're totally different. I'm the same way. I'm so used to being where the coach at, because that's my job, that when there is a problem, I'm trying to help people find a solution. But sometimes, even in a coaching scenario, it does help to take that step back and more so prompt and be indirect in terms of follow-up questions and let's reflect on this. Instead of just inserting, oh, I'm the expert here. It's called something in a book that I read, not maybe the expert trap, but something along those lines. I mean, of course, people are coming to you for solutions if you're their therapist or I'm their coach, but we have to be able to actually listen first. And that's something that I really had to work on over the years, because it would just be like, oh yeah, do this, okay, yeah, do that. And maybe there are certain times, of course, where it's like, hey, this is so glaringly obvious, you know what I mean? Or they've asked that question, but a lot of times there is a more indirect way of going about it. And then when the person does discover it themselves, they're able to actually make that a more sustained change or adjust their behaviors accordingly. Yeah, because it's not. But this applies. Obviously, we're talking about this in a romantic relationship, but you can also think about this, like I said, in terms of any really relationship that maybe, maybe if you're struggling with a professional relationship or maybe with friends, you're like, gosh, I feel like I'm always struggling here with this. Like this could still apply, it's gonna be different, but I feel like it still could. Yeah, absolutely. And what makes this fundamentally important for the relationship is think of your relationship like an emotional bank account, okay? There's a technique of theory in psychology called motivational interviewing, and it relies heavily on like a four to one ratio for positive compliments to one negative. And what the Gottman's actually discovered throughout the course of studying people over 40 years of studying couples is they recognize that the best couples that succeed have a like almost a five to one ratio. And so what I mean by that is this. Your relationship is and exists very much like a typical bank account, meaning every day, every paycheck, like in a perfect world, we're taking money out of every paycheck and we're putting it into our account. We're creating a savings. Will we create that savings for a reason? The car breaks, some sort of emergency, we need that money. So we reach into our bank account and we pull it out. Well, your relationship works the same way. If I don't put anything back into the account when something bad in the relationship happens, I have nothing to pull from. And it's not a one to one, this is not AI did one thing, I can take one thing out, it doesn't work that way. This is switching your mindset to the concept of continuously, consistently investing in the relationship and in this person to the point where when I need to take a deposit out, there's so much in that account already, it doesn't affect the relationship in a negative way. If I'm doing like one or two positive things or responding to one or two bids, but then taking a bid out, it doesn't register the same way as like, oh, well I put two in and I took one out, so I'm still one up. Like it doesn't quite work that way. And so what ends up happening is the relationship fails. I think in some of the most recent statistics and give me a little bit of leeway on this, I think they said like 80% or a little over 80% of the most successful relationships are people who do the five to one kind of ratio, who are able to respond to five. A little over 80% of those relationships succeed. The people who fall below that, there's like only 33% of those relationships succeed, which are 30 or 33% something like that. So you're essentially looking at a 60 to 70% fail rate. And so it's not, this isn't like, I just did one nice thing for the person. And here's the part that I wanna really kind of identify and I think you started talking about it earlier with like the Peterson comment. It's not acts of these grand gestures. Okay, and this is where I think men struggle a lot. I'll hear this a lot from men. I'll hear shit like this. I would die for my wife. Like I would kill anybody who hurt my family. I would do anything for my family. Everything I do is for them, right? And so they're like, I would die, I would kill, I would sacrifice myself. I would do all these wonderful heroic things, but they're not asking you to do that. What they're asking for you to do is show up in the relationship. What does that look like? It means talking to me about my day. I don't need you to die for me. I don't need you to lay on a railroad track for me. I want you to ask me how my day went, right? I don't need you to kill somebody for me. I want you to make me dinner once in a while, right? I want you to give me a kiss at the door. I want you to greet me with a warm hello. I want you to come home and not go right for the bottle, but talk to me about what's happening in your life. I want to get a hug. I want to sit and hold your hand. I want to walk down the street together. That's what I'm asking for. I don't need the grand gestures. I don't need the diamond ring. I don't need the trip to Paris for three weeks. This is what I need to make the relationship work. And I think sometimes men get in that trap of, I'm going to give you all these wonderful lavish gifts, but never show up in the rest of the relationship. And I've seen women do this too, especially women who are successful. Believe it or not, successful women have a tendency sometimes to fall into those same traps too, especially ones who have a lot of money or are very worker career oriented. It's like, let me buy them a watch, right? Or let's just, I'll get them a car. It's like, well, that stuff works for a minute. And then you get tired of being alone. You get tired of not connecting. You get tired of feeling like there's nothing in the relationship for you because the person doesn't actually care or to connect with you. Does that make sense? Yeah, no, and I would say that those statistics sound about right, you know? Like whether or not they were perfect. So yeah, I'm going to give Rick simply, which would be like 76.5 or something. And then people get upset. But no, like generally speaking, that makes so much sense because it is those daily tiny interactions. And it's like, yes, the big grandiose things are exciting and they matter. But I would say that it all kind of stems from a place where somebody is putting something else first and then this situation maybe could be more career focused, at least with the example that you gave. It can be hard because if you are either running a business or you're very career focused just in general, like there's a lot of time and effort put into that. So then it feels hard when, because it's like, you know, and just to play a devil's advocate, like that person is like, hey, I'm providing in this situation, you know what I mean? Like monetarily instability. And I'm the stable person. Man, could I just like, do I need to talk about all this stuff? You know, right? Like I do get it. You know, like I could see both sides because I understand both very fully, but it does have to be that kind of meat in the middle. You know, and maybe that person is, you know, they're really gonna struggle with those kind of small bids and those like small acts of connectedness. But maybe there's like a happy medium to like reach and that's where that communication is gonna come in. Like, hey, listen, I don't expect you to like, you know, do like this laundry list of things, but maybe like these are the things that are really important to me. And like whether people like the whole five love languages thing or not, like the concept I think is really useful in terms of framing like, hey, this is how I feel loved. Like all of those things, like nobody can deny that they like all of those things, right, like on the list. Obviously some more than others, but it's not necessarily like, oh, like this, I really like this. No, it's what makes you feel loved or cared for in a relationship. And that's gonna be very different for everybody. So saying, hey, like, you know, if you're kind of getting to this frayed point, it's like, listen, like, I know that, you know, this is where a lot of your time, energy focus is and you don't necessarily maybe see these things as important, but these few things really matter to me. And then I think if you're able to express that and someone is able to make those steps towards it, then that's showing you, okay, yeah, I bet they're not gonna do all those things, but it's like, hey, I would really appreciate if like, when I cook, you did the dishes like that or whatever, like that's so silly or small or, hey, when you come home, like that we greet each other at the door and it's not like, hey, you know, like it's an actual greeting, like it doesn't need to be 50 things, but maybe like these one or two things that we establish and hey, what's something that makes you, you know, feel this way, right? And it could be something that like you, the partner is like, I don't care about that. I don't like that. It's not about that, right? It's not like, what do they care about? What do you care about? And then finding that like middle ground. Yeah, and like you brought up the five love languages, like that is a tool that you can use and this is where you start layering things. Right, if I know what your five love languages are or not, I know what all five are, but I know what your two or three primary ones are. Well, it also starts to guide some of the ways that I can provide bids for you. Like for, so for example, if yours is physical touch and you're sitting on the couch, like I can come up and rub your shoulders for a few minutes or I can say, hey, let's go for a walk and hold your hand. Like I can do little things and that's gonna register with you. Those are little bids that I'm making for connection. And I don't want it all to just fall on like, okay, so I'm just supposed to use the five love languages. No. No, I only brought that up as like a framework. Yeah, it's, but it's, it's a, it's a great way to say, like, okay, if I'm making more of an effort and I want to do these things, how do I start to show them visible ways so that they can actually see I'm making these connections and these bids to connect with them? And so like, think of this as expressing your interest in something like, or your partner's interest and expressing excitement or affection. These are, these are what bids are. And we want to respond to them in appropriate ways, right? Like, so for example, I could see somebody like sitting at the table or at their desk, like working on something and they start to get frustrated. And so they kind of like, ah, this is driving me crazy. Right? Now I could see that as a response, like an opportunity for a bit, like, hey, what's going on? What's making you so crazy over there? And then the person can be like, fucking nothing. I'm just like, it's this bullshit. Like I'm, I'm fucking frustrated. Right? And just, no, you can't help, like, just leave me alone. Like, let me work on this. Well, you also just shut down my response to you, right? So here's how you start to incorporate some of these things. Like, perhaps you recognize later that like, okay, I didn't respond to my partner's bid appropriately, Rick's bid. So later that night, what do you do? You know, maybe we're going to bed or we're coming, you know, we're, we're sitting on the couch watching a movie or something like that. And you kind of hit pause and you say, hey, you know, an hour ago you asked me what was wrong and I didn't respond. And I just want to say thank you for caring enough to ask. Like, I didn't respond in a great way. I just want you to know that like, I didn't miss that and thank you for that. And so now you're kind of accepting a little bit of responsibility for how you responded. And am I going to feel angry with you still? Probably not. Like, I'm going to be like, okay, cool. She recognizes it. She's making an effort to bid toward me. And so now like, okay, great. Thank you for that. I appreciate that. That means a lot to hear from you like, and then, you know, maybe you move a little bit closer on the couch. Maybe you kiss each other a little bit and you keep doing those things. Because we all know anybody who has been in any relationship, it is only a matter of time. It is inevitable that you're going to have problems in your relationship. It is, it's a certainty as death and taxes, there's going to be problems in your relationships. And so in order for the relationship to really survive when tragedy or difficult times or challenges or obstacles come up, you need to have an emotional bank account full of reserves. You need to have money in the bank in order to pull something out to pay for the damage that comes later. Does that make sense? Okay. So think of it as just again, like a bank account and I want to keep making deposits over and over and over again. And I'm going to go over a list in just a second of like what are some common bids because some people might be like, I still don't really know what a bid is. Yeah, I was going to say, let's give some examples, which we have, but I think that that would really. Let's jump toward those. Okay. So here's kind of like a basic checklist. You know, there's like 50, 60 items on this that you can do. So here's an example. These are just examples. You guys can create your own, figure them out, but here's a good starting point. Checked in with one another at the end of the day and talked over events that happened in the day. So, hey, how was your day? Tell me what happened at work. You know, what'd you have going on? Now you're talking. Stayed in touch with your friends or your family. You went shopping for groceries, perhaps together or separately. Maybe it's something that you always do, but now I'm going to do it for you. I'm going to do that little bid. Like, hey, I'm going to the store. Do you need anything? Like, yeah, that could be a great bid or like, no, I don't, but I'll go with you. Or do you want to go alone? Like, yeah, I know you've been frustrated lately. Do you want to? That is a big one, right? That is a big one. Sometimes like. You just want to be alone. Yes. Oh my gosh. And people who get that get it. And people who don't just don't. I will never forget. I was with my friend and I was like, hey, again, this is a friendship context, but I was like, oh, I'm going for a walk. I'll be, she's like, do you want to go for a solo walk? Or do you want me to come with you? Because I have to go for a walk as well, but I totally get it. If you want to go for, I was like, I want it to be a solo walk. And I really appreciate you asking. Cause if she had just said, hey, I'm going to go walk too. I wouldn't have said no, you know what I mean? Because I was like, that's rude. And I obviously enjoy her company. And I was staying at her house, but the fact that she even said that, I was like, I know you get it. Like you just, you get this. So sometimes you need a solo trip. So. I'm glad that she was able to recognize that. And that you were able to be honest enough to say that with, cause there's sometimes I think there's that risk of hurting the other person's feelings and how they're going to internalize that, which is common people do that. But it's like, Especially in a relationship. Cause you're like, oh, you know, they're being nice. I kind of want to, you know. Well, and if one person tends to be like more quality time and like want to be a little bit more involved in the other person's perhaps a little bit more introverted, you know, and they're just like, I just want to be left alone a little bit. And it's not about them because you could replace them with anybody. ogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogen I'm not going to do it. Cross off newspaper, read the same book, or read different books. Read different books, but at the same time. But at the same time. There you go. There you go. Called your partner during the week, planning a workout together, texting somebody before a meeting or before an important event, like, hey, good luck. Or thinking about you, I love you, whatever it is. Just letting them know those little things. Go on a date with your partner without the kids. Went out on an overnight getaway with your partner to a romantic place, shared morning breakfast together during the week. How often does that occur for most people? Very rarely do we make time in the morning. People sleep as late as they possibly can before they have to get up to start the rest of the things that are going on that day. And what you recognize is when I ask somebody, and I ask this all the time, I say, you had a plan for today. And I'm like, yes. I say, tell me about it. And they tell me all of their day, and nothing in their day relates to their relationship. Right? It's like I had to get up, I had to go to work, I had to do the meeting, I had to do all these things. There's no part in that day where they were like, oh, I was going to text my wife or I was going to call my husband or I was going to stop at the store and get his favorite candy or something like that. Right? It's just never in there. You look at your day, your planner for the week. What's in your planner? Most people do not have specific things or times or plans that they're doing. And then they're going to wonder why the relationship is struggling after five years or 10 years or whatever it is. Doing yard work together, shared physical workouts together, going on weekends, doing things together like a picnic for example. Spending time together with the kids like bed times, baths, homework, that kind of stuff. Taking a long drive together, watching a video together, watching TV together, ordering dinner or takeout together. It doesn't mean you both have to be on the phone, but just doing little things to connect. Watching a sports TV together, sharing your favorite activity, finding an activity for the two of you to do together. Maybe you like going to the gym. I like to ride motocross and you don't want to go to motocross or I don't want to go to the gym. But instead we're going to figure out like, oh, we both like playing racquetball or something like that. I love, you guys can't see if you are watching this on YouTube, please zoom in on Lauren's face just to watch her facial gestures when I read this list. Like, what? That doesn't make any sense. I'm like, it's so stupid. I was like, do you like motocross? I was like, I don't think so. I was trying to rack my brain for any conversation we'd had about that. And then I was like, I think this might just be an example. Yes, it was just an example. I feel like people who listen to this sometimes are like, can this fucking guy talk about anything other than Jiu-Jitsu? True, true. So motocross, like something that you're not going to do. You could have said like ride a bike. I mean, I don't know, fucking anything. So it's motocross. Just came to my, well, because I was going to go with like shooting and then you were going to be like, I like shooting because I know you and I was like, so I was trying to find something that you would not say that to. You're right. I would not ride a motocross bike. Like I barely ride a bicycle. So. All right. So let me get back to this list. Quality time, not motorized things. Build a fire together, sit in front of the fire together, listen to music together, went to a concert together, went dancing together. I'm just going to keep, I'm going to ignore you and just keep reading this list. Go to a nightclub together, go to a theater, go off to eat. Took kids to different lessons together, attended a different sports event, wrote letters, wrote cards to each other, took a vacation together, planned something together. It doesn't matter what you're planning, plan something together. So going back to the, sorry, I'm going to cut you off. Going to the. Sorry, but you're going to do it anyway. Yeah, I'm going to do it anyway. Um, when, you know, I know that obviously people, everybody's busy, right? Especially if you, you know, have kids and there's so much going on, you know, pretty much, I don't ever really talk to anybody. They're like, man, I just got shit going on. Like, no, everybody has things going on, right? So you know, people are going to use planners. They're going to like, you said all this stuff is in your day or in your week, but your relationship isn't. Do you think that it's important to like plan these things ahead of time or like keep them spontaneous or kind of do like a mix of both? Cause people are probably thinking that, right? Like, okay, I want, obviously it's planning like a date night at a nice restaurant that might need reservations, right? So that seems kind of obvious. Um, but maybe keeping other things like, Hey, like Wednesday night is our night to do something, but we're not going to, we're just going to kind of decide like, right? Um, I'm not really sure if that makes sense or not, but I just know that some people are going to be like wondering, okay, do I put that into kind of the, the weekly plan? Um, or like, how do I do that? Well, and I think yes. So the correct answer that I think is both because some of the stuff you're taking a very proactive approach with, like you said, planning a dinner. So fine. I'm going to call and make a reservation somewhere. But I also think there's a spontaneity in this, that one of the difficulties in a relationship is that people take the relationship for granted. They get really comfortable in the relationship and we stop actually investing in the other person. So like there's a difference between making a dinner reservation and planning a special date, which a lot of the things they just read as bids were essentially date nights, right? Versus you're sitting on the couch or you're frustrated and you're coming home from work and I'm not engaging in you in a dialogue about what that frustration is. Right? So like here's, here's some examples that the Godman Institute has given, you know, people on some of their literature. So here's like do's and don'ts. So partner number one says, isn't that a beautiful boat? And the second partner gives no response and just stays quiet. So you didn't respond. Right? That's the don'ts. Because I said, wow, isn't that a beautiful boat? No, I know what people are, some people are going to think like, does that mean I have to respond to every little thing, every single thing that they say or do. And it's like, no, but what they're doing is they're attempting in this moment to actually have a conversation with you. And so what they really want is to be acknowledged. Right. And so isn't that a beautiful boat? Yeah. It looks like just like one of the other ones that we saw just last week. Or even if it is like, no, I think it's ugly as shit. Like you, it could at least still be saying that because then that's still like responding and then that's still like a conversation. Like you don't have to lie. If you're like, oh my God, that's such a beautiful boat. And you're like, no, that's just ugly. You know, you could say that. Right. Oh, no. I mean, did I create a new bid? If you're buying a boat and he's like, do you like this one or you're like, do you like this boat? Then give an opinion. Like, no, I think it's kind of like a lie. I think it's ugly. It's ugly. How about say like, what do you think is pretty about that boat? Yeah. There we go. There's a better way to respond. Okay. But it would be like in a joking way, like, no, I don't like that. I wouldn't be like, no, I don't like that. You're stupid. Okay. It would be like, no, I don't like that. But, but be aware of the fact that if I'm like, oh my God, that's a beautiful boat. And you're like, that thing's ugly as shit. Like there's a little bit of, what do you like about that? That would be the question. But if you said, no, things ugly as shit, right? Somebody might feel less inclined to start sharing their opinion around you because they're going to feel a little bit judged and criticized. Yeah. There you go. Why am I asking? So that would be an example of turning toward or away. We're not doing it. Okay. Now, Lauren, these are examples. Other people wrote, I didn't. Okay. So the more newspapers involved. All right. Let's see. All right. Here's partner number one. Here's the don't that jerk at work for, I didn't show up until really late and I missed my bus home. I'm sorry that I'm late. Partner number two responds by saying, why are you bringing Fred up again? I'm so tired of hearing about your work problems all the time. Who cares about Fred? You're late. Quit trying to blame it on Fred now that your dinner's ruined. Right. So sure they responded, but in a very negative way. So here's a better way to respond. We know what the person said. So that jerk at work, Fred didn't really show up until late and you missed your bus home. I'm sorry. So that's what they said. So partner number two responds with, dang, what a drag. Like, I'd like to ring that guy's neck too. Or aggressive examples here for it. Now, now we're getting into Lauren's low language. So the partner could respond with something like, yeah, me too. Partner number two could say, yes, I'm upset that you didn't call and that dinner is now a little cold. Right. Partner number one could say something alongs of you're right. I should have called. That was a little insensitive of me. I'm sorry. Partner number one, a partner number two could respond by saying, yeah, you know, we have kind of talked about this before. Partner number one, not being defensive. It can be like, yes, I know. I guess I was just so absorbed in what was going on in my life and not showing up. I completely forgot about calling. So what are we seeing? We're seeing taking responsibility. And then the other person can say like, okay, well, what do you want to do for dinner? Well, how about I take you out since I run dinner tonight? You know, it's my treat. Like, great. And so now we're working through the relationship. We're not arguing. We're not criticizing. We're starting to pull from multiple cues here. We're starting to look at the four horsemen of the apocalypse and the way that we communicate. We're not trying to criticize people. We're trying to more or less complain, which lowers defensiveness and all the other things that come with it. I'm also taking responsibility or you're taking responsibility, whoever it is in that space by saying like, okay, I didn't call. I was late. I wasn't considered in this space. And so recognizing that is really important and taking responsibility is equally important because it doesn't make the other person feel like they're always wrong. Yeah, I think that's a great way to kind of tie this all up. And because I think that sometimes people might think this only has to be like, oh, you just have to respond in like a positive way. And it doesn't need to be like that. There can be this dialogue of like, the other person maybe is upset or wasn't handled properly. But like in that example, there is this dialogue, there is this communication of figuring out, okay, hey, like this happened, here's how I responded. This is how I felt. Maybe we can come to a conclusion to not do this again. And again, it's not to say like, oh my gosh, nobody can ever make a mistake in a relationship. But it's about like, if that person was just like, yeah, it's fine. But really they were upset that you didn't call saying, hey, you know, like next time this happens, like just call me when you're leaving or when you're late, especially if you're on a bus, like you have no excuse. Anyway, you know, but you know what I'm saying, like there is there's different steps. It doesn't just have to be like this positive thing all the time. Like, oh, I did this for you. Like, yay, good job. Right. Like I think that it can be this kind of back and forth and that still is this encompasses this topic. Yeah. And so I guess if I'm going to just kind of give some kind of final takeaway points from this is remind yourself that there's two, there's two major responses to a bid. You're either going to turn toward it or turn away from it. You want to create the habit. And I say create the habit of doing this because it's going to take some time. And what are the best way for you guys to start to approach this is to have a conversation with your loved one, right? Whoever that person is, the person usually for the romantic relationship we've been talking about, sit them down. Hey, I've been thinking about our relationship a lot lately and I would like to know what are some of the ways that I haven't responded to you in the past that you would have liked me to respond. You know, I've just learned about this thing, you know, bids for the relationship, like what are things that you think I could be doing to kind of help? Like, and it can be anything, right? It can be when the person, again, they're verbal or non-verbal. So when a person lets out a sigh, like ask what's going on, inquire about that. Part of that might mean putting your phone down, turning the TV off and like actually engaging in a conversation. It could also mean greeting them at the door with like a 10 second hug and an actual kiss. It can mean sitting down and having dinner together, holding each other's hands, getting up or folding the laundry together. Like you see the other person doing something. Go and offer help. Hey, can I give you a hand? Do you need anything? No? Okay. I'm like walk away. But it's this constant bid to connect with the person. And if the person, what you might also recognize is some people are really good at making bids, but then the other person is really good at rejecting those bids and turning them away. And so it's like, I need to work on my receptiveness toward the things that you're saying and doing. And so this is how relationships become healthier and more robust and stronger so that when major tragedy happens, you're able to withstand it. And so I think, you know, remind yourself it's not always about the grand gestures. It's the little moments within the relationship. How are you turning toward each other? And I've always believed and I've been striking to, or not striking, excuse me, I've been striving to really reiterate this with my clients and that remember the purpose of the relationship is for you to serve. And if you're going into the relationship reminding yourself that it's my duty, my job to care for this person, to be there for this person emotionally, physically, in every possible financially, whatever spiritually and times. And to remind yourself of that duty to the relationship, it means then that you're going to come, you're approaching the relationship from the perspective of what am I doing to connect with this person? How am I looking to serve them? How am I striving to improve the quality of the relationship constantly? And if they're doing the same thing, you're both going to be putting deposits into that account. And then when something happens, you'll be okay. It won't break the relationship. You won't even doubt the relationship. You won't be like, God, is this, do I have to leave? Should I break up? Do I stay? Like, it won't even be an issue. You won't even think that you'll just be like, okay, you don't know, like life 90% of the time is really great. We just have, you know, like one or two things that happen on occasion that we know how to work through. Why? Why can you work through it? Is it because you communicate? Well, no, it's because we've been putting so much love into the into each other that the relationship can stand, you know, things that attack it. Absolutely. So I hope you guys really enjoyed this podcast and learning more about bids. If you had not heard of this before, um, maybe I'm the only one, I guess we'll find out comment. If you had never heard of this terminology, I mean, I totally understand it. Like I said, I just never heard it presented that way. So I'm going to give myself a little bit of credit there. But no, this was really great. And I think almost everybody can benefit from this. I, you know, of course we talked about this mostly and the lens of a romantic relationship. But if you are maybe struggling in some other areas, you can certainly use this to reflect as well. So if you guys are interested in reaching out to Rick for consulting, we will put his email below, but say it for everybody. Full circle therapy, FL at gmail.com. And for more information on our coaching services, you can visit team look of it.com for one on one coaching. And if you're interested in our subscription app, you can visit redefine healthy.com. So thank you guys so much for listening. If you enjoyed the show, please share it and we'll talk to you next week.