 welcome back to another episode of the Local Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and this week I'm so excited for our coach interview, because this is our newest coach, Hannah Hardy. Welcome. So pumped to have you on the team and just to go through this whole interview, so people can really get to know you and know your story. No, I appreciate it. Seriously, I'm just grateful to be a part of the team and I'm just ready to get people to know me and just, I don't know, just start the adventure. I'm just really excited to be a part. Yes, no, we're so happy to have you. So give us a little bit of background. Where did you even start with fitness? Like you're a very accomplished athlete now, but where did all this start growing up? Yeah, so I pretty much, I was a multi-sport athlete all throughout my life. I started with swimming when I was super young, and then once I hit middle school, high school, that's when I dabbled with pretty much all the ball sports, volleyball and basketball, tennis, softball, you name it. I just, you know, tried and I went to a pretty small school, so it was pretty easy to make a team and they were like, hey, you played this sport, let's go on this team. And they always do that, like, oh, you're good at this, you should try this too. Yeah, that was not the case for softball. That was by far my worst sport. Just the hardball coming super fast at you. I had a lot of junior Olympians on my team, just like all my school team. So I was like, I'm just going to hope that they walk me. That was pretty much my entire experience with softball. Yeah, I can't even like catch a ball. So don't. We had to do, I went to one of the CrossFit classes, you know, two weeks ago, and we had to do, this is super easy, but like, I don't even know what it's called when you squat and then you like throw the ball. Oh, yeah. And then you catch it. Yeah. It's like hitting me and I'm like dropping it. Like, oh my god, this is so interesting. It's okay. I think half the time, I mean, most of the time, it just like hits me in the chin, in the nose, every single rep. And I'm just like, well, at least I caught it with something. Like a three point contact with my hands. But I started getting into general fitness to prepare myself to go to the Naval Academy, actually, or to get a Naval ROTC scholarship. And that happened around my sophomore year. I just incorporated just more running because that's what you really do for PTWISE. And then going to the gym and I pretty much this hit like the typical like bodybuilding splits, because I didn't know anything else. That's what I saw on Pinterest and bodybuilding.com. I had no clue. But I was like, well, this is what this is what I need to do. I actually got pretty fit that way. And then nutrition wise, I after I'd say probably like a half a year of just focusing more so on the fitness side of things, I realized that nutrition is even in bigger part or an equal part, especially for muscle building, recovery, fat loss, because I wasn't like the most like healthy kid growing up. I remember even before a practice or a game, you know, I get like the 10 piece McNugget with a large fry and a large sweet tea, because that's totally what fuels you. But that's what I did, like at least in high school. So I really started to dial in my nutrition. And that, like, in a sense, just kind of like teacher totter out of control. So we can go into that a little bit later. But that's pretty much my experience just with under eating and under fueling really actually sparked my passion to want to coach people because I didn't want anybody to end up in the same boat that I was for so many years. Dude, absolutely. I mean, that's a different story, but similar, right? Like in those areas with our backgrounds, like, you know, growing up, having an eating disorder, and then it kind of spiraling, right? Like it's starting with something that's not so, so bad, and then it can really spiral. But seeing how you can come out on the other side of that certainly is like, okay, wow, I really don't want other people to deal with this. And what you talk about is a very common story, you know, like it is so crazy to think that like, especially and maybe it's different now, I don't know, but like in high school, there is no like even talk of like healthy eating. And like, to be honest, I feel like the athletes eat the worst because they're not really most of them seeing the like physical side effects of eating like that because they're training so much, right? But it's like, it's so common just for athletes to eat, like just trash, you know, and like not really. And now I don't want to say like, oh my gosh, we have to be diligent with nutrition in high school, but there's a level of like quality food. And you know, talking about that. And then yeah, like when you're talking about like Pinterest and stuff, I didn't even know Pinterest had training or nutrition things on there. But I guess they have everything, right? And that was kind of like my experience with the, you know, the magazines and like the the blogs and all that stuff, you know, you see those. And you're like, Oh, well, so and so is doing this, like, let me try that, you know, and I think a lot of people start in that way, which thankfully, there's definitely a plethora of information out there now. So hopefully people are at least finding things, finding the right things. There's also plenty of not great stuff as evidenced by a tip talk. And you know, we'll literally send me stuff and I'll be like, how does this have our many views and saves and like people are thinking that this is a good idea. Right, right. No, I get I get blown away sometimes. And I mean, I already get flack for doing CrossFit, but just like seeing some of the other stuff, I'm like, man, it's like, man, people like that. But or really think like that's like, I mean, not to say it's like, Hey, if that jump starts someone's fitness, by means do it. But at the same time, I'm like, Oh, my gosh, I get so much flack. People think I'm going to injure 24, I'm going to be injured 24 seven. Yet, like, here's like someone doing just like some exercise that I'm like, either is a is dangerous or B, I don't even know what it affects. Yeah, that's a whole different. That's a whole different rabbit hole. But the thing with CrossFit, so let's I want to get into that. So you finishing out high school, what was kind of the next step to know you were really successful athlete and then kind of how did you transition, you know, to the to the next thing? Yeah. So once I started training from the Naval Academy, I definitely had and just ate and under fueled. I had a few stints in the hospital for anorexia. And but when I was really just wanting to get back in the fitness, I dabbled in CrossFit for a little bit of my junior year in high school. One of my family friends did it. I just saw it on ESPN with my dad. And I was like, Oh, my gosh, like this is the coolest thing in the world. And then he just brought up that my family friend did it. I was blown away, of course, CrossFit lifestyles different than the sport. But I mean, we do the same movements, the same workouts, just the intensity and maybe the complexity is a little bit higher at the sport level. But I pretty much switched over to CrossFit during my senior year in high school, instead of playing basketball, because I'm pretty short, I'm five four, it's not the best for basketball player. And I just took off with it. It really helped me just like frame my mindset of, Oh, I need to fuel if I actually want to do this competitively, or even even as a lifestyle, I mean, CrossFit, I love that it's not only to improve one's fitness, but to improve one's health overall. And that's what gave me more body positivity. I loved what I could do in the gym. I wanted to do more just like as a person. I started to realize that looks for one thing, but performance was something completely different. And I was really focused on the performance side. Not to mention, I still had my aspirations to go into the go to the Naval Academy. So a lot of times CrossFit has prepared people to go into the military, the seals, all that. So I thought that was also a really good, you know, fitness program for that, maybe a little bit better than what I was doing. And, you know, now here I am, man, like eight years later, still doing it, still going strong. And I mean, there's been a lot of progress along the way. Yeah, would you say that that was the big catalyst of getting past your eating disorder was focusing, finding something that allowed you to focus solely on performance? Because previously you were an athlete who was focusing on performance, right? Like all the different sports you were playing and training for the Naval Academy, but something seemed to be different about CrossFit. So would you say that it was like that shift from, you know, that shift towards performance? But really, like, what was it? Do you think that kind of helped you get past that? I mean, really, it was when I was training for the Naval Academy, pre-CrossFit, I think just because of maybe either just the blogs I was reading, or I was getting attention at school from the guys, finally, that was super new. Like, I really liked the way I looked. And I think- When you were getting thinner? Yes, when I was getting thinner, when I was losing weight, I was, you know, like, I was getting fitter. Like, I was, you know, consistently running, like, you know, low six miles, which was like, for like three to five miles, I was like, man, I am the best running shape of my life. I don't know about now. Just through that, I was, I think I focused a lot more on just the way I looked. And I was like, hey, if I looked a certain way, I would perform a certain way, and I would be more so accepted by the Naval Academy because I looked apart. And through that, I just had this unhealthy obsession with the way I looked, and I thought just the less I ate, the more I worked out, just the more accepted I would be at, like, either just, like, at school or just career-wise and goal-wise where I wanted to be. And when I switched the CrossFit, yes, like, the, like, people are, I mean, the athletes, like, everyone shredded and jacked, and things like that. But I was just looking at, especially I was, so I was 17 at the time, turning 18, that was the first year of the Teenage Division in the CrossFit games, immediately aged out, of course. But I was looking at people who were just like, you're younger than me, and just like, seeing, like, what they were, like, what they could do. And it was so amazing that people younger than me can clean a drink, 225 pounds, and do 15-plus umberkin ring muscle-ups, things like that. And then just, even the people at my gym, I was blown away with what they could do, and they're winning all the local competitions and going to regionals back in the day. And just seeing that, that's like where I switched of, oh, if I want, if I want to actually be that, I, it doesn't matter how I look, I just need to feel, I need to feel myself properly. And if I feel good, and I'm performing well, like, that's, that's what I want to go after. I want to go after my performance best. And not to say that I still don't, you know, want to like, want to look the part. And sometimes, like, I do like, look around me sometimes with where I'm at Training Think Tank, which is a big coaching organization, and some of the athletes, I'm like, whoa, like, I do not look that, that way whatsoever. And I kind of got a little tease for fun, like, at my old CrossFit gym, because everyone was shredded in Florida, and then there's me, like, coming in. I look fit. But you definitely do. But I totally get it. It's, it's just different, you know. Yeah, it's totally different. And I think, and I really just do think just, like, each year, it's gotten easier and easier to look at, like, look at myself and say, man, like, I think about what I'm capable of doing, rather than be like, oh, man, I have the greatest six pack, or my biceps are looking great, and things like that. And I think it's taken a lot less pressure off of me, too. No, I love that. And I think that there's, you know, part of that is just growth and maturity, right? You know, we realize, okay, we're not just our external attributes. And that doesn't mean that you don't have, you know, physique goals, and it doesn't mean that you don't hold yourself to a certain standard. But there is this different interplay of like, I'm training because like, out of like, love for myself, out of love for competing, out of performance. And, you know, if I want to make some changes to my body comp, I can. But also, the, you know, the number one thing, especially with performance athletes is like, performance is number one, you know, and a lot of people will see, you know, there are those people who are jacked and shredded and super athletic year round, you know them, I know them, right? And it's like, man, like, what, like, what gives, right? But that's just, you know, genetically speaking, there are some people who are going to fit into that category. And that's okay, you know, I'm not saying I'm not taking away their hard work at all. But, you know, there's just some people who are going to be able to have that kind of physique, and still perform at a high level. But everybody has different body types, everybody has different body shapes, you know, I could be like, man, I really wish I had this, but it's like, I got legs that are so long, like the chances of me having like, round, full muscle bellies is like, pretty slim, right? It's not like, oh my gosh, I don't like cry myself to sleep over it. It's just like, okay, this is the reality, I can appreciate that and other people, I can work towards, hey, here's this goal that I have for myself. And I think that you've done that really, really well. And I love that that was what was able to get you out of that headspace, because it can spiral, especially when, you know, that's really where I start to see a lot of the issues, especially with clients, is when people are getting that positive reinforcement from others, like, because people aren't like, oh, I want to feel your eating disorder, they're just being nice, you know, they're like, oh, they're genuinely most of the time complimenting. So it's like, oh, wait, like, do I have to, you know, like, that happens a lot of times with physique competitors that we work with, you know, like people are, you know, you're sharing your process, people are excited about it, they're making comments. But then afterwards, those things stopped, it's like, oh, was it only because of this and whether that's a conscious process or a subconscious process, a lot of us kind of gear towards that, because it's like that external, those external feedback and validation is, it does feel nice, I don't care who you are, I don't like, everybody likes it, you know what I mean? So, but it can spiral really quickly. And it's certainly not something as sustaining as like what you found is more of this kind of internal, like, okay, this is why I'm doing this. And that's what you know, the extrinsic versus intrinsic motivation that, you know, psychologists have talked about for years and years, like, that's really where a lot of this comes from. But I'm so happy that you found this and you are, you know, past, did you need to, and you said you had a few stints in the hospital, did you see a therapist, did you see an RD, like, did somebody kind of help you along that journey, or was it just like all self directed? So, I mean, throughout the process, I did, it's like, I had both, I had a family therapist because I was 17, 16, 17 at the time. So, my mom came to my appointments and we talked things through. And then also, I had an RD while in the hospital. But it was, I was, I think, there, it was, I was so amazed at like, what they were telling me to do. I was, I mean, while in the hospital, I'm, I mean, I pretty much ate the same things all the time, because I, I mean, with me, I had a obsession of focusing on healthy foods, that orthorexia, that I mean, it's not a medical term yet, but it's starting to pop up in different circles. But at the same time, when I knew I needed to gain weight, I mean, my lowest weight was, I think, 94 pounds. And that I was not, it was not good whatsoever. I was willing to eat more, but I wanted to eat it just in a healthy way. Like I wanted to be a healthy weight gain, not be just, you know, eating pizza and chicken nuggets and things like that. And, you know, I was blown away when I remember the RD coming into my room and saying, hey, like you've ordered like the same things all the time, like, you know, the scrambled eggs, which I don't even think they're real eggs. And then just a grilled chicken breast with, I mean, I had like a potato or an vegetable, things like that, PB and J's for snacks. And she was like, why don't you get the, the chicken tenders or the hamburger and or pizza. And I said, well, I want to still try to eat healthy, like throughout this process, I know that I'm at a low weight or like significantly low weight and I need to gain it back. But I still want to be healthy. And she told me that was the eating disorder talking. And that blew my mind. I, I just was like, okay, well, I know that I'm, I'm still somewhat afraid of these unhealthy foods. But it was me reaching out and being like, okay, like I'm eating, I'm eating cereals for the first time. Even though that was like a big step for me. Again, like PB and J's were, I didn't want to eat bread back then. And that was a big step for me. So I thought I was hitting like, you know, I was hitting these goals of like, okay, like I'm getting out of my comfort zone. And, you know, like facing my fears of these unhealthy foods. But when she told me that, oh, my eating disorder is talking just because I wanted the healthy foods, that's what really blew my mind. So I like, once I got to CrossFit, I think when they're like, Hey, you can fuel and we also focus on whole foods. Like that was, I was set. I was like, thank you. Someone like someone is like, telling me that like, I was right the entire time. And not to say I love our medical system, but it was just those things that was blowing my mind of just saying like, okay, like just because like I want to eat healthy, or I remember I asked for 2% milk, because that's the milk I prefer. I full fat milk. I mean, man, I can drink like a sip, but like a whole glass gonna have, I don't have a stomach ache for days. And they're telling me that was like, that was my eating disorder, just telling me to get the 2% because it was lower in fat. And that was blowing my mind. So I mean, that's a long answer of, I really tried to go these different routes. But CrossFit's really what set me on the path of, okay, like, yes, I can gain weight, gain healthy weight, and get back to a normalized weight, but doing it in a healthy manner and not sacrificing that food quality side of things. And then from there, that's when I got my own nutrition coach, and we focus more on macronutrients and, you know, and now I'm still doing that currently to this day. Yeah, absolutely. I love that feedback because it's, it really is what that just says to me is that each person doesn't have enough time with the patient in that situation, right? Because on a surface level, right, if you're like, Hey, I don't want to eat this, like, I can understand that feedback. But at the same time, it's like, you have to understand like the client's motivations and like really where their headspace is at. And if you are making these changes, like, that should be celebrated, right? And those small changes and health should still be there. Like, yeah, sure, you can eat pizza. First of all, who the hell wants to eat a burger at a hospital? I'm just like, I'm like, nauseous thinking about that. And I like burgers, but it's the last thing that I would order. So like, and again, I know that's what they have access to, but it is so interesting how like, and this is just what we see so much in the industry, it's just, it's completely paralleled, like there is just such an extreme view on everything. And it's like, obviously, having a needing disorder is not ideal. Like we need to move past that as soon as possible and work through that. But working through that at the detriment of then the rest of your body and the rest of your systems, and just basically force feeding someone, shit, like, like, what, what is that going to do? Like that's not going to help. That's also not even teaching the patient, like what's going on, you know, and we see this all the time with, you know, like the clean eating to then the IFYM taken out of control. And then it was like, you know, all diets are bad, like just intuitively eat or hey, no, track your, like it's, it's always a six stream thing. It's like, you know, you taking those steps, like I'm going to add in a potato, I'm going to have bread, I'm going to do, like those are all steps. And, you know, you know, obviously, I can't speak to the experience or the RAD, but it just, it probably just was again, somebody who didn't have enough time with each patient to really actually kind of develop those, that like rapport and ask those questions. And that's one of the, just the very unfortunate side effects of a lot of the medical system just currently, you know, it's like, yeah, how's this going? Okay, yeah, like, and you have to make those quick, you know, adjustments and recommendations, unfortunately. So I'm really glad that you're able to find something where you were able to have that positive influence in that community. And yeah, there are certainly things that everybody can dog on CrossFit for, which, you know, like, there are certainly some things that are not ideal. But I would say that for, you know, a lot of, you know, a lot of the positives in terms of the community is that like we're basing this on performance, we're basing this off of like quality food and fueling yourself. So like you, that was honestly the most perfect thing that you could have found, you know, and also taking advantage of the skills and strengths that you have just as an athlete, because you're very athletic. So I'm glad that you're able to get through that. And, you know, obviously, everybody has days here and there. But overall, you would say that you're probably kind of fully past that, right? Yeah, yeah, no, I, a lot of times it's, I mean, with me, it's just I like even just like buying solace of eating whole foods. I mean, my friends make fun of me, I eat a lot of fruit. They'll see me with a huge bowl of blueberries to like, fruit the best, who makes money for that? I think it's just like, man, that's a lot of blueberries. But I mean, with me, it's like, man, I, it's like, these are the foods I enjoy. They, I was like, I know they give me, I mean, less stress than if I eat like a bowl cereal or things like that, even though I still do that. It's just like, I crave the healthier things. I really enjoy that. And with me, it's like, that's, I mean, I know that's going to fuel me as much as anything else. And yeah, like, I, again, like I have my days, but in like, in the end, it's, you know, like, we were talking about the extrinsic versus like intrinsic motivation stuff. It's, I like, I love just like the way I perform. I love like the way like, I was like, I love myself as an athlete, a daughter, a doctor, like a coach, like those are the things I take pride in more so than just the way I look now, which is, I mean, I hope everybody gets that point. Yeah. And that's, that's our goal, right? And that's why you want to coach and you've been, you know, you've been doing different types of coaching before coming to Team Look-O-Fit, just in a different kind of capacity. But yeah, I love that. And I think that there's, there is a difference. Like that's really when you've kind of made it over that hump, right? Because I think, and this is not just for eating disorders, this is just in general, but like, there is a big difference. Like you can eat almost anything, right? Of course, again, you know, when we're talking about calorie balance and performance and all that, but there is a really big difference when you're choosing to eat things that you know, you feel good eating, right? And when people start to actually feel that, like I love when a client is like, you know, like, I enjoy these things, but I actually feel much better when I eat like this. And I'm like, yes, like this is, this is finally it. Like that's not coming from a place of restriction. That's not coming from a place of like an orthorexic mindset of like, I can only have this because it's healthy. That's a totally different mindset. What you're saying, and what we hope that clients can get to is, you know, I'm choosing this because this is fueling me and I feel better when I eat these foods. Doesn't mean, you know, you don't have cereal everyone's like, we all have those things every once in a while that we like, but that really is that like actual moderation. Instead of feeling like you have to eat something like that because you're so drawn to it, or you can't eat it because you have to restrict, right? So again, going like that's the real end goal that we hope for everybody. And it does feel truly amazing to be able to do that. So I'm so happy that you said that and you're able to, you know, finally move past it in that way. So now we've gotten to undergrad-ish, right? So tell us a little bit about your undergrad and then also, you know, recent schooling as well. I got my degree in undergrad in kinesiology. While there, I mean, extracurricular wise, I was doing CrossFit. I became a CrossFit coach. And then in school, I focused, we had a huge, kind of like, it was more pretty physical therapy or pre-athletic training focus. So I actually worked with the athletic trainers and the sports nutrition staff for UVA athletics, and specifically for the football team. So that was a really fun experience. I dabbled in that, took a year off because I graduated in three years, and I was just a full-time CrossFit coach. Then the past three years, I've been in chiropractics who want to recently just finished up this December. And I was down in Florida for that, where we finally got connected. Yes. It was so crazy how you were, you know, we did the interview process and I was like, yeah, when are you finishing school? Because I was thinking it was going to be like a normal magrat. So you're like, oh, like next week, I'm like, oh, okay, like, that's so amazing. And how was your, I'm just curious, how was the difference working with the sports nutritionist versus your experience at the hospital, which again, completely different target audience, completely different things. So just curious what, how different that was. Oh, it was so different. I mean, just like seeing the variety of foods they had, it was primarily carp based because most of our sports, I mean, that's what you feel yourself with. And I mean, especially with the football team, I was carrying Gatorade shoes around, just making the Gatorade or the water tubs. I mean, our breakfast and snacks like typically consisted of bagels with, I mean, just like more so like lower fat stuff from like Turkey, just like 2% or fat free milk, the muscle milks, I mean, everything is just like, that's what it was geared towards is like athletic performance. And because football is such a glycolytic sport, I mean, you're not probably not working for more than 10, 15 seconds at a time. I'm like, Oh, this makes sense. And I mean, even just like in training and in their scrimmages and practices and stuff like that, like the amount of carbs they eat, or drink during it, that was just like a huge eye opener to me. And just be like, okay, like, that if this is what, you know, these collegiate slash Olympic Olympic level athletes are doing to get to the highest level, I'm like, I mean, I can do the same thing in CrossFit. Yeah, into workout carbs are so underrated. And it's one of those things, especially like, you know, the bodybuilding world embraces it, I would say for a large part, but mostly people think of it as something where it's like offseason, or if you're a guy who's eating a lot of food, which makes sense, right? If you're having a lot of calories, you have to eat, especially carbs, you're going to want to drink them at some point, you know, so inter workout and post-workout kind of makes sense to have a large bowl of drinkable carbs. But even for like, you know, just normal, even lifestyle clients, you know, for a female client or normal, I'm like, Hey, add in 10 to 15 car. And I know that the people like  I don't want to drink my carbs. Listen, your training performance will be so improved. No, I don't do it every session, but I would say that if I can remember the other day, I literally made it and left it on my counter. I'm like, good job, bro. That was a great intro workout on the counter. No, I mean, I'm the same way. With me, it's like I literally just threw a huge Costco box of go-go squeezes in my car. So that way, I can't forget, I can literally just go out my car, pick up one in between workouts. Why would I do that? Because I was like, I feel like I'm forgetting something. And then I was like, oh, that drink that you left on the counter? Okay. But yeah, those things are so underrated, which again, could definitely be a topic for a different podcast that would be fueling for performance. So we could talk about that another time. But love that you had a really great experience there and got to see kind of just a different side of nutrition and dietetics. And then obviously, I know chiropractic school, everybody is pretty familiar with chiropractic work. What were some of your biggest takeaways or things that you maybe didn't expect to learn there? And I know that's kind of an open-ended question. But it's a very intensive schooling process. So just kind of curious what that experience was like and just some of the things that maybe people wouldn't know when we're thinking about chiropractic care. Yeah. I mean, with chiropractic care, we have a lot of classes specifically on nutrition from just like biochemistry of metabolism to just medical nutrition in general. And especially when it comes to vitamin deficiencies, we have a really keen eye of picking up the clinical signs and helping out or even in like blood work panels. We can see like different vitamin deficiencies or maybe it's not a problem yet sort of thing. I actually did have a few classes on sports nutrition, which is actually like I was pretty blown away because I was like, wow, like it's like we had like a sports chiropractic kind of scope in our curriculum. But just I wasn't expecting it from the nutrition side of things. So I thought that was really cool in general. And it was, I mean, I was really just really blown away of I was like, oh man, like I feel like I can be this like functional medicine practitioner, more so than just a chiropractor. I feel like at my school, they really prepared us in the like to be a doctor that doesn't prescribe medications rather than a chiropractor. They gave us the skills to adjust, but they're saying you have the rest of your life to get better at this. Whereas, you know, we're going to set you up strong from just that like medical doctor sort of mind, which that I was pretty blown away about about my school. Yeah, that's not something, you know, we obviously again talked about that, but that was not something that I had really expected either. But when I think back to it, I know some I know some chiropractors who focus primarily on, you know, adjustments and body work or focus, you know, primarily on movement and kind of preventative stuff there. But then I do think about it and I do know a handful of chiropractors who also focus more on that kind of holistic side of everything and, you know, playing into nutrition, vitamin and all that stuff. So I'm like, okay, like that makes sense. So that's amazing that you were able to have a school that did focus on that. And that's of course going to help so much with with coaching people and being able to spot those things. And I think it is so important because you are working in a capacity where you are this practitioner, not just, I mean, yeah, certainly we all know chiropractors who just, you know, do little little cracks. Okay, get out. You know, like that is that is possible, but being having the ability to have a more integrative practice with preventative medicine and really being able to educate people. Because again, that's the thing that you're going to be able to do, like, you know, your experience with that R.D. Like just kind of running through everything. Okay, not maybe her fault. It's just kind of the way that the system is. But in your situations, like, hey, you can actually talk with these clients, you know, especially if you're in there for like longer sessions and be able to make some of this, you know, this change and really help people in that way. So I'm just really excited that you're going to have the ability to do that with your in-person clients because right now you are working at a facility, right? Yes, yes. So I work up at a clinic here in Alparetta, Georgia. And I mean, like you said, like I work more so on, again, just adjustments, manual therapy, rehab sorts of things. But I really, I am a huge advocate of just supplementation from Boswellia, fish oils, vitamin D stuff like that. And just kind of like getting like pinpointed signs of like, hey, like, if you don't, it's like, if you're not sleeping well, like maybe we should throw in like a Zika magnesium supplement or check out your bedtime routine, things like that. Like I feel like those little nuggets I've gotten over the years from coaching, I've received from nutrition coaches to what I've learned in certifications through CrossFit, through precision nutrition, things like that. That background has helped me a lot in my chiropractic profession. And then my education at least has gotten me to like, okay, like I know the metabolism behind things, I know, or just like how the body works when things happen. So it's really cool seeing the practical knowledge join my education knowledge. Absolutely. And that really is the mark of a great coach and practitioner. So I'm so thrilled that you're doing that in an in-person capacity and then also going to be doing this with us in this online capacity. So I, you know, working with people online is different, but obviously it opens up this whole scope of people literally all over the country. You know what I mean? So it's truly great the fact that you're able to, you have this knowledge, you have this experience, and you genuinely want to help people here. And like that is the most important thing as a coach. You know what I mean? Like obviously, like knowing and have like knowing information and knowing how to make adjustments and like what to say, all that is so, so key, but like having the client mentality, like that client first mentality of really being able to say, okay, how can we look at this root problem? You know, it's not just like, here's your carbs. Okay, that might, that might be an adjustment. You know what I mean? That might be that week. But then like you said, what's your bedtime routine look like? Where are you supplementing here? Where are you locking? Like what is your normal morning routine? Like there's so many different things. Oh, this is bothering you with training. Well, why don't we try this? Like, so there's this whole, you know, and the words, the words like functional, integrative, and holistic, all this gets thrown around like so much. And it's hard for people because it's like, well, what does that mean? I know this, I know that person's a quack, but then this person's good. And it's like, sometimes I hate how words have gotten misconstrued that way. But I would say that a integrative holistic approach is certainly what we do take here at Team Look of It. And I'm so happy that you are, you know, doing that already, have been doing that, and are interested now in doing this with clients. So if anybody is interested in working with Hannah, she is taking on new clients. So excited. And anything else that you guys want to hear from her, from us, definitely let us know because there's so many great topics just from this conversation. I'm already like, okay, we can talk about this, like all these different things. And like even the smallest things like vitamin D, like that everybody should be taking vitamin D, like I don't know one person and you know from looking at a lot of blood work, I know from looking at a lot of blood work, unless people are supplementing the chances that they are in an optimal range of vitamin D is so low, so low. Like it's, it's crazy. Like, and it's one of those small things that has such a profound impact. So yeah, I definitely want to do a deep dive into more like vitamin mineral stuff. So already, my brain's already gone. So I gotta give my notepad out, gotta before I forget. But any other closing thoughts, like anything you want to share, anything else that you want to talk about? I mean, no, I mean, like I said, I mean, and even said at the beginning of the podcast, I just like, I can't wait to work with this team. Like, I'm, I'm so excited because just already like seeing, seeing you guys walk the walk, being client first, everybody's so different. And you want your, they're not just a number. You want to get to know them as a person you want and just like see like how they respond. Like you're only going to go like as fast as they want to and but like actual or but push them like a little bit outside of their comfort zones and just get to know the, get to know the client. That's what really sparked my like interest in working with you guys. And again, I'm just grateful to be a part of the team and I'm proud to say that I'm a part of it. Well, that just made my day. So thank you guys so much for listening. Like I said, if you guys have any other future topics you'd like to hear about, let us know either in the comments or you can send us an email at info at teamluckofit.com. You can also reach out to Hannah for coaching. Do that, you know, visit our website teamluckofit.com and you can apply for coaching with her. And yeah, we will talk to you guys next Wednesday.