 welcome back to another episode of the Loco Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means for you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and this week I'm interviewing my friend, Adam Ibrahim. I said it right? I almost messed it up. I got nervous. Game day. Game day nervousness. Anyways, my intro is, as you guys know, if you're a listener of the podcast, are never great. So, we've been friends for many years. Give a little background on yourself. And today, we're actually going to dive into an interesting topic. So, you are doing your PhD, and I was, you know, you were running research study, and we're talking about readiness and recovery. And I was like, you know, we just need to do a podcast on this, because this is a really interesting topic that I think a lot of people will get benefit from, and just kind of change the way that they conceptualize this topic. So, before we get into that, a little bit of your background. Yeah, I mean, like Lauren said, I'm a PhD student at the University of Tennessee. I've got to give a lot of props to Dr. Bill Campbell, who is my former mentor, Dr. Samuel Buckner, who is my former mentor. But now, I work under Dr. Kelly Strohacker. So, she's really the individual that started the readiness concept. She identified the gap within flexible non-linear priorization. But she's more of the behavioral cycle aspect of just exercise adherence. And when I first met her, she talked to me, and I was like, I really have no idea what you're talking about. So, this is probably a sign that I need to come here and get uncomfortable, learn a little bit outside of my research realm with physique enhancement and blood flow restriction and things of that nature. So, I've done my masters at USF with Campbell Buckner. But yeah, I've coached basketball for almost six years, middle school, high school. I was a former collegiate athlete myself at the Division II level. Yeah, competitive power with the whole three-state records, Tennessee, Florida, South Carolina. So, I like to say, yeah. So, well, it's like a 90-minute drive. So, it was like, why not? Why not just go over there, break them, go back home to Tennessee? So, yeah, it's been a fun journey. But again, I got to give a lot of shout-out to you, for example, Dr. Chris Guy, a lot of the people at Evidence-Based Movement. So, I've been impacted by a lot of people and I've been fortunate to be where I'm at today. Oh, well, no, I'm super excited for what you're doing. And I love the idea of just kind of exercise adherence in general. This is a topic that I feel like, especially in the scientific realm, we're always talking about optimal. And this is something that I always, like, I understand. But then it's like, okay, we have to get out of that realm and say, okay, what is optimal? But then also, what is actually going to work? What are people actually going to do? What are these first steps? And like an optimal program means nothing if the client isn't going to be able to execute on it, or the person, individual, whatever it is. So, I love this topic, and I don't think it's really discussed enough, especially in the world of the scientific literature, because it's not as like... That's sexy. Yeah, it's not that exciting. No, it's not. It's really not. It's kind of like the weight regain stuff, you know, I love all that. But who wants to study that? We want to study like, what are the next like protocols that we can do? What are the next drugs? What are this? And all of these things are amazing. But like, that means nothing if someone can't keep off the weight that they've initially lost. But like studying how to maintain something is pretty boring. So, I think the one thing that I've learned within being at University of Tennessee, and Dr. Kelly Strohacker is right, you look at any exercise science literature, there's always nothing but positive outcomes coming out of it. So, like, that's obvious. Exercise is good, but still people don't do it. And even the scientific literature, like you only see positive hypotheses, like only no results. And you still learn a lot of good things from those no findings. But the proof of concept worked, the exploratory work, which is what you kind of talked about of what I'm trying to do right now. She highlighted something called the orbit model, the things that we have to do a lot of refinement. We have to get things optimized rather than just throwing things in RCT after RCT, because again, we can get people in the lab, we can do all of these things. But in the real world, that is complex, as we know as coaches, people don't really do what they're supposed to be doing. So, getting, again, people to adhere to it long term, taking what I always say is the small steps that, again, aren't sexy, they're not flashy. But you're able to do this when you're 50, 60, 70, because you've taken the time to refine and do all of the things that you should have done to get to where you need to be to sustain and maintain what you're trying to do. So, what is the orbit model? So, that, I couldn't tell you the exact orbit or the acronym of it, but in a general sense, it's not just putting a trial together. And again, we're going to see the same thing, again, with auto regulation, that literature is just my realm of research. And the gap is what readiness is, but auto regulation, again, Yeah, explain that from the beginning. In what realm? Sorry, I'm going all over the place, it seems. I know, I know, just start with what does auto regulation mean to you and your research? Yeah, so my research realm is focusing on auto regulation rather than just a performance enhancement realm of training or anything like that, but a way for us to utilize it to improve and optimize exercise adherence because it's flexible in nature, right? It's a person adaptive, which a lot of the psychological individuals in research have now called for repeatedly, because again, we can put people in a program in a lab, they're going to see gains in strength, they're going to see gains in most of us, they're doing what they're supposed to be doing, right? So eight or a 10 week study. Yeah. So you're going to see all those optimization, but what happens after? What was the experience of that program? And those are the questions that nobody has asked in pureization literature and auto regulation literature. So when you mean auto regulation, like somebody who's able to now regulate themselves over the course of a long period of time and how they're going to adjust what they're doing or what they're not doing. So auto regulation, I think as a formula is right, your baseline fitness, your baseline fitness, your fatigue, your fitness and your readiness. And what we highlight is the readiness, but we like to balance specifically in the sports realm is your fitness and fatigue readiness has been taken into concepts that it could just be your energy level, could be your motivation, could be just your personal preference of whatever you want to do on that specific day. But auto regulation, again, is this adapt, I can't state the exact definition off the top of my head, but it's just an adaptable framework to allow for you to have a positive experience with any form of exercise in that sense. So what were you guys seeing that was maybe what kind of kicked all this off with your research? Like what was like the gap in this question that you were like, I'm really trying to figure out this and obviously that changes over time as you're conducting the research. But when you went into this, like what was your question? If you can share that? No, yeah. So really the question is actually what readiness is. So when you when I first came to the University of Tennessee, I did a systematic review on just so auto regulation even back up a little bit more. There's within session, which is your rate of perceived resurgence, your velocity based training or repetition, your reserved, all of those like I'm making adjustments within session. And if you want to study that that's super complex, because you're making all of these adjustments to those variables and things of that nature. But there's meta session, auto regulation, which is your flexible nonlinear periodization, heart rate variability, APRE, all of these other before the session you've been concludes or starts, you're dictating how you're going to perform the specific session. And what we've seen within auto regulation is either purely subjective or purely objective with heart rate variability. And we've continuously seen incongruences between objective and subjective forms of readiness. Right? Heart rate variability is supposed to pick up on all of these environmental factors, your psychological, physiological status. But it doesn't always align that way, right? Your wearable could say one thing, but you can feel another thing. And what we've tried to do is take these readiness constructs that we've almost time up with as a lab through more of that exploratory work with post session readiness recall, or it was just asking people literally, what do you need to do to feel ready? And this goes all the way back to Kramer and Flex 2007 FNLP textbook of, right, there's a seven step checklist that you're going to be able to go through with an athlete or whomever to allow this adjustment or this adaptation, this auto regulation form to optimize the training session. So a lot of that was, we came up with this word, this term readiness, there's a seven step checklist, but nobody's actually done the work to, does this actually work, face value, it works, it makes a lot of sense. But we've never actually put it to the test. So now we're saying, all right, what is what is readiness? And we've gone into a whole mess of things almost, but that's that science. And you're opening up, okay, this is this first question. And then wherever this leads, obviously, that's how that the whole scientific process works is like, we learn this one piece, and then we add that piece to like the larger puzzle. And then that starts like five other kind of sub topics, we're hopefully we're hoping that it does, right? Exactly. But especially when there is so much lack of understanding, right, then I think this, there's so many kind of rabbit holes to go down. So you did the systematic review when you got there. And then now you've been doing your own research. And where, you know, what was kind of the, the reason for doing this, like what, what gaps did you see that you're like, all right, we don't, after the systematic review, we know this, but we don't know that, like what were some of the big findings there that then contributed to you wanting to run this study? Yeah, so there's pretty much two things. One, specifically being the systematic review, seeing that meta session regulate auto regulation was either subjective or objective. And we've seen these incongruencies in athletes, even in, you know, clinical populations of, Hey, I feel all of this pain, I feel like tachycardia, but you go to the doctor and like, so tough to study to, oh my gosh, bio psych of social model is insane. So yeah, a lot of these thoughts, feelings, objective, subjective markers or measurements, they don't always align. But another way you could utilize auto regulation, meta session, auto regulation is a tool to teach and anchor the experience of exercise. But Dr. Strohacker, and that now currently Dr. Corey Beaumont did a lot of work to understand what the constructs of readiness were. So there's 52 constructs that we have currently. They fall into like hunger, just energy levels, all of these other constructs that you again, you would think of, of how I'm actually going to prepare for an exercise session. So we gave ecological momentary assessment. So pretty much people for 21 straight days would answer a survey on their phone. And they would say, right now, how are you feeling? So we try to build this readiness profile for them. And we were presenting this to them. But one of those things that continues really was a theme after we interviewed them of, hey, does this make sense? Would you actually utilize this was like, no, because my wearable says one thing, and I feel another thing. So that's what's kind of got me into, right, if we're going to build something that is actually practical and people can utilize of readiness from these profiles, but the barrier is, I don't trust it, or there's this incongruity between my wearable and now I'm not going to even trust what you're trying to build because again, I have these trust issues because something else is biasing my interpretation of what we're trying to present. So again, my findings and my sister on a review being subjective versus objective. Well, we did subjective, we tried to make an objective measure out of this readiness, but people were still not buying into it. So again, that's that proof of concept. If we're going to refine auto regulation to help exercise adherence, we need to hear from people like yourself or, you know, people that continuously exercise so we can refine this for the individuals that don't even do the thing. Would you say, well, we're the most common devices. Obviously, I know for your research, you're using Aura and the Woot Band, but for the systematic review, like, are those still like the two biggest leaders? Like, I guess, I don't know any other ones to be honest. I know that there are, I just can't think of the names. Who's that guy? He's a big strength coach. Joel, somebody, I think he has one, but well, see them. No. Anyways, but it's like a smaller like company, I'm sure, you know what I mean? But like, I don't know. So when you're doing the systematic review, like, what were some of the wearables people were using? So all of any heart rate variability objective, metastation auto regulation was all using a heart rate monitor. Oh, nothing was actually utilizing a wearable. Why we're using the wearable is because specifically the aura ring, right? It says, this is your readiness. Or the Woot Band is this is your recovery. And that's a whole another can of worms that in the literature, recovery, readiness and resources are all used interchangeably. So there's again, we're starting really, I don't want to say low, but there's a lot of optimization we're allowed to go ahead and confront and see what we can actually utilize auto regulation for rather than, hey, it's used for sports performance to mitigate fitness and fatigue and allow for, you know, improvement performance. But we can also use this for the general population to have positive exercise experience and get them to actually adhere to exercise. It's not that rigid, hey, if I'm going to do this exercise, I have to adhere to this specific day, this specific plan. We can make these adjustments. Hey, if you're readiness is low, whatever that means to you, you can be adaptive. You can do a lower intensity workout, lower the rate, reps, maybe even do a completely different session in that sense. But I'm not even sure why I was going to do that. That's so tough though, because especially when somebody's first starting, because for a lot of people, they might be like, Oh, like, well, everything I'm really sore. This hurts. Like, I probably shouldn't do anything, you know what I mean? And then like that, like the lack of previous consistency will make all of those training sessions harder. And then that could be like, Oh, well, I'll just rest another day. And like, it's very like, there's like that fine line of like, you are, I guess, maybe undershooting your actual readiness for recovery. Right. And then it's like, you know, so, so much of behavioral stuff is just actually setting a routine and being consistent. Obviously, then once you're able to refine that, it's then saying, okay, you know, how am I feeling? I can't regulate, okay, well, Monday can actually be Tuesday. But like how many times do we know people who are like, Oh, well, Monday, then Tuesday, and then Oh, it's Friday, and I haven't worked out. So right. So it's like coming to that like middle ground of like, how do we have adherence and push through those like those hard days. And then also obviously on the whole other end of the spectrum is like the athlete who's like, their legs falling off like, Oh, I'm fine. I can go train, right? Like there's both of those ends of the extreme. And that obviously makes this research even more challenging, because it's like, if you're studying everybody, then it's like, that's going to skew stuff a lot, right? Yeah. So a lot of what metasession auto regulation has studied or the population is all trained individuals. But the thing is the way they've opera operationalized readiness. Again, it is purely objective, purely subjective. And you kind of said, right, if athletes feel this way, and they're just at will, they just able to self select whatever session they want to do. How do they how do we know that individuals had high readiness first off? And they actually again, matched whatever workout that was supposed to be. So that's where again, we need more information from the current studies. There's a lack of construct validity. There's just more information needed. And I think what you're saying is right, if somebody has that misalignment where maybe they have low readiness, or they have high readiness, let's say, but they continuously don't train the way they're supposed to, right, they don't challenge yourselves enough. That's where again, you can go to that journaling aspect of post training and actually ask yourself, am I seeing the results that I push myself? Another way with FNLP specifically, what they've done is right, you have an array of training sessions, right? So let's say high intensity, low intensity. But if you choose that low intensity, they will now you cannot do that for the next 12 weeks. Yeah, as you continuously go throughout your program, you are now slimming down the exercise selection process. So there's, there's ways around it. But I think again, as a coach, having that conversation like, Hey, we're flexible, but you have to understand that exercise is going to be a little uncomfortable. Our goal is to realign based on how you are specifically feeling. But there's going to be times where it's like, we need to go ahead and just push through whatever we're kind of feeling in that sense. Yeah, it's so tough. And, you know, if somebody is working with a coach, obviously, it's a little bit easier because you can have that detached person who can, you know, your, your accountability as a coach, you're giving accountability, but you're also being that detached perspective to be like, Hey, you know, like, you can step it up or like, no, like there was a lot going on, you know, maybe take a like a D load this week or take a day off, whatever it is, like, you're able to see that a lot easier. But for a lot of people who are doing this on their own, obviously, that's really where the challenges, especially if they are a beginner and they're doing this on their own, that is where I think there's so much that is like that like you said, like that fine line. But I do like that model of like, okay, if you choose this, then that means you get this or you choose this now, then you don't get this later. And it's kind of this idea of like, I guess postponing, I don't know, one called gratification, but it's an easy way for me to conceptualize it. But yeah, that's so the adherence adherence is everything, right? Whether it's training or diet or cardio or behaviors, like literally everything comes down to the adherence of it, like there are so many great things that you can do, you know. But then I think that that's where people get really tripped up is like, how do I actually make this sustainable? And that's like the boring stuff. But that really is everything. So when you what are the main questions that you're asking from your research, I know you can't share that obviously yet, like any of the results because I mean, at this point, you still haven't even gone through all that. But what were the main things that you're going through? Well, I will say with the current project that I'm doing right now is getting into if you have these incongruencies, why do you believe these incongruencies are happening from your wearable, right? What it's telling you your readiness is at versus what you actually are feeling. And, you know, going through it now, probably didn't pick like the best training population, because I think you guys know what you're feeling, you guys almost have this buy in. But in the sense that I'm hearing a lot of also great information of what you guys think readiness and recovery is, and it aligns a lot with what we've already found with untrained and like obese, sedentary females. So the cross talk between again, we are starting to understand more and more what readiness actually is. But again, the wearable is just a tool that you said it and multiple people said it's allowed me to take the ego out and actually be okay with toning it down a little bit because as you said before, to utilize auto regulation appropriately, you need to be accepted of today's not the day. And because it's not the day I need to lower I need to make an adjustment or if today is the day, like I'm feeling really good, go ahead and bump everything up. And that goes back to what like self determination theory of like, I'm giving you all talking to support, I'm allowing you to make the adjustments based on how you feel, right, giving you that control of because I'm feeling XYZ, I'm able to make these adjustments and being able to reflect on it positively through a journaling or whatever the case may be, saying, Hey, I made this adjustment. How did I feel after like that exercise experience is crucial for that adherence aspect, right? I think a lot of people will say if I made the adjustment, at first, I didn't enjoy it because I felt like I was letting myself down. I felt like I could do more and that's that athlete's mentality. And I think a lot of us have like, if I'm doing less, I'm a failure. Like, again, exercise is supposed to be hard, go harder, go home. But it's that short term of sacrificing a little bit, you're able to kind of bounce back through another session or again, optimally perform another day or another week throughout. And that's the whole thing of auto regulation. If you can take into account your readiness, you're able to finally tune your fitness and fatigue is the ultimate goal is for you to express your fitness throughout the rest of your program or I will say throughout the rest of your life, you're going to have fatigue accumulate in a sense. But if we're able to adjust appropriately based on our readiness, again, hopefully fatigue will be able to be mitigated as quickly or as as fast as possible. So you can express your fitness, you can continuously adhere to the exercise because the experience is positive. And it's thinking in terms of like, okay, what's going to happen the next few weeks or what's going to happen the next few years. And that's so hard for us to see sometimes, like, especially like, when there's a lot of other factors going on, you know what I mean? It's never usually like, just that one thing, there's always like, like, like, everything's like toppling down that week. And then you're like, Oh, well, I'm this huge failure with my training or whatever. And I was even having a conversation with a client the other day. And she was like, Oh, I'm so really struggling with, you know, this aspect. And I was like, it's okay, like, you don't nobody said you needed to add 50 pounds to your squat, you know what I mean? Like, maybe you could do that for a session or two or a few and then be completely beat up, probably injure yourself. And then in six months, we're no farther ahead. You know, I'd much rather you slowly be able to make progression. Now, not saying that if you slowly improve, you're going to be able to add weight every week. Of course, not. Did you're like any of your coaches ever say that growing up like, Oh, yeah, if you had five pounds each week, like, think about what you'll be doing at the end of the semester. It's like, I would have been squatting 2000 pounds at this point. You know what I mean? Like, I mean, I understand the concept they were trying to again, have that kind of like delayed gratification mindset. So like, I get it. But it was like close, but not there. But not quite. But yeah, like the idea of, okay, what's going to happen in this session or the next few sessions versus where is it's going to put me in the long term. And, you know, sometimes we do have to make short term sacrifices. You know, if you are an athlete competing in something, that is a very different story. You know, we talked about this on our interview, like when I was competing as a physique athlete, like, there are just, there's a certain point in prep where every day you wake up and it's like, no day is my day at this point, you know what I mean? But I'm going to make it my day because there is no other option. Right. And that's a very specific goal for a very specific day. And that's completely different. And performance is likely going to suffer as you are losing body fat and you are in a severe restriction. That's just kind of the name of the game. If you are competing in a strength sport where you're trying to hit certain numbers, there's going to be like, Hey, you got to make some short term sacrifices and feel really, really fatigued in order to kind of get over this and get stronger. But that's still within a cycle of looking at the big picture. You know what I mean? Like, you can't do that. You can only do that a few times until anybody is like, no. Yeah. So there's going to be different times. But in general, outside of those very, very specific situations, I think that this concept of being able to regulate yourself, like we talk about this all the time on the show with regulating your food, like right, like the actual key to sustainable diet is moderating yourself and having the ability to do that in any situation. And that is absolutely the hardest thing for people to grasp. But that is like the crux. If you can moderate your food intake and say yes to certain things and say no to other things and moderate how much you're eating, you will be able to maintain any physique that you want. But that is so hard because of those biopsychosocial factors and everything else. You know what I mean? So I'm not saying it's easy. I'm just saying like, that is the crux. But the same thing with training, if you're able to moderate yourself during the session and afterwards, like that is what is going to be able to get you the results, not just for that eight weeks or those 12 weeks, it's afterwards. Like that's what always, it always goes on mind that the studies where they do some crazy stuff for eight or 10 weeks, you know what I mean? And it's like this, these crazy volume studies. And that's always like, okay, cool, like cool story, bro. You know, like we did all this volume and we saw results. Like I'd fucking hope so, right? Like I would hope so. But what are those people doing afterwards? It's just like the crazy diet studies. Okay, now we're on this, you know, the very low calorie diets which are in literature typically less than 800 calories for people who are generally speaking overrated no B. So they're going to be at a very high body weight for that low amount of calories. Okay, cool. They lost weight. What happens afterwards? I want to see the follow up six months. Right? So it's like one of those things that it's like, we can't science gets so focused on just this, which is understandable because of the design and the nature of it. But it is frustrating because again, people are looking for that grant money, people are looking for certain notoriety. Oh, I want to publish this research with these crazy results. And then it's like, okay, well, then where does that land? Actually, everybody like, is this actually serving people? Is it actually again, in my eyes with the orbit model tries to do is try to move the field in the appropriate direction. And it's very collaborative in nature. Prime example is we work with, you know, Dr. Richard Keegan, who is in Australia, who made the arm scale, which is a readiness scale for the army. My mentor, Dr. Kelly Stragher could easily started picking it apart and be like, no, this is what readiness actually is. But instead, we've actually started to collaborate with him. And we're refining his specific scale, but we're trying to refine it for exercise. Because right now, we literally just have a long list of what people are reporting. And hey, go ahead and let me know what's most important for you for readiness. And to kind of go back to your point of there's these specific points where I may not feel ready, but it's that motivation that specific time frame. Dr. John Kylie says a lot about this is like, sure, you might not feel ready, but you know, it's a world cup game. Put your feelings aside, and it's time for you to perform. So this is where readiness, it's not just going to be, you know, you tell me readiness feels like this right now. Readiness for you 10 years from now could be totally different. And kind of how you've evolved as a physique competitor into now just almost just focusing on general health. I'm sure your readiness measures or constructs would have been very different for you while you're a physique competitor and what it is now. That's the thing is readiness is evolving even during the session, throughout your whole time of being an exerciser. And I think that's the premise. If you're able to self regulate and auto regulate yourself and be in tune with your body, you should be able to do this complex health behavior for the rest of your life. And that's that's the unfortunate thing about exercise. You have to do it for the rest of your life. If you want to go ahead and see these benefits. Not a lot of people see like these 90 day challenges or 75 day challenge or anything like that. It's a great jumpstart. But what did you actually get from it? What was the experience and the eight to 12 week study that we the first study that pops into my head that was grueling was the Cody Han study was like, they worked up to 20 sets of squats in one session. And I'm like, one, how, how did me with that? Why did I get questions on my IRB for just asking people simple questions about what readiness is, but he can almost literally murder somebody with squats. But it goes to study. It was, I think it was 12 weeks. But my point is, is people can do these things. But how do they feel after? I bet you that person or those subjects probably haven't squat in quite a long time, right? Because they have squatting again. Yeah, they have this negative association with it by squat. I'm going to feel soreness or whatever the case may be. And that is the other theory. Like we talked about the art of pie, affective, reflective theory of physical inactivity and exercise where it's this dual mold model, right? We've heard that type one and type two processes thinking fast and slow. I don't know. So as I'm thinking really slow about it. So what it, what, what, when I first say anything exercise related, there's an immediate process that people have of like, Oh my God, exercise is great or exercise is bad. And that deliberate slow, that fast media process is really what's going to dictate am I going to go ahead and perform exercise or not. And that's really dictated on your continuous exposure and experience of exercise. It's going back to auto regulation. If we can modify the intensity and actually allow somebody to have a positive experience, hadonic theory, right? People do, people seek the pleasure. If we're able to have this as a pleasure like experience, I'm going to want to go ahead and continuously do this exercise. Sure, I might not see the results, but at least it's, I'm not doing a hit session where I'm like feeling gas. I'm feeling like, again, I just want to throw up and hurdle like affect the way we feel within session steadily decreases. Once we've crossed that lactate threshold, and we don't know too much about resistance training, along with exercise science, we don't know much about resistance training. But with aerobic training, once you've, yeah, a big pet peeve, especially at the university of Tennessee, but once you cross this threshold, immediately you start to have all these negative thoughts and feelings. But if we can kind of mitigate and modify the intensity or whatever the workloads selection can be, again, the experience of exercise.  should be more positive, you should learn, like William Graziano says, you kind of much in a little bit of being an educated dieter, right? If we can make people educated exercises, like they're able to again auto-regulate or self-modify whatever variable they need to modify, again the adherence to exercise should in theory be better. Yeah, and I think over time to the tag, I guess that you put on, I'm trying to conceptualize the right word, but the word or the emotion that you put around it is very different, right? So when you're talking about, let's say, a challenge, or something, any kind of program that's gonna get people started, right? Obviously it's gonna probably be unenjoyable in the beginning, right? But they're gonna stick to it because they have these parameters, and like I'm right, I need to hit this because of whatever. Someone says that I'm holding myself accountable, but over time the more that you do it, do you realize, okay, actually, when I do this, maybe I am feeling better, or when I hold myself accountable, I feel better, right? So that tag now is a positive emotion, like when I do this, I feel this way, or when I, maybe I still don't even feel great doing this, but that affects everything else, like I still don't maybe love training, but when I train, I sleep better, right? Like there's these other effects, you start to kind of change that tag of how you feel, but I'm trying to think of a better word than tag, but... Like, right? Like, wow, the association is sick. My vocabulary is awesome, but your association is now going to change with it because of all the other kind of downstream effects, which was one of the most amazing things about exercise, in my opinion, is that there's so many peripheral effects, right? Like whether it's like sleep, mood, energy, digestion, like all these things, obviously, you're going to physically look different as well, depending on the type of training that you're doing, but like how you're feeling is gonna be even quicker, I would say, right? Like within a week, you will notice those differences. You might not have a different physique, you might not run faster, you know what I mean? Or lift more weights, but you're probably gonna be like, wow, my digestion is better and my sleep and my mood, and like when I train at this time, my energy, but all of that takes time and reflection. So I do think that at some point there has to be that, like how do we bridge that gap of like, okay, the beginning is gonna be really challenging for most people, so we need to have a way for them to actually stick it through, even if they don't like it, but then associate it more positively, so then they're able to adhere to it. Does that make sense? Yeah, I think even if, where you say like, the beginning is gonna be hard, I think the beginning of any new behavior is gonna be hard, but still realigning with a low intensity bout of, hey, like games clear says it, where he talked about an individual's story of losing 100 pounds and keeping it off. When he first started, he literally would just go to the gym for five minutes and walk in, but it was instilling that behavior of getting into the gym and doing those things. So again, being flexible, being adaptive with your exercise program and not what I continue to see as a coach and even with research is like, no, we're coming in three sets of 10, and we're just gonna continuously progressively over the five pounds, more reps, more sets, anything like that, but in my eyes, more important is like just doing the damn thing is really impressive, especially when it comes to exercise, when it doesn't always feel good and taking note of all of those other subjective or behavioral aspects that you are also reaping from exercise, because we can tell, and people know all of these things, but yet they're not adhering to this behavior. I think too, the reflective part is like everything, right? Like that is the piece that I think a lot of people don't think about in terms of exercise, right? Like now with the way that people are conceptualizing mental health, like a lot more people are being reflective about maybe their mindset or the way that they have conversations or confrontations or whatever, right? Like that is very normal when we're talking about like, hey, when we're working on our mental health, like we're maybe gonna journal or go to a therapy session or talk with someone or just reflect in general on these things. The conversation about reflecting on exercise is not really a conversation that I think has had, and I don't think I ever had like distinctly tried to have that conversation with myself. I think over time it developed because I developed an intuitive sense because I've done it for so long, but I think that if we can start that process earlier, the same thing with diet, like, you know, when people are struggling with their diet, okay, like it's not just, there's a lot of reasons why. So we need to be able to reflect on, because I could say 15 reasons, but you might come up with a 16th one that's different and unique for you, but that only came through reflection. So I think the idea of like having those introspective thoughts is very normal for mental health, but is not discussed at all in the realm of like physical health, and I would say that's, you know, exercise and diet and all those behaviors, and it's definitely, I think, I don't see any downsides to it, you know what I mean? Like, I literally don't see any downsides for people to actually start to be more reflective on their training, and this doesn't mean you have to write a thesis on like, how you're feeling every day, but it could just be a few notes that you're jotting down, and this goes for anything. When someone's dealing, I mean, you know, when a client's dealing with digestive issues, what's the first thing? All right, well, let's start to maybe pinpoint some foods, or was it a certain, you know, at a certain time during the day, or was it at a certain point in the week, or was it after, you know, this really stressful meeting? Every Thursday you have this meeting, and then, oh, Friday, completely shot, like, how do we realize those things through journaling and introspection? So we always do that with those types of things, but with exercise, I think that that is just not even a conversation, and I think that that would really be like the, honestly, one of the biggest things that we could get people to start adhering to. And I think it's self-monitoring, and the behavior or outcome that you're trying to strive for, is like, how am I getting there? What did it feel like when I got there? And this is where we talk a little bit about exercise science research being very quantitative focus, and the research I'm doing right now is very qualitative focus, but I'm trying to, and there's mixed methods research, and it's what we do as coaches. We have all of this objective information, repetitions, whatever the case may be, and we have them fill out this subjective form of, okay, tell me actually how things went. I think that's what needs to happen in the exercise science literature, is like, tell me this big story. Sure, again, I'll go back to the Bluff-Lover restriction study I did with my cast with Dr. Buckner. Did that for, I think it was eight weeks. I haven't trained CAF since, because it's been, one, because we didn't grow, two, because it was awful. So that's what I expected you to say at all. I thought you were gonna be like, that's when I started journaling about my... Well, if I can reflect that, like again, affective, reflective, like reflecting on that experience. Yeah, I spent... Yeah, I spent... I spent 30 minutes three times a week to train my cast that didn't even grow, and it was painful, it was excruciating, but thinking about how, again, we can reflect and hold ourselves accountable to, hey, I made this adjustment, was it the correct one? If it wasn't, what can I do next? And so, again, when you're exposed to another situation or a circumstance, again, with exercise, you should be doing it repeatedly, you can make the appropriate adjustment. Again, it's a learning aspect. You were able to make this, make these adjustments throughout your time because you've done it for a long time. A lot of us are forced to make these, whether it be an injury or just a whole life shift. But if we can avoid that chronic injury or anything like that, now it's like, right, I don't have to have this kinesophobia of deadlifts are terrible or anything like that. And that's, yeah, there's so many things that go into exercise that we miss with just focusing on objective measures. Oh, like, it's, again, going back to the psych world, that's so subjective-based, and then there's not enough objective stuff. And then with the exercise science world or the diet research world, it's all objective and not subject. And it's like, why can't we bridge, we are doing that on a day-to-day basis as coaches. And that's how we're finding out these things. And that's why there's a lot of people who are in the industry who are like, well, who needed a research study for that? Like, we figured that out 10 years ago, you know? And it's like, yes, we did, but the whole point, the idea of science is to be able to move things forward faster, you know what I mean? So it's like, so we can avoid, and that's our goal as coaches and your goal as a researcher is, okay, how can we get people to avoid, you know, we did this for 10 years before we realized it. Like, you do something long enough, you're gonna figure it out. But, hey, maybe we could shorten that time course to six months for someone. You know, and maybe we can't, maybe the answer is, you can't do that. Maybe the answer is, it does take that long. Like, I don't know, there obviously has to be a time component. Nobody's gonna be able to bypass certain things in terms of like having a really deep understanding of it. Like there's just literally no way. And obviously some people are gonna pick things up faster than others, but there absolutely is a way to shorten that time course. And that is where research and application from coaches and educators in the space talking about this absolutely needs to happen. And I think that there's too much of a, yeah, there's too much of it. And there's too much like, this group is right, this group is wrong. And like these camps, you know, like the whole like scientists are in their ivory tower and they don't know anything about the world. And then there's like the, you know, on the ground people, but like the scientists were like, oh, they're just dumb meatheads. And it's like, there's obviously both of those, but there's a lot larger group of people who are kind of in that middle group. And we can all to your point work together. That's always just blows my mind about the industry and like when we all start arguing about things, you know? And like, I think when you're newer to something, it's you really get like passionate about your beliefs, even if you don't really understand it and you're maybe say things that you shouldn't. But the more that I do this, the more that I'm like, almost everything works. Like literally almost everything works. If someone can adhere to it and it works for their life circumstances and being able to flow in and out of different types of programs and things for people and your clients is coaching. Like I don't care if someone now is, I have some clients who are keto, some clients who fast, some clients who have high carbs, some clients who have low protein, high protein, plant bait. I mean, they're all different things. Whatever works for you. You know what I mean? And again, there's like, yes, there is optimal, right? Somebody's like, what's the most optimal plan for this specific goal? I could lay that out, but if that person's not gonna be able to do that for more than three weeks, then like what the fuck is the point of the optimal plan? Instead, if we did something that's like 80% optimal and they're actually gonna be able to do it for, like you said, the rest of your life, like eating healthy and training hard are constituents of being a healthy person who's aging. And all the benefits that we hear about are because they're compounded over time. So like, how are we gonna actually be able to get someone to do this and not just consistently fall off and just yo-yo through everything? And that's really like, if someone's like, what do you want to do? And they're like, that's it. That's what I want to be able to figure out. And as a coach, and be able to help educate people on that because everything comes back to that. Like everything comes back to like, you do something really hard for a little while and then you fall back off and you do something hard and you fall off and you go through this yo-yo cycle and you look up in five years and you're in a worse spot. It's like, what's the point of that? Yeah, and I think, you know, having a pragmatic hat as a researcher and seeing again the quality of my work is actually impactful for the individual like yourself or personal trainer's coaches. And it's gonna take time, like the whole process of, right? I think it's the system at the end of the day where we are tenured based on how many publications, how many grant dollars we get and not so much about the impact on the field or yeah, just the space. And I think that's one of my biggest pet peeves and eye openings of that's how great my mentor is. It's just like, take your time, like let's get some quality work in rather than just pump out research or research article after research article that doesn't do anything. And that's what the whole orbit model would say is like, start off with a review and then continuously do this proof of concept work. And then before you even start an RCT, it's like, do a case study and then do a small case design. It's literally this iterative process that we don't wanna waste all this money and time, but something that we think should think or we think should work. And again, exercise is going to work in an eight to 12 week period in a lab. How can we do this in again, real life conditions? And we have a lot of the tools to do that like EMA where we can literally just shoot people the text and hey, tell me what you're doing or here's a program, tell me how that felt. So there's a lot of optimization or opportunity for exercise science to take advantage of the technology that is happening within the research, but it's gonna take time. And more importantly, we need to start being collaborative because again, like the three words, readiness, resources and recovery, they're interchangeable within the literature right now. And yeah, that's one of my biggest pieces, right? If you're gonna define or if you're gonna have a construct, we need to be able to clearly define it so we can again, specifically attack what this is happening. So again, we're pushing the field in the right direction. Rather now we have to have these arguments of what is this? Or how can we actually define it? Yeah, I think I'll stop that tangent now. No, I think that's part of the problem with the grants and the way that everything is set up in academia and people always, like you said, searching for those positive findings or those big findings, like you're going to self-select, research designs that are going to fulfill that, right? And anybody who thinks that scientists don't have bias is completely wrong. I mean, you would like to imagine that nobody does and a lot of people don't, right? I'm not trying to sit here and be one of these like scientist bashers. Like clearly I'm far from that. But I do think that there is a lot more that we can like a collaborative process and that's, I think there is a really big, probably benefit that you are a coach and you've been an athlete. Like I think that that really has probably helped you with making these, this design and just kind of how you view research in general, right? Like I think that that's a huge piece of it instead of just being someone like, oh, let me put out some papers and like hope that they do well. You know, like you have a completely different lens. And I think that that is a really, really big deal. Yeah, yeah, I think being able to, I always say walk and walk, but also chalk the talk of I'm able to be a practitioner. Like if there's three things that I hope to continuously do is, you know, train, coach and research, I'm able to do that for the rest of my life. I know I'm going to hopefully have an impact on this field that hopefully will transpire for generations and generations, you know, teaching kids in the classroom, giving talks at conferences, anything like that. That's the ultimate goal. But I think right now from what I know, we definitely need to take a step back. And it's not about just running RCT after RCT. So randomized control child, just putting people into two different groups and again, telling them to exercise, we're going to see outcomes. That's why till this day, there's still a debate of which periodization method is better or now what auto regulation method is better. So that's the purpose. If we can't get people to do exercise, why are we arguing about this? So that's where I think again, taking a step back, learning, you know, qualitative and not all qualitative is all these touchy feelys and stuff that I don't care about. It's like, well, there's been this huge shift since, I think COVID or whatever the case may be where we need to actually make sure our mental health is good. We need to actually make sure that what we are doing is having a positive impact on our physical, mental, spiritual health, whatever the case may be. But yet we haven't actually, you know, take that formative action in research, but I think we're starting to make these jumps or these steps to the appropriate way to refine some sort of package that allows individuals to be adherent to exercise and my bias is let's use auto regulation for that because they do it in its fourth performance to achieve optimal performance, but if we can achieve an optimal experience, performance would be that I have a saying to all of my clients, chase the behavior, not the outcome, because if you do the behavior, that outcome is eventually going to be there. And that just usually clicks for a lot of people. It's like, don't worry about that objective stuff. Focus on your thoughts, your feelings and literally learn the skills to allow yourself to be an educated diet or an educated exercise. Because if you have that, you don't need me. And that's the end of the goal of like, you don't need anyone to really tell you what to do. And being able to do that, again, you're competent. Now you're again, autonomous. You are feeling those human innate needs that, again, in theory should allow you to be intrinsically motivated to just do the thing no matter how ready you are. Absolutely. So if you could leave people with one, one, I guess, piece of advice, one earth shattering piece of advice on readiness. No, there's so many great gems in here, but like one thing to kind of summarize this or just in general from all of your findings so far that you would like to leave people with that maybe isn't as commonly known. Yeah. I think the thing that I've learned from getting into this research space is be okay with just, again, literally just doing exercise. And it doesn't need to be the hardest thing. It should add to your life. It shouldn't take away or I said, it shouldn't be a burden to do this thing. This literally should be exciting, motivating. I always think of whenever I go to a new gym and I'm just excited to just try all the new equipment or some equipment that I've never done before, keep that within your life. It doesn't need to be a job. It doesn't need to be a burden. And utilize literally how you feel and reflect on that. Like, okay, I made this adjustment. What did I adjust? And when I made this adjustment, I felt this literally right after. How'd you feel the morning of? Literally do these reflective processes on a literally on a routine basis like you would do exercise. So you can actually learn and become that educated exerciser. It is okay to tone it down so you can feel better the next day or the next week, the next month. Because if you're able to continuously mitigate or reduce the fatigue or the stress from exercise, you should hopefully long-term feel better, perform better. If you're feeling better and performing better, all of those goals that you have should be able to be maintainable and sustainable. Absolutely, I love that so much. And if there's one thing that I've learned in the past year, just reflective practices in general are so powerful in really every aspect. So this doesn't need to be something that takes you 30 minutes to do. It could be a simple kind of just check, how are you feeling? And doing that on a consistent basis is really gonna be what allows you to do the things that you love and feel really good about them for a long time. So where can people find you? And or I guess more importantly, where can people find maybe, is this a systematic review published? It's been in review for quite a long time. What comes to academia? It's a process. Also, that's the other thing. People are like, well, why is it so slow? You guys have no idea. And I only got a slight taste of it. And that was enough for me. Like it is the slowest process. So let me talk about delayed gratification in patients. Academia is where you will learn that either the hard way or the easy way, depending on your personality. Yes, so okay, that's not out yet. But is there anywhere the people can follow you if you even want them to? Yeah, I mean, I'm on Instagram at the coach AI, pretty much on all social media platforms. But Instagram is my main platform. Research gate, just Adam Iberham. But if anyone has questions, they can literally shoot me an email. At, I'll just do the Propazik email, but adam at Propazik.com. Can send you all the articles. But first off, I always gotta say, shout out to you for having me on and all of my other mentors, Dr. Campbell, Dr. Buckner, Chris Guy, all of those other individuals that have really shaped me and allowed me to be in the seat right now. Yeah, well, this was an amazing interview. Thank you for coming on. So if you guys have any other questions for us, you can visit teamlocoufit.com for coaching and other resources. And if you're interested in our app, which has macros, meal plans, training programs, all of that great stuff, you can visit redefinehealthyapp.com. I almost said the wrong damn URL. All right, thank you guys so much for listening. Share the show if you enjoyed it. And we'll talk to you next week.