 recru Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood podcast on breakups. And honestly, I think most people can attest to this being one of the hardest things in terms of like, you know, obviously when you're getting broken up with, you know, like that's generally speaking, there's not a breakup where it's like, Hey, we're just both mutually done with this. Like there, of course, are times where that happens, but I would say, you know, 98% of the time my face is sick, but probably most of the time someone is going to want to initiate it. And the other person is going to be very hurt by it. But there's still of course, the person, even if you are initiating the breakup, you're still going to be hurt. It's just going to be in a different way. So breakups all around are really hard. But of course, sometimes it is for the better for a lot of different reasons that we're probably going to discuss. So I'm interested to get into this from like a psychological perspective and not just like a pop psychology kind of, you know, whatever the hell is rampaging TikTok nowadays with advice. So this will be real actual solid psychological advice from a therapist on breakups. Well, so yeah, this is an unfortunate byproduct of dating and not just dating, but connecting to and attaching your life to another person. Breakups are not specific to any particular age, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, like it crosses every boundary and barrier that we have. And at the end of the day, no matter where you're from or who you are, it hurts. And there's, you know, breaking up is probably one of the most difficult things most people will encounter in their life. And what I've seen from it is that it mimics in many ways the same response that we have when we have a death in our life. Most people are pretty familiar with the Kubla Ross five stages of grief and loss, which those five stages are denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance. And so what is denial look like denial is like this inability to accept the reality that this person no longer wants to be with you or that they've ended the relationship with you. Anger can look like a lot of different things, everything from, you know, slashing tires to, you know, talking about how much they hate the person, you know, to fits of rage, just being even irritable or annoyed or frustrated, you know, their, their tone, their personality can change. Bargaining oftentimes looks like, well, maybe if I do this, and if I change this, or if I was really listening, like maybe I could have done this better, I've done this differently. If I do this, then they'll come back to me. And then, you know, depression is a fairly common one that most people will experience usually, initially. Sometimes denial happens at first and then depression usually is the one that is the most painful for people to work through. And the thing I also want people to understand too about these stages of grief and loss, and stages of breaking up with somebody is that you can go through all these stages with the exception of acceptance really at once, like you can vacillate between them, like you might be angry one day and then the next day be really sad and then find yourself kind of negotiating or bargaining with yourself. And then, you know, go back to angry and then go back to depression. So you can kind of bounce back and forth between these, you might even get to a space where like, some days you're totally okay accepting the relationship and you're like, okay, I'm fine, I'm really great, I'm totally over this. And then see something, hear something, be in a place and then be thrown right back into it. So just understand that this is a process. Unless you totally checked out of the relationship, like months before it ended, you're going to feel a certain way about it because breaking up is really hard. And one thing, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to kick you. One thing that you said that I really appreciate you saying is that even the person who's doing the breaking up, like the person who's saying, hey, I don't want to be in this relationship anymore, they get hurt too. And a lot of times, no one, people don't like to admit to that side of it because when you're the person like when I've been broken up with, it's hard for me to feel like anything other than the person who's been victimized in this particular space or the person who's been hurt. And I'm like, you mean, well, if it, and here's, here's my favorite, well, if it hurt you, and you're really bothered by this, then why did you do it to begin with? Right? And so sometimes it can reopen that negotiation, that bargaining, that kind of comes with it, you know, but sometimes it's not so much about the why a relationship ended is just that it is dealing with the idea that the relationship ended. And I think what makes it difficult for people to want a different level is that even with death, death is kind of a final thing, right? Like it happened, this person's no longer here. I'm really sad. I'm going to grieve this. But then I move on with the relationship. It's relationships have an ending, but there's the knowledge that one day this person's going to find somebody else and move on. And so that can be hard. And we're not just grieving the loss of the relationship, but we're also grieving the loss of that person from our life and from the future that we've created either together or in my mind. And so that hits on a deeper level, which is why when you enter into a relationship with somebody, you know, you really want to make sure that you're, you're doing it from the right spaces because if you don't, I mean, even if every relationship with the exception of the one that you're in for the rest of your life, you know, usually comes to an end and it's always hard. Yeah, it's hard no matter what. But I do think that like when you were talking about those stages of grieving, would you agree? And maybe I'm incorrect here, but that some people can go through that before the relationship is over. And like you said, like, somebody's maybe already checked out because they've already gone through these things. And then when they do break up, like some people be like, Oh my God, how did you move on? Or how did you do this? It's like, Listen, I was already going through all of this before. And then now we're just kind of like finalizing that. So I think that this like the timeframe of this and like you said, you can kind of oscillate between all of these feelings. Like this is all normal for the person who is being broken up with also the person who is initiating that. And this all comes back to and I think that the overarching theme of a lot of the relationship podcast that we have is taking this kind of mature stance on like when you are going into a relationship, of course, like again, sometimes they are going to end no matter how great your intentions are, like that's not, you know, most people's end goal. But I think that there are people who, especially when you are younger, like you get into relationships and maybe you aren't thinking in that capacity. Whereas it like as you as you mature and you get older, it's like, Okay, I need to make sure that I'm in the right place to give a lot because like all the podcasts that we talk about, like these, this is like a lot of work. And I don't say that in a negative connotation at all. Like it's a positive thing because there's a lot of benefits to having a partner. But that doesn't mean that there's not a lot of work and you have to be realistic with yourself and with the other person of like, I am not capable of giving this and a relationship right now. And I know that this, whatever all that is, is what is needed to make this like last. And I think that some people like, take that selfishly, right? Like I've been in both ends of those, you know, saying that or also being on the other end of it. And it's like, it really hurts when you're on the other end of it. But ultimately, if that person isn't in a position, the other person is in a position to actually give enough to the relationship, well, then being honest before things even really escalate to a deeper level, you know, months or maybe even years in like is honestly like the best thing. And obviously that's not even talking about breaking up. That's talking about like the pre, you know, getting together. I didn't want to say that. There was an old saying in Vietnam that it was like, you talked to some of the veterans and they were like, if you were going to die, it was better to die in the beginning of Vietnam than it was at the end of Vietnam, because then you didn't have to suffer as much. So I think sometimes you can start with the best of intentions. And I think most people do. And let me also put a caveat out there. There's a difference in breakups. And what I mean by that is there's a difference between the couple who breaks up because of disagreements or growing apart. Or emotional distance or like a change in values versus relationships that end as a result of affairs and abuse. And so I don't think all breakups are equal because they're not. And, you know, I've seen people break up after just a few months and still be just as devastated as a person who's ending a 20 year relationship. And so sometimes it's not even about the quality of the time that you guys spent together as much as it is, you know, sometimes what you thought or believed the relationship was going to become or would one day be isn't. And so that hurts. And it's not to be taken lightly. And I think sometimes one of the dismissals you'll hear from people is like, well, you just, you know, you were just dating this person for like a couple of weeks or a few months or whatever it was. And it's like, that doesn't mean that they didn't have higher hopes for that particular relationship. And, you know, and so I think sometimes if you can be at least honest enough with yourself to say earlier in the relationship, if I know that this isn't, you know, what is going to become my lifelong relationship to end it then. Sure, I agree, it's better to end something after a few months than to wait like several years and then end it later. But at the same time, don't underestimate the pain that's going to be caused by it. Oh, for sure. Like there's there's always pain. But I guess just like a note that I like a mental note that I've made as we're going through a lot of these podcasts is that like, there is a lot of effort and work involved in relationships. And I think that there are still some people who maybe take the viewpoint that it's not. And that's where a lot of these I think breakups can occur. And there's a lot more pain that happens that maybe is unnecessary. And until people actually realize like, man, am I actually ready for this? Or just being honest with like, this is what I'm ready for. This is the capacity that I have. Are you on board with that? Do you want less? Do you want more? And obviously, that's hard to talk about in the beginning. But I think that it's, again, it's super important to discuss because everybody's going to be in a different place when you meet them. And like, yeah, going on a few dates is great. And like getting to know someone is amazing. But then okay, like now, now what? Right? Like, here's what I can give? Like, what are you ready for right now? What are you interested in? And like, that's always the challenging conversation. But I think that that could save a lot of like this heart ache that we're going to talk about. It's still going to be hard and it's still going to hurt. But I think that just being honest with yourself, that does take a certain level of maturity and understanding, you know, but I do think that that's super important. Yeah. And you know, life circumstances can also start playing a role into what you thought you were ready for and what you weren't. And so like, you might think I'm ready for this, and I can do this. And then you start getting into it. And you can quickly realize like, oh, crap. Right. And this is where, and I'll kind of reference this later, you know, when you go back to when you think about some of the other podcasts we've done on like theories of personality, and like, we're talking about Carl Jung and like the shadow, and kind of the essence of the shadow is learning to for the other person for all of us is learning to accept and see the fallibility in other people, how flawed we are, right? Not just our imperfections and that we don't handle things perfectly, but sometimes we're we do hurt people, we are capable of doing things. It's the idea of understanding that side of this is also recognizing that sometimes relationships aren't ending because the other person's terrible or awful or mean or because they were cruel and insensitive. It just means that I can accept the idea that like, okay, this relationship is ending. And the things that happened in it, I don't necessarily have to hate this other person for what they've done. Like I can see in them and understand and accept how they were fallible, how they mishandled this or mistreated me or did these things that were wrong. And I don't have to spend so much time feeling hurt when I rel when I can recognize that their actions while hurtful are still part of the human spectrum. Right? And so it's a little bit of a like disconnecting emotionally from that person and saying like, okay, because here's here's one of the things that I see. And this is this is where I'm going to spend the majority of it. And I'm going to give you guys some, you know, tips and things to do. But what ends up happening a lot of the time is when a person is going through a breakup. And they're the person being broken up with there is a tendency to vilify the other person, right? And what I mean by that is, I don't just mean like painting the person is evil. But what I mean is they put so much of their time, their energy, their attention into the person that broke up with them, rather than by spending your time and effort and energy on you on healing. And so I think sometimes what gets lost in a breakup is you spend a lot of time focusing on the other person and not enough time on yourself. And I don't mean in yourself in terms of making yourself like a better human being. But I mean like focusing on what I need to do to heal from this relationship instead of staying in this hurtful emotional space. Does that make sense? And would you say that some people probably do that because they're thinking, okay, well, if I change this, or if I focus on that, then maybe we'll be able to get back together. Do you see that as a common thing? Or is that more, is that different? That to me seems a little bit more like bargaining. Okay, right? Like if I'm like, well, if I change this, or if I do this differently, maybe they'll come back to me. And so I'm holding on to the hope that maybe this person's going to come back. And maybe they will. I mean, I don't know, like, I think you really need to dissect the relationship and understand like, what did the person say? How final is this, right? Is this a kind of common trend for them? Are you guys the kind of couple that like break up and get back together? And, you know, in this kind of stuff. So it's difficult. Or is this like, hey, like, this is just not the time and this is, yeah, more final. Yeah, if it's if it's more final, like, and you know, and they know, and it's been said, then the amount of time and effort people put into worrying about the other person is just time that's not spent working on yourself and healing yourself. Because if you focus on, you know, if you focus your time and attention on other people, then you're just staying stuck in the same space. And you're not growing, you're not changing, you're not evolving, you're not getting back to a space where you can fall in love with somebody else because your hurt feelings still exist over the previous relationship. And that's where processing through all of those emotions from the past relationship become, you know, really relevant. And if you're not doing that, and then you're jumping into another relationship, like, you're not giving yourself or that other person a chance for that relationship to be a success. Yeah, that's kind of going back to the first comment I met, like pre-relationship, right? Like, where are you even entering this from? Like, where is the space that you're entering this from? And the way that people define dating now is so different and unique. So, you know, they might not even care, it might just be super casual for them as well. But that's where understanding, okay, like, where am I at? What capacity do I have to like give to someone and just being, you know, pretty honest in terms of that. So, okay, so a lot of times you said people will vilify the other person and spend a lot of their time focusing on them. Which is normal to a certain extent because they think part of that is the anger face, right? Like, and we've got to give that its space. Yeah, even the person, I would imagine who is doing, like, who is breaking up with the other individual, they're also remembering all of that, like, oh, this is why I broke up with them or this or that, you know, like, there's not like they're just like, you know, mostly don't just break up with someone and like wash their hands of it, like they're thinking of those things as well, but in a different kind of light, right? Yeah, I think reasonable people are doing that. Oh, okay. You know, what would be an unreasonable or something? You know, kind of the people who are more pathological. Oh, who just don't give a fuck. Who just don't care or who are being cruel to be cruel or, you know, they're playing games or doing whatever that is. And the lesson that I think one of the things that I would definitely tell people is even if you're the person who broke up with somebody or you're the person who ended the relationship, you have your work to do too. And I think sometimes like it can be if the person's breaking up, sometimes people will have the mindset of well, I'm breaking up with them. So the majority of the things were wrong with them, right? And the other person who's being broken up with might be like, well, I did nothing wrong, everything was this person's fault. Okay. And so for me, because I've been on both sides of this too, you know, if I've ever had to if I've ever ended a relationship with somebody, that to me is more hurtful than actually being broken up with. I because I, me personally, I carry that with me for a really long time. It is not something that's easy for me to get over. It's it's much easier for me. And I don't know why to rationalize somebody else now wanting to be with me, then it is for me to have to reject somebody else in that capacity. Or to just say like, look, this isn't it. And I think part of what what makes it so hard for people on the breakup side of it is you get into a relationship and you want to give the other person the best version of you. And what I've recognized is I didn't give them the best version of me. Like, so, even though you might have, I might have ended the relationship. The hardest part is being honest with yourself later and recognizing like, fuck, like, I didn't go through the pre checklist and do everything that I should have done. I wasn't in the best emotional space. I wasn't as attentive. I didn't give or respond to bids in the right way. I wasn't as great at communicating. It wasn't as open or as intimate as I needed to be. There's a list goes on. And so that part of it for me is worse than somebody being like, yeah, Rick, I don't, you know, this relationship isn't going to work. I don't, you know, I don't like you anymore. Here are some things that's like, okay, I'm going to be hurt and go through those steps. But I rebound much faster from that than I do ending the relationship because it usually means to you that I'm also coming to the realization that this person's not going to be a part of my life anymore. Would you say that in your experience with counseling that it's it is predominantly that way? Or is it the other way around? Usually when people are coming to counseling, it's because they've been broken up with. Okay, so I see that side of it a lot more than I do the person who's coming to me being like, look, I broke up with this person and I'm feeling like shit over it. True, right. So it's kind of hard to say, but I do see that a fair amount in counseling where, you know, in sessions where people are talking about something and they're like, I feel really bad about the way that this relationship went or I feel terrible about how things ended with this person. And to that, I say, like, okay, like, let's, we can talk about that. Like, this is the opportunity for us to grow. You know, and I, and this is the only way I can think to help people understand this. And this is the way I've personally carried it within myself is that if this person meant something to you, right, if this relationship or the value of this other human being meant something to you, then the only way sometimes that you can pay homage to that relationship or show them the value that they have is by doing the work now to not repeat the same mistake later. Right. Because inevitably, if you guys can wrap your head around it, especially the ones who are going through the breakup right now, I know right now that might seem impossible. Right. If you're hurt, if you just ended a relationship with somebody and you're in this, in your in that space where you can't see the future with anybody else, no one else is attractive to you. Like, I get it. Like, in time, in enough time and enough work, you will eventually feel differently. I promise. I know right now, it seems impossible. I've been there. I think everybody has been there at some point in time. But eventually, there will come a point where you've moved through the anger and the depression and the bargaining and you're in acceptance. And what that means is you can wake up and like suddenly, you'll start to see somebody new. You'll start to feel attraction. You'll want to put yourself back out there. You'll open yourself back up for loving it, even though right now it feels impossible. You can do that. But I think for me, the people who have struggled and even in myself is to say, like, okay, where did I go wrong? What did I do? You know, because it's not just like, okay, the relationship didn't work out. What part of me failed that relationship? And that's the, that's like a dagger to my heart when I'm like, fuck, like, how did I fail this other person? Yeah. But like you said, you have to do that in order to not repeat that because you don't want to do that to somebody else and you don't want to feel that way for yourself again, either. So it's beneficial for really everybody involved. It's just really hard, especially kind of in those early stages. But I think that yeah, a lot of times, and again, this maybe is just more of like kind of a mature outlook on things. And this is not just mature in terms of age. I mean, it can be but just in general, like, I don't think a lot of people really go through like, people have an idea of what they're interested in, you know, in terms of like, Oh, you know, I like this about it. But like, okay, what are you actually looking for in a partner? And what, what type of partner do you actually want to be? Because those two things are super important. And I don't know, maybe, maybe everybody else says this kind of missed the boat on that at some point. But like, when I first started like really digging into that, I was like, man, I mean, of course, I've sought of certain things, but never really like sat down and was like, All right, what are these things? Like, what am I looking for? Who do I want to be as the partner? And I think that if people are able to do that, they're going to be able to really be able to go into things. And again, hopefully not break up, but let's keep it okay. I know now we're going on different stuff in terms of finding a partner. So we're not talking about that, we're talking about breakup. So say somebody got broken up with, right? What are some things they can do? Yes. We're like, before you break up, no, okay, so it's already happened. Okay, on whether the circumstances were your fault, their fault, both faults moved apart, whatever it might be. What are some things that you as the individual who has just been broken up with can do? Okay, so first and foremost, there's no real, I think, I haven't read. If I'm wrong, please feel free to send it to me. Any research papers that really identify from an empirical evidence based perspective, like these are the best ways to get over, like go to YouTube, you'll find a thousand videos, right? I'm like, here's how you get over it. And so I think there's some things that generally lend itself toward a healthier perspective and processing through a breakup. And so that's where I'm going to, you know, I'll give you some guidance. One of the things that I like personally and both professionally is for you to journal or write a letter, kind of a final letter. Because I think sometimes, and if you can't have the letter, maybe perhaps you can have a conversation with that person. Because I think there's things that need to be said in order to move on in the relationship, or not in the relationship, but ending the relationship and moving on in your life. This is if you've been broken up with. If you've been broken up with, yes, these are things to do. So write a letter, write a letter. How do you feel everything that you want to say, everything that wasn't said? Are you writing it to them, or you're just writing how you feel? You can. And there's no sense that it's not saying that you have to even send it. No, I know. I just meant the context is you're just writing about it or you're writing what you would say to them. I usually I write it to the person. And I would instruct people to write it to whoever it was that is that you've broken up with. Been broken up. I've been broken up with, excuse me. And so you just start saying what needs to be said, venting your frustrations, your emotions, tying everything, saying everything that you can without a filter. Then it helps to read that letter once or twice or 22 times or whatever it is that you need to do to read it to yourself to make sure that it came out. Because what you're starting to do is you're starting to process all the things that are trapped inside you that you've wanted to say. And if you can't do it in a letter, do it in a phone call with the person. Sometimes you need to take weeks, months, a year, 10 years, whatever it is, and go back and have that conversation. Hopefully it's not 10 years. That's a really long time to be grieving the loss of a relationship. But writing a letter to the person who broke up with you is generally a really healthy way to start the processing of your emotions and to get things out. And what you'll what you recognize is the the act of finally saying everything that you've wanted to say is cathartic in and of itself. Then share it with a friend if you need to or bring it to your therapist or read it out loud 100 times if you need to until you get tired of hearing those things. Because what this does is it avoids you going back and forth into the bargaining phase, right? I'm saying everything that I need to say, and I'm getting it outside of me. Period. And if I can't do it in a letter, I'll do it in a conversation. Like have the conversation, text the person, be like, Hey, I want to talk and say what I need to say, and then say it and then move on. Yeah, I think that's probably one of the hardest parts is that like when you are in that shut out period, when somebody when you feel just like really misunderstood and like, I didn't get my point across. And some people are receptive. Yeah, let's talk and other people are just like, no, no, we're just like left on red. So I think that this is a really good idea to kind of just you're able to get all that out. And, you know, not everybody is going to give you that space to say those things. And even if they did, here's the way that I try to think through this, like, even if they did, they might not even be willing to hear it. So does it really matter if you say it to them or if you just get it out, you know, great point. Are you saying these things to change their mind? Or are you saying these things to process your emotions so you can move on? Very different motives. Very different. And so if you're approaching it has a different like feeling behind it, you know, because like, if you're only saying that, like, well, maybe they'll understand finally, you know, like, that's going to feel very different when they don't reach out or they don't answer versus if you're like, you know what, I just want to get this out. And like it said, and maybe they're just not in the place to hear it. And that's okay. Like those feel very different, like emotionally. Yeah, so completely. So write a letter, have a conversation. Sometimes removing objects from your house can be a really cathartic process that could look like taking down pictures, it could look like perhaps things that the other person bought for you, removing items from the house that might remind you of them. Yeah, trigger memories or going not going places that maybe trigger those memories like, Oh, when we will, we used to go here together or this was like our thing. Well, then the next one I was going to say sometimes you need, or a healthy step is going to those places and saying goodbye to the memories, right? Like, where did you go on your first date, right? And maybe going back there or where you got married at or perhaps your favorite spot where the two of you used to go and having a little ritual there and saying goodbye to that spot ending that relationship, understanding to that. Yes, being back there can be triggering and bring back a flood of emotions. But remind yourself that your motive is not to get the person back. Your motive is to heal. And it's, it's fundamentally important. How do people change that? Because I don't, I think that that's probably where most people struggle is that if they like, well, if I could change someone, or if I could change myself, or I could change the situation, then it'd be different than they totally see that this is going to work. Like, I think that that maybe I'm wrong, but I feel like that's probably where most of the hurt is, is feeling like, well, if I did this, or if they did that, or if they just got it, you know, like this would work. But in reality, it's not, it's never usually that one thing. But like that, I feel like is where a lot of the hurt stems for people. So how do they change that perspective? You're stuck in the bargaining face. That's just negotiating with yourself. You're like, if I could just change this, then they would see. If I didn't say that, then this wouldn't have happened. You're like, if I didn't say that, if I didn't do this, it's like, well, it probably would have at some point. It did. And very well. Yeah. Right. And so that's the part where it's like, am I, am I still working from this to save the relationship?  and and the hard part is, we all want the relationship back, and we don't want to move forward, and so the reluctance is always to figure out ways to go back and fix it, because we're really good at fixing things when they're already broken, rather than fixing them before they got broken. Listen to our podcast, if I said before this, but really, that was a good pre-podcast of this one because that's where like a lot of those like that's where a lot of that contempt and like separation builds is from what we talked about on that episode on like you know the creating the connection and then now you said a lot of people want to fix things afterwards but it's like listen like this has been going on for six months a year or two years like this isn't just like mostly don't just wake up and they're like fuck this bitch you know like you're general I mean some people maybe some you know you're a different person if that's the case yeah then then yeah you maybe have some other issues but most people are not going to be doing that you know right it's gonna be this like long slow process so yeah and catching you know like how do you avoid you know something like how do you avoid a car accident it's like well you don't avoid the car accident when it's inches from hitting you you avoided the car accident by like doing the five or six steps before so that's where you know the other podcast comes in but for now it got to this point and you know and sometimes you know there's there are things that happen in in relationships with people where they just it's just not designed to work and you're fundamentally different people or your or something has occurred where it's like it's not something that you did it's something where I'm at or where you're at that I know isn't going to work and so whenever that realization comes in it comes in and so sometimes there's really nothing that you can do to change the relationship because in doing what you can do to preserve the relationship sometimes means changing too much of who you are as a person and it's like at that point who were they in a relationship with this fake version of you or me so so that like obviously sometimes people grow apart because they haven't been doing those things to stay connected but sometimes people do genuinely change in these ways in the direction at least that they want to go or maybe they finally realize like you know I like this is what I'm actually interested in like I want to do these things and you want to do these things and that's okay that they're different but like these are kind of fundamental things of how we want to live and this isn't like oh I voted this way right like nothing like that like it's like it's just general like life trajectories of like this is where I want to go this is where I want to go and maybe those things were separate and that's kind of that like growing apart thing but yeah I would say probably a lot of people at least in my experience really struggle with breakups emotionally because of it's like well what could I have done or what if this one thing if they just understood and like you said that's kind of that bargaining phase but what if somebody's been in a relationship where maybe someone like not necessarily diagnosed with you know narcissists personality disorder but being with someone who maybe is like more manipulative right in some capacity and they like everybody else can see like oh my gosh we all see that this person is not good for you this relationship is not good but you're so like hooked on them maybe even for like the wrong reasons how does that person get out of that stage because I feel like that's even like it's already hard but then I feel like in that sense it's really really hard because they're so addicted to that like chaos and that like push-pull that it's like that's their norm it's their norm to break up and get back together all the time even when you know that it's like it's not healthy so how would you recommend somebody going about that obviously they have to have the awareness that that's even happening right like you could tell someone until they're like like a million times but they have to obviously recognize it themselves but yeah so when you're dealing with somebody who has a slightly deeper pathology or they're highly manipulative you you kind of need to understand some of the specifics that's happening within the relationship but oftentimes some of the more broad strokes is I referred to the Carpenter trauma triangle in the past which is victim persecutor rescuer I find myself reiterating this a lot with clients and these are three different roles that a person essentially fulfills in a relationship for somebody oftentimes when the relationship is unhealthy and so what happens is is one person assumes the role of the victim right and in being the victim I'm placing my partner as the persecutor the person who's causing me these pains and so what that sometimes does to people is it makes them shift into thinking I can rescue this person and this is where the mindset comes from when you're talking about people who are like if I could just change this if I could just do this they're really coming at it from this rescuer perspective like if I was just different if I said things differently if I acted differently if I did these things then this person wouldn't have walked away and generally speaking if you're a normal relatively normal person you're gonna do and say things that are wrong and and you people are gonna have to forgive each other in order for a relationship to exist but people who are really toxic or unhealthy or highly manipulative they're assuming they're placing you as the persecutor so that you assume the victim role so that you stay trapped in these cycles these unhealthy cycles where you're like it's my fault or I've got to save this person you know and so their instability almost becomes your responsibility and guess what and what you're drawn to sure and those relationships are can be intoxicating because they're they come with such highs and such lows where most relationships kind of keep this you know base baseline level with little peaks here little peaks there you know peaks and valleys here and there but with you know some of these more toxic unhealthy people like it can be like they can love bomb the shit out of you and make you feel like you're the greatest thing in the world and then the next minute be trashing you and that instability is like how do I get back to that goddess level how do I get back to that godlike level how do I maintain and some people have this capacity to think that like I'm the one who it's my job to love them through all of this right I can't tell somebody when or where or how to end the relationship right you will decide when that's enough when enough is enough for you and I've known people who are in relationships for years of their life and they've been through it all abuse physical psychological affairs they've been through horrible situations of mistrust and betrayal still in those relationships and then I've seen people being those relationships for years and finally end them and then find a really great relationship later in life how you decide to get out of that is your is only up to you because some people will really commit themselves to the idea that like oh my god if I love this person it's my responsibility to love them no matter what happens and it's like that's great but at what point do you recognize that a relationship is a two-way street and that person has to start giving back to you because if they're not then you're being this kind of martyr for the cause and I don't know who asked you to do that that's your kind of position yeah and that's really hard because there's like this fine line with everything right but especially with relationships of like alright like there is a give-and-take you know I need to be committed I need to like stand by this person I need to do all these things like those are all like stand-up qualities but it's really hard to see when you're in the midst of that like how toxic that person might the other person might be you know and you think like oh I have to and the name the problem is when like as the outside observer you can see how that person is manipulating you know your friend or whatever and it's so heartbreaking but like you said and that's what I wanted to hear you say like you can't make that person get out of that relationship and like it doesn't matter how much you berate them how much you talk shit about the other person like it doesn't matter like they like and what's really sad though is that in these types of you know really kind of toxic relationships like a lot of times that person will make them like make that person feel so isolated you know what I mean and then like the people the friends are kind of like I can't hear about this one more time you know what I mean like I need a distance for myself so then they do literally become isolated so then then then that toxic person is like see you are the problem and then it kind of feels so it's so hard because it's like you know you want to help that person but it's like can you not see this but you know when you're in the midst of that and especially like that emotional like grip that they have on you it's so hard yeah but you said it like that individual has to be the one to decide that and hopefully you have good people in your life and if you're listening to this and you have a friend or you know family member who's in this being supportive but you know being supportive of them when they're going through those lows but also trying to you know get that person to recognize hey here are some of the things but not say it in this like rude way like yeah he's such a piece of shit or this like every time you do that that person is they're not going right would you would you say this is like backed up psychologically like they are not going to respond that way if you're like oh my god like you know so and so it's so awful I don't even know why you're still dating him like they're not going to be like oh you know what you're right I should break up with him like no they're they're not that's gonna even feel more like they just don't get it like I can change him or her you know but it's like no like if you say the more you say that the more that they're going to like dig their heels and at least that's the experience that I've had yeah generally speaking and then the other back part of that is if they stay with that person now they know how you truly felt about it and so now they're gonna be like well I don't want to go talk to I know Lauren hates this person yeah so that becomes now it's problematic it's like okay I liken it to this this is the best example that I can give you ever try to convince an addict not to use drugs or drink and it's like well how do they decide when they decide when they've had enough experienced enough pain or are sick and tired of being sick and tired whatever kind of cliche thing you want to use that person ultimately makes the decision to commit to sobriety and here's the thing that commitment to sobriety is gonna look different for every single person but until you're ready to walk away from that relationship you're not ready maybe you need to be cheated on 20 more times maybe you need to be here or they find someone else to latch on to you know and then hopefully then they kind of I mean yeah you want to avoid hopefully moving from one abusive relationship to the next no I mean that the the toxic person could maybe also be tired of you and then just move on that's hopefully yeah what could happen and you know when you're dealing with like people who are like slightly more narcissistic what ends up happening is is because the narcissist doesn't necessarily connect emotionally to the relationship it's much easier for them to move on and then here's the best part they move on very quickly while you're still struggling with the emotional turmoil and here it makes it even worse every person who's been in a relationship with a narcissist says the same thing they're like I know if I break up with them my biggest fear is that he's gonna move on to the next relationship and be really great and initially he will be because he's gonna love bomb that person until the relationship evolves long enough where it can't get past the superficiality of it and so all of those things are gonna come full circle and so like your worst nightmare kind of comes true but then that person didn't do anything to really change and so all that's gonna happen is a new relationship with the same dynamics is gonna exist but so tough but when you're in that spot it's really none of that stops you from loving the person no so you know taking these steps if you are in that position is important but what about if you are the person who is like I really like what are some I guess signs and again this is gonna be different for everybody but like what are some signs if you're the person's like man like I don't think this relationship is working anymore and you're the person who's going to pursue ending it like what are some things that maybe are happening that are kind of clear signs if any that like maybe this is no longer the relationship for us this is also done on an individual basis because one person's ceiling is another person's floor what you might want to relationship for might be like it's just a Tuesday for me but like I think if you were if you're don't want to be in the relationship anymore first and foremost if you're starting to envision your future with somebody else or without that person if that person creates kind of a visceral response in you that is uneasy if you feel like you can't trust or be open or vulnerable with this person anymore it might be time for you to really start giving consideration to what this relationship looks like you know I've seen people do this shit where they like do like a pros and cons list like well these are the great qualities these are the good qualities I'm I know I just said in a really judgmental tone so let me back track a little bit fine how you say things is everything yeah yeah it's not the words thank you doctor you're right to say but it doesn't like pros and cons list because I think it just it takes it to this really it takes the emotion out of it and it makes this thing this like it's very cold and calculating and I don't know if relationships are meant to be cold and calculating it's just kind of like anybody can someone can fit all the criteria on your list right but then you don't really feel it so you're like well that's it's the same thing you know it's like and confirmation like a walking list plays a role in that right like I might highlight some of the thing because if I'm wanting to stay in the relationship and the relationship I might focus more on the negatives you know and then what happens what happens when there's an equal amount of positive to negative but being reflective and introspective in some way is probably important so if you haven't done that like if you're just having you know a rough couple weeks maybe don't just be like I'll pull the plug on this but really sitting down and being like what's upsetting me like what reactions am I having is it when they do one specific thing or is it all the time or is it our paths are different like so I do think that maybe not a pro and con list but maybe a introspective list or I guess thoughts to reflect on the relationship and to highlight some of the most important and critical aspects yes and so you know again it's one of those things where for some people and I've seen this for some people they'll come into a session and then be like I know I should end this relationship but I'm not and I'm not going to and they're they're like okay because like they just kind of feel comfortable enough in it and for some people the devil they know is worse than the devil they don't and so the idea of ending a relationship where I know how to navigate it is much more terrifying than the prospect of dating somebody new because in their mind it could be worse it could be a lot better it could be a lot better or it could be a lot worse you're right we won't know that until you you take those risks you know but I think sometimes the reason why the the list thing doesn't always work is because there's an emotional piece to a relationship that can't be summed up and just you know one thing you can talk to people who have literally their spouses have beaten them and they still love them it's like you can't necessarily beat the love out of somebody and so it's like I could tell that person hey you know maybe you should consider leaving you know and obviously when there's cases of physical abuse and harm like it becomes a little bit more of a safety issue but you still don't know and I don't want to get too far down this hole I can't make that decision for somebody because I have no idea how that's going to affect them you know I had a professor once he's like I he was talking about a personal story he advised the woman to leave somebody who was physically abusive to him in the child he said you should absolutely leave and then she showed up at his office and was like I have nowhere to go you know he's like what about money she's like well he has all the money and so it created this like it's not I'm not saying staying in an abusive relationship but I'm also saying there's complexities to things and to why a person should or shouldn't leave a relationship which is why it's really important for you to make that call and I don't know sometimes if there's like if you can look at a list of events that have occurred and say yes or no this person should be in my life or shouldn't be in my life I think it comes to that feeling space where you look at it from a reasoning perspective as well as an emotional perspective and use that wise mind where it's the creation of both to make the decision both emotionally and mentally you know does it make sense for me to leave in my feeling emotionally like this is the right thing for me to do there's a ton of red flags that can be occurring and so evaluating those red flags is really important yeah I guess I guess all that is super useful the only hard thing again is if somebody is in maybe this kind of more toxic situation where they are they think everything is is great except for these these few little things right like and that's where the I guess emotion piece is probably hard because emotionally yeah like they feel okay about it but like well and are those things problems for them or are they problems for you right you're listening to the person's story and if you're like oh my god that's a problem but it's not as big of a problem to them fine but if they're at least that's for argument's sake saying they're voicing this as a problem that's what I mean is it a big enough problem for them to leave yeah you know for them to brave everything else that's gonna come with leaving or is it worth it because sometimes you'll also hear and you've heard me say you've got to choose your heart right being in a relationship is hard making a relationship work is hard ending a relationship is hard breaking up his heart going through a divorce is hard like choose your heart you know and that's an easy phrase to say but a hell of a thing to live through and so it's very difficult but a few other things that I want to get to unless there's something else that you wanted to know and on that obviously go ahead and create your breakup playlist right um no I mean for some people they everybody's everyday they process the most emotion they process emotions through music music is a very emotional thing it can help I think sometimes if you even create a playlist that reminds you of that person and you listen to those songs over and over again usually worse what the fuck advice is this when you start getting when you start listening to the music and you get sick of hearing the damn song you're usually moving through their emotions that shit hurts music hurts right yeah it does here's a spot if I know soon like I'm in a sad mood and it just like picks all the money picking all these songs today they is not the day here's another little tip that you guys can use to get over or help you get over your relationship and it's giving yourself and allowing yourself specific times of the day to grief so when I'm going through a breakup I will encourage people to say like okay it's especially in the beginning also you can give yourself two or three times a day to process your emotions so you're gonna wake up in the morning and you're gonna read the letter whatever it was and you're just gonna feel every emotion and I want you to ball your eyes out I want you to listen to the sad songs and sing and think about the future and all that but you're gonna give yourself a timeline okay I'm gonna do this for a half hour okay and then in a half hour comes when that alarm goes off and it's like okay I'm gonna take a shower I'm gonna get ready for work and I'm gonna go throughout my day and now if you need to do this like maybe you schedule it during your lunch hour and then maybe you schedule something again in the evening but what ends up happening is throughout the day when you find yourself thinking about that person and it's not one of your allotted times you utilize the technique of thought stopping and thought switching I'm thinking about this person I'm thinking about them I'm feeling okay I'm gonna stop that picture the stop sign in your head and start thinking about other things that you can be doing okay and then later that night when it's like seven o'clock and you're home alone and the door is locked like pour your glass of wine get your sad music on that playlist and crank it up again and get in touch with those emotions and what I have found is when people are doing that when they're actively focusing on something during the day and then allowing themselves times at night to process their emotions it gives them more structure and they don't feel overwhelmed by emotions all day yeah I wasn't saying like that time stop is so crucial because I think what happens is you know a lot of us know intuitive like alright I need to go through this kind of emotional release but what ends up happening is that I can just kind of spiral and like stay with you right and then it kind of like colors the rest of the day like let's say it is in the morning you know and then it just kind of like keeps on going so I definitely think that having those designated times and also like the stop times to be like alright we're gonna pack this up for right now and then we can revisit it later but I think that that's so important because otherwise it can just it's just so easy to spiral like alright I was gonna go here and do this and then well I'm gonna keep crying and now I'm driving and oh my god and then you know and then you keep staying so I think that it's that's so critical because I think a lot of people maybe understand that first point but don't understand like how to round that out yeah and you can start to you know reduce the time to like if you're like I'm gonna start with a half hour and then go to 20 minutes and then 10 and then if that sounds like a lot like listen think about how much time you actually waste thinking about the other person in these unproductive patterns it's much more time than that oh yeah if you're like you didn't know me like it's not like oh you need three by 30 crying out or like yeah because if you're not having a handle on it like it's significantly more time than that like and crying by the way is one of the most healthy best ways to get through your emotions like if you've got tears like stop fighting them back like let them out you know the snot bubbles and all the other stuff that come with it like let it out because keeping it trapped inside you is only going to hurt you and perpetuate the pain that you're in and so it's kind of like you have a choice how much you're going to be in pain how long you're in pain is dependent on what you're doing now and then here's one other point that I would really like to to talk about and then you know ask or answer any questions that you may have when you're moving through in your healing yourself and I've said this you know I said focus on healing yourself not necessarily what the other person is doing put your time and energy like don't think about like well we broke up and now I know this person's out doing these things and they're with this person or with these people and they're like you're focusing on them focus on you and so what I mean by that is there's a difference between self-improvement versus distraction okay and so what is self-improvement self-improvement is learning self-improvement is traveling self-improvement is advancing your understanding of yourself it's growing as a person learning a new skill taking a new class it's joining a club or some sort of social event or whatever it is versus distraction which can oftentimes look like getting drunk hooking up submersing yourself into work when you look at those things the difference between distraction and self-improvement is I'm tapping into parts of me that matter I'm learning new things I'm growing as an individual I'm learning about myself so I'm focusing my attention my effort my energy on me versus distracting which is temporarily helps me go numb right but doesn't actually do anything to address those things and if you spend more time in distraction all you're going to wake up with is hangovers more disappointment prolonged pain and you're not actually advancing and learning and bettering yourself and I think sometimes it can be confusing because people are like well isn't joining a new class kind of a form of distraction in a sense it is but you're not distracting yourself from the person and replacing it with something unhealthy you're investing in yourself and who doesn't feel better when they learn something new right like when you develop a new skill or you're taking interest in something that's always been an interest of you or you're traveling like the restorative nature of travel is amazing what you're also doing too is you're creating new experiences that don't involve that other person so there's this new version of you that's being created there's this person that doesn't know what it's like to go here or do these things or this side of you and so there's a big difference between self-improvement versus just distracting and I can tell you like get rid of the old adage like how do you get over somebody you get under somebody else like get rid of that that's only gonna lead to more disappointment and hurt feelings and you know regret later on yeah I was gonna say that's probably like that that's like the feel-good-in-the-moment like added like yeah let's go get drunk and let's go out and hook up and meet these like yeah but how many times you wake up and you're like man totally over my ex not like the chances that happening are no slim to none like maybe in that moment you're not thinking about that but then in a few hours you know when you're home alone again like it doesn't change any of that and hey listen like we're not saying like don't go out and have drinks everyone's like that's not what we're saying of course but there is a huge difference and I'm so glad that you touched on that because distraction is so easy because you're like I want to do anything but think about this person you know what I mean so like let me scroll let me watch something let me go out let me be busy busy and then or work you know that's such an easy one for people to do like I'll just work more I'll just work more but yeah are you doing anything to better yourself and the best point I think out of all that is are you creating these new memories and new experiences like just for yourself you know and maybe with other people too like maybe it's some solo maybe it is with other friends or other people but it's not with that person right so I think that that probably is certainly one of the the best key points out of that is to really not distract yourself during this period I'm gonna really focus on yeah bettering you and also like you know you touched on at some point like you know there it has to be a level of ownership with the relationship right like in terms of like okay like nobody here is perfect you know like person who broke up with you and and you who got broken up with like both of you played a role here obviously sometimes it is much more one person than the other so I'm not gonna say that it's not but there is always a level of like hey what what did I learn from this what could I do better and what do I not want to do like maybe this person brought out some things that I don't want to act like that again you know like maybe I don't want to be like this to present myself this way and so taking that time like for yourself to really invest in yourself and figure out like alright I don't want this to happen again or I don't want to be like this anymore all of that is gonna take time and the next final question and there's obviously no right answer here or not I'm just curious do you see like a trend and I know you're gonna say well it's an individual of course it everything depends I know that every question is it depends but is there generally like a time course that kind of makes the most sense in terms of of dating again or is it really like no it is totally case-by-case dependent there's not really a trend here like obviously wouldn't recommend breaking up with someone and then getting into another relationship in a week or two like clearly that's not gonna happen but do you see anything have you seen any patterns I guess is kind of what I'm asking in therapy or is it really just all over the place in terms of healing and when is best for someone to date again what I can say is you have a much much higher chance of failure if you jump right into another relationship without learning or growing and that can be especially within a few weeks so if you've just broken up with somebody even if it was somebody you were just dating for a few months and now you're already dating somebody in a new relationship and it's just been like a few weeks like good luck you know I'm not saying it's gonna fail but like that has a very high probability of failure because of the fact that and I mean and so there's so many intangibles right like did the last relationship really mean anything to you if you're getting into another relationship checked out you know months before like there I know there's a lot of I just was curious if there was maybe yeah no I mean I've seen some people say like for every year you're in a relationship it takes a month to kind of process through that so like three years three months you know ten years ten months that's still like to each their own I know people who have been in you know five six year relationships and it's taken them like a year or two to really rebound and get back to just an emotionally healthy space for themselves let alone opening themselves up to somebody else so unfortunately no I wish I had a better answer for it but it didn't need to be a better answer I was just curious if there was a like I figured there wasn't but I was just curious for like man I keep I see this over and over again but I figured it was a no because it's so every relationship is so different like we said there were some people who already checked out before they actually break up so you know there's that and then this is a person who is you know totally blindsided and grieving and thought they were going to get married I mean there's so much nuance to like what is a break up but so yeah ultimately I think that's a great response you know you need to invest in yourself you need to really actually heal and not just go and date dating can also be a distraction like right like absolutely so don't think like you know even not even if you're not talking to me even if you're just going on dates like because it's exciting to be texting someone and making plans and all that like if you are putting your focus there you're now probably not going to have the space for that in your personal development and your work and your other relationships like there's only so much time in a fucking day and so much cognitive capacity that you can give so here's here's okay so perhaps this is a better way to think about it not in terms of time but until you've worked through each of the stages until you're truly in acceptance that's the time where it might be okay for you to start to date because the reality is if you're angry at a person and for however long it takes to move through that anger if you're doing things whether it's lashing out at that person trying to hurt them or you know showing them by sleeping with other people or dating other people whatever those those reasons are you  you're coming from this space where all you're really going to do is create regret for yourself. And no one likes to be angry, no one likes to be sad, I don't know many people who enjoy those emotions. Denial is kind of a different thing, most people kind of get through that a little bit and then they start processing through these emotions. So until you're out of those phases, however long that is for you, stay single long enough to get out of that phase and get into acceptance. Because then in acceptance it's like, I don't have to act out of a space to hurt that person, I don't have to act out of a space of hate for that person, I don't have to become a different person or do things that might compromise who I am or where I'm trying to go. So get to the space of acceptance before you're at least open to a new relationship and avoid to the whole friends with benefits thing, like I get it, I know sex is an important part and people want to feel that physical connection, but often times when you break up with somebody what you're really longing for is the emotional connection and the lack of intimacy that has been removed from your life and replacing it with casual sex doesn't necessarily fulfill that. I think too often we tend to look for sex to replace too many aspects of the relationship and intimacy, which intimacy could be a whole other topic, but so yeah maybe that helps, like I guess if it's within a few weeks perhaps we should examine how far out you were removed from that relationship to begin with. I think that's a good framework of looking through, okay maybe I am ready to date again and then you can also change your mind, you can go on a date or two and be like you know what I'm actually not ready and then be open and honest with that other person and again that kind of goes back to that pre even really getting together, like where are you and just being really honest in terms of that. So I think those were really great suggestions, I know this is a kind of a shitty topic, nobody wants to hear about this, but everybody has gone through a breakup and everybody has probably initiated one and felt one, so I think that being able to have some of these tools in this perspective is going to be really useful for people moving forward. So hope you guys enjoyed this episode, as always we really really appreciate if you do share, this is the best way that we can grow the show. If you're interested in reaching out to Rick for counseling, either solo or couples counseling, what is your email? Full Circle Therapy FL at gmail.com. Great and then for information on 101 coaching and the services that we offer, you can visit teamlocofit.com and if you're interested in learning more about our app which has macros, meal plans, grocery lists, training programs, mental health resources, all of the things, it is our next best thing to coaching, you can visit redefinehealthyapp.com and learn more there. So thank you guys so much and we'll talk to you next week.