 welcome back to another episode of the Locofit Show, where we read a final healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and this week is a solo episode with me all about my experience with 75 heart. If you guys do not know about this program or what it is, I'm going to fully explain it, go through all the details, and also I wanted to answer some of the most commonly asked questions I had during the process, and last week I also put up a question box in my story and kind of again accumulated all of the frequently asked questions for you guys. In case you're interested in doing this, I would say that it's a pretty popular program. 75 heart is within this entire Live Hard program, where essentially it's a one year program broken up into four different phases. 75 heart, and then there's phase one, phase two, and phase three, and it goes throughout the year, and it's really a mental toughness and discipline program. So while there are different aspects of diet and training involved, it is not necessarily just for that. And I do want to come out the gate and say the first thing, because this was actually something that someone put in the question box that I think is really important to touch on. This is not necessarily a weight loss program. It is not. I think everybody has seen a lot of really intense physical transformations from this, and they assume that it is a fat loss or a weight loss program. It is not. You can make it a fat loss program if that is what you need or what you want out of the program, but you do not need to do that. And actually I didn't do that. So I'm a great example to be able to talk about this. So out the gate, I want to talk about this is not a fat loss or weight loss program. You are in control with what you want to do with the diet. And actually that's what I loved about this program. So just a little backstory. So last year I was working a lot on different, we'll just say, mental thing. A lot of my mental health, just really diving into a lot of different things in my life that required a lot of energy. It was very physically draining, although it was very mental in nature. So last year I kind of just gotten to this place where I wasn't training as much. I was dedicating a lot of this energy to other things, but then it kind of turned into like, alright, I'm not really going to train and then I don't really feel like training and then kind of getting a little lazy about it. Had some injuries, you know, just all the normal stuff, right? And when I really look back on it, you know, I was doing pretty good with my walks. Last year I really reincorporated doing daily walks and honestly timing them like you guys hear me talk about all the time. Timing them around morning and evening sun exposure. So I was still being physically active, but I was not really, I was honestly lifting like three times a week for like the whole year. For being real honest, okay? And I was not eating enough. So I have gotten to a place now where the last time that I've actively dieted was the end of 2018. So I have not dieted. My hunger is very regulated and I was just finding myself, you know, not really super hungry and just honestly under eating, especially when it comes to protein. You know, I'm somebody who would be like a self-proclaimed meathead, you know, I love training hard. I love eating high protein foods. I love all that kind of stuff. If you're not aware and cognizant of how much protein you're eating, it is very easy to fall below. And I was just honestly, for me, it's a meal thing. So I was only eating about three meals, so three protein servings a day. For me to hit an adequate amount of protein, I do really need to have four protein servings. So it's one of those things again, just kind of slipping, you know, some days it was certainly better than others. But just in general, training was pretty low. Food was pretty low. So my intention going into this was, all right, I'm going to start this on January 1st as a just kind of momentum builder for my year. Because I have a lot of things that I want to be doing this year that I have been doing this year. And I was like, this is going to be such a great kickstart to it. And it was like in this perfect, like serendipitous way that if I started on January 1st, which was a Sunday, then the last full day was my birthday, March 16th, which we're coming up on. I'm recording this on Sunday, which is the 12th. So it's pretty crazy. I was like, you know what, this is a sign that I should definitely do it. So to run through what is 75 hours, because there have been a lot of questions just about that in general. First, there are two at least 45 minute workouts per day, and one of them has to be outdoors. So that's number one. Number two is follow a diet. We'll get to what that means, but follow a diet, no alcohol, which we'll also get to, and no cheat meals. And this, I think, is where a lot of people get kind of up in arms, right? Because I feel like there's two types of people in the space, people who use the word cheat meals. Actually, there's probably three people, three types of people. People who use the word cheat meals, and they're doing that and they're using it in maybe a negative sense, right? They're using cheat meals in a negative sense. There's people who understand that word and they hear it, they're like, I don't really use it, but I know what that means. And then there's the people who absolutely hate that word and really get upset over it. So I would say that I fall into that second camp, right? I know what this means. I don't use the word cheat meal in my life. It's not a part of my vocabulary anymore. But the idea is that you're not being indulgent, right? You're saying, okay, maybe I don't really need this. And to me, having a cheat meal is much more about the mindset, which if you guys listen to the show, you know, that's pretty much the root of everything that we talk about. Like, you know, your mindset around food is what is driving your behaviors and driving things like compliance and adherence and overall success. And really your mindset and relationship with food. So for me, I understand what the word means in this context, right? Hey, don't go out and be like a fat fuck. Don't go eat like a fat fuck. Number one, don't be indulgent, right? So I was going to go into it with that mindset. Drink a gallon of water every day. Take a progress photo every day and read 10 pages of a nonfiction book every day. So I pretty much drink over a gallon of water. No problems. That was really the only thing on the list that was like, okay, check. Good to go. The progress picture, I was just taking kind of mirror photos every morning. I had a routine for myself because I was like, listen, okay, I want to make sure that I'm doing this and that I don't forget. So I would, you know, it was part of my morning routine in terms of like skincare, brush my teeth, take my picture. That way I was not leaving it until later. There was a few times where I did and man, I really hope nobody has access to these photos in this app because some days were rough. I remember one day I was actually in the office here and I was getting changed. And I was like, okay, I'm just going to take a like a brawn underwear picture. Oh, anyways, so I said an app. You don't need to use the app, but I just did as a nice reminder, right? It was like four or $5. So it was totally worth it. And there's also there's literal vacation reminders on there. So if you're concerned that you might be going to forget something, it's a really easy way to do that. So photo every day and then reading. I love to read like absolutely love reading. It is one of my favorite things like in the whole world, but I just kind of found myself, you know, I would find myself reading on certain days, right? But convincing myself that I didn't have the time to read on other days. And while 10 pages doesn't seem like a lot, if you do that every single day, right, that does add up. And you're really going to be able to get through a good handful of books. Now, it depends on what the book is, right? And I'm somebody who has now developed this different trait of reading multiple books at once. And I had done this before, but it really got magnified with 75 hard. But I think it's especially because there's different kind of moods and mindsets for different times when I'm reading, right? Like on the weekend, I might be able to read something that's a little bit more out there, a little bit more, just like making me reflect and think and ponder deeper. And then other times like during the week when I'm like, alright, really busy day. Let me just read something that's like pretty straightforward and like not so so in depth. And then of course, also, I was reading different sizes of books, which is hilarious. Like, if you guys know, Four Date Laws of Power by Robert Green, it is a very not only large book in terms of like length, but the pages are like massive. And I'm like, oh my gosh, so like that is very different than, you know, a different type of book. But anyways, I was reading many different books, but honestly, this has been one of my favorite parts is getting back into this. So again, kind of like this morning routine I've created, okay, skincare, brush my teeth, which lets, okay, I was already doing that. Don't need, don't want anybody misunderstanding that I was always doing those things. Take my picture, go downstairs and make my coffee. Always make a decaf with collagen and then read my 10 pages and then journal typically for, you know, either a page or whatever. How much time that I have that day is going to depend, of course, on a certain workday if I need to like get out of the house or just get right to work or if it's a weekend, something like that. So typically that would be my morning routine is getting that done and starting to drink fluids right away, which I typically always do. But for anybody who does struggle in this area, I know a lot of people who start something that part of like, oh my God, a whole like gallon of water. Like how am I going to do that? You have to start early. So for me, I would, as my coffee was brewing, I would actually make my greens. So I'd put optoregreens, optoreds, and then I've recently added hydration stick as well, which is just going to be an electrolyte stick. So I drink that about 16 to 20 ounces of water, depending on how much I put in there. I have some some regular water as well that I have my my coffee and I'm already like having the day kick started with all of that. And then in terms of the training, so what I like about this is that it's it's very structured in terms of like, hey, you need to do this, but it's also very open-ended to say like, you get to do whatever, you know, you get to pick what books you're reading, you get to pick the types of training you get to pick the diet that you're on. So for the training for me, so it's two 45 minute sessions, and then one has to be outdoors. So like I mentioned in the beginning, I love love love walking. Typically I would break it up though, right? So I would do usually my aim would be a daily morning and evening walk, at least 10 minutes in length. Sometimes I would only get one done, right, just because of the day and like different calls and things of that nature. So I would know, okay, I'm going to extend this walk. Usually I would try to get like 20 in the morning and then usually around like 10 in the evening. So me doing a 45 minute walk wasn't a ton different in terms of time, but it was because 45 minutes in one block is very different than 10 to 20 minutes in two different periods of time. And I know people are going to go, well, yeah, no shit, but I'm just saying it is something to consider when you're planning your day. So more planning of my day certainly went into this whole process. And then anecdotally, and you know, there is some scientific rationale behind this. I don't believe to my knowledge that there is any study on this, but I certainly felt different doing these longer walks in terms of just how my physique felt, right? Instead of doing, you know, two walks that maybe were the same length, doing one longer one. And of course, as we know, for fat oxidation, you're going to have to break down the chargoceride and then start to use the free floating fatty acids now for energy instead of having them reesterify back into your bloodstream. So all of that I know from a physiological basis could be why I'm seeing this. But again, just kind of an anecdotal thing that I'm going to be interested to play around more with clients and I actually have with some who are doing more cardio. I'm like, listen, I want to see if we notice any difference with longer sessions. So anyways, typically I would do a daily outdoor walk. When I was in Colorado, the only time I did, well someday I would do outdoor walks as well, but I would count my skiing as an outdoor workout, which was about like four hours. So definitely pushed past the 45 minute mark there, no problem. And for anybody who doesn't say that skiing is a workout, I'm a Florida girl who has skied three times in her life. So it was certainly a workout. And then for the second part, typically what I would do is I would I would lift there's sometimes a CrossFit like a cardio based CrossFit class that I go to. Sometimes I would do yoga. I use the Down Dog app. It's really, really great. I think it was like 50 bucks for the year. So I'll do that or potentially another cardio session. Right. So that would kind of be my second workout. So sometimes it might be outside because it might be doing another cardio session, but usually I would try to do something else. So the only time that that has been like a huge hindrance has been actually this past week, which we'll get to. So that's that's training, right? So two workouts. And then in terms of diet, follow a diet. So that is where the beauty of this again lies that there is enough structure, but you are open to determine what you want to do. So for myself, because I had been under eating and my goal was, you know what, I want to eat more and I want to be a little bit more on top of what I'm doing. So I had a protein minimum, a fruit minimum and a vegetable minimum every day. And of course I could go over that, but those are my minimum targets. And then I was actively trying to eat more. So again, this is not necessarily a fat loss program. And I have not really gained. I am the last time I weighed myself. I hadn't really made many changes actually when I first started. I definitely did drop some weight just of course with some of the added activity and my hunger hadn't caught up. So interestingly enough, now I am in a more normal hunger signal. Whereas before I was trying to eat more and it was such like, oh, I'm really forcing myself to eat more. Now that I have been doing this for almost 75 days, my appetite is much more regulated in the sense that I'm actually getting hungrier. So that's why I think my weight has come up a little bit, but I do feel like I'm at a better body composition slightly. So that was really exciting. Again, the reason I did this was not purely body comp reasons. If I wanted to have an absolutely insane body composition change, I could have and I would have changed how I did things. However, the point of this for me was mostly mentally to get back to myself. It was really nice to just kind of turn that like on switch again. Right. I first want to touch on one of the common questions is how close did you come to failing? And I would say that the overarching theme was I did it and I know I still have a few more days left, but I can confidently say that I'm not going to because it's never even been an option for me. And this is something that I have developed over the years through athletics, especially with competing in physics sports for so many years. It's this just kind of no options mentality. And, you know, people would ask me, oh, what day are you on? And I would have to look it up in the app because I really didn't know that I knew when it was over. It's over on March 16th. And there were many days that I was challenged, right? There were some days where I was physically challenged. I was very tired. I was very run down. The last thing on planet fucking earth I wanted to do was do another workout, right? But I did it. It wasn't even an option. It was just like, all right, I got to get it done. Number two, there were some days where mentally it was a really big struggle, right? Just dealing with some mentally draining things. Everybody has certain days and weeks that are a lot harder. And yeah, those days, it's just like, I don't want to get this stuff done. I don't want to train. I don't want to eat this food. I don't want to do these tasks. And then there were some days and weeks that were much harder with my schedule. So whether, you know, some travel or some family stuff or, you know, especially like the ski trip that I took, it was, okay, this is going to have to be a little bit more regimented. I get up at five. I do a work block. I do my reading and journaling. I go to my first workout. Then, you know, come back. I have to plan this food. I got groceries delivered, you know, so that I would say that the ski trip was probably the biggest plus. Probably the biggest planned trip that I had in terms of hitting all of the goals because when you're on the side of a mountain for most of the day, you know, you have to be much more cognizant of your food intake when I have these these targets that I'm trying to hit. And then also just the reality of getting work done and also getting the second workout. So that meant waking up early and doing all of my things. So I would say that there were some days that were hard. And then this past week, actually, so I went back to Jiu Jitsu last week and, you know, I hadn't trained, let's just say close to nine months, right? It's it's it's been a minute since I've been and I went and I went to class for an hour and then I rolled, you know, not for an hour straight, but I did have several roles. And, you know, most people don't think about this, but when you're doing Jiu Jitsu, you actually use your feet quite a lot. And in our normal life, we do like not like that, you know, so I used to have this issue when I would train where my foot would have this very weird flare up. It would be swollen to look swollen, feel physically awful, like waking up with middle of the night with excruciating pain and basically walking and doing anything is is hard for a few days to a week. And so Saturday happens, this is last Saturday. And then I wake up Sunday, I'm kind of feeling it, but you know, everything kind of hurts because I just did Jiu Jitsu for the first time, and I've been training twice a day, right? Kind of normal. So I do my stuff on Sunday and then Monday, I was like, oh no, like I was woken up in the middle of the night, like, oh, here we go again. And the only thing that I ever found to help that was complete rest, like I'm talking as sedentary as possible. I was like, well, this is certainly going to be a challenge with training twice a day. So walks were out, yoga was out, and lifting was going to have to be modified quite a bit. So all the things that I've been doing were quite a challenge. So I have a very, very old, like, janky spin bike, skin bike, oh my God, a skin bike, really old spin bike. And so I roll it outside and I did that for most of the week for my outdoor workout. And then for my second workout, I would lift, but I would just have to do a modified lift in terms of how much weight bearing stuff I could do, and really just the movement patterns and the total weight that I was using. So today finally is feeling a little better. I did do for my outdoor workout. I did about 20 minutes of a walk and like I broke it up, I did half of a walk and then go right on the spin bike. So I didn't just jump right back into it. But hopefully the next few days will be a lot more manageable in terms of all this. So as I say, all those things, I'm like, man, there really was like a handful of things that did come up. But again, I didn't even look at this as like an obstacle to not finish. It was just more so, hey, here's an obstacle. Now let me address it and handle it. So that is what the program is. And a lot of people were asking, okay, like, you know, what are the specifics? Is it accessible to everybody? It is accessible to anyone who, you know, understands these rules. It is completely free. I have coached several clients through this process as well, because of course there is a large diet and training component. So if somebody was interested in that, yes, you can use a coach or a coaching service like you could use our app, the redefine healthy app if you wanted to set your goals in terms of training and diet, and then you'd be able to follow that and then add in additional training and cardio as necessary. Or you can, you know, hire a coach for this. So it's one of those things that you can do completely free, completely alone, or you can have the support of, you know, of a team or with a coach. So highly recommend that if you're maybe even concerned like, well, I'm not really sure kind of how to navigate all this because it does feel like a lot. It could be a great thing to do. So hardest part. So I would say that the hardest part has just been not socially drinking. And I'm somebody who, if you guys follow me, like, you know, your girl likes a drink. She likes the whole, I love the whole atmosphere of like a cocktail bar and like the creativity behind it and like the fun behind it. And I love like just detail, I love the taste of alcohol in terms of, you know, wine and again, craft drinks and all of that. So, but it hasn't been like, so that's just been something where I'm like, man, like I would really want that, right? And I'm not saying that I'm a fun perspective, but it hasn't stopped me from doing things, still being social, still going out, still doing stuff. You know, it's just like food, right? And I've done this for so long in terms of my food and my diet that it really doesn't bother me, right? If I say, hey, I'm eating this or I'm not eating that or this is what my approach is, it doesn't really matter to me what anybody else is doing. If I want to be there, I'm going to be there. If I'm going to be able to make something work into my plan, I'm going to make it work. And if I can't, I'm still going to be there because I want to enjoy the social aspect of it. And so that's something that does take a lot of time to develop. And we have talked about that many, many times on the podcast. And I'm not trying to downplay it because it certainly is hard. The social pressure to do things or not do things is a really big challenge for people. But the best way to go around this is to have a goal that you're very, very serious about and you want to achieve. So for me, it was like, I'm not going to not do this. So if I want to go those places, I'm going to go and I'm just not going to enjoy a drink and I'm not going to eat in this way. Simple. I'm going to make sure that I get up and I do my training, even when I don't want to. So again, it's one of those things that it's just like you have to commit to it and that no options mentality certainly kicked right back on for me, which goes really nicely into this next question of is it sustainable? And I think besides the cheat meal, like part of it all, right, where people get all up in arms, I think that a lot of people hear this and see this kind of program and are like, oh my gosh, this is so unsustainable. Nobody could do this every day or they don't need to do this every day, right? And I would say that it more so comes down to to really what the individual needs, right? Everybody operates very differently. And this is something that I have accepted and learned and understood much more after coaching for 10 years and working with a very, very wide variety of individuals. Some people are wired different than others, right? I think we all know that. And of course, the goal is to be able to, you know, work on people's flexibility and work on their mindset and work on their long term results and their lifestyle and all of this. But that doesn't mean that everybody we can have that we can. We can have the similar goals like these are the things that I want my clients to have, but how they get there is going to look different for each one of them, right? So there are some people who would say that this is not sustainable. There's absolutely no way that someone could do this all the time. And I would say, no, there are people who can this would fit their lifestyle really no problem. And it would actually make them better. And whenever we're looking at things, we have to weigh out, okay, what is going to make someone better? What is going to make them worse? Like, are there more pros here? There are more cons here? Like, that is how we need to be viewing things. Is this adding to someone's life? Is it taking away from their life? And for certain people in different periods of their life, this could be adding to their life. For other people, this could be detracting from their life. So I would say that it really shouldn't be viewed at like as is this something that, you know, if it was a weight loss program, right? I would say no, it's not sustainable, right? And there are some people who do this and they go absolutely crazy, right, during the program. And for that person, I would say, yeah, it's probably not sustainable. But the idea of doing, you know, a lot of these tasks, right, I would say that for the training portion, you know, it can't that it's really the time component, right? Does someone have that much time to dedicate to physical activity? And I would say for some people, no, they don't. And for other people, I would say they don't not, they, how do I say this properly grammatically? They don't not have the time. I know that's not the way, but we're going with it. Do you see what I'm saying? They don't not have the time to do this because when, if they're not doing this, they're doing something else that's really bad for them. So I think that's where we have to look at individual differences. So if you're using 75 hard as a way to be absolutely maniacal about how you train and 2000% intensity and fat loss, fat loss, fat loss diet going crazy, going ham. Yeah, this is not going to be sustainable for you. But again, I think the mindset of I'm looking at this as a mental toughness, mental challenge, discipline building type of a program. Then yeah, I think that it can be sustainable in that sense, right? Same thing with alcohol, right? There's some people who stop drinking because they are an alcoholic and they are not able to function with it. Some people not aren't necessarily alcoholics, but they find that maybe they don't like how they act with this. So they find that when they limit it to very low amounts or they have none, but they seem to operate as a better individual. Same thing could be said for certain types of food for certain people, right? Some kinds of food can be a really, really big hindrance and problem for people. It's not just about the food. It's about everything else that happens with it, right? Or the other foods that happen alongside of that. So, you know, I would say, hey, let's get to a place where we can figure out how to balance all these things. But everyone is in a different place in their journey. So I would say if you're viewing this as something that is unsustainable in terms of how you're approaching it, then yeah, it's going to be. And I know that it can affect how some people, I've seen the back end of this, right? Where people do go really hard or then they start to view things in kind of this disordered way where they're like, oh, I can't do anything unless it's 45 minutes and this and that. No, no, no. That's where we've kind of created a problem, right? We can still view movement, right? Like in terms of a 45 minute cardio session, right? You can do cardio for 45 minutes or you can still go for a walk for 10 minutes and that's going to have its own benefits that are separate and different, but just as important. So again, I think it's, as always, it's the mindset behind it. And the unsustainability factor mostly stems from the amount of time spent with the two separate sessions and the one of them having to be outdoors. I think that that's really where it can be a struggle for some people. But like I said, there are some people who that would fit perfectly into their life. And if they, that time not spent training would be spent doing other deleterious things in their life. So those are my thoughts on it. I don't think that there's any one perfect way to approach this, right? There's good and bad of any type of program and it's up to the individual to adjust it in that sense. Now, not adjust it in terms of like, well, it says read 10 pages, I'm just going to read five. No, not like that. Or, oh, I only want to, you know, I'm not talking about adjusting this, but adjusting how we perceive it. So hopefully that makes sense. One of the questions or one of the common themes of questions was, what habit am I going to continue afterwards? Or like, what was my favorite part of this process? And I would say getting back into daily reading absolutely has been such a game changer. And these are all things that I know, hey, if I read a few pages, like that's better than no pages. But we can convince ourselves of these things like, oh no, like, I don't have the time to do this. And then it's like, I magically created the time to do it. Like, no dude, you were just lying to yourself, right? So this has been a really big eye-opener in terms of that's exactly why I wanted to use it to kind of get into this rhythm, get into this routine. So for me, now I know, okay, my morning routine is going to be, you know, again, skincare, brush my teeth, get ready, probably not take a picture, because I don't need that many mirror selfies on my phone, for being honest, because there's way too much down there. Do that. And then, you know, read and journal and I have that just as part of my morning routine, which I had done, right? But it was kind of like, oh, someday I'll do this, someday, no, I feel so much better when I do that first thing in the morning. It sets the tone for my day, it gets my brain thinking in a different kind of capacity. And there were plenty of times during this process that I didn't have the time, right? Guess what I did? I woke up earlier. I stayed up later. I got it done, right? So, you know, when we had a presentation for the PEC over here and I had to be over there early in the morning, I was presenting that day. So we had to be there early, you know, before it even started, of course, it was about a 45 minute drive from me. I needed to get ready, so like I could just show up, you know, I needed to like look ready and presentable and go through myself that morning. So I had to get up at like 4 or 4.30 and do my first workout outside at that time. Okay, I got it done, right? And then that night, I don't like reading at night, but guess what? I came home and I read and I got it done. So it's just one of those things that we have to say, okay, how do I create this as a priority for me to maintain this? And that certainly is the struggle of something like this, right? And I will say that maybe, I think when people use the word is this sustainable, what they're really talking about is the aftermath, right? Okay, day 76, what's going to happen now? And, you know, Andy talked about this a lot, but he would say if you're doing the program right, you know, you're going to want to keep a lot of these things in your life moving forward. And I think that the unsustainability part comes from when we're doing all these positive things, and then we just kind of stop all of them and then we go back to either our bad habits or just not doing anything, right?  it's certainly one of those things you have to be aware of, and I would say that for me, making sure that I am gonna stay on top of reading when I don't have something that I'm gonna fail publicly, right? Because I made sure to say, hey, I'm doing this, post about it, put it on my story, and I would not let myself not do it, right? Of course, outside of some outstanding circumstances, but like me not doing something because I didn't want to, I was not giving myself that option or that out. So I think that that is certainly the hardest part, right? So okay, I found that this routine works really great for me, but now I don't have a little box to check off on my app, or I don't have a little thing to say in the corner of my story, um, day, you know, 69 out of 75, whatever it is, right? So that is where I think it can become a problem, but that is where I think something like having done this for 75 days, you've gotten into a pretty solid routine, this isn't like, hey, we did it for two weeks, which can still be really powerful. I'm not downplaying any kind of short term goals that are actually really short term, but to really kind of make this more, make this stick, I totally, totally understand the benefits of this now, having something higher to subscribe to in terms of like, all right, I really want to make sure that I'm getting this done. So kind of stay tuned for some things that we might be changing in the coming months that we will be offering because this has given me some really great insights in terms of how we could leverage this mindset to help more people. Um, so a lot of questions around alcohol, and again, I think that that is just because the nature that everybody knows, like I enjoy drinking and pretty public about that. Um, I have people hire me because of that. They're like, Hey, I really want a nutrition coach who like gets it, like I travel, I enjoy having drinks, but like I want to be healthy and train and eat well and have body comp goals. That's why I want to hire you because you showcase that and I'm like, perfect, I get you completely. I do all of those things. So a lot of questions about that afterwards. And one of the questions in particular was, did this make me want to not drink afterwards? Absolutely not. Straight up, no. I am somebody who very much enjoys it and I do it in a social way. Now I'm not saying that every time I drink and with people, like I love a glass of wine by myself, you know, while I'm cooking dinner or, you know, reading or writing or working or whatever. There's always a social thing. But generally speaking, I do not fall into the category where I'm like, Oh man, like really need this right now because I need to escape or I need to. I'm very cognizant of that because I do know myself pretty well. And if I even feel like I'm kind of teetering on that edge, I will stop because I know, okay, no, this is, this is not good. But I will say it has made me aware of my drinking habits because like anything went just like how I was talking about in the beginning when I wasn't eating how I normally was. Well, maybe you just get kind of sloppy and lazy. Like, okay, I only want to drink during this period of time. You know, I only want to drink on the weekends or only once during the week, whatever it might be for you. I was realizing that it was just something that was becoming much more common. So now this has definitely helped me practice my restraint around that. And yeah, every time that I want something doesn't mean that I have to have it. Right. And I think that that was a really great exercise. This whole program was a really great exercise and a reminder of that. So no, it has not changed my outlook on drinking in terms of how it fits into my life. But it has certainly helped me display that restraint for myself and also just, you know, kind of go through an adult period of time where I'm not drinking. And obviously I've done that with the contest prep. But even in the contest prep, I would say my last one was about nine, nine months. Very, very intensive contest prep. I still, I mean, over the course of the whole prep, I probably had like five drinks right, like the whole prep. But there would still be a time where, and that was not because I couldn't have it, but more so because well, I'm not going to waste, waste my calories and energy on something like this. But again, I haven't done that in a very, very long time. So it was a great exercise in restraint and in discipline. And other things are not off, off the menu. So we'll just leave it at that. Take, take that however you want. It is not 75 sober. It's just 75 hard, no alcohol. And then lastly, the last question is, would I do this again? I've been getting asked this too now that I'm kind of finishing up. And I would say yes, I think it was a really great, I had a really great experience, you know, I would be interested maybe in doing it differently. Like, because there are so many different things to play with in terms of like diet and training. So I really could go through it with different, a different lens of like, Hey, you know, I'm really going to make sure that my training is dialed in for this for the next 75 days. Or, Hey, I'm going to really make sure that my diet is dialed in for these goals. For these 75 days. So it could be an interesting, cool way of also like approaching that. So yeah, never say never. I had a great experience with it and would encourage anybody if you've seen it. The reason I started doing this, like I said, I found myself in this space where I really needed something. Um, I've worked with first form and known Andy for many years. So I've, and I've known many, many, many people who have done it. But I never really had the desire to do it. I just, I just didn't, I didn't not have the desire, but I just didn't have it in me. And then something in November clicked inside of me and said, you should do something to have hard. I was like, okay. And then I was like, you know, I kind of thought on it for a few weeks. And I was like, man, if I have, I actively had this thought. And if I don't do it now, I'm going to be upset at myself and I know that. So that's when I committed to it. So you know what I'm going to do it. So right January 1st, Wham, bam, and it's been great. So it is day, let me look, see, speaking of, I like can't even remember. I know almost done. This is why the app is helpful. Today is day 71 on this recording. So just a few more days left. So yeah, if you guys have any questions, feel free to let me know. And like I said, if you are looking to do this, but want some more guidance in terms of nutrition or training, two options, you can either use our app, the redefine healthy app to guide you with either training or nutrition or both. There is an option for all three of those, or you can reach out for one on one coaching as well, and we can help guide you through this process. So you guys have any other questions for me? Please let me know. Send them to info at team will go fit.com and you can check out all and other information about our services at team will go fit.com. If you guys enjoyed this episode, please share it and I think that's all for now. Talk to you next time.