 Welcome back to another episode of The Look-a-fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, I'm with Coach Karina today. Hey guys! And we're going to be talking about her journey of coming off of birth control. So first and foremost, if you are watching this, you're going to be like, what is this kind of weird setup? We don't have the mics in front of us because the SD card got stuck in the recording thing that we use. So if you're listening, you're going to hear that the sound is not so great, we apologize, but we did want to get this podcast out. So if you're watching and it looks kind of weird, that's why if you're listening and you're like, what's going on? That's also why. But hey, we're still going to put out Michael Dachel's... Yeah, and we wanted to have this discussion because you came off birth control... Beginning of June. So yeah, so far we're doing it. And this disclaimer, this is not a podcast on the horrors or the benefits of birth control. We're not going to get into this, we're not going to get into the choice behind it. We fully support it, everybody makes a decision that's best for them. We're simply sharing your story of this. And I just want to say that because I feel like so many times, especially in the fitness space, it's just made out to be this really, really negative thing. And while there can be negative side effects for certain people, there's also a lot of benefits for certain people. So I don't want to paint it to be this monster, which then makes people who maybe feel like they actually need it for birth control protective reasons, to then feel bad about being on it. Right, yeah, and there is a lot of... So there's almost this wave of people coming off of it right now, only because there actually had been quite a bit of research coming out saying something about it. I'm not going to actually say it because I'm not very well versed, so I don't want to risk saying the wrong thing about the research. However, the tricky part with correlative data is that it's correlative. We don't actually know which variables are coming into play, and that data is much more reliable after we've seen years and years and years and years of evidence. But a lot of people are coming off of it right now. My decision to come off of it had kind of been from A. I... Basically, I had kind of noticed some physical changes happen, or maybe lack thereof when I started it. And I just wanted to experience, or I'm sorry, experiment to see how it would look or what would happen if I came off. Also, I, again, from the research that I have seen, I have not seen all the research, but I tried, and what we try to encourage all of our clients to do is make informed decisions. I gathered the most information I possibly could find and made my own decision based off of that. Just for my long-term hormone health, I have goals to have kids and not saying that there is any evidence to show that birth control causes infertility. Absolutely. Obviously, I'm sure there are some crazy cases, but that's essentially one of the main drivers as to why I decided to come off of birth control. Yeah, I think those are all really important reasons. I think that some of the negative stuff that comes out, at least from the fitness base, is there are a lot of people who are put on birth control as a band-aid for certain things. Right. Like PTSD, acting, all that stuff. Yeah, okay, and maybe that is what somebody needs, but it sometimes shouldn't be the first line of defense. I think a lot of the coaches and practitioners who speak out negatively are speaking on it in those terms, which, again, I understand. If you don't want babies, birth control is great. Exactly. It's your main reason. If your main reason is birth control, I think that that is very valid, and I think that people need to take that into consideration. However, using it as a band-aid for other things certainly shouldn't be the first goal. And I think that there's a lot of people who are, you know, all the negative stuff that's come out about it is because of that people feel, oh, I felt misled about this and ended up, and that's understandable. That's kind of true. It's kind of a lot of pharmaceuticals, right? There's a lot of drugs that people are just not, there's not really a large conversation about it. It's just like, hey, this will help you with this. We're not really going to talk about the side effects or the risks or when we would start it, when we would stop it. There's a lot of times a conversation that's maybe just a few minutes about it. In fact, ADHD is a really common one, right? And of course, people with ADHD may or may not need medication. But a lot of times it's like a three-minute conversation where it's like, yeah, you have these symptoms. Okay, well, here's a script. It's like no discussion about when to take this, how to take this, should you take this every day? Like, all these things, none of that, just like here's a script and how's this going to affect you? And that's where I think a lot of practitioners get frustrated, especially with the birth and full conversation. So what were some of the symptoms that you were noticing that you kind of felt wrong? So the main reason why I wanted to come off was, like I said, A, just want to make sure that I am doing everything I can to make sure that when I do decide to have kids, there will be no issue when it is that. Besides that to happen, I personally don't have a whole lot of medical history on my mom and my mother's side of the family. So don't really know, like, you know, what her health is in that space. So I'm basically just kind of shooting by and making sure that I do everything I can to make sure that when that time comes, like, I'm ready, my body's healthy, like hormones are in a good place. Second piece of that was I found that after I had been on it for at this point, three years consecutively, I had a really hard time putting on muscle. I should first mention that my body type, I think, is a bit more, I'm not a total ectomorph, but I'm, like, just looking at, like, my family, I'm definitely in the gene pool where it's not as easy for me to put on muscle. I need a lot more volume. I need a lot more food and I need a lot more time, whereas there's other people who are fantastic responders. And so I kind of noticed that I might be not losing muscle, but I just had a harder time putting on muscle than I feel like I had in the past. And so just doing some research, obviously. Without really any training, like, you weren't, like, not training as much. No, I mean, I was training more. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, and so, and I kind of noticed that there were some, like, recovery issues and things like that, like, so over time, just, like, my recovery felt different. I felt like it took longer for me to recover. Biggest part was I knew that, and I definitely still have plenty of time to put on some muscle, but the rate at which I could put on muscle in my 20s was running out. So I was, like, let me try to utilize this time as much as I possibly can and stop suppressing an endogenic hormone, like, estrogen, and kind of let my body have its normal estrogen levels, because that's essentially what my breath control was doing was suppressing it, so that I don't get breathnet and all of those things. So I just wanted to really maximize my ability to put on muscle at that time. So for me, and I was able to do this, I was like, okay, let me get off of breath control to see if this helped with my ability to put on muscle, and if it changes my body composition at all. So I'm only four months in. I don't really think there's a whole lot of physical change that I could see in four months. But that was my main decision. So I had also spoken to a physician about that, and they were like, yeah, I think that's a viable reason. Like, go ahead. And so I decided to come off some of the symptoms I experienced in the first three months so far that I can talk about at this point. Which one are you taking? Just to zoom in on. Because there's obviously a bunch of different types. You were taking an oral or a... I was taking an oral combination, though, contraceptive. I think it was called Junolfi 120. It was quite a low dose. It wasn't crazy. You wrote them. I think the one slash 20, right? Yes. It's honestly probably one of the more common ones. Yes. As far as the low dose. So if anybody remembers, low esterin, they've changed the name a million times. That's the one name I always remember. It's typically this one to 20 ratio of the synthetic progesterone and estrogen. So most oral pills are going to be a combination of those. And then there's very amounts, which would consider very low dose, low dose, more moderate dose. And then of course the other options are the IEDs, or any other kind of implant, like the arm implant. That's like nexopla I believe. And then there's the IED is either a progestin based IED like morana or the copper IED, which is not hormonal but uses copper to kill the sperm. And then there's another one. There's the ring. Oh yeah, the new ring. And then we're going to this. Most common, I would say most people, at least to get the pool that we work with, would be oral contraceptives or IEDs. And then you were on a pretty standard one. Yeah, I was on an oral contraceptive. Nothing crazy, a combination pill. So I decided to come off of it. Before I decided to come off of it, I made sure to do a lot of research to support my body in making this transition to trying to level out my hormones. I knew that taking out my growth control, there was a very fair chance that I could become estrogen dominant very fast. Do you want to kind of go over like the side effects that could happen with estrogen dominance? Yeah, so typically when we think about estrogen dominance, it's going to be obviously a higher ratio of estrogen to progesterone. There's always going to be a higher ratio, but it's going to be like a significant higher. And the biggest thing that birth control does is suppress progesterone. Hence, you're not ovulating this whole point of birth control. So it's already going to be super, super low because of whatever birth control you're on, which are on the pill. So then when you're coming off, it's going to take time to bounce back, but then now, like without the pill, the estrogen many times can really, really spike. So for some people when they have estrogen dominance, there's typically like a different fat distribution that we see. Some people talk about mood swings, people have skin changes. So those would be kind of the more common ones that I at least experienced with clients and I've seen. And particularly kind of a harder time, especially if you're getting into like a deficit, potentially having a harder time losing weight. It's been very difficult for a lot of people to work with. If they go into it being estrogen dominant, it is very difficult for them to lose any... Yes, the fluctuations are usually pretty pronounced too. Like the fluid retention. So anytime I have a client who doesn't metabolize estrogen very well, that's going to be a really common thing that they see is just a lot of fluidity. A lot of weight scale changes. Like, hey, I just woke up, I'm super inflamed, I'm super puffy. Just what makes you notice a big one that I usually see. They'll usually put on a lot of weight quite quickly and then they'll also feel like inflamed. They have a really hard time recovering from really hard workouts. It takes days and they can feel like I'm puffy in my fingers and in my face. The fingers. Like literally every client says that they have. They're like, I wake up with my fingers swollen. It's like that's not something that was probably dietary because if you've slept all night, there's big shifts there. I mean, it's normal for there to be sun swelling when you wake up just because of the distribution of your fluids when you're sleeping. But even in their arms and their legs, you can almost see it. So I wanted to make sure that I was doing everything I could to mitigate the chances of that happening to me, obviously, because I knew that was something that is very likely when people come off of birth control. So what I did was I looked into ways to... I started at lifestyle. What can I do with my lifestyle, stress management, activity and diet to mitigate maybe a less favorable goal transition and support my hormones coming back into places they should on their own? So I really just tried to keep stress minimal. So stress management was a huge thing. Exercise, obviously, I think. You should always exercise. One thing that was really... I'm blanking out on the word. But important to do was to make sure that you did sweat a lot to essentially detox the liver of all of the hormones. So I would train in the morning and sometimes I would try to train again in the evening or just go in Florida like it's a sauna outside. So I would go for a run or a walk and just make sure I got sweaty. Just sweat more often. You could sauna if you have a sauna. You could sauna. I just tried to detox the liver of all of the synthetic hormones. So that's what I tried to make sure I did the first four weeks was just sweat a bit more. Which again, in Florida, it's super easy. Especially when you did it. If you did it now, like in June. Yeah, especially in CrossFit Dance, because now I say like I'm good at it. So yeah, keep stress management, making sure I'm getting plenty of sleep, making sure that I'm recovering, sweating a lot. And then for diet, I looked up a lot of progesterone rich foods. So a lot of cruciferous vegetables, really. That's pretty much the only change that I had to make with my diet. And that will help with estrogen metabolism. Yeah. So lots of like broccoli, cabbage, brussel sprouts, Trader Joe's literally has a bag called cruciferous crunch. So I would just literally buy that, blend it in smoothie and drink one every single day. Can you taste that raw? No. No, you have like frozen bananas, frozen powder berries. No, you can't taste it. It's perfect. I feel like I don't ever taste spinach, you know, but I have like a bulky ass. Yeah, and it makes a nice thick because it is such a rough texture. But I'll like buy a bunch of bags, keep them in the freezer even still and just like blend it for the micronutrients. And so then the other thing I did was like my third most important thing. So we went lifestyle diet supplements. So I started looking into some supplements. I talked to other women who had gone through the process. And I started out with a progesterone cream that I put on in the morning in the evenings. And I can share that if anyone is interested. And then I started on a supplement called hormonal harmony by Nourishwell. And it just had, I really liked the product because when I went on the website, because I looked at quite a few, I also looked at first form's harmony. I liked the ingredients that Nourishwell used. There was also a lot of like research and literature available on the website as to why those were helpful. So I just went with that option. It was also a bit like more affordable. So I said, okay, I'm just going to give it a try. It's not great. It's fine. I'll try another one. And so I supplemented with that daily. And for the first, so I'm now four months, I've literally had a period on a clock every month so far, which I was not expecting because... I will say that it's not normal. Yes. So if you were going on birth control and you don't get a cycle, that's okay. That's why I'm like, this is... So here's a few things as to why I think that happened. I think like healthy lifestyle, me being on top of like diet supplementation, et cetera. But also I was on on birth control for three years. It's going to be very different for someone who's been on since for like 10 plus years and then are deciding to come off. It might take a while, but most clients who I've worked with who have decided to come off of birth control, I have never seen them have a period sooner than six months. Personally, I don't know. Again, I don't know if... I can't remember off the top of my head if someone was on birth control less than three years like I was. I would say three years is not a super long time compared to a lot of... Like just the population who's been on since they were, you know, for 10 plus years, eight plus years. So if you've been on for a long time without ever having a break, I think you can expect to take a little bit longer. So first month went by, got a period. I was like, okay, it's probably just like a withdrawal bleed, whatever. Like I'm sure my hormones are still going to take a long time because that's literally what I saw with every single client. It just took a while. I had one client who on average it took eight months to a year. And so then second month, like 30 days on a clock. And I could literally feel... I think what's helpful is like I'm more quite in tune with our bodies. So I can feel when I'm modeling. I'm like, oh, that hurt. So then I haven't been able to track. I also... Another reason I love the ordering is that it also tracks your basal body temperature. It says, hey, your period might be here in like a few days. And then third month again on a clock. So I should be here in a few days. We'll see if that comes up. We'll keep you guys posted. My streak. I'm like super proud of my streak here. But you never know because I have clients who like they have... they get off of birth control. They have three periods in a row and then like they skip a month or like it just takes six weeks instead of four weeks. Everyone's very different here. And that's one thing to keep in mind is like everyone's cycle is very different. Everyone's baseline like coming into the family, you know, pre birth control. Yeah. Like you said, afterwards, what are you doing? There's a lot of different things. And I think that, you know, under being accepting of that, like, hey, when I come off, like, I don't know how I'm going to respond. I might be to cycle this month. It might take me several months. Yeah. And I think that the unknown is what's super scary. Obviously, like, especially most people have a consistent cycle when they're on birth control. Not everybody, but most people do or they just kind of stop getting one altogether. So then people are like, wait, like I was used to like not having anything or like I was used to having a very, very consistent. And then afterwards it might, it may change. So if you do get it right away, that's right. I have clients both ways. I've had clients who as soon as they get off, they start to have a normal cycle. Not everybody will have an ovulatory cycle right away. Right? Like they might just be bleeding without ovulating. And then those are the best way to test that. They do have strips, but I would say if you can test, hey, that's weird. If you can test your temperature, if you have an oar ring, it's already kind of built in. Or you can just hit a normal thermometer test. And then that way you can actually track it a little bit more effectively. So yeah, some people get it right away. Some people it takes, like you said, it could be up to a year or more. Yeah. And when you're looking at a supplement for something like coming off birth control, like I said, if you weren't using the progesterone cream, I've had some clients who have had really good success with that. I don't know if there are people who don't respond as well to that either. I should say that I only used that for like the first three weeks. Okay. And then I stopped. Yeah. Because I literally just forgot. And then I was like, oh, I'm getting a period, but I think I'm okay. I'm getting my blood work tomorrow though, so I was like, yeah, I do want to touch on that. But like, so for some people they will have a really, really strong reaction to adding progesterone. Yeah, I don't know what legitimately like it's not good. But other people it fixes a lot of their other symptoms for other things. Right. So it's like, that's where there's so much inner like individual differences. And if you don't want to take progesterone like, you know, the cream or even oral, like bioidentical, you can chase berry is a natural supplement that is in a lot of those kind of normal balancing products. So chase berry and then a lot of the products are going to have dim and now which will help the estrogen metabolism. Some products are going to also include things like ash begonade and help with the stress management. So a lot of times you're going to see those types of products and they're going to have multiple different things to kind of hit all of those pathways. And obviously anything that you take the supplement over the counter is going to be significantly lower than something that is like prescribed. Yeah. Right. Because it's over the counter. So it could be a really great place to start and then do that for a few months and then test. So you did that for each of the registered cream for a few like roughly the first month. Yeah. And then you took the supplement for three months. Yeah. I'm still taking. Oh, okay. And then so now you're going to get blood work done around the four month mark. Yeah. So I have blood work scheduled for tomorrow. I was supposed to be down like two weeks ago, but we had like hurricanes, things like that. Yeah. So I'm getting blood work done tomorrow. So then I'll be actually able to see like, okay, should I still be supplementing with this as per description? Yeah. In a healthy level, et cetera. Two other things. Yeah, that's true to see that. Yeah. So I do want to talk about like some symptoms that I, as soon as I came off of birth control, I could feel like very different. First one, I think third week I was off. I had so much energy. It was crazy. Like I felt like energized everybody. Like I could just keep in a lot of factors coming to play. At this point I was already done with the master's program for about a month. So I felt like energized and I wasn't like completely drained, but I, I just felt like a different level of energy that I haven't had before. Now I know that I have a normal period in a normal cycle. I can very much like tell, okay, I have more energy right now. And once I move into that luteal phase, like, okay, I'm a bit more tired and a bit more inky. And I can feel those fluctuations in energy a lot more. I cannot, which is I really love because I can almost use my mental cycle as a framework to position my crossfit training. So in the, the follicular phase when I'm feeling good, energy is good, recovery is good. I'll train really heavy. I'll work on my Olympic list, my strength stuff. And then in the luteal phase when I'm a bit more tired, recovery is a little bit more tough. I'll focus more on like aerobic capacity, gymnastics training, which I just has been working for me for the last few months. So that's one thing that I, I noticed was a benefit was I did feel like a change in energy. Some people who I've talked to who have gone off of breath control have mentioned that like their energy levels have improved. Some people who are still under control, like, I feel fine. Like energy is fine. And then the other thing I've kind of noticed is that I do feel like my body composition is a little bit better. I won't necessarily attribute that only to coming off of breath control because my diet has also gotten better because I felt forced to improve my diet now that like I'm taking out these synthetic hormones. So whether that is diet and breath control combined or only diet, that's a benefit that I've experienced. So the only negative thing I've experienced is obviously one of the biggest pros to getting on breath control for some people is like your skin is super clear and really nice. One thing that I noticed immediately was my face just became so oily. Like I had like normal to almost dry skin texture, but now like if I touch my face, it's like I just picked up a stick of butter. Like my face is so oily. And so I'm hoping that it's just kind of like a symptom of like the beginning when hopefully my hormones level out, my skin gets better. I have an appointment to like see a dermatologist for consultation soon. So also let you know how that goes. Well, there's no follow-up. No testing of the tumor. But my skin got so oily and with that my breakouts have gotten like I haven't broken out this bad since. And it's not like cystic acne. It's just like a lot of breakouts from like me sweating a lot from working out daily almost. So that's just the only negative thing. It's like, wow, my skin is looking rough, which basically I just have to be more on top of my skin routine. And probably just do facials more often and things like that. But overall, like it's been smooth, which I'm very thankful for because like we coach people all the time. And I've coached quite a few people who have made the decision like I want to come up with breath control. And I'm like, okay, let's see how your weight responds. Let's see how you feel in training. Let's see what dietary changes we need to make. This experience has been really helpful for me in a coaching perspective because obviously like I've gone through it. I know some things to recommend now the more I've learned. So yeah, I think that's about it. But yeah, getting blood work done tomorrow definitely wanted to wait for at least three months to go by to let things kind of normalize. So now we're going into month four. So I can maybe like post an update on blood work and all that stuff. Yeah, I think that with any time you're looking at blood work, like if you have unlimited resources, obviously it would be cool to like do it right when you got off and then in three months and six months up. But that's like fancy like after most people work because blood work is really expensive. So good padding covered. Yeah, and most of the time this is not going to be covered because it's just like you want to see it. Yeah, it's not necessarily medically necessary. So the insurance is going to cover it obviously. So whenever you go to the doctor's, that's just generally why. So when you do auto pocket blood work, it's amazing we have that resource, but it is expensive. So what we typically recommend clients and this goes for coming off of any type of hormone or even coming off of like a harsh diet or like a competition prep. We recommend waiting about three months because things are going to take time to stabilize. And if you were to get it done a little bit earlier, you might not really get that full picture. Not saying like three months to the day is like the perfect time to get it, but it's like a good amount of time will exceed some changes. And even if someone is taking, if this goes for people who are taking exhaustion hormones as well, if you were taking any kind of HRT, any kind of thyroid medication, it's generally recommended to stay on top of testing. Because you don't know how your body is changing and responding to that medication. And I can't tell you how many clients I have who are on HRT who like the doses have not changed, like things are pretty similar, but then they start to feel certain effects and then they get the blood work done and it's all over the place, right? So it's just important to stay on top of it because you really are guessing otherwise. And when we're talking about adding in or taking out compounds, the best way to know is to get semi-consistent blood work done. Like if you do something like week to week, you're not going to see anything, but I would say three months is probably good. Yeah. Three-ish months is probably a good amount of time. Yeah, six. And then if you afterwards, if something comes up from that, then you can say, okay, let me address that. Let me either keep taking this. Let me increase something. Let me decrease something. And then if something is really off, then you can decide to retest in the few months after you make changes. Yeah. Yeah, but that's exciting. And I, again, we just wanted to cover this in kind of a general sense as far as like your story. I think that we wanted to make sure to kind of cover all those bases. And there's so many reasons why people come off or go on for their own personal decisions. So like you said, it's all about making an informed decision for someone else. Yeah. Well, I think the main reason I had the idea to talk about this is because when I was thinking about getting off of it, there was like no manual. There was like nothing that I could find like here or some things to expect. These are some recommendations based off of like maybe normative data during this time and like recommendations from like gynecologists or physicians. And so I just spent weeks watching other girls YouTube videos of like here's my journey of three months a year off of birth control just so I can have an idea of like what to expect. And here's the thing, like I saw all kinds of crazy stuff. Some chick lost hair like crazy. Like some girl like gained a bunch of weight. Like there's a bunch of different responses and so, but it was useful.  alfalfol, because then there were some things that I could take, like, oh, cruciferous vegetable-rich diet, definitely can do that, as easy, supplementing with some sort of, like, predestinal supplement, I can do that, not super expensive, so, yeah, like, I was very frustrated that I didn't know what to expect, or, like, I couldn't find a direct answer, and so, after the first I believe I posted a rail on just things I'm experiencing on my Instagram of coming off of birth control. But I was quite frustrated that there wasn't a whole lot of information on the transition of coming off of birth control, which maybe there will be one day like enough information to say like these are things you can expect. Here's a protocol you might want to follow that's more accessible to people. So that's what I wanted to share. I probably wanted to do this because that's the whole point is to say, hey, here's this experience, here's some things that are rooted in science that have scientific backing. And then obviously if you said lifestyle, diet, number one, adding in potential supplementation and or hormones as needed depending on the person, the individual, that's really going to depend on obviously how the person's responding, how long they were on birth control, what type it was. There's just so many factors here. I've already accepted that I've been on this for so long that when I come off and my age, I will most likely have to be on some type of HRT. I've just already accepted that maybe I won't and that would be cool. But there's also a large chance that I might or at least might need it for some period of time. And I think that just going into it saying, okay, what does my body actually need here? And it's just the same way that everybody responds differently when they're on it. Some people take certain, we can give 10 people the same product, whether it's birth control or whatever it is, and they have all different responses. Some people have IUDs and they have the best experience, other people have IUDs and have horrendous experiences. And it's like, the same thing looks like the shot and next one on. Yeah, that was the one that I was thinking of, the shot. That's not really super common anymore. And the over. Yeah, that was awesome. And there was another one that I was thinking of. Scandomy. Like the arm one, I've honestly never really heard any, like the next one, never really heard any good stuff in that one to be super honest. Do you know anybody who's had any good experience? I know an Olympia bikini athlete who's on it. Oh, okay. Yeah, because almost every client had who's been on it or was on it, had a shift. Again, just, just. We're heard in an extra like, like crazy. Like I don't think birth control is stopping her. They're just weird stuff. But the same thing with the IUDs. The IUDs are like 50, 50. Like some people have them and have zero issues. But then the people who do have the issues have horrible pelvic inflammation. Like horrible. So it's like, it just. It makes you feel like it hurts. Yeah. And then the little like micro tears that it causes. Like I think, I think that's like my theory is that for some people just happens to create these little tears and then it creates that inflammation response. And some people like, or their body's kind of just like projecting it. I'm not, again, I'm not really sure as to why but some I've just noticed those are very, very, very hit or miss. Whereas most people when they take an over the cap, like an oral combination of pillows, generally pretty standard. Yeah. I mean to me it would be like, this don't make me feel crazy. Yeah. It's not makes me feel tired all the time. Yeah. And I went through that as well where I was like trying out birth control and they were like, what are you saying? That makes me feel what is insane? Like I was crying all the time, like just so crazy. Did you hear that? Yeah, so interesting. But as always, we just want to share experiences and kind of create almost like a little bit of like a manual outsource people because, you know, it really is frustrating, obviously you're super credible and have, you know, looked into this a lot and done this now. So sharing that, that's why I did like the breastock vlogs, because like literally after surgery, I was like, nobody's supposed to know what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what Here's what size I got and I got like I don't care After a week where we if I want to go training three weeks what's happening? I remember And they were the worst videos anybody has been here since those videos you guys know They were just like me like propped up. It was like Christmas time Like the tree I'm like sitting on the ground and I'm like so I just had Like it was like so weird, but but people still are like I remember the The days but anyways thank you guys so much for tuning in sorry once again for the lack of great sound We still wanted to get this out because a really important message So if you are interested in coaching services or checking out anything else that we offer you can visit team look of it And we will put some of those resources below that you did mention In the show notes as well. So we'll talk to you guys next week