 Welcome back to another episode of the Loco Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and this week I'm joined by our team at Mental Health Counselor, Rick, and we're going to be talking about the steps to behavior change. And so we're recording this, we're about a week and a half into the new year, and it's funny, I was thinking about this topic, and then you were thinking about this topic, normally we brainstorm together, but it just didn't happen this time, but I was like, I want to do one on this, and then you're like, hey, here's for these notes, we're going to talk about that. I was like, oh my gosh, because this is so pertinent, and this really is like the root of everything, right? Because most people have goals, right? I would say that everybody listening to this podcast is interested in personal development and self-development, challenging themselves. And we always have really great intentions to want to change ourselves in some type of way. But oftentimes, there is like a mismatch of our intentions and our vision to how to actually create that change. So we're going to go through kind of a step by step, I don't want to say a protocol, but kind of a framework to think about behavior change on a deeper level, and keep this general enough to where you can apply it to really any goal, whether that's physique or health or even, you know, personal development related. Yeah, and why I think this is a really relevant topic right now is not only do a lot of people call and have issues with this or inquire about what are some actionable steps. And I'm going to give you guys actionable steps throughout the entire podcast. So if you're listening to this and you're like, what are some really good concrete things that I can do to create behavior change, get your notebook out, write these things down, because there's about seven or eight steps that are really very crucial in this process. But it's obviously the new year, everybody makes new year's resolutions. And some of the people are finding a difficult time either really getting motivated to create the necessary like momentum for change, or they've already failed. If you failed, don't worry, welcome to the rest of the world. We just have to far a little higher than that. And let's just pick ourselves back up tomorrow. While you're in your pity, we're getting plenty of that tomorrow's the 10th. Like it's all good. You didn't miss too much. You know, and you can, you know, really just get back up and figure out what it is. And I think there's the other part of this too, is that people start with an idea, a concept of what they want something to be. And they just, they don't really have a great plan. And so all of a sudden it's like, where I am and where I want to be, there's not a clear cut line for how to get there. And I think this gives a really good explanation. And it's not just, this is not just about a behavior change in terms of there's something that I'm doing that I don't like. This is kind of like, can really be used in how I perceive problems, how problems exist in my life and how I've been analyzing issues within my life and what steps I can take to actually reframe my perspective, my outlook, and ultimately the goals that I use to achieve those things. So yeah, so this can be really used in almost any setting. And that's why I like the word like framework, because now you can kind of view these things through this lens when you're making decisions. And because like you said, the biggest thing is people are making these plans, making these goals, but we're making goals that are so big, which is fine, but we're not having any of the steps like before that end goal, you know, we're starting at zero and we want to go all the way to 100. And that's fine. But you need to have, okay, what's at step five, what's at step 10, what's at 25? Okay, what happens if I go from 25 to 15? And then 17 and then back, right? Like there has to be a plan. And that's actually, if you guys listened to the podcast with me and Karina, we talked about goal setting. If you haven't listened to that, I would definitely go back and recommend we give some actionable steps, just in general with goal setting, which is a totally different topic. But let's say you've picked the goal, you have the vision, you're trying to execute, maybe you've already failed, maybe you haven't, the momentum is either strong, or maybe it's kind of fizzling out. Here are the next steps in order to actually change your behaviors. So number one, I would ask you to describe what the problem behavior is first, right? What is you're trying to change something? Well, something exists in its place. So describe what that behavior is. Is it overeating? Is it overthinking? Is it yelling at your kids? Is it acts of violence or aggression? Is it overwhelming emotional outbursts? Let's see, dissociating, not coming in late, whatever it is pulling, putting things off, procrastination, refusing to engage, like whatever your issue is, what I want you to do is number one, be very specific and detailed. No vague terms here. Be pinpoint accurate with what the problem behavior is. Identify exactly what you've said, what you've thought, what you've felt throughout that process. If feelings are kind of difficult for you, you can skip that step, but traditionally, we're trying to change behavior because of causes, negative consequences in our life. And so really, what I want you to do is to start, this is kind of like the therapeutic side of behavior change, really starting to explore what it is in that process that is creating emotional pain for you. Identify what you did not do instead. So the next step to that might be describing the intensity of the behavior or the other characteristics that are involved in this, like put it on a scale of one to ten, ten being really intense and highly irrational or emotional or creating negative experiences and emotions with me and one being zero, like where on the scale is this problem behavior ranking? Would you recommend doing this for like one at a time? Yeah. Yeah. Michael, let's start with, yeah, just start with one. When you said like ranking them, so I wasn't sure if you meant ranking like all the problems or just, did I say ranking? Maybe you didn't, maybe I just made that up. I don't know. I don't know. Should we rewind? Rewind. Okay, edit, edit. Here we go, editing. Now when you said overthinking, I was like, well, there's me. So now I'm really overthinking. He's talking about me again. Damn it. Okay, so one problem, be specific. Be specific. Identify exactly what you did, what you said, what you thought, what you felt. Okay. The second step to that, or third step to that would be describe the intensity of the overall behavior and the feelings and characteristics of that. That's an important step. You really want to understand where this is kind of ranking in terms of priority for you. Describe the problem. And this is a crucial step. Describe the problem in enough detail that a stranger would be able to accurately understand exactly what you're going through. The reason I say that is oftentimes we use these really vague terms and to hear people say it all the time, like for example, you ask somebody how their day is going, somebody's like, oh, I had a pretty good day. What does pretty good mean? Pretty good is such a vague term. It means something completely different to you than it does to me. And it's like, so I really want to get a good understanding of what you're talking about. And we're very vague with ourselves. Sometimes it'll be like, describe to me a goal. Well, I, you know, want to lose weight. Okay. What does that actually mean? Do you want to lose weight, but gain muscle? Do you want to lose weight for what specific reasons? Like, what is really underneath this? Like, we say a term like lose weight. I don't know what that actually means. Like, if I said to you, Lauren, I really want to be a happier person. Great. Okay. Like, what does it mean? What does it look like? Describe with that so that we can see measurable results when we go to analyze this later. That's the biggest thing, right? Like as being able to measure from like, point A to like down the line, you know, a week, a month, three months, being able to review because if you're not specific and you're not, and you're very vague with yourself, then you kind of give yourself that like built in like cop out, right? Because then you're like, well, I didn't really move too far. But like, it's okay. Right. Like I think when we, it's, it's, oh, that's something that I've struggled with previously is being specific with think like so specific like that and not and being really detailed because you kind of like let yourself off that way. You know what I mean? You're like, oh, well, if I'm not super detailed, then it's okay if it like doesn't happen, or I don't really have to commit to it or whatever it is changing something when it is more vague. So the more specific and detailed the better. It becomes more concrete in a way for you to hold yourself accountable. And I think sometimes if it's an important enough change that accountability is necessary in order to promote change when it's something we're loosely doing or not really buying into or perhaps doing for somebody else, it becomes more difficult to answer these questions. And so we really start to get a gauge of your motivation to really wanting to make this change something that you're doing for yourself or for other reasons, external reasons or whatever. So those are kind of like action step number one would be describe the problem in specific behavior, right? Be very specific, not vague, identify what you did, what you felt, what you said, describe the intensity of the behavior and describe it, the behavior in enough detail that somebody who is a stranger would be able to understand exactly what you're going through. Number two for this, describe the specific prompting event, right? Like when I say that I mean, this started the behavior chain of events, so to speak, right? What is leading to the problem behavior? What is precipitating it? Right? What is the prompting event, the triggering event? Perhaps that's a better way to think about it. What's prompting you to make this change? What is antagonizing you? What is the issue at hand? Does that make sense? This is the first thing I have clients reflect on whenever they're going through a problem. It's like, all right, like what like let's say it is like overeating, right? Like just as an example, where they weren't able to hit whatever their food goals were. Okay, well, what prompt that? What was the trigger today? Was it because you didn't have food prepped? Was it because you didn't plan ahead? Was it because you skipped breakfast? Was it because you didn't sleep? Like those are all that's the same problem, but they're all very different triggering events for people and just saying, I could say, oh, well, you should have meal prepped and then the person's like, well, I already did that. So do you not have an answer? It's like, no, but I don't know unless they're going to be able to reflect on that. So so much of this is just a reflective process of what is that trigger. Yeah. And let me read to you some of the things that I've written here. Always begin with some event in your environment, even if it doesn't seem to you that the environment caused the problem behavior. Otherwise, we could ask about any behavior, any thought or any feeling or that we experienced. What prompted that? Possible questions to help you explore this area would be what exact event precipitated the start of this chain reaction, right? When did the sequence of events that led to the problem behavior begin? When did the problem start? What was going on right before the thought of or the impulse for the problem behavior to occur? What were you thinking, feeling or imagining at that time? And why did the problem behavior happen on that day instead of any other day before that? And I think that's that last one is kind of an crucial part because I think what people forget is there was a time in your life when this problem didn't exist. And so let's go back to that time and it kind of helps us understand what occurred to start to create this reaction. Oftentimes, what I find is problem behaviors develop out of a space where we don't know how to cope with what else was happening in our life. And so a bad habit ritual, something has started that now we recognize as problematic, but at one point probably developed out of some need or necessity. And I think going back and being like, what was happening in my life before this actually started? It's kind of, it's not the most important step, but it is a step that gives you additional insight and knowledge into it. Does that make sense? Yeah, okay. All right. So step number three. This is the vulnerable factors. So everybody loves this. Describe the vulnerable factors happening before the prompting event. So what do I mean by this? What factors or events made you more vulnerable to reacting to the prompting event with this problem chain? Does that make sense? Okay. So let me give you some things to kind of clear it up a little bit. I guess, or some problems to think about. Okay. So some of the vulnerable factors, was there physical illness, unbalanced eating, sleeping, injury? Was there use of drugs? Misuse of prescription medications? Were there stressful events in your environment, either positive or negative that affected you? Intense emotions such as sadness, anger, fear, loneliness? Previous behaviors of your own that you found stressful that have been coming to your mind, right? Like sometimes just thinking about your past behaviors or reflecting on who you've been is enough to create stress within somebody. And so when I say the vulnerable factors, it's kind of exploring some of those secondary characteristics of the problem behavior to add a little more clarity to it. Yeah, absolutely. And that's always the hard part, right? Because this is like where you like you've had to be honest with yourself up until now, but now this is like, Oh, shit, just got real. I really can't hide any more from this. I mean, you can, but then you're not going to really get to the root of this. Right? So same way as like, you could keep these things vague and not be very specific, but that's not going to help you in the long run. So actually doing this is going to be super crucial. Even if it is, you know, like maybe, I don't know, unsavory, right? Like you're like, Wow, I probably shouldn't have done that or taken that or acted in this way or, you know, these cascade of events. But if you don't take the time to actually reflect on that, how can you expect yourself to make a change? Because it's so once we already are ingrained in a habit or behavior, like it's that's our default now. That's so much easier than actually changing it. So it's not enough to just be like, I want to do this. Like that's why when we say those things, it just, it doesn't, doesn't stick. Yeah. And I think vulnerability is the space where we start feeling uncomfortable. And when people feel uncomfortable, they start to look for ways to avoid that. And so would you say that this is the step maybe where people kind of like stop or they don't like, they're not going to be honest with themselves? I mean, they can be not honest with themselves at any point throughout this process. You know, but like I said, when somebody's and it's a framework to use in any aspect of your life. But when you're looking at really specific behavior changes, things that have been kind of perpetual, you know, that you've done for years or that have really caused a significant problem that you're looking to really create, these are kind of necessary steps to take in order to fully understand it. Part of this is member of described therapy is like two parts. There's the why something happens. And then the what now, well, this is really helping you understand why this problem behavior really existed and what it means to change it and the benefits and the ways that we can measure progress later. So for that step, number three, it's described the factors happening before the event that made you feel vulnerable, you know, that started down that chain of, you know, behaviors that ultimately led to the problem behavior. Okay, so number four, describe in excruciating detail the chain of events that led to the problem behavior. This is everyone's favorite step. These keep getting worse. I told you guys, there's gonna be a lot of writing. I was down with step one and two, but now I'm like, I'm turning the podcast off. Numbers are just dropping. Nobody finishes this episode. If you've made it to step five, comment below. Yeah. That was kind of like, what was the other one we did, right? I didn't think anybody would, oh, we were talking about shadow work and I was like, there's probably like four people listening at this point, but it was like our highest rated episode. Like Carl Jung's name in it. Yeah, there you go. It linked. So describing the in detail, the chain of events that led to the problem behavior, imagine that your problem behavior is chained to the precipitating event in that environment. So how long is this chain? Where does it go? Where do the links, you know, kind of occur? So actions are things that you do, right? Body sensations or feelings, cognitions, your beliefs, your expectations, your thoughts, events in the environment or other things that you do. Sorry, it's a late night. And feelings and emotions that you experience. What exact thought or belief or feeling or action followed the prompting event, right? So you had the prompting event occur. What happened after that? What is the behavior that you display essentially, right? So that's essentially what this is describing. Okay. So let's see, like, like what would be an example, like look at each link of the chain. Okay. And after you write about it, was there another thought, another feeling or another action that could have occurred in that space? Right? And it's going to start, this is going to lead into like repair and like the actual change, developing new skills. What are we looking at changing? Right? So having a clear understanding of the chain of events that led that not just led to the problem behavior, but what the problem behavior actually is. Okay. We should know that from step one to that makes sense. Okay. So could someone else have thought, felt or acted differently at that point in time? Kind of an important question, right? Because sometimes when we're in our own minds, we don't see any other options other than what we've done. But if I'm like, Hey, what would Lauren do? I know what Lauren would do. You're not asking that question. What would you do Lauren? No, but you ideally want to, that it helps you to find the different perspectives sometimes that you might be missing in yourself to put yourself like, I think we all kind of carry voices and people in our heads. Like for me, you know, like my mom is there, my uncles are there, my sister's there, my friend's father's there, you know, there's various people and characteristics and, you know, individuals throughout my life that have helped shape who I am or my thought processes on things. And so sometimes you take a step back and you're like, Okay, I'm pissed about this, but what would my uncle say? You know, what would my mother do in this moment? Or what would, you know, my friend do who has like a business that I respect or what would this person do who's like my coach, you know, it's like, Hmm, can I challenge myself to think like another person and see a different perspective, even when, you know, my own ego won't allow it, but perhaps by me focusing through a lens of another person, it helps me see my problems in a different light. Yeah, because that's, so that's really just speaking to detachment. But sometimes like you said, that can be really hard when it's just like for ourselves, but maybe pairing it with that like thought of another person could be really useful for you to like, because everybody's like, Oh yeah, of course I can attach. And then you're in the midst of it. And you're like, fuck, I can't attach for shit. Like, like this is, this is so hard. That's why it's one of the hardest things. But I really like that idea of, and like you said, it could be someone who is really influential in your life, or it could be someone who that you're trying to emulate, I guess is a good way or how would this person respond? And even if you don't know, right, like, it's the idea of like, okay, this person runs their business in a way that is ethical that I appreciate. What would I what do I think that they would do in this situation? And maybe you do know them, but maybe, you know, maybe you don't. But having that as a framework, I think could be nice. And instead of like, you said, wanting to detach, like your own ego is like, no, like, we can't see past that right now. And maybe you can in like an hour or two days, but sometimes you need to make that decision like right now. And that needs to be a little bit quicker. Yeah, you know, and it can be people that you respect. But I usually try and make references to are there people in your life that you know that you have interaction with that you can really hear their voice in their head, you know, like, I love Tony Robbins. But I don't know Tony Robbins, I haven't had like one on one conversations with him. I thought you had. You fucking lied. The first time we hung out. I know Tony Robbins. We're friends on Facebook. I mean, I like this page. But I don't have any real dialogue now. There's 1000 videos that you can watch on Tony Robbins. Yeah. You know, like my uncle Joe or my uncle Tom, these are two people that are, you know, are very influential in my life. And, you know, I would sit back and say, well, what would they think? What would they do? And so it just again, it allows you a different perspective. And some of the stuff isn't just about like changing our diet or our physique. Some of this is about changing elements of who we are or how we react to people, or how we perceive situations or events. And I think sometimes that's a really, really understated aspect. An individual's perception of events shapes what they think about it. And two people can watch something or experience something and be moved into completely different directions. Why is that? It's based off their perception and what they're willing to take from it. And so this is a little bit larger sometimes than just, you know, simple behavior changes that you're looking for. This is a change in mindset. This is a change in perspective and attitude and value in the way that you see yourself. And so utilizing all of these skills, and we're kind of running through them and some of this shit would take me sessions to get through with people. Yeah, this is not like, oh, you'd go through this checklist and all of a sudden now, like you're good to go. Like this is going to be a process. We're just laying it out. But then the real work is going to start when you're actually dissecting all this. And step one might be easy, but step three might take you a few months, right? Because it's not like you just have this all of a sudden you meditate or journal, you know, one time and you have this deep understanding of everything like this is going to take time. But we did, of course, want to be thorough and share all of it. But that's okay. And this is a tool that I will use and go back to. Somebody will come in, they'll describe this and we'll say, okay, fine, we're going to lay this all out. And I'm going to work, I'm going to give them worksheets to do and we're going to kind of work through it. And then, you know, we might get another couple of weeks down the road and they'll be like, you know, it happened again, I'm like, let's pull it out. Let's go through the process again. And you go through it and you go through it and you go through it. This isn't like a magic pill. This is just to do the work and to commit to, okay, to make mistakes is to err as human, but I'm going to continue to grow and learn from this process. What's part of this step? Are you messing up? Where are you having difficulty? I was going to say fucking up. I don't know, I didn't. Did you figure out what you were? Forgot who I was talking to for a second. But what you said was really great about this, like this being the underlying thing for everything, because like your perception of events or how you react is what will determine any kind of change for any goal that you've set, you know, whether it's like physique, performance, recovery, health, financial, literally any goal that you've set is not going to change until you get to the root of those issues with how you're perceiving situations for yourself, for other people, how you're reacting, like that is everything. If we can actually change that, then we can decide to make whatever change that you want, you know, to your body and the rest of your life. Like that is, I don't want to say it's secondary, but like it's why people don't make sustained long-term change, because they're only following something for, you know, a certain amount of time and they're doing it more on a surface level, which I'm not knocking because everybody has to go through different levels, right? Like you're not going to expect somebody like day one to get all into this and to fully understand it because it's always changing as well. So I'm not saying that it's a bad idea to just start something, you should, but this is kind of what's going to happen as you progress in your journey. And this same issue could also change over time, right? So like you're saying, you can go through this with a client and then they're like, oh, this happened again, you know, there's so many times with clients where they check in and it's the same problem, but it looks a little bit different now. So maybe they've gotten past level one or level two, but now the same kind of problem is recurring, but it just looks a little bit different. And it might even feel a little bit different, but it's still the same thing when we peel it back. So this is one of those things that it's okay that it might happen again. But are we continuously revisiting this and making changes? And then chances are, hey, you probably don't just got one problem, if I got a lot. So once you get one down, let's, we can start going on that list that the rank order list that I made up, but okay. So as we move on, you know, and just to one, before we move on, like you can apply this toward relationships in your life and feel like, okay, for a year or whatever, I've been working on this and I finally have a good handle on it. I'm seeing things differently. And then you may discover like, oh, there's something happening at work or in my social life. And it's like, I can apply this to there now. And so the idea of it is not just that it promotes instant change. It's kind of a a structure to adopt for life and really kind of managing those things. So this next step, step five is kind of an inevitable step, right, describe the consequences of the problem behavior. What problems have occurred in your life as a result of these issues? You know, how did other people react immediately to the problem? And how did they react later to the problem that you displayed? How did you feel immediately following the behavior that you displayed? You know, what effect did the behavior have on you, on your environment, on your relationships? So this is an important aspect. And it's one where sometimes people can kind of get riddled with shame, feel bad, feel depressed, because it's like, okay, it's kind of easy to identify what the problem is, because I can be a little bit removed from that. When I'm describing the consequences of my behavior, this also encompasses taking responsibility. And one of the most difficult things to do is accept responsibility to somebody else, right? It's one thing for me to quietly whisper under my breath, I fucked up, you know, that wasn't good, or I made an ass of myself or whatever. It's another thing to be sitting in front of somebody that you have hurt, or, you know, we're talking to them on the phone or whatever it is, and hearing the pain of your choices and your decisions, and then feeling that and taking responsibility and saying, okay, I'm hearing what you're saying, and I fucked up, you know, and it's clear that I hurt you, and describe what that hurt is. So recognizing the consequences of your behavior will go a long way in reminding you like that moment when you might be angry or bitter or feeling something, right? And you feel totally justified in your anger. And if you can remember like, Oh, when I do this, it creates this, and this over here, these consequences are far more powerful than what I'm feeling right now. And so shut the fuck up, give myself a minute to take a step back and breathe, and self regulate myself, calm down a little bit, and respond later, right? Sometimes that's the behavior change that we need to implement, which is no behavior. Right? Yeah, that's really weird. Detaching is super important, especially if it is that kind of like a, I don't know how to describe that type of a negative emotion, but like, there seems to be a different signature to something like feeling like down versus feeling really angry, right? Like there's just a different signature to how that feels. So I would say that that's going to be really important for those type of like elevated negative emotions, we'll just calm that is to really be able to okay, like how can I take a step back like, and we all kind of have that visceral feeling when we're getting to that place. So I would say that probably like, would you suggest like, reflecting on those kind of bodily cues, I think you mentioned it in one of the steps, like kind of how you're physically feeling. Because I think for a lot of people, there is like a feeling that you get beforehand when you're going to engage in those negative things. So like anytime that I'm really angry, like, or really upset, like there's a very specific visceral feeling that I get, right? When people have struggled with overeating before. There's oftentimes this certain agitation that you get. And it's kind of hard to explain if you've never felt it, but there's a very specific type of agitation that you'll feel. So it's like being able to identify, Oh, okay, like I'm on that border of like, this could go sideways really quickly. Let me go do something else now. Let me remove myself from the situation. Let me go get out this energy, whatever this is, this agitation and like this kind of a easy light activity. So there's just certain things that I think if we can tie that to our physiology as well, that can help us because sometimes when we're emotionally like very elevated in a negative sense, it's going to be hard sometimes to like rationalize yourself. So if you can tie that to a physiological sensation, that would probably be really useful, right? Oh, yeah, absolutely. The mind and the body are connected. And so sometimes people aren't aware of what they're thinking, or what they're feeling emotionally, but they're painfully aware of what they're feeling in their body, that queasiness, the tension in their shoulders, the clinching, like the jaws tightening, whatever it is. Like, and so even in people who are experiencing panic, like sometimes they're unaware of the thoughts that they're having, but they're very aware of like the nervousness that's circulating throughout their body and their energy. And I say whichever one comes first comes first. If you recognize, Oh, my thoughts are creating this fine, you recognizing your thoughts and your emotions. For some people, until they create more awareness with it, they just respond to what they're feeling. And they don't know why they're feeling it, but they know that like, Oh, like I carry tension like right here in the back of my traps or right in my head. And it's like, I know when I feel energy in those spaces, I'm like, I'm really tense, or I'm either really angry about something. And so being aware of physiologically what's happening in your body can be a really big cue. So yeah, the mind of the body are connected. Which is why we always stress like from a mental health perspective, people are like, I'm depressed and I'm anxious. And the first things I start to run down are like, what's your diet look like? Are you exercising? Are you getting fresh air? Are you getting these things? And people are like, Well, that's not really mental health. I'm like, it's absolutely mental health. I'm not asking you to become the Mr. Olympia here. I'm just saying get off the couch and go for a walk. Right? Yeah, the fact that that's not more discussed, that's a whole different tangent. Yeah, we won't we'll save that for another day. All right. So step number five was describing the consequences of your behavior. So step six, this is what we're going to get to actually start to change the  and alfalfa-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha my journal I'm writing things down and I'm recognizing the sequence of events where could I have interrupted it like this is similar to what we would do with our we call them different things but like behavior chain analysis with some of the inmates is we would say all right what were the thoughts you were what were the situational factors that occurred right what were the triggering events what was the negative self-talk what was this and then one of the things that we go backwards and we say okay over here was the problem behavior you could have intervened here here here and here right yes what were the skills you needed to intervene here what were the skills you needed to intervene here what were the skills and so you look at it and you say all right where am I lacking so this is where I exploded right so I'm going to go all the way back to the beginning and say I could have intervened at any one of these spaces what was missing from my repertoire of tools or skills that doesn't exist that I need to start to create and this is the work right it's easy to do not easy but all the other shit can be done this is the part that requires effort change and commitment and so when you start doing that this is where kind of rubber meets the road you know this is where it can really start to get uncomfortable to be in a situation where you're feeling something and then try and react in a completely different way and not know what the results are going to be yeah but that is everything because like you said there is oftentimes when we're in the midst of this we feel like oh it just went from you know I felt this emotion to all of a sudden like now it's like like level 10 right but really like you said there was there was four or five steps before that right like what could we have done before and not even before that like not even just from the triggering event here like even before that right like if you know okay me being consistent with like my training and my eating and you know doing some kind of self-reflective practice if I do those things like and I get outside and I go for like all that you know the kind of healthy habits that we talk about if I do these things like that's even way before like the triggering event right but that's just as important too like there's so many steps that we can work on and it's okay everybody is going to be different with what is going to set them off but we need to figure out those skills then also like what are the daily actionable things you can do that keep you regulated from like a nervous system level yeah and it's just it's it's just kind of like starting to recognize where in that process I can be accountable to myself and can do different things you know like in jujitsu we talk about we have early defenses and we have late defenses for those of you that don't do jujitsu sorry it's the only great analogies I really have but when somebody has your arm completely extended right and the limb is about to break people will ask what do I do to get out of this you shouldn't have gotten in that position well thanks coach I know but at this point there isn't really much we can describe other than luck right yeah however there were four there was like a sequence of four or five things that happened before that where it was like oh they were starting to shift their hips address it this way well the hips got in this place now what well now my arm is being extended we'll create more posture by doing you know what I mean and so there's this series of steps that you can take all along there to prevent your arm being broken and so that's kind of what we're starting to get people to recognize is what skills are you missing and how do we start to develop them and implement them and don't always wait till it gets catastrophic right we don't want to wait till the limb is like about to snap before we start to defend it man jujitsu is really such a great analogy for this and I really wish you right it's so good because there's so many such as like I feel like I could go on with really describing it but you like visual and the ability to feel it yeah so for any of you that do jujitsu out there you totally get it you get it but if you don't if you know you know but if not sorry I guess go watch the youtube video just kidding don't do that it's very confusing and very weird so to give just a little bit more insight into this like go back to the chain of events following the prompting event circle each link where you could have done something different and where by doing something different you would have avoided that problem behavior okay um what could you have done differently at each link in this chain to avoid the problem behavior and what coping behaviors or skills or skillful behaviors could you have used to create a different outcome for yourself okay what is the desired outcome to have a good understanding of that um you know that should be pretty specific like maybe not hurt my loved ones like that's a good goal you know it doesn't have to be that you create something amazing it can just be the absence of pain um it's a pretty good goal you know like you again if I was going to use jujitsu sometimes it's not about tapping somebody out it's about preventing yourself from being tapped out right and so the ability to to measure your goals and your success is going to be very different um so step number seven in this process is develop prevention plans to reduce vulnerability of stressful events and I think this goes to very well what you were just speaking about right I think I remember reading a quote from Jim Kerry we were talking about this a few weeks ago you and I and it was I think he Jim Kerry the actor if he still acts I don't know whatever he said something like look if you're not going to bed on time getting eight hours of sleep going you know exercising eating right um and reading and talking to people you're not even giving yourself a chance to cope with life so there's basic fundamental things that we can do and so when I start to recognize like people places situations experiences that trigger me it's my responsibility to start to change around those things if I know I can't be in a bar because it's going to lead to me drinking then I don't go to bars and yeah it's a major life change and everybody else most of the people in the world can go to a bar and not have a problem but that ain't me or that's not you or if it's going down a particular alley or if it's going to a particular gym or if it's doing certain things or certain events or being around people you can lie to yourself all you want but the problems are still going to exist and so to start to recognize that and to create prevention strategies right like an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure like prevent the problem from even occurring and you don't have to worry about dealing with it later and so that's really what we do you know like once we've figured out okay what are some of these things then it's like what can we put into place in terms of like your daily strategies and behaviors um and your mindset as well but what are the fundamental things like nobody can expect to eat well if they're not preparing food like I'm sorry but food has to get into your fridge and it has to be cooked obviously there's different ways you can navigate this and you get a meal prep service I'm aware there's a lot of different great options shout out to icon meals for a really great meal prep service but you know you guys understand what I'm saying like there there has to be food there quality food there if you want to follow a quality diet you can't just expect to eat on the fly at all times like it's you can sometimes right um just like with the gym like we can have these great intentions like I want to go to the gym I have membership I got these new clothes I have these goals I have this program you might even have a program but like when are we going what days what times are you packing your gym clothes or are you going to say no I'll just go home and that no you're not don't lie to yourself like you know that when you go home you're going to sit down and then you're going to start doing some stuff around the house you're going to no just pack your clothes and go do it after or do it before like right there's all these different things that can prevent you from not doing the behavior and to take that even a step further if you're planning to go to the gym in the morning what are you doing the day before to prepare for that yeah are you going to bed on time yeah you on your phone like all of those things right and so it kind of becomes this endless loop of behaviors right and creating healthy habits and habits are just nothing more than routines and decisions that we've made over and over again that produce the same results and so you know learning to create a winning mindset or a positive mindset you know where you expect to win is you know winning isn't a sometimes thing it's an all the time thing that's like an old Vince Lombardi quote you know and he also says but unfortunately so is losing and so you either create a mindset where this is going to keep repeating or whether it's one time you experience pain or a thousand times you experience pain it's kind of up to you and I've had a few experiences even recently in my life where I experienced a very significant pain and I was like oh I'm never repeating that like I'm learning from this and you start to dissect it and I've done this work for myself and said okay what am I going to put in its place if this were to ever happen again to prevent it from being there and that's really my strategy is I'm like okay I don't want to do this again so I'm going to prevent it right I don't want to I don't want to have this kind of need five of these situations or 30 I'm going to go through one because you can reflect on it and say it was painful for me but I realized it was also painful for somebody else and so I don't want to recreate that in any circumstance so you look at these kind of prevention strategies as a tool to prevent future harm and then really the last step is repair and describe what you're going to do to repair important or the significant consequences of that behavior right and this is kind of a fundamental step so analyze who or what did you harm in this process what was the negative consequences that you can repair can you make amends can you atone for what you did sometimes it's as simple as paying money other times it might be as simple as doing a favor or an act of kindness other times it might be apologizing and taking responsibility for what you did and just standing in front of that person look to the harm or the distress that you've actually caused other people and you know can you repair or what damage can you repair in that relationship and start to do it if the person will allow you to do it do it and then you know it's not just this isn't I'm sorry and then you know we've talked about the words I'm sorry being nothing more than manipulation sometimes I'm sorry followed by action is sincere I'm sorry followed by changing behavior is sincere and so you start to really explore the damage that you've created and and repair it to the best of your ability however that is and sometimes people are like well I don't know how to repair it ask the other person what are you gonna find out through communication you know sometimes it's as simple as you know listening to what they say and then doing what they're asking if you can yeah and sometimes you can't but at least you are going through the effort to try that obviously it's on them if they want to kind of work that out in whatever capacity that looks like but at least you are saying okay like I did my best here you know and then you just try to move forward from that way yeah and if this is for you just your own thing maybe somebody else isn't harmed this is still towards yourself as well like that's still very relevant because I think what happens when we try to go through behavior change obviously most people unless they're just completely you know aloof to what they're doing to themselves you know most people have some type of reflection I'm like maybe I shouldn't do this but they keep doing it they're like why am I like the why am I like this right like why do I keep finding myself here but when you've gone through these steps like you have to repair that relationship with yourself as well to be like hey like you've done the work to like not be like this anymore and maybe you'll slip up every once in a while but like you don't have to think of yourself in this negative way that like oh well when this happens I'm always going to respond that way because if that's your mindset then you're really never going to make any change so you also have to repair this within yourself if it is kind of like a self to self you know situation because I think that that's where so many people get trapped and they label themselves as like I am this or like I'm uh whatever right and I'm a hothead yeah now you're always going to respond to aggressive you literally are creating that like you're living that out and we're all guilty of it you know I mean like we all do that with ourselves so I think that going through this checklist or this framework whatever we want to call this is really really useful but then also like you said to kind of round that out like hey you need to stop thinking of yourself as this individual like maybe this is how you act maybe this is how you feel sometimes but if you're actively taking those steps to not be that person then you shouldn't label yourself that way because that is the surest way to stay there absolutely so hopefully these steps kind of helped again just a quick brief run through with them describe the problem behavior what was the prompting event go through the vulnerable factors what was the chain of events the consequences of that behavior what new skills or behaviors do you need to start to adapt what prevention plans can you put in place and how can you repair the relationships or the damage that was caused and so a lot of information in this one to kind of like go back and probably write some stuff down if you need it but um hopefully this this was beneficial for some of you guys listening yeah this like we said this is kind of the crux of everything and this is by no means to say like listen to this and all of a sudden like you write this once and it's like you're good to go this is going to be something that is going to take time and reflection and potentially professional help or just some kind of guidance you know whether it is a therapist or it is a coach or it's even a friend you know if if you really want to be vulnerable and say hey listen like you know not everything requires you know like like therapy intervention right like I'm certain there's a lot of things that do but not everything so it could be something that's small but it really does either bother you or kind of hinder your life in some way and be open with a friend or family member and be like listen can you help hold me accountable to this like you know and sometimes that could be embarrassing but it's like listen we all need that so whether it's a therapist coach or a friend or family member get some accountability to these things and then you're going to be able to expedite this process but if you are interested in therapy we will put rick's contact information below but say your email for everybody out loud if you remember. Full circle therapy FL at gmail.com and if you guys are interested in one-on-one coaching you can visit team logo vet.com for more information and also other resources that we have and if you're interested in our app which has meal plans macro training programs and mental health resources you can visit redefine healthy app.com thank you guys so much for listening if you enjoyed the show please share it we hope you got a lot of notes out of this and we'll talk to you guys next week