 Welcome back to another episode of the LocoFit Show. For a very special episode, we're talking all about our app that has just launched the redefine healthy app. So if you guys have been following us for a while or even heard it on the podcast, we've been working on this for months and I'm so excited to finally announce that it is live. And I wanted to do a podcast to cover really just who it's for and what it's going to offer. So first, this is not something that is going to replace our coaching. This is completely separate and totally different. And I have been coaching now for almost 10 years. We started the business back in 2013, which is crazy to think about, right? And I love coaching. All of our coaches are super invested in coaching, but we recognize that not everybody is in the position or the place really to have coaching, but we still wanted to share with the world some of our coaching methods. And what we think will actually help you redefine healthy in your life. So I'd been wanting to do something for a while. I just wasn't sure what to do, how to do it. And then this just was the perfect thing. So there is going to be a few different pieces to this app. There is going to be a nutrition only component, a training only component, or somebody who wants nutrition and training. So like I said, this is separate from our coaching. We will not be doing our coaching check-ins on here, nothing like that. So if you are a current nutrition client, you would benefit greatly from the training programs. If you were a body blueprint subscriber, you will love this. It's going to be a much more personalized version of, you know, basically something like a body blueprint, completely different, like just so much better. Same great programming, but much more personalized to you. And then there's the other content on here as well, which I will touch on at the end. So let's go into training first. So for training, there's going to be several different options. So there's going to be a three day or four day training split. So three full body days or four days or two up or two lower. There's going to be building or cutting plans, which will differ with rep ranges and cardio that's prescribed or recommended. There is going to be 45 minute or 75 minute duration because we know that everybody has a different time that they can spend in the gym. There's also home and gym options. So that's a really nice feature as well. Did put a lot in there in terms of if you do have limited access, what can you do at home? And then from there, you are also going to have training demos for each of the exercises, which I'm so excited about. They came out amazing. And it's something again that I've wanted to do for a while, just didn't have the capacity, but this app has the capacity to do that. So training demos, so you know exactly how to perform it. There's also going to be an exercise swap feature, which is really nice. So let's say you're doing, you're at the gym and you have line leg curls on your program, but the gym's crazy and that's absolutely packed and you don't want to wait. You can do a swap there or say the machine is broken, or if you're at home, you don't have something. So it's a really nice feature to be able to change that right on the spot when you are training. And then also on there, you can track what you're doing for each session. So say it says four by 12, right? For again, line leg curls. And maybe you get 10, right? 12 is prescribed, but you got 10 or maybe you got 15. And then you can also track your weight and that you've hit for that exercise. And honestly, I know it sounds so small, but it really is much more motivating. Finish it, you get a little green check, which is super satisfying. I know that for me, when I have been using this now on the app for the past few weeks to test it, it's definitely held me much more accountable in terms of like, all right, I was maybe not that I was gonna skip it. Not like I would ever do that, but there's certain days where you're just like, man, I really don't wanna do this. And seeing it on there is just a totally different level than like, oh yeah, it's on my program. So everything is super convenient. It's all on the app. And all of these programs have been designed very carefully by our training director, Ryan, tested these out back in July, me and Sam did when I was visiting her. And like I said, I've been using this for a while. So there's so many different options, you guys. They are incredible. So that is the training piece. And if you're a current nutrition client, or maybe you already have a nutrition coach, or you don't want nutrition coaching at all, the training only is an option for you. Next for nutrition, this is where it's gonna be a little bit different. So with our nutrition coaching, that's 101, there's weekly check-ins, all of this. There's no check-ins, there's no coaching within the app. Which is why it's great for people who are just starting on their journey. Don't really want or need a coach necessarily, but they want something. Or maybe there are clients who have transitioned away from a coach or are taking a break. This is a really nice filler to say, all right, I have some accountability and some structure here without the weekly check-ins. So we wanted to make something much more accessible to a larger pool of people so that we could help more individuals, which is what our ultimate goal always is. So when you're signing up for the nutrition portion, you're going to put in your body statistics, or think height, weight, age, et cetera, your activity levels, and then you'll have goals. You can either have maintenance, a building, or a cutting goal. And then you have different dietary preferences that you can choose from. There's I think six or eight options. So general is going to have the most meal variety. Then there's easy to prep meals, so really quick basic stuff. And then there's other options, dairy-free, low-carb, vegetarian, et cetera. And then you're also choosing how many meals a day that you want to eat, three, four, five, or six. From there, a meal plan will be created with a meal plan, macros, and a grocery list to go along with all that. So it's so seamless. And that's why I said it's really great, especially if people just want some accountability, or really just don't know where to start. The grocery list, I think, is probably my favorite part. So let's say that you have, you're gonna have seven different days of meals, but say you really like day one and day two. And you're like, you know what, I'm just gonna have day one and day two, and repeat that for the whole week. You can actually add, okay, I want these days, and I want three servings of it, let's just say. And then the grocery list is populated with those amounts. It totally streamlines the process, and it's all on your phone for easy access. So incredibly excited for this option. There's also a meal swap option, right? So sometimes, you know, some of the stuff on there, you're gonna be like, I don't really like that, and I never really wanna have that personally. And that is another option there as well, so you can have a new meal come in after you submit the meal swap. So tons of great options. And then some days, if you don't want those meals at all, you can still see the macros, and there you go. So there's a lot of different features here, but like I said, the nutrition component's a little bit different. So I know some people were thinking that, oh, is this where they're gonna be putting their check-ins and their coaching? This is completely separate. Now, another great feature that we're gonna have is the focus of the month. So every month, our team, mental health consultant, Rick, is gonna be putting together some content that is going to focus on mental health, which as you guys know, as a listener to the podcast, and just anybody who follows our coaching philosophies, you know how important combining physical mental health is to us and at the core of our philosophies. So I really wanted to make sure that we had something here. We already have a few months preloaded, so in the mental health resources tab, and then each month, like I said, is gonna be some written content, and also some prompts. I think the prompts are what I'm most excited about, and even the ones that we already have preloaded, there's some really great things to think on in there. And when I was adding, I was like, oh, this is, I got a journal about this. So each month, there'll be a new focus, and then there's also just other content on there as well that is exclusive to the app, and then moving forward, we're also gonna be adding exclusive content to the app. I already have a few ideas of what we're gonna be rolling out in the next several months. I'm so excited for this, you guys, and I know the whole team is as well been putting so much effort into this, and it's just something that I've really wanted for a while. I wasn't sure how to encapsulate all these different things with training, and nutrition, and accessibility, and mental health, and extra content, like what we're gonna do, and then this is gonna house all of it. So below in the show notes, I will link up the websites, so you guys can check out more information on it, and if you're interested, you can sign up, and of course, if you have any questions, please feel free to reach out at info.atteamlocafit, just send us an email, and we will certainly get back to you. Once again, thank you guys so much for all the words of encouragement along the way in this process, and I'm just so excited that we can finally share that the Redefine Healthy app is live.