 welcome back to another episode of the Loka Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlin, and this week I'm joined by our team mental health consultant, Rick, to talk about comparison. Oh, this is such a awful topic. I mean, it's a great topic that we're gonna be discussing, but comparison is such a awful feeling. And I'll start off by saying that obviously, I think there's a healthy level of comparison that we all need in our lives. I don't think that it's always a purely bad emotion, but a lot of times it can be taken really out of context and make us feel really, not just feel terrible, but actually act in ways that are making us even worse and it's becoming that self-fulfilling prophecy. So let's get into it. All right, comparison. This is a topic that actually felt like can resonate more with your fitness competitors and coaches because of the very nature of what you do. And I was recently having a conversation with one of our clients. And I was asking her, because she moved from one weight division to another, not weight or class. She was a figure competitor. She's moving to Bikini. And I asked her, I said, how did the show go? How did you feel about yourself? And she's like, I felt really good. She's like, I know that there's certain areas I went into the show knowing that I would be deficient in certain areas. And she was just like, you don't really know where you're at sometimes until you can see yourself standing next to somebody else. Oh, yeah. And I was like, this is definitely comparison. And so from that perspective, again, I've talked about most other sports. It's like you are competing against the other team and the result is who has the higher score, right? Not like I have to compare myself to the way this other person physically looks and the dimensions of their body as it relates to my body to determine whether or not I'm, I don't know, good enough, I guess, is the answer. Yeah, it's tough because there's a standard that will be set for physique divisions, right? Like Bikini, there is a standard of things that the judges are looking for. And certain people are clearly gonna fit that criteria a lot better. But there is so much inter-individuality that still fits those criteria. And then you don't know, like say you're really, really lean. You have good shape, but you're real lean. And then you show up to the show and everybody else is a little bit fuller, but the judges actually like that more, right? So both still fit the criteria, but it's a different look. Whereas some other shows, you might show up as that leaner person and they might actually go for that look. So that is where it's really hard because you have to say, okay, I'm only focusing on like myself and improving my specific physique because ultimately I don't know who else is going to show up. Isn't there a part of the show, and correct me if I'm wrong because I'm an idiot when it comes to this stuff. Like you need to go to a show. I do, I really do. I want you to actually walk me through what's happening. But isn't there a part of the show where they literally line people up and they just move people around so they can see them standing next to other people? Yes, come on. So, comparing yourself to the rest of the dais or whoever else is competing. Yeah, it's not just about, like that's why people will look at like a photo of someone on stage like, oh my God, you looked amazing. How didn't you win? And then it's like, well, if you look at the six other people next to them, it might have been really close, but it could have been really obvious, right? Or the one person just could have stood out in that way. And that's also the difference of photos versus in person. It's a lot easier to see things from a judge's perspective or those first few rows. You can really see things a lot quicker and a lot differently than a static photo. That's a totally different podcast. But yes, like there is a lot of comparison with physique competitors, but also just anybody who's interested in physique goals, any kind of physique enhancement, like, hey, I'm interested in building muscle here, losing fat here, whatever it might be. And chances are, if you're interested in that, you're either around other people at your gym or that you know or that you follow on social media. And a lot of times that comparison of, oh, I wanna have that person's body or I wanna look like so and so. And I always try to encourage clients, like this is great that we have someone that we can say, hey, this is kind of the look that I'm going for. Like I'm interested in having a physique like that. But there's a lot of other things you have to take into consideration. And I always try to, especially when it's somebody who, I know, has been an athlete their entire lives from the time they were like a kid, you're four years old and you're starting sports and then you're an elite level athlete and now you're 30. Okay, you're going to have a very different physique than somebody who just started weight training at 45. At 42. Yeah, but it's not a bad thing. It's just a, hey, this is just the reality of this and we can still strive towards it. But I think that that's where comparison can be useful in the sense to say, hey, this is kind of, I'm not maybe here, I would like to work towards here, but where it can become insidious is like, if I don't look like that, then I'm a failure. It's like, no, I can have, I can develop attributes that are similar to that and I can develop the work ethic and all of these things. So I think that it's, it can start as a positive, but then you have to change it to more of that intrinsic motivation to say, I wanna change this for myself and not only solely that I'm extrinsically trying to look like someone else. Yeah, like for me, when I started on, on like the weightlifting journey for myself, I remember asking and talking to my trainer and being like, okay, you've seen a picture of my body. Like here's some pictures of other male bodies that I actually like, like, but I didn't know enough. That was fun to search. Oh yeah, you should see my search history for that. Uber friend. Male bodies that I like. I was like, okay, this is not good. This feels a little weird, but. Especially when you do it on a work computer, HR is calling me into the office at a prison. Yeah. Like, oh, this is not good. But it was kind of like, all right, I didn't know enough to say like, what is it about these particular people? And so what I was able to surmise from it is like, okay, there's certain characteristics in these people that I like, like for example, maybe their shoulders, their traps, their chest. And that's like, okay, so these are areas that we wanna use to develop. Now, excuse me, what I didn't do was go back and see like, okay, what's my six month progress compared to them? I would look at where my picture was on day one and where my picture was on six months and say, okay, I'm making progress because I can see the change in me, but not by comparing it to them. I used those physiques as a template to be like, okay, this is the things that I like in a man's body or what I would like to see in mine. So you can compare yourself to that from a perspective, but not as long as you're measuring yourself against them in terms of your progress and your growth. And that's where I also feel like, again, the physique world is a little bit different because the entire sport is predicated upon not just how you look, but how you look compared to other people that you're standing next to. Yeah, so that part's super tough in terms of just the fitness kind of world. And then I feel like the social media world it seeps into everything, right? Because it's not just how somebody physically looks, it's also now like what they're showing, right? Or the life that they're showing that they're living. And a lot of times what happens is we will forget, like there are some people who I would say share a good amount of like their journey, right? Through things, but a lot of people, a lot of the big name people that you might be following have been doing this for 10, 20, 30 years. And now maybe they're just showcasing their stuff. So you're like, oh my gosh, well, how could I ever get to this level? And it's like, thankfully a lot of people are open and share kind of the struggles that they went through and what they actually did, but they weren't documented at that time because social media maybe didn't exist or maybe they didn't have it then. So you're only seeing the end result. And what's happening I think is a lot of people start to feel this really, really deep comparison. Like I'm not there yet. Somebody has it so much better in whatever kind of category you're interested in, right? Like everybody has a different category that they are comparing themselves in. And I think that it's so easy to dehumanize people, not in like a weird way, but like dehumanize them to say like, oh, this is just their achievements. Like everything is so easy for them. They have this all figured out, not seeing that like all the other stuff that they either went through or are currently still going through. And I don't think that people need to share everything on social media. I'm actually completely for not sharing everything, right? I think that's really, really important. But what happens is when people don't recognize that, they think that someone is sharing everything, right? And it's like, do you really think everyone, like even the people who share everything, like we know those people share everything, they don't still share everything. There's still things that are obviously very personal to them that they're not putting out there. So it's like to look at, but we all do it. I do it. It's like, oh my gosh, so and so is here. They did this, they did, okay. Hey, let's reframe this to like, what are they showing? What have they not shown? What else have they done beforehand? And it's just, I think that has, the time course has been sped up with technology, where people think that things should be happening really, really quickly. And if it's not, then they are a failure because they're comparing to what they see is like this quick timeline, which it might not really be quick, but that's how it feels when you're seeing it. Yeah, and I think, and again, I don't wanna go down this rabbit hole at all on this particular podcast, but I think when you're looking at people, especially in the fitness and physique world, who are making rapid changes very quickly, it's more than just their work ethic in the gym, okay? And I think people, like I've run into this a lot with people who aren't involved in any way, shape, or form in the bodybuilding industry. And then they'll walk into a gym and they'll be like, you know, they'll see somebody's before and after picture and there's like six months and it's like, it's very different. And so to a person who's standing on the outside, it's like, okay, this isn't just them showing up in the gym and counting macros for six months, where their body has made this radical change and they've put on 20 pounds of muscle in six months. And the other person's going like, well, why am I not making this progress? And it's like, look, outside of the supplements, they're telling you that they're taking, they're doing other things. And so I think understanding like, you know, and this is what you told me when I was starting, you know, in this journey for myself, it's like, okay, are you willing to say, can you commit two years to this? To see some of the changes and things that you want? So it's like, yes, and now here I am coming up on my first year of doing this, of like tracking my diet through a macro based system of going to the gym four, five, six days a week sometimes, and being serious and committed to lifting and seeing growth and progress. Now, again, if I compare myself to another guy who's been doing this for 12, 16, 20 years, I'm gonna be like, well, that's disappointing. But if I'm able to look at my picture of myself between the first day I started, the six month mark when I started and where I am at a year, those are very different people with different philosophies and approaches. And so are you getting into this to reach an objective that is comparing yourself to another person, which is what we're gonna get into? Or are you doing this for yourself? Are you bettering yourself? Because this is something that you saw benefit into, into getting it to shape or to making these changes in your life, not because you're comparing yourself to another person, but because it's the journey and the process for you that's meaningful. So comparison, if you're gonna listen to anything on comparison, you're always gonna hear this quote, comparison is the thief of joy. Right, and so I think it's a relevant quote because it's really talking about the idea that in comparing yourself to other people and measuring yourself against their accomplishments, not yourself, it's always without the end goal, which is the fulfillment of achieving what it is that you're set out to. So if the goal is determined by somebody else, it has no inherent value for you. It's accept to gain the acceptance or reach a milestone that somebody else had that you admire. So it's not really about you, it's about measuring yourself against that person. And so oftentimes it leaves this feeling empty. And that's a word that I'm gonna use over and over again throughout this podcast. Now, how and why do we start getting into you and developing the habit of comparison? It starts at an early age, it starts at birth, right? Like, you'll hear this all the time, you'll hear newborn parents talking about like, oh my God, my child is in like the 95th percentile for height and weight and you've got, they start talking about like their head size, like comparing their baby's head size to another baby's head size is if that means anything. And this gets reinforced through society's systems and agencies throughout your life. Like think about going through school. What does every school do with their students? They rank them. There's like the number one student through the 250th student. I remember in high school we had like 500. Now I'm saying, do they still do that? I think they still do. Which I'm surprised because isn't everybody supposed to get a participation trophy at this point? I think everything else is not ranked, so I would be very surprised. Honestly, I don't remember school, so. Don't ask me, was I ranked anything? But I remember we had 500 students or so in our class and I remember it was a big deal for everybody to know, like, oh, this guy, I think his name was. What school in Jesus? Ryan Ginsburg, he was like the top student in everything. He was truly gifted, but there were several people where it was like they were bouncing back and forth between the top 10. That was a big deal. It was a big deal for them. Were they like high school? This is high school, yeah. Okay, I was like, no way there was 500 kids in your elementary school or middle school. No, I don't think they count kids in elementary school. But that's, I don't think they ranked them. I don't remember this in high school. In high school we got ranked, you know, and that matters, you know? And so I think the art of comparing yourself to people, even when you start filling out college applications, you have two people who have similar scores, what do you start to look at? Their extracurricular activities and you're comparing them. So the art of comparing each other to each other has been reinforced throughout our society. We compare ourselves to the other kids in our class. We compare ourselves to our neighbors, to our cousins, to our other family members. Like, imagine if you're two siblings who have, you know, a birthday within a year or two of each other. There's always gonna be comparisons. My sister and I are two years apart, right? There was at one point where she was a junior in high school and I was a freshman. And everything was, oh, you're Nikki Youngy's brother. I was like, my name's Rick. Just in case you're wondering, I'm not Nikki's brother, but my sister, who is like this straight A4.0 student, three sport varsity athletes, and she was like a freshman. And it's like, here's Rick. I was like, yeah, not her. Part of me used to hate that comparison because I was like, no one can actually, no one cares about me. I'm like, oh, they're Nikki's brother. No, I won't lie. Sometimes it had its benefits. Like, I remember one time I was having trouble with a teacher in a class, and so I went to another professor who only knew me because I was Nikki's brother. And he helped me out. He was like, I'll get you out of that class for you. So I was like, oh, sweet. This is cool. It's all who you know. Yeah, it's all who you know. So that had its advantages, but I remember feeling inadequate as a child sometimes growing up because I didn't take academics seriously. It wasn't a big part of my life until much later in life. And my sister had that drive very early on. So I would come home with an average report card. My sister who's got straight A's and all of her AP classes and everything, it was like I started to feel bad because I would be compared to her through my parents or through my own comparison. Being like, I'm not measuring up to what the rest of my family is doing. So comparison is a very natural part of our life, but it can be competitive in some ways. It can be helpful in some ways, but in more ways than not, it's really destructive, especially in today's society. Because again, we're looking at each other in a way of measuring my self-worth against my accomplishments as it relates to somebody else. I'm not worth anything unless I'm making the same amount of money that you make. I don't have real value because I didn't make this contribution to our field. So if my accomplishments, my income and my status don't match the highest levels of people in our industry, we can feel like a failure sometimes. It can create a sense of inadequacy because you're comparing yourself to another person, not to your personal journey and not to your own goals and what's important to you. Does that make sense? Yeah, and I think that when you, at least I've experienced this, when you're only focusing on certain achievements or accolades or things that are very extrinsically based, it does feel very empty, right? Because you get there and then you're like, okay, what's next? Right, and there does need to be, it's like this balance, right? It does have to be what's next because you can't just be like, just sitting in your past accomplishments because that's not a way to grow or live either, just to always be like, well, I did this one time. Like that's not enough. You need to, okay, congratulations on doing that. What else have you done? But it has to come from that internal place and that place of like, I want to be better for myself in these areas. And I think that it's just really easy to get caught up in that outside stuff. And part of, you can develop a lot of good things with that. So it's not like there's, it's only negative, right? It's like anything, it's not only negative to be chasing extrinsically based goals, but if it doesn't have that intrinsic value to you, I do think that people end up feeling really empty. And then at least what I see, especially in what I do with coaching, is that if you are chasing that extrinsic thing constantly and then you may become close or you don't get it, then you feel like the only sufficient way to, like you have to just keep going or keep doing more. And it's never really addressing the other stuff. And it's really easy to put a bandaid on those kind of harder, more extreme things, whether it is like any kind of goal that you have instead of actually being like, what do I really, like really sitting with like, what do I really want to be doing? If you have a hole in the bottom of a bucket, no matter how much dirt you shovel into it, you're never gonna fill it up. And so the idea becomes like more is not always the response. And so there's two ways I really want people to kind of conceptualize comparison here. Number one, there's comparing yourself to yourself. And then the second aspect would be comparing myself to others or others' expectations of me. And now what do I mean by comparing myself to myself? Well, let's say you take a moment in your life where you're in some sort of crisis or some sort of difficult situation where you have to make choices or decisions or you behave in a certain way that doesn't align with a previous version of yourself. And so what happens is if I'm like dealing with a moment of crisis in my own life, but then I look back and I compare myself to how I used to handle crisis or how I managed a situation similar to this in the past. And I don't align with that self. Like suddenly I didn't react the way I wanted to or I expected to. And I can't perform the way that I used to when I was younger, right? Cause now I'm older and I don't move the same or I have less time to dedicate to it or my priorities have shifted. But I'm still comparing myself to who I used to be when I was younger. It can create this sense of, you know, misery and inadequacy and it can create a deeper level of shame because I'm not the person that I used to be. But it's like, well, in what other ways have you changed and evolved to where maybe this isn't as relevant as it used to be? If I'm 42 or 43 years old and I step on the mat and I'm like, God, this 25 year old is like running circles around me right now, you know, that never used to happen. Well, you're not 25 years old anymore either. You know, there's other responsibilities and things that you have in your life. Like is it important for you to be a good father? Is it important for you to be present in these relationships and in these aspects of your life? Cause the 25 year old does nothing but like wait tables and train in jujitsu or whatever it is that you're doing. Sometimes the comparison to your old self can be just as detrimental as comparing yourself to somebody else because you're not reacting in the ways that you thought you would or that you used to. And so you set yourself up for this disappointment by comparing yourself to an older version without understanding or appreciating the life circumstances that have changed. Does that make sense? Yeah, that definitely makes sense. And I think a lot of people have to create almost that like new, I use, I don't know how to use this word properly, identity. So like say you are going through like maybe you were just somebody who was younger, who could train a lot and do whatever. And then now you're like, now I have this new identity as somebody who enjoys training jujitsu. But now I am like father, entrepreneur, business, the like all these different things, right? I know that like a lot of new moms struggle with this really, really hard is like creating this identity now of like my new life is like me and this child. You know what I mean? It's completely different than like life that was just me. And I know fathers go through that as well. I just coach primarily women. So when I say it, that's because of that. But you know, it becomes this whole different thing. So it's not just about like, oh, I used to be able to do this. It's like, that's not even your life anymore. I know a lot of athletes go through this, right? When they are no longer the elite athlete, students go through this when they're no longer the student or the researcher. So anytime your identity is kind of going through this big shift, it's like you have to, to understand how to shift and create within that. However, where do you see that line of it is important to compare it to my old self? Maybe I'm like, I don't want to use the term letting yourself off the hook. But like, at what point does like, oh, I just have a lot going on and things are different now. And then that piles up and piles up and piles up. And then now you find yourself in a situation where you're like, oh my gosh, I don't even really know myself anymore. And I've neglected all of these quality habits that I've established for myself. And now I'm in a really shitty spot, right? Like, do you see where I'm coming from? I think you can compare yourself to yourself and say, look, if I was younger, I used to be more organized and have priorities and have more goals. And somehow I've lost focus of that. Okay, fine. That's an example of looking back and reflecting on yourself. And then saying, what can I do now? Versus shaming yourself in that process. Or comparing yourself to old goals and accomplishments and saying like, well, my life isn't as valuable because I'm not accomplishing those same things. Like every athlete has to come full circle with the idea that there's gonna be younger people or people who are like, yeah, maybe in your prime you could have beat them, but you can't anymore. And so it's kind of accepting the space that you're in and recognizing change and time and circumstances don't allow for the same level of performance. Yeah, maybe I was thinking less about comparison and more about just like standard, right? Like having a standard that you set for yourself. Standard can be like a fluid thing, right? Because that standard can change given the circumstances. But I know, I mean, I know that I've done that like, oh, it's okay, you know, I can't do how I used to do it, but it's because of all these things. And then you like, let a few things slip. And then you're like, okay, maybe that's the case, but I've now let my standard slip to a place that doesn't reflect my values. And so like being able to kind of check yourself there. But I guess that's kind of separate from comparison in the way that we're talking about it. You know, and to me, like for example, we have some guys that we used to train Jiu-Jitsu with who are older guys. Guys like, you know, Mike Billers, Joe Dominguez, Jeff Johnson, some of these other guys. To me where I see the value in that is like, they're coming to the gym every day knowing that they're not gonna be the best in the gym, that they're not gonna dominate, they're not gonna win every match. And in fact, they're going to get beat quite often, but they still keep showing up. They still keep going through the process. So they're not comparing themselves to the 20 year olds in the gym of the 30 year old guys. They're looking at this and saying like, this is my growth, my progress. And as a result, they're actually getting better. They're difficult to deal with, they're hard roles, they're growing and maturing, you know, even though they're older. Yeah, it's just a different skill level. They're not comparing themselves to like who they were when they were in their 20s. And so the idea of it is, is they're able to get something out of it because of the process of what they're doing is beneficial to them, not through the art of comparing themselves to the other students in the gym or who they used to be. But because of where they are right now and what their goals are. So there's a value in it and as a result, they keep coming back even though there might be more failure than there is progress at times. And that's the same for any person who's doing something new later in life. And so obviously the other form of comparison is comparing myself to others or other people's expectations. And I really want to highlight the social media effect in this particular space. Because this is exactly what people do like you pull up Instagram. And you'll start scrolling through. And all you see is filtered pictures of somebody's best life. And if you're looking at the best version of somebody else, that comparison can be very invalidating for your life. And it distorts your version of, it distorts yourself image and the version of progress that actually is being made. And so when we compare ourselves to what people are putting out on social media, you're seeing a very filtered version of their life. You're seeing like a percentage of the person's entire aspect of their being. You're not seeing all that. And it becomes this space and everybody's guilty of it. Everybody's guilty of looking at a picture and being like, I'm taking a vacation because I saw what a place looked like or I'm buying clothes because this influencer put them out there, I'm gonna buy this makeup or this watch or do these things because I see somebody else doing it. And so comparing yourself to or maintaining that level of comparison with somebody else or managing your expectations of your performance based off of somebody else's expectation of where you should be, it creates that same space because if you're not matching their version of you, you're always going to feel a little empty, a little lost, a little less valuable because it isn't and doesn't have the intrinsic value to you. It has value to them, not to you. And so the idea of this is to start to focus on what are my needs, what do I actually want? Not within the relationship of the people that are in my life but to me. And this is where like sometimes people struggle with like, well, isn't that selfish? No, it's important. It's okay to focus on yourself. And I think sometimes I find myself having this conversation with some of my clients, it's like, no, it's okay as a parent as a mother to focus on your needs, your goals, your ambitions. It's okay as a husband or as a boyfriend to say, look, these are things that are important to me. I don't have to compare myself to previous generations or older models or versions of other people or their expectations. It's about setting mine. And for some people, that's a really scary space to be in because our lives oftentimes are set by the expectations and goals of other people. And so you're learning to break a tradition, a habit that's been forming since you were born. And so when you're 30 years old and you're like, struggling with this stuff, it makes sense that you're struggling and it's okay to struggle with it. This isn't an overnight like, oh, I'm just gonna stop comparing myself to people like, done, like no, it's a habit that you are breaking and developing a new habit. And so there's this constant teeter-totter back and forth and you have to have conversations with yourself. Like I do it all the time. Like I'll walk into the gym and I'll see a guy lifting an insane amount of weight or I'll be like, oh my God, this guy's like ripped or physique and I'll remind myself, they've been doing this, like stay focused. Like where are you at in your journey? Like focus on, you have weight to lift right here. Focus on that. And so it's this constant like pulling yourself back into the reality of avoiding comparison. I was gonna say the reality aspect is really, really important. Like I think when people, and this is one of the detriments of a lot of technology is you don't get to see a lot of that backend stuff. So you kind of will just see that end result or you'll see something on a really short and timescale where you'll see the person. Even if you do see them in person and all you see is that end result. And it's like a lot of times we, like if our reality is not recognizing like the work that it takes to be there, then we become that like jealous and resentful and like comparing ourselves in that negative way. Whereas if it's like, you know, after you've gone through something, right? Like, okay, I've competed before, been 10% body fat many times. If I wanted to get there, I know exactly what I need to do to get there, roughly. I can look at someone's physique, who's in that spot and be like, damn, like that's amazing. Like they look awesome. Like I would, you know, I'd like to do that again or something, but I've done it enough to have my reality as understanding of what do I need to do before, during and after to achieve that physique. And I know that. So I feel less of a comparison now because I've been, and I understand the reality of a situation. You know, I don't see someone dead lifting 300 pounds and be like, man, you know, I would love to do that again. I've did it once and I know exactly what it took for me to be able to do that. And it was fucking awful. I'll never do it again. But no, it was great. But you know, like I know what that, like I'm not, I don't look at that anymore and go like, I'm just so weak. Yeah, maybe I'm not that strong, but I know what it takes to be that strong, right? Or some version of whatever that is. So I think having a reality of like, what is the work that goes behind looking a certain way, acting a certain way, living a certain life, achieving certain things. Like there is a lot that goes behind that. Like if you see someone, oh, they've published 10 research papers. Well, that wasn't just by accident. Right. You know what I mean? Like that's amazing that there are a prolific researcher and publisher. There's a lot that goes into that. You know what I mean? Like, oh, not how that person wrote a book. Okay, you can do it, but like the reality of like, what is that gonna take? Right. So I think that in order to stop that research,  and so on. That could be, I mean, obviously it happened. Well, actually, I have seen a few videos where people literally photoshop, like, themselves onto stock photos, and we'll talk about going on a vacation, and you're like, how sad. How, like, I'm hurting for you as an individual, who did that, you know what I mean, but, different discussion. I think one thing I would like to kind of highlight in this process of comparison, by focusing on what everyone else has, it forces you to see what's missing from your life. Your life becomes empty because you're only reminded of what you don't have, and you're not celebrating what does exist in your life. What you put effort into is what matters to you, okay? So what you focus on is the reality of your life. So if you only see what's missing, you can't appreciate, and you'll never value the things that you do have. And this is for every aspect of your life, right? Like your health, your finances, your physical body, your emotional health, your relationships, your occupational health, whatever it is. If you're only focusing on what somebody else has, you only see what doesn't exist in your life, right? If I'm looking at somebody in the gym and I'm going like, well, I love their shoulders and their glutes, and you're not focusing on your arms or your legs or whatever it is, because all you're seeing is the fact that I don't have the same glute package or I don't have the same shoulders that they do. Sorry, I'm trying to keep this in relative terms. I love glute package. Glute package, is that a thing? No. No? But it's going to be a thing now. Look at that glute package. Look at that glute package. Look at that glute package. What the fuck? I definitely need to go to a show with you to learn the language. And be quiet. Just listen. Just listen. Just take notes. No speaking alone. Look at that glute package. They're like, get this guy out of here. Oh my God. I would definitely yell that. I would definitely yell that. If I ever go back on stage, you have to come to my show and say that. Okay. But you see the point that I'm making, right? So the act of comparison, and when you're only able to see in somebody else what they have, you never focus on what is good in your life. And so what I say is, you know, what you focus on and put your effort into becomes the reality. If everything I see in somebody else is what's missing from my life, my reality becomes very empty because I don't have what they have. And furthermore, I devalue and minimize the things that are actually in my life that are good. What people fail to recognize, especially in the social media world, is that oftentimes the people who are posting pictures and the things that you really like about them, there's deficiencies in their life that they're looking at other people going, I would give up my physique if I had the relationship. I would give up my relationship if I had the financial health or wealth or whatever it is that comes with it. And oftentimes we kind of fall into this trap. And so what I want people to recognize too is that comparison is a habit. Okay. And the problem becomes when you look at someone else and you see what you aren't focusing on in yourself, your actual needs or the desires that for our lives that fulfill us. Once you get that watch or you get the car or you get the vacation or you get the house, you're disappointed and not fulfilled because it was someone else's dream. It was an illusion basically of happiness. And that's what you're actually chasing. So if something is important to me and I have a large following and I make this accomplishment in my life because it was valuable to me and I post it, there's a bunch of people who are looking at this going like, I want what Rick has or I want what Lauren has. That was a goal that was for me and you're now chasing my dream. So if that was what was important to me, but you're chasing it in the image of what you think it will give you, when you get it, it doesn't actually mean anything to you. There's no value to it. And so you still feel empty. You get it. You'll only feel joy or enjoyment temporarily. And then you start to shift your focus to something else that you don't have, something else that's missing. Because now that you accomplish this, I've moved on, you've moved on. What else are you focusing on other than what you don't see existing in your life rather than looking back and being like, I appreciate this. This is where things like a gratitude journal comes in. Right? Where some people are like, my life is terrible every single day and you force them into being like, what are the good things in your life? And so the focus becomes what? What exists actually in your life versus what's just missing or what you perceive to be missing and stop undervaluing what actually exists. It's always like, this is the grasses greener on the other side theory. It's like, the grass is greener where you water it. And so that's kind of the mindset and the habit that we've developed with comparison. Yeah, there's so many things. And I think that people can look to others as inspiration or motivation or aspiration. Right? Like, oh my gosh, I like how this person lives in accordance with these values. That's aspirational to me. Or I like what this person set out to do or they kind of carved this path. Like, I would like to do something like that. But like you said, you have to put your own spin on it and not be a carbon copy of someone else because that's probably not going to work for you in your life. And even if it does, it's not going to be your own. So it is going to leave you empty. But I do think that again, that's kind of where that positive comparison, at least how I'm mentally compartmentalizing it. Like there is positive comparison in the sense of you can look at people as like inspirational or aspirational based on certain different qualities. But then you have to make it intrinsically your own. Otherwise, you're just going to look up and be like, okay, I have XYZ, but now I don't really know who I am or what I actually want to do next. And I think that, I don't know, do you feel like more people are recognizing this earlier? Or I think a lot of people, maybe, and maybe this is the bias that I have. But yeah, I don't think they're recognizing it earlier. I think social media is actually contributing to it earlier. I think it's becoming more of a problem rather than an awareness that people are addressing. And so I actually think it's getting worse. It's not getting better. They might be aware of it. Like you hear people all the time talk about the dangers of social media, blah, blah, blah. But they just discard it and they go right back on Instagram or Facebook or Tik Tok or whatever it is that they're looking at. And they fall back into this rabbit hole of like, my life isn't as good because I don't have this much money or this many followers or I don't live in Hawaii or I don't get to surf every day or whatever else it is. So let me give you some actionable steps that you guys can take that will hopefully start to create a little bit more of a healthy environment for you. Number one, get off social media. Take a break from it. Here's the thing. You've done it. I know some of your coaches have done it in the past. It's like social media is not going anywhere. And I think sometimes there's this fear of missing out. And it's like, okay, unless you truly have a large following and you're dependent on that for some form of income, like take a break from it. See what a couple of weeks away from social media does for you and recognize how all of a sudden these, I don't know, picture perfect lives that you've been looking at and feeling jealous over, it's like it forces you to pull focus on the reality that actually exists around you, where you live, what you're doing. So number one, get off social media. Number two, identify the people in your life who are negatively judging you. Right? There's a difference between being a supportive person and judging somebody. And if you're looking around on somebody, it's like, I don't understand why you're doing this and these kind of underhanded judgments and comments that just kind of keep you down. Look to create distance or boundaries around those relationships. Because what good comes from that other than self doubt and inadequacy and making it seem like, well, they're judging me. And so what I'm doing doesn't have any value. So maybe I should listen to them and go after their goals. Well, now I'm comparing myself to somebody else's expectations. I don't want to do that. I want to find my own voice in this space. So the next thing I would ask you to do is sit down and write out what goals are actually important to you. Right? What matters to you? Not what matters to Sabrina on Instagram or whoever. What doesn't matter to this person who's at this point in their career. What matters to you? What are the goals that are important to you? Next, ask yourself, can you recognize your own talents and gifts? What are they? Write those out. What are the qualities that you possess? Are you a great listener? Are you excellent at writing? Can you are you good at giving public speeches? Are you good at research? Are you good at calculating numbers or risk factors? Like, what are you good at? What talents do you have? And that kind of goes into, are you celebrating your uniqueness? Because what you appreciate in somebody else, right, you're looking at them because that's a deficiency within you. But if you were to post what makes you unique, if you were to celebrate what makes you unique, well, that's what inspires other people as well. And it's like, well, that's not undervaluing what makes me unique in what qualities I do have. It's actually the opposite. It's starting to value the things that I actually bring to the table and not just what's missing from my life. And then when you ask yourself, what goals do you want to achieve? This is where you can start to say, well, what skills does it actually take to accomplish this goal? Not what skills I don't have, but what skills does it take to reach this goal? Well, now I can start taking classes. I can start reading books. I can start learning new things, developing new skills to reach these goals. And the value of developing and learning skills as it relates to these goals and what are important to you increases the intrinsic value for yourself and feelings of self-worth because you're now finally growing in a way that has meaning and purpose to you, not to somebody else. You have to be willing to understand what is and recognize what is important to you and not someone else. And understand this too, that when you start learning new things, it's okay to feel like a fool. It's okay to feel like I don't have mastery of this, that this is awkward and weird as hell. And I don't know what I'm doing. And I feel really inadequate. I absolutely felt that way walking into like a real gym for the first time. And like here I am with my trainer, like learning how to do basic lifts that I never really knew before, the right way to do them. And so it's like, but eventually you get more competent with it. You build some skills. In order to learn and become proficient at something, you have to be willing to be the fool. You have to be willing to be embarrassed. You have to be willing to take chances and fail. And so I think that's kind of the value of taking these steps. So get off social media, avoid judgmental people. What goals are important to you? Recognize your talents and gifts, celebrate your uniqueness, and then ask yourself, what goals do you want to achieve and what skills are required to get there? And then once you know what skills are there, start learning those skills. And don't worry about comparing yourself to somebody else who's been doing that set of skills for 20 years or 10 years. Like they're going to be better at it. Let them be the newbie, embrace it, and then one day you won't be. And you'll be proficient and you'll really have skills that matter to you. Yeah, those are really great takeaways. And I think those are things that people can implement immediately. Some of those are going to take some reflection, but I find myself so many times with clients being like, all right, your homework this week is to take 20 minutes, sit down and, you know, work through whatever it might be, like not necessarily that, but something. And I think that just creating that space to physically just sit down, write things out, work through like a prompt or whatever it is, is so incredibly valuable because otherwise it's just going to swirl around in your head and you're going to be thinking about it, but you're not really going to have an answer for it. So spending actual, like calculated plans time to where you're like, this is what I'm dedicating my brain to for the next 30 minutes or whatever, whatever you have, 10 minutes, 30 minutes, two hours, you know, everybody has a different schedule, but you know that you're going into it to actually think on this problem and topic. And then you will be able to be so much more efficient and actually going after it because like you said, it's like there are actual things that we can do here. You can just sit around and think about comparison, but you can actually say, okay, let me break this down into like, what is actually unique about me? What are the next things that I need to be doing? So I think that was so helpful. So I hope you guys really enjoyed the show. If you want to reach out to Rick for consulting, I will put his email below. There's also a place to submit questions if you guys have any questions for us to learn more about one-on-one coaching, you can visit teamlocofit.com. And then for more on our app, you can visit readafinehealthyapp.com. We'll talk to you guys next week.