 welcome back to another episode of the Loco Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Cotland, and this week I'm joined by my friend, JP Dennell, I'm so excited that he's on the podcast. He's a former Navy SEAL and the chief training officer at Ashland Front, which is a leadership consultancy. I love that word consultancy. I love you guys use that. No, it's like my favorite thing of consultancy. So they're a badass, I would say the top leadership company. You guys have heard me talk about going to the muster, the leadership event. I talk to pretty much everybody that I meet about it. And so this is run by Ashland Front. So JP, thank you so much for coming on the show. I appreciate it. How have you been? Good, good, good, good. Today is like a million calls. So just I'm on that call train today. You know, you know, we're both, ah, Jenny Cathy over here. So give us a brief intro about yourself, the abbreviated version because you've had a crazy life with a lot of stories. Give everybody a little bit of background. Yeah. So this will be a good little testament to me, uh, shortening my intro. So I was born actually fun fact. We are almost birthday twins, not that anybody asked. Yep. He means nobody asked while we're recording just the two of us. So strange. Yeah, this is me. Welcome to our podcast. Yeah. I, uh, born and raised Sacramento, California actually grew up in the same house that my dad grew up in. Went to like the same elementary school, same high school, uh, which is cool. And then you get like some of the same teachers, which is kind of crazy. Yeah. A few of the teachers recognized the last name. Um, so, you know, I had a really good uprising. My, my parents, um, you know, we're very, still are, but we're very hard workers when we were young. You know, my dad did construction and cooking, um, mostly construction. He did cooking whenever he needed to fill in the gaps here and there for seasonal work or just when our family needed more money. You know, and it's, it's through my parents hard work that I really kind of started to understand and see and embody the the, you know, just the thought process that you can make excuses or you can make things happen, but you can't do both. And, you know, my parents, you know, they never made excuses. They always made things happen somehow for our family. You know, and grown up in the 80s and 90s with your parents doing construction, my mom teaching stepper, Robics on the side, which you can. At times it was, you know, financially tight, like for a lot of people, you know, and I know the last couple of years have been crazy for some people as well. So it's, it's crazy how everything comes in cycles. We could talk about that at another time, but I was just very thankful for the, just the childhood my parents provided us. You know, we, we are always doing something fun, either going camping or just going for a road trip. I mean, gas was like 99 cents a gallon back then in California, which is crazy, you know. So in Texas, it was probably like 10 cents a gallon or something like that. But it was just where I live now. And I just, you know, we would, you know, drive from Sacramento up to Lake Tahoe or down to San Francisco to the Bay Area. And, you know, we'd just do fun stuff. I was always very active. Our parents had us very active in sports. I mean, we were always doing multiple sports at a time. You know, my parents met in a gym. So that was kind of cool. So they had that like common bond and I, you know, I just loved playing sports. I, you know, ever since I was a little kid, I don't like to lose. I hate to lose. I hate losing more than I love winning. And you want to like, I experienced that this weekend at a jujitsu tournament. We'll talk about later, because there's some really good lessons that I learned from that from the leadership standpoint. But as I was reflecting on that, I also look back to when I was a kid and man, I, I hated losing. Like I hated losing. And my parents, and the reason why I'm telling you this is because my parents were able to help kind of like take that energy and that direction and use it the right way and like push me to do stuff. And okay, cool. You don't like losing. Well, you better go get your ass out there and work out in the gym or hey, you better go do the reps. And so we're always doing extra stuff because I'm not, I'm not really good at anything. I'm just, I'm a good, I'm good at working hard. I'll outwork most people. And that's where I bridge the gap on a lot of things. And so I'm very thankful for that example. My brother and my sister, two of my closest friends growing up, we're all very close in age, you know, growing up, my brother and I used to play Navy SEALs. So I wanted to be a Navy SEAL ever since I was a little boy. Fast forward to them in high school, graduating high school, my dad kind of challenges me like, what are you going to do when you get done with high school? And I really didn't have any idea. I just, I didn't have any direction. I thought it was going to be like a whitewater rafting guy and live on the river. That's what my best friend was doing. And in, in Northern California, like, that's pretty legitimate. Like that's a, that's an amazing thing to be able to do if you really think about it. You're up in the mountains. You're, you know, you're a single dude taking people whitewater rafting all the time. Like my buddy's life was awesome. And I was like, I want that life. My dad was like, yeah, maybe the military, you know, like, something else. And which is funny, because that buddy ended up joining the military after I did also because I was like, going to the Navy kind of like, inspired him. My little brother went in the Navy too. I had a lot of friends joined the military after I joined. I joined the Navy to become a Navy SEAL. So I got a contract to go try out. I left for boot camp September 5th, 2001. And 9 11 happened six days later when I was in boot camp. And there's a lot of crazy stuff that was going on, but it solidified the decision that I made like, Hey, I wanted to serve my country. And, you know, any service, I want to be very clear, any service to the military is awesome. And I hate when people are like, Hey, man, thank you for your service. And I say, Hey, thank you for yours. Well, like, Oh, I didn't do what you did. I hate that shit. It bothers me because it's like, you signed your name to serve your country. You took a sworn oath. And whatever you did is awesome. Because if you weren't doing those other jobs, I wouldn't have been able to do my job. You know, and you look at like what we did in SEAL teams, if we didn't have our support personnel, zero chance we go out and do the missions that we do. And so I just drive me crazy when people are like, they try to compare their service to others. And that's another thing for all like the high speed operators out there, don't be a dick, you know, like don't like to other people and compare your service to theirs, like yours is so much better. And I wish I didn't cost because I hate I'm trying not to. I want people from my church to listen to these podcasts and stuff. But at the end of the day, like, don't be a jerk, right. And that's one thing that bothers me. So I started off on a tangent with us, Lauren and JP talking away. What we do, but that's, you know, my childhood was really good. And I'm glad that I have my parents that pushed me very athletic. I'm thankful for that. And, you know, being in ABCL was a dream of mine. And I was able to fulfill a dream because, you know, went through boot camp, went to Bud's, made it through training. I didn't quit. I started with class 242. There's 200, I believe 222 guys on day one. And I was one of 28 of the originals that graduated. So it's pretty crazy, you know, high attrition rate, a lot of guys that decided they don't want to be there, which is fine. It just means that that's not what they wanted to do with their life. And, you know, I loved what I did in the military. Working for Jocko was incredible. Obviously changed the trajectory of my life. You know, great leaders like Leif Babin, Seth Stone, you know, other guys that can't really say their names because they're still in or they got out and they're not really, you know, wanting to be in the spotlight for anything. But guys that really helped me when I was a young, literally a kid, 18, 19 years old. I was 19 years old when I was checking in the SEAL teams, like 20 years old when I was going through the trial. It was crazy to think about. Yeah, I was 20. And, you know, like these guys helped me become a young man in a very dynamic environment that most young people don't do well in because they're immature. And it's just, that's not, it's not the world that we need them operating in anyway. So I had to, I had to grow up real quick. Even though I look back and I think it's some of the stuff I did, I'm like, oh, man, I was a jackass sometimes. But I guess we all, yeah, we all were. And it's just so, it's so crazy to think that they had such a profound impact on you at that point in your life. And then now you guys still work together in a completely different capacity, but similar, but very different. Still helping so many people just in a different way. So it's just, it really does come full circle, which I think is one of the coolest things like from that whole story, you know, that you guys worked together that way. And then, you know, you came back. So, so you're in the military, you know, you're serving and then what happens kind of after, I guess we can get into that after, or do you want to do that now? We can, we can do, we can do whatever. You know, my time in the military was awesome. I deployed to Iraq twice, Afghanistan once. So three combat deployments, which is not a lot compared to some of my buddies that, you know, have five, six, seven, 10, 11 combat deployments, which is crazy. But the time that I spent overseas, I learned a lot. I'm thankful for that. I wish I would have had more deployments for sure. I liked deploying overseas. I like combat. I really enjoyed that type of lifestyle. And it was also for the camaraderie, for the guys that I was with, like I really enjoyed being around those guys. I believed in the mission. I believed in what we were doing. All the, all the political BS aside, like I was like, oh, what were you doing? I don't care. Like I know what I did. And when you know that you helped women and children get education and access to education, who's going to tell me that wasn't worth it? That's worth 100%. You know, when we deployed to Ramadi in 2006, as tasking a bruiser, there was four to 5,000 enemy fighters in that area. Like that's insane. Yeah, they had complete control over that city. They were flying their flag over the Capitol building. And I know you've heard a lot of this at the Musters, but for those that haven't heard it, and I just give a little clip notes of Ramadi, I mean, you know, some, a lot of people said it was unwinnable. You know, the unit that we showed up that was at the tail end of their deployment, they'd been there for 14 months of straight combat, like combat every single day for 14 months. And they still only controlled a third of the city. They had over 300 wounded, 94 killed in action. I mean, it was, it was absolutely insane. And we came in and then a new army unit came in with some new Marines that had this new strategy and Jocko, Leif and Seth is like, Hey, what can we do to help you guys? Which was cool because our leadership realized like, Hey, there's only like 40 of us, there's 5,600 of them, like we're going to support them. And, you know, really subordinating their ego. And that's when I, you know, at a young age, I turned 23 right before we deployed to Ramadi. So I was still very young. I was our lead sniper, our point man lead machine gunner, they put me in a position of leadership. So I was our leading petty officer in charge of a group of guys at a very young age. And what I saw from my leadership was humility of them going to these other units and saying, Hey, here's what we can do. Here's our capabilities. What do you want from us? How can we help you guys? Hey, what, what type of missions are you guys doing? Oh, we can help there. We can help there. We can help there instead of like the typical special forces, Navy Seal, Green Beret, Army Ranger, I'm better than you. You're going to support me BS mindset. Our leadership was like, Hey, can we help you guys? Cool. Oh, this is what we can do. And it was really cool. And that attitude was contagious. And that's why I'm sharing this is that's good leadership. And that attitude from our leadership came all the way down. Now, almost everybody bought into it. There's always going to be a few that are like, we shouldn't be doing these missions, because it wasn't the typical Navy Seal mission that we're doing. But that's okay. What are you going to do? Sit on the sidelines and be like, Oh, cool. Hey, we're not going to go do that. No, I want to go hunt the enemy down. And that's what we started doing. And it was really cool being able to help support them. And, you know, for me, as a young, as a young individual in a leadership position, being able to see my leadership subordinate their ego and say, Hey, what can we do to help? And then explaining to us, Hey, guys, this is what we're doing. This is why we need to help. How do you want to do it? So now they're just driving ownership. I'm 23 years old. And they're like, Hey, JP, how do you want to go support? I'm like, Let me get back to you with the plan. And now I'm coming up with a plan. And I have 100% ownership and I'm doing the same thing with the guys. And I'm like, Hey, guys, this is what we're doing. Hey, what do you think we should be doing? And they're like, this, this, okay, cool. Yeah, let's do that together. And now we all are bought in. And it was really cool to be able to see that in in Ramadi. And that's where the principles that we teach now at National Front were driven from. We came back from that appointment, which by the way, again, everyone's was saying it was unwinnable. It was pure chaos. And there were no forms of education for women and children, because the enemy fighters had complete control. And I know that's crazy. Like, we live in America, or hopefully people in different countries are listening to this, and you probably have equal opportunities for education for women and children. Now there are still some places in the world, where that's just not the case, which is crazy to me. It furiates me. And that was a reality there. And I want to say there's about 15 months after we left Ramadi, the first all girls school was established. And it's just, I know, I love it. You know, I'm so bad at it of twin daughters. And I'm like, dude, that's so amazing. Like these little girls were able to have education. And you can't take that away from them. That's what's cool. I know things have shifted overseas again. But think about that from 2006 until what last year, 15 years of education, you're not taking that back. You're that's changing generations, which is awesome. So to know that we had a small piece of that, well worth it. And, you know, we helped do a lot of other really cool stuff. Unfortunately, there is a heavy cost to that, you know, we lost guys, and there's a lot of guys that were wounded and killed them about like, almost 500 guys were wounded. 98 were killed in action, while the 11 a was D was there. So it was it was crazy, you know, we lost guys in our task unit, a lot of guys were wounded in our task unit. But we had a lot of lessons that we learned. And when we came back and jocotube over training, we implemented all those lessons to better prepare our guys for combat. And the trajectory of the training on the West Coast drastically shifted and changed, which was really cool. And then guys were able to go overseas and do some awesome stuff. I deployed to Afghanistan a few years later, and it was cool to be able to, you know, continue to learn and see different things. And then, you know, I decided that my time in the Navy was done. It just, you know, I just needed, I needed to close that door, because I was going back and forth. And I wasn't, I needed to fully commit to getting out and try to make a marriage work and be there for Amanda and the kids. And at the time, when I came in the picture, Aiden was only four years old, Amanda was pregnant with twins. And I'm like, I got to get out, you know, and for me, it was the right decision. And for some guys, like they stayed in, in that same type of situation. And it was able to work for them. And that's cool. For me, just, you know, Amanda needed to be in Mississippi. She couldn't leave Mississippi, or she didn't want to leave Mississippi, right? And, and I had to respect that. And it was the right decision. So I got out and moved to Mississippi. So, you know, you're born and raised in Sacramento, California. You have the Sierra Nevada's, the Foothills, you know, my grandparents property, which is five acres up in the mountains, going to the ocean all the time, stationed in San Diego for almost 12 years. You know, like you have the canyons, the mountains that I'm racing, so beautiful. It's just gorgeous, right? And then you moved to North Mississippi near Memphis, Tennessee. Gorgeous. I've never, I've never been so actually I'm not going to say anything because I don't know what Mississippi has in front of me. So I can't call that. I'll just, I'll just say this. It's not San Diego? No, it was a rough transition. And there's a rough transition for a lot of different things, you know, it's a small town. I don't know anybody. Actually, it's funny. That's not accurate. So I redact that statement is as I, when I got out and I lived there, I realized that Amanda and I actually had like a handful of common friends and it was from people that I would just meet being out there for work all the time. You know, you and I are the same, social butterflies. And it was funny, like I remember I was getting a new phone, Amanda broke her phone, so I got a new phone, gave her my old phone, and she's like syncing up all the contacts. And there's a lot of like duplicate contacts. And it was mined where she'd go to call her buddy and it would be his name, Jonathan, or it was mine, which was his first and last name and the notes of where I met him and what I knew about him and everything in there. And so it was like, we had all these common friends, male and female, which was just, it was comical, you know, just, And I need to start doing that, putting notes with people like, because sometimes you'll be like, Oh, no, yeah, you have on an iPhone, you'll have the first name, last name, and then underneath it, that's usually where I put the detailed notes. For podcast purposes, your nickname for a while will be redacted. For podcast purposes in case your church runs loose. And yeah, we have an interesting meeting. Let's just say it was a very, very me introduction. It was hilarious. But for a while, like that's what was the notes was in there. So and so met at first form conference, Jesus Peaker, right? And I was just like, you know, I remember you spoke before I spoke and cool, awesome. And, you know, we became like really good friends. And then you and man, it became really good friends. And like, we've been really close friends since. And so it's just funny, like, recently, I was like, I could probably change that. Like, I don't need that description to remember who I'm like trying to reach out to. But yeah, so, you know, small time is Sippy, which I met some really good friends right away, that I'm still like close friends with the day one of the guys helps me on the FTX is his name is Joe Pass. He's an awesome dude. He's a stud. He's actually going into the military now, which is cool. He's one of my MMA coaches, you know, so I had these guys like Zach Underwood, Jake Underwood, Andy Europe, Teddy Holder, Joe Pass that were my coaches for MMA. But then they also knew some of my former teammates, Aaron Vaughn, who had been killed on the helicopter crash, they Zach and Jake knew him from the school. And it was in a small town union tenant, Union City, Tennessee, right? And so it's just like a lot of like crazy, crazy things. And I just, you know, that was really cool. I think it was good for me. But then I was like now doing sale, you know, it was good and bad. The small town was cool, because that kind of forced me to slow down some stuff in my life, because I'd never been in a small town. I'd never operated in that realm before. And then, you know, then you're doing sales at a financial company and in the Memphis, Tennessee area. So I'm like, putting on suit and tie or dress clothes every day, sitting in traffic to go to an office, to sit in a cubicle, to make cold calls, to go on sales trips, to come back. Man, it was rough. Now, it wasn't bad. Let me, let me be very clear. It wasn't bad. Like, I was learning a lot. I enjoyed what I was able to do. I learned a lot about business, which was really cool. I learned a lot of good stuff and bad stuff about people and business. And I was like, oh, there's some shady mofos out there. That's crazy to me. I didn't, I was so naive. You know, I grew up, you know, very strong, strict Christian household, which I'm thankful for, because I would have been in prison, if not, like 100% prison or dead, had I not had that guidance from my parents and being in church and grandmothers and grandparents and aunts and uncles, we're all very close growing up, like very, very close family. And church every Sunday, Sunday nights, Wednesday nights, all that stuff, did Christian Boy Scouts. Like, it was, it was very good for me. But I was also so naive, because then you go into the military and then you only see the military. So I have that uprising, only military. And I get out and I'm like, Oh, people like just make up fake invoices to get funded and you can't persecute them. Yeah, we worked at a financial company where we bought receivables that had a delay to pay to advance money. So let's say you have a trucking company, you know, Lawrence trucking company, and you go deliver a load to Walmart, they're going to pay you $1,000, you have to wait 60 to 75 days to get paid, you give me that invoice, it's called factoring. And I'm like, cool, I'll give you $900 today, I'll wait to get paid. Once I get the other hundred, once I get the $1,000, I'm going to give you, depending on the volume, I'll give you of that $100 left, I'm going to give you 70 and I'm going to keep 30 for for that. And you're like, okay, that's fair, right, you're getting money right now, boom, boom, boom. So you'd advance 90 to 95%. We would keep that reserve, we'd, we'd get paid, whatever the reserve was, we'd give back to minus our fee. So it helps a small company grow. So for me, it made sense. I was like, Oh, cool, this is a, this is a good thing. It's a good company. It makes a lot of sense. But it was, it was crazy to me to see the illegal stuff that companies were doing, and how just common that was. And I'm like, and then I saw like the internal shadiness within the company of people just like backstabbing each other and like saying one thing and one, and I'm like, dude, this is crazy. It wasn't the whole company. It was just a few, you'd see that a little bit. And I'm like, and I remember that. But that shit's not going to fly like, you know, on a field team or or any, anything like that, you know, like you're just not going to do that. You're going to, yeah, it's human nature, but that gets squashed. And it's not like this dynamic of like clickiness and backstabbing like that's not going to work. Yeah, you might have some drama, but you're not backstabbing guys in the field teams. That that shouldn't happen. You know, and so it was just, oh my gosh, I'm like, this is crazy. People are crazy. And, you know, I was like, Oh, you can't, you can't, you can't do a deal over a handshake anymore. Because there's a few times I did that with some other guys like handshake deal, like for some business consulting that I was doing. And then nope, turn out, you know, I got screwed for thousands and thousands of dollars. I mean, it was, it was kind of crazy. And I learned a lot. The sales guys I worked with were great. Some of the owners were awesome. They really taught me a lot and really mentored me, which I'm forever grateful to those guys and gals for that for sure. And then I decided like, Hey, I need to transition. I need to do something that's fulfilling to me. I started doing my own consulting, you know, filling in the gaps wherever I could. I was an extra on Transformers 5. I was, I was playing in ABCL. So, you know, it was a big stretch. Yeah. And so that was cool. Like, to be able to do that. I was teaching shooting. I was citing in people's hunting rifles to make extra money wherever I could. And then things financially started getting like really, really, really tight. And that's when I was like, just doing anything and everything I could. I started working at Marcus Pizza to deliver pizzas. One of my good buddies opened a place up and, you know, he needed drivers. He needed a good, good people that were going to actually show up. I mean, at the time I'm in my mid 30s, I have a family and I have a nice truck. Of course, I'm going to show up to work, you know, like I was doing construction. I mean, I was doing everything. I was working for my landlord to rebuild his fences for different rental properties to like, Hey, if I do these jobs, will you offset my rent? He'd be like, Yeah, you do these jobs all by the materials, you do the work. I'll take three months off your rent. I'm like, done, like, cool. I mean, I was straight hustling anything and everything I could. I was selling t shirts at fight that MMA fight shows, just everything, everything. And then the opportunity came to see what Jacqueline Leif were doing. And that was a complete God send thing. Seth knew that I, you know, was struggling with some stuff. I really wanted to get back into the military. Regular Navy, I was having some issues getting back into the SEAL teams. So there's a little bit of issue there. Because a regular Navy said I had too many tattoos and too many combat related injuries. Well, I had all these tattoos while I was in an issue. And oh, the combat related injuries, where the hell do you think I got those from? Oh, when I was in combat in the Navy, I was so pissed off. And, you know, but that you talk about the bureaucracy of a big organization. It was so stupid. And so Seth knew I was struggling with that. Jocko was trying to help me out. And then that's when Jocko was like, now I was reaching out to Jocko about once a month and say, Hey, I need some, you know, you know, is there anything I can do to help you? Is there any, you know, I know the mentor doesn't seek out the mentee. Is there anything you need? Can I help support? I can use sales. I do whatever you guys need me to do. And, you know, finally came, he's like, Hey, we have this event called the muster. This is the first one, right? We have this event in San Diego. Come check it out. You know, just come check it out and see what we have going on. I'm like, Okay, cool. So I go, I check it out. And I meet Jamie Cochran, who is helping out on the operation side. You know, I hadn't seen Leif for a while. So it was great seeing him. Actually, last time I saw Leif was when Chris Kyle had been murdered. And I was at Chris Kyle's funeral was the last time I saw a life. And so that was 2013. This is now 2016. So it had been a while, you know, and I, it was awesome when I saw what Jocko and Leif had created. Now I had already read Extreme ownership. So I read the book and I was like, Oh, this is awesome. I'm all in. When I saw the event, I was like, Holy crap, this is crazy. Different. This is yes. Yep. You're right. I was like, This is different. There's nothing like this. I was a part of this, you know, and so when you realize like, wow, I helped a little bit to do some of this. It was, it was pretty cool. And then I was like, I want to be a part of this at a higher level, if possible. So then Jocko had me on his podcast, then he mentioned about me coming on board the team. And you know, it was really cool because afterwards he told me, he's like, Hey, I don't, I don't know what this will call. He's like, you might have one event over the next year, or you might have 50. We're not sure. He's like, to be honest, he's like, nobody's calling, requesting JP to know. And I'm like, I don't know that. But he goes, Leif and I are having to turn down gigs since we're too busy. He goes, and we're going to increase our price. And that there'll be people for you as long as you're okay with that. I'm like, I'm cool with being the second option. Like, thank you for the opportunity. And I took it very serious. Like I took it as like, I'm the first person that they're bringing on board. So I took it as if I'd been there since day one. And I was just, just obsessed with making sure that my brief and all my stuff was valid in. I mean, when you say, when people are like, Oh, I went all in, I can honestly say I went all in with this. And I know a lot of people use that term and they don't really know what it means. And this is something like, I mean, Amanda can can test to this in addition to the other work and all the other stuff I was doing to try to make ends meet, I was still rehearsing my one hour keynote six to eight hours a day. Like that's no, that is no exaggeration. Six to eight hours a day of rehearsing and tweaking and listening to myself, doing it in front of a mirror, watching my body  denominuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleule and jockel and leif. I had everything set up. I was like a man and the kids left the house. I had like boxes stacked up on this little TV tray because we lived at the time in a little two house in a little two bedroom house in Mississippi. All three kids were in one room. We had no kitchen because that was the office set up. It was tight. So we had TV trays that we ate dinner off of because we didn't have a kitchen table to sit as a family. I remember I had this TV tray set up with boxes set up on it and my laptop so that it was head level so that I could be standing up when I gave the presentation like I would and I got done with it and it was like an hour presentation and I hit right at an hour. I mean it was like boom I had everything and then we did some mock Q&A and it was cool. I want to make sure I say this and my intent comes off correctly. But it was it was humbling when leif goes I can we can we can tell you put a lot of time into this. He goes you did a really good job. And for you know and for me to like to hear that I was like it's like that's all I wanted. Like I just wanted them to be like hey you've put in the work good job. Let's make some tweaks though because we can always make things better as you and I have talked plenty of times about in all aspects of life and it was really cool to be able to like have that confirmation of like okay I did the right thing and it goes back to like when I was a kid. If you put in the time and you work and you work and you work and you work you'll get where you need to be. Most people aren't willing to put in that much work and you know think like this was for weeks and weeks and weeks I was doing these rehearsals like I was only able to go see leif do a gig and jocco do a gig. No I'm sorry I did the monster I went and saw jocco do a half day a full day workshop for a fire department in LA. I saw leif do a keynote with q&a in in Fort Worth Texas and then jocco do a keynote with a little sidebar q&a session with leaders in Nashville. And so those were the three things I saw and so I was doing all my rehearsals and those were the three things I saw and then I did my video rehearsal and then I went and did my first solo gig on December 14th and 2016 keynote with q&a by myself solo. And it was just cool to be able to do that prep and I mean that was you know over six years ago just over six years ago and now you know as we grew you know giving keynotes and full day workshops and half day workshops and you know dave burk came on board shortly there after me and you know we've just been growing out this company jocco leif dave jamie and myself jamie is now our chief operations officer she's one of our leadership instructors you know oh jamie's phenomenal and dave burk I mean he's just dave burk he's yeah he's just an amazing being right and and for me to be able to be a part of that executive leadership team is just incredible you know we started building out all of our field training exercises which were very impactful very you know jocco leif say it's the most impactful form of training that we have because it's all hands-on stress induced scenario based leadership training and it's just it's incredible and so grew that and then you know part of what we do is we teach people how to build teams and lead well we do what we teach and we've been able to build out teams and you know kody gandy came on board and he's been helping build out all the ftx's and now he's I got promoted he got promoted I got promoted he got promoted again and so like now he's the director of experiential leadership training and now I'm our chief training officer so the ftx is underneath me all of our first responder geared so the role calls which is specifically for first responders are under me the council the battlefield review and instructor development and training facilities you know and it's just like it's crazy right it's just crazy to be able to have that opportunity so I'm very thankful for where I was and where I'm at because I mean there was one time I mean I know you know this I didn't get into the details because I don't think that's really the purpose of this podcast but just for people listening like hey if you're going through some hard times tough times tight times you just got to keep working and you got to be got to be creative with what you're doing and you can't just get sucked into like oh I can only do this I can only do this I can only do this because if I would have believed those lies I wouldn't have been able to get out of that hole that I was in I mean there was one time I mean I had one time like a check I was giving from a guy that owed me a lot of money to balance and it put us negative $2,700 like you don't have you don't have any grace like when you're negative you don't have like oh let me pull from savings let me use our credit card credit card for maxed out we had zero in savings and now we're $2,700 negative what do you do you can't do anything literally you cannot do anything and so I've been there and then I've been to where it's like cool let's check oh we have 17 cents in our account check all right well that'll at least my my card will swipe with the gas station with 17 cents in there because they don't know how much you're taking out so I can fill up our vehicle and put the account negative but at least we'll have gas we'll go do I mean that's what we were doing for a while using gift cards to eat for the family going over to Amanda's parents which are a huge blessing you know and them like cooking and letting us eat there with them and then us taking the leftovers home so we can eat them the next day and it's just I've been there you know I've been there and six years ago I was delivering pizzas to help make ends meet and now it's just completely different and I know not everyone's going to have the opportunity that I have and I I know my opportunity is unique and very thankful for it but you don't have to stay where you're at you can put in the work you know and if you're willing to put in the work and that's the thing I've talked to Dr. Laif and I'm always like you know I'm super thankful and Laif and I were just talking this Monday I was down in outside Austin area where he's at and our headquarters is and he goes JP he goes you took the ball and ran with it though he goes you took action he goes nothing was given to you you know we gave him an opportunity but nothing was given to you and he's come on I've talked about this a few times and Jocelyn has as well and so I mean that's the other thing is like if you have opportunities in front of you go if you don't go find them go make them go develop because they're they're out there 100% and I know you've seen this in your business and everything that you do I mean nothing's coming to you you've got to go out there and work for it you got to create it you got to develop it you have to maintain it you have to duplicate it you have to do all these things and it's hard but that's such a good point like to really hone in on like most things aren't just going to show up for you right I mean you might get that chance every once in a while right where something you just kind of naturally fall into it or whatever it might be but yeah it's even like going to things right oh my god that's so that's so cool you got to go there and it's like I paid to be there I flew there I sacrificed my time you know like like it wasn't like I said no to certain things so I could say yes to this and I went out there and I did this and it can be as small as like even like your daily interaction I think a lot of times we think it has to be these like huge robust things like I'm going to take out a loan go back to school which if you want to do that like absolutely like I'm I'm 1000% for that but it can make sure make sure it's for something that you can use though like my sister become a doctor that that was a good investment right that made sense but like even in small interactions like on a day-to-day basis like you can get more out of everything that you're doing by interacting with people having good conversation reflecting on things learning good things and bad things like you were talking about that job in Memphis like there was a lot of good things you took from that but you also took a lot of bad things and that's such a huge thing like a lot of times we only look at these negative scenarios or situations as this was just a negative but what did I learn from this I didn't like how this person said that I didn't like how this operate I don't like this body language like there are so many things that we can take just on a daily basis and like those things are not going to come to you like you have to be the person who goes after them you have to be the person who sits and reflects and thinks on things and it is so crucial doesn't matter who you are you know and like you said there's going to be different opportunities presented to people but you're going to have to honestly make most of them reach out to that person go to that event talk to that stranger like take five minutes to reflect on something that was like a bad conversation like I mean I'm so guilty of this for so much money on whatever you shove it you just shove it down forever then you're like I won't be able to and then it's like who blows up and you're like all right well probably should have I could have avoided this by simply taking 10 minutes to reflect on that you know and those are you know a lot of those things you make yeah and you know from the training that you've been a part of and like what we do at the FTX is is that's a debrief right and so you need to do these like internal debriefs for yourself each day of like okay hey what was good what was bad what lessons did I learn from that and you need to be doing them with your team as well and what you're talking about is doing a debrief you're doing an assessment of the situation that you're in because just because I was given that opportunity with jocke-laif didn't mean I was going to be able to get to where I'm at right now I actually had to put in the work I had to take those opportunities like you were just saying I had to have the conversations I had to do all those things that you were just saying and one of the things that I I guess I just naturally do because of what we did the SEAL teams is I'm constantly excuse me assessing and evaluating okay how was that conversation how was that meeting how was this training you know always debriefing debriefing debriefing so that we can pull the good pull the bad one of the major lessons learned what do we need to tweak and you know you just go from there yeah and I think that that's one of the big misconceptions too about leadership in general right people hear leadership or even make here maybe the echelon front message or they listen to some of jocke-laif's podcasts whatever it might be and they think oh that's really cool but like I'm not in the military you know or that's not me I'm not a CEO you know like this doesn't matter to me this doesn't affect me but it's like no all of these things like leadership is the absolute crux even if it's just for you yep like and that's why it is one of the absolute hardest things like it is not something I mean some people you know would be more natural born leaders in some instances but I would even say people who maybe have some of those proclivities to be a leader there is still so much reflection and work that needs to go into just leadership in general and even if it is just leading yourself but you're leading yourself you're if you are leading a team at work you know what I mean if you are leading your family your community like just how like everything is about leadership but even if you only want to think about it in terms of yourself that is still a really crucial part because if you don't have that like internal dialogue and not like a sense of direction you know how easy it is to just kind of fall off the proverbial cliff of like yep I'm I'm not doing anything I'm doing bad things nothing just nothing I'm doing bad stuff yeah that's one of the yeah geez that's one of the barriers to extreme ownership is this isn't for me my problems are unique I wasn't in combat I didn't the principles of leadership are universal extreme ownership is universal extreme ownership is it's just doing the right thing and and that's the the problem that a lot of people have is their ego right their ego gets in the way and they play the victim card and it's just it's unfortunate but it's um it it's one of the things where if if you're not willing to humble yourself and look at the stuff with an with an open mind you're not going to have any progression anyways it doesn't matter who you are what you do if you can't humble yourself if you're not willing to look at stuff with an open mind you will not progress in life you're not going to and you know people have to be willing to do the hard things and do the things that make them uncomfortable and and be willing to like look at themselves and do it like you're saying those honest self assessments and be like okay I'm not doing well here I'm not doing well here I'm doing good here and then figure out what you need to do moving forward but it is it is comical that the amount of people that have some resistance to what we do at national in front because we're just like oh it's just they're military they're all a bunch of robots they just you know blah blah blah blah you're like uh no one have you have you never met anybody in the military because like this is not even close like even like the high level performance guys they're not robots they're they're just disciplined and you look at people that are successful high level CEOs all the way down to low level employees that are very good at what they do it's discipline discipline is what is that that trait that makes people successful and doing and have the ability to bring things to that next level and I just it's it's frustrating that we still are trying to figure out how to like break down that barrier barrier of that misconception um because I hate that it holds people back from um actually listening to the principles and applying the principles that you and I both know firsthand like if you apply these principles they're going to change your life for the better yeah it's just going to make and they're not it's not and these aren't principles that we made up it's not like we invented these things these have been around since the read the bible they're in there right it's like in the beginning of time they're in there uh read any you know uh anything from in history it's there it's just framed a little bit different because we had a different outlook and here's the thing that we try to reiterate if we could use these principles in the most chaotic place of the world the most dangerous city in the world where people are saying it's unwinnable if we could apply these principles and when I say we not tasking a bruiser but we as Americans right it's what the soldiers and Marines and seals we're doing together if we can do that why can't you do it in your job why can't you do it in your business that you're trying to start why can't you do it in your marriage or your family oh it's because you're lazy and you're lacking discipline that's all it is and it's just these things will give you that freedom yeah and so if you were to say when someone needs to maybe implement something like okay let's break this down okay I understand now I need some more leadership in my life like where would be a place that someone could start I guess presuming we're just going to focus on them as the individuals first of all yeah so I mean for me for what I do and who I'm working with I would say go read extreme ownership you know go buy extreme ownership you can't afford to buy extreme ownership download jocos podcast and start listening to jocos podcast it's free um if you really want to figure in maybe like all those podcasts are really long I agree they are um I'm still getting caught up on some full disclosure sorry jocos um they're long as hell but we love them yeah they are but they're really good and if you listen to them at one and a half to double speed it's good to go you're get used to it my brain cannot I don't not know how people do that oh my god that bothers me uh you're you're actually your brain is able to reprogram itself I promise I listen to podcasts at one and a half speed it sounds normal but it's only podcast and it knows the difference between podcasts and music yeah music is normal podcast boom if if I if let's say let's say you and I are driving the car together and you're like whoa this is way too fast I bring it down to regular speed I'm like oh my god jocos had a stroke what's wrong with him because like my brain is used to him and everybody else speaking at one and a half speed so the way I listen to it it sounds like he's talking like this I remember the first time I remember the first time it was a new podcast that he had it was at regular speed and when it started off I got really concerned I'm like did he have a stroke like what's wrong with him like I thought something yeah I'm like oh my god the godfather's going down and so I uh no I just but podcast needs to it and then I can listen to him at double speed and it's now good to go but anyways yeah if you can't cool you can your brain gets used to I promise just start at one in a quarter and then one and a half and you'll be good but so to answer your question jocos podcast it's free if you want to find if you want to find some in there that are like specific for business within the jocco podcast platform there's podcasts that he does with Dave called the debrief and those are specific to business so it's Dave Burke and jocco willing talking about companies that we've worked with now we redact names we change the we change it to where you literally have no idea who we're talking about but we keep the principles and the solutions pure and those are about 45 minutes they're amazing I tell every like newer person that's working with us hey you start listening to the debrief podcast those are the ones you have to listen to I mean they're absolutely amazing so start there start listening more joccos podcast you know maybe for once a week you don't go buy a cup of coffee and you save that money and six weeks you can buy a cheap ownership I mean I'm not being a smart ass I'm just saying like if you can't afford it maybe you just change something small maybe it's christmas coming up so you ask hey could you buy me extreme ownership dichotomy of leadership and leadership strategy and tactics if you have those three books and I have them right here and you can I mean you can see how worn out they are I mean I use this is it's this book is incredible I mean and then you know extreme ownership and dichotomy of leadership I mean books are they're very valuable I mean minor filled with underlines and highlights and yeah everything else like this but I mean these books are incredible I mean you just look at like the contents and you know like they have like foundations of where he got all this stuff core tenants you know one like being capable to and ask for help that's hard for a lot of people right trust in relationship I feel attacked you're like you looked away I was like Lauren I'm not attacking you right now you're gonna be okay I feel attacked building trust in relationships up up the chain of command down the chain of command trust and decentralized command earning influence and respect taking extreme ownership of everything like taking preemptive ownership of what that means taking ownership when you're being blamed you know leading from the rear don't overreact I don't care everyone is the same but everyone is different let nature work isolation as a leader I mean that's just literally half a page of all these things that he has in here and it's just maneuvers using leadership to teach and build fixing a negative attitude teaching humility building or rebuilding confidence building high level team players stress relief when the boss wants all the credit what do you do how do you implement punishment I mean it's just anything you know if anybody can just pick up one have it like please go buy a few books that's extremely much just start reading extreme ownership is probably one of my top like three recommended books people like they know hey what book everybody already knows that's going to be on there and it's because of how impactful it is and there is the story and then the practicality and it's really easy to understand you know it's not written in a way that is over your head for any reason you know it's not really you know and it's you can apply these things immediately and it's been really fun but like you know I work with clients and a lot of my clients have other positions that are you know whether they are in school like my one client who read the book she's like hey you recommended to me and I she's she's doing her MD and PhD at the same time and and she also runs the research lab so she basically was like I use the principles of this book to help coordinate like the lab and it's like that's just so like hearing that kind of feedback it's just so that's everything you know what I mean I mean it's like okay that one person can then impact other people so like being able to read just anything and again when you take when you read books kind of like taking stuff you you take good things you take things that are like it's whatever you know and then oh I really love this part but that allows you to reflect and then dive more into other books and other theories and if you can do that and then take some type of time to debrief right yourself that's why I've been so big on journaling this year like journaling is one of the biggest things that I've added for myself this year and it is absolutely like so critical and I don't get it done every day you know but there are certain days where I do it you know more than others or certain weeks rather than I do it more than others and just having it has been one of the best things especially for people like us who have so much like I have 8,000 things in my head at all times that are all competing a lot of times it's just crazy shit going on in there but like you know it is just so so useful to get that out and I feel like I'm I'm getting better at communicating also just because of writing thoughts more and becoming more articulate in that way yes that's actually one of the things Jaco was saying because I was I was talking with him about I don't remember the specific conversation that prompted it but somehow we got down the road to like just being a better speaker and being more articulate and he said start writing every day I was like okay yeah but yeah I don't journal like you're talking about I need to but I type like I just I write I type I just been capturing stories that I remember from my time in the military and people are you writing a book like no I'm not writing a book just stop asking that stupid question but it helps me just oh I have a thought come in I just start typing yeah I'll do it on flights well because one of the guys was sitting next to me and I was on a flight and I was just typing and I'm not trying to hide my screen it looks over he's like bro you you write your book and I'm like I am not writing a book you got all fired up like I was I know I was like bro dude I'm not like nobody wants that book I'm not writing it I think it'd be a great book but we just write like a fever dream book of like random thoughts and like sprinkle in some leadership Jaco's like we are specifically not publishing this book because these people are after these two are not allowed to have a book in our publishing company oh that would be that'd be crazy but no writing yeah I would say that you know creating discipline is going to come from habit but there has to be certain behaviors in place it's not enough to say I want to have more discipline you know like everybody wants to have like nobody's like I want to have less ownership and less discipline of my life I mean some people say that but most people want more of that but it's like how do they actually accomplish that and the behaviors that we have every single day are what create our habits so reading writing are absolutely essential what are and this is another I think misconception of people who you know see maybe your eyes as a message or just you in particular you know oh yeah you know I used to be in the military or whatever like oh you're a robot you're just machine like everything's easy for you because you know you were so dialed in and it's like that's very incorrect also the reason that you're operating this way is because of those habits that have turned into behaviors so what are some of the things outside of you know obviously reading and writing that really ground you whether it's physical mental failing like whatever it is like what are some things that just kind of keep you in check because there's always that line of like okay like it's not just like we said it's not just like okay I'm not doing good things right now it's like I could be doing fast oh for sure whereas what are those things that keep you in check you know I would say like current day my faith has been big like just really trying to get that squared away and just just more just dialed in with my focus with my relationship with God you know because I grew up in church like I told you like and it was good and you know and I know some people that grew up in church have church hurt like that's a real thing right just where like you know the like the spirit of religion is a bad it's a bad thing it's like a lot of people have these bad you know experiences or just you know the church is not a relationship with God let's be clear on that right now and and so I'm thankful that I I never experienced that there was never any issues with the church growing up I never saw like anything that I was like oh that's really what you know it was never like that it was always a really good environment so I had a good basin foundation but like as an adult like I'm gonna be I'm 39 I'll be 40 in March you know married three kids and just trying to like focus on like what my priorities need to be and for me as a man it's you know being being a good Christian man is having that good relationship with God my wife and my kids and you know understanding where my priorities are and here's the thing I struggle with this every single day I struggle with every single day there's temptations that come in there's thoughts that come in there's frustrations that come in there's all these things that are like literally constantly like knocking out the door knocking out the door I gotta be careful that I just don't open up the door because if I open up that door oh yeah I mean yeah this is no I didn't want this party you know like stop you know everybody get out and so it but you know it's just like you and I we've known each other for a while and we've actually had some like pretty close like conversations on just frustrations and struggles that I've had you know just with just just staying on the path right and just like getting on that path and it comes it comes a discipline you know it's just understanding what you really want if it's if it's important you'll make it a priority you know and you know one of the things I say is you're not allowed to say I don't have time you have to say it's not a priority you know like last night I you know early morning the last couple days FTX you know up at 415 in the morning full day and like Tuesday night I didn't want to honestly I I didn't want to work out I was smoked right I I even try to justify not working out because I was looking at my watch and my dude my total calories burned for the day are 3900 I think I'm good you know what I mean and it's easy for you to believe that because I'm definitely at a deficit you know I didn't eat 4 000 calories today like I had only eaten lunch and then we went about dinner there's no there's no way you know I wasn't drinking queso like it ain't gonna happen and I mean I'd love to drink queso but you know that's why I'm in this situation I'm just kidding I uh and so but it comes down it comes down to discipline and if it's important you'll make the time and so Tuesday night get done with dinner go back to the hotel room and I have some work out to knock out and I'm like okay I knocked out some work I called Amanda and you know we're talking I was like yeah I'm gonna go work out she's like really oh my god I was like I gotta get done sure okay I was like I'm gonna take a 30 minute nap because I was smoked I mean I was smoked and I laid down in the hotel room I put my phone on my chest with the alarm on and alarm went off and I went oh I don't want to do this I'm like but okay and I got up and that was Cody and Joe and I'm glad I went and did it and it comes back to the saying that Jaco told me when I was talking to him back in January 2020 his discipline is rooted in the truth that we tell ourselves and um if it's important you'll make time and it could have been really easy for me to say hey I don't have time to work out tonight like  denomin Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood of time say it's not a priority to work out. It's not a priority to go do this with my kids. It's not a priority to take my wife out on a date. That changes things real quick. And you have to understand that if it's important, you'll make it happen. And so going back to what you said, it's you have to make it a core principle of yours. Because if it's like one of your core principles, you'll do it. It's a non negotiable. You have to figure out what your non negotiables are when I was in the SEAL teams, it was easy. I knew what my non negotiables were. I was preparing for war. I mean, I had and they're great people. I love my wife. I had girlfriends when I was in the SEAL teams that were awesome. They were really cool people, like really cool people. But then the moment they started to think that they were going to be more important than SEAL teams were going to take me away from doing the training and the preparation I needed to make. Bye. Hope you have a great life. You're awesome. Be awesome somewhere else. I'm serious. Like I had some really cool girlfriends that were they're great people. I hope they're still great people. They were. Bye. Like you're not going to take away from what this is. And because that was a non negotiable for me because I was preparing for war and like I could get my guys killed. I can make a mistake where I don't come home or I come home, but I'm in a casket. Like that's not an option. You know, but I think a lot of people will see that and they're like, oh, okay, well, that makes sense because that's intense. And like your life and other people's lives are on the line. How can I do that on a day basis? It's literally it's come. Yeah, it's the same mindset though. It doesn't have to be life and death for it to be important to you is is being healthy important. That should be an absolute yes for everyone. You know, we were doing this workshop yesterday and one of the guys, you know, we're talking like, what are you going to take more ownership over? And he said, my health, I need to take more ownership over my health. He goes, I want to be around to see my grandkids play and he got super emotional. And the dude wasn't like crazy overweight. He was in his late forties. You could tell he's, you know, he's just out of shape. You know, and we talked afterwards and he goes, you know, because I shared with him my struggles of my testosterone levels and my hormone levels and how I have to be on TRT and HRT for the rest of my life, the house self regulated and it's a it's a struggle. And I shared this with the group. And you know, he was talking to me, he's like, man, thank you for sharing that because I realized I had been making excuses for my health. And I want to be around I want to be a healthy dad. I want to set that example to my kids. That's the thing. If you can look at things where it's not about you, about other people, it helps you stay true to those things. My core beliefs for my core principles for what I was like a non negotiable in the SEAL teams. I was at the end of that list. It wasn't about me. It was about my teammates is about the mission about the SEAL teams, my nation. That's what was important. I was literally at the end because I don't care if I die, like I don't I know where I'm going. I'm good to go with it. There's no like, I'm not like worried. And if it's God's time, it's God's time. So when you don't have to worry about dying, it takes a lot of stupid stress off your plate. And so it was always about my teammates, my teammates, my teammates, my teammates. And if you could do that for your business, it's about your company to support your customers, which supports, you know, you take care of your customers, guess what? That means that you have a business to support your people. You support your people, they support their families, you get to support your family. There's all these things you have to find a way to tie it to somebody else. So it's not about you. It's, you know, it's just you can't have that worth all on you type of mentality. I'm sorry, it's not all about you mentality. It is on you, but it's not about you. And I think when you can shift to that type of a focus and a mindset, it really helps you stay true to those things. Because like John said, discipline is rooted in the truth that we tell ourselves. And, you know, if it's important, you'll make time for it. So I think that was the big thing is, you know, just understanding what those are. And they're going to shift and change. They are, you know, and, you know, for me, if I don't work out, dude, my life sucks. Like, I just, so I have to do something because I'm just, I'm not a good person if I'm not active. I'm just not, you know, I would say, I would argue that most people are better versions of themselves. They just maybe haven't done it consistently enough to know that. But I can't really think of any downsides for someone being more physically active. And it doesn't mean like when people hear that they think, Oh, well, I got to, you know, do a jujitsu competition, or I got to do a bodybuilding show. It's like, no, no, this is like, you could go to the gym three times a week, like, you know, and go for a walk every day. Like that's what we're talking about. Like those types of things. And I think that when we're talking about that non-negotiable, or those non-negotiables, I think that a lot of people haven't even taken that time to really sit back and think about that in terms of like, what does that mean to me? What does my life mean to other people? Like all those, like, so having that conversation with yourself about like, what are these actual things that I'm rooting my decisions in like what I'm doing or what I'm not doing? Because if we don't know that, then it's really hard to have footing to make a good decision to move forward. If you're always like, and that's why people who are in athletics usually, they thrive, they thrive, right? Because they are, they have a goal, they know what they're doing. It's usually team, but even if it's an individual, it's still kind of like team related, right? So it's really easy when you have that singular focus, I would say that the military is similar. Like it's like, the focus is already there. Like you don't have to, I mean, you can change how you achieve that result, but the result is there. Like that's what you're aiming at. But I feel like in life, outside of that, outside of very specific goals at high levels, people can struggle, but it's like, you just have to create that. And then once you create that, then you can operate on that framework. But if that's not there, you're just going to kind of feel like you're floating around and you don't really know like how to guide your decisions. And then it's just becomes really easy to slip. Like, because it's not about the like, Oh, I didn't do a workout. It's not even about that or like the calorie burn of the muscle burn or whatever. It's more about like, again, okay, am I somebody who holds these promises to myself? Is this how I view myself? Am I going to hold myself to this standard? And it's so easy. We all go through seasons. Like I'm not, you know, we all go through different seasons of what is important, what we have to make time for, and all that. So it's going to look different for everybody. And it might not be training for you. But just as an example, like being physically active, I think, is a pillar that really makes everyone arguably better. Like, like, there's no, there's no argument. There's no doubt about that. There's no doubt. And that's part of Jaco's thing is being disciplined, right? With your physical health, just doing something. And I hope whoever's listening really heard what you said. I hope they really heard what you said in regards to it's about the commitment, fulfilling that commitment, being disciplined is just doing something. Hey, go, go for an hour walk, right? Like, that's actually like, if for you to commit an hour, that's that's a legitimate commitment to most people's lives. What's crazy is our society has gotten so messed up with physical activity that a 20 minute walk is considered exercise now. That's kind of crazy if you think about it. And so we got to get back on towards like doing stuff that's hard as well. The workouts that we do needs to push you. And I hope what you're hearing, if you're listening to this, or, of course, you're listening to this, but I hope you hear what I'm saying in regards to it just needs to be hard for you. What is your heart? And that's why I signed up for the jujitsu tournament, like three weeks ago, and I did it this last weekend. I wasn't in the ideal situation to compete. I had two broken ribs, I had, you know, a broken finger. I trained three to four days a month in jujitsu because that's how busy I am on the road constantly. So signing up for an IBJJF open tournament where these guys are training legitimately for these was not ideal. What is about making the commitment and being there because my coach said, Hey, we need people to sign up and I'm like, cool. And when I signed up, he goes, Mike, all the black girls are like, Oh, really? They didn't expect me to do it because they know all the stuff I have going on in my life. And it would have been easy for me just to make those excuses. And that's, we just, we can't do that. So you have to do things that are hard for you. What then, and here's the deal, take what I said, if legitimately, if a 20 minute walk is actually hard for you, then start there. Start there. But, you know, I think the physical, physical aspects like physical fitness, that's, it has to be, it has to be a pillar in my life. So I have my faith, physical fitness. And then for me, one thing I have to get better at is just being consistent with, with my reading, right? I do read, but it's not as much as I should be. And I know that. And, you know, because I know when I'm reading, it's forcing me to detach from all the noise that's going on in the world. And it allows me to actually be a little more refreshed. That's why I love jujitsu because you can't get sucked into anything. You just, you can't, right? You go to the gym, you can get sucked into your phone. I mean, I was working out last night in our garage and I just like boom, right? My phone's going off and I'm like reading a text message and I'm trying to reply real quick before my next rep. I go to the gym, I set my phone down in my bag. I don't look at it until I'm done. It's a forced detachment. And so I think if you can force yourself to detach, it just, it just helps you as a, as a human. Absolutely. And that's why doing the things like we said, that's hard is so important. Whether it's, you know, for me, and I know, like, and we're very similar, like mentally, just always going, go, go, go, go. So like for me, this year was a lot about attaching in different ways, like doing things that were hard, but hard, more like mentally. So like doing meditation classes, doing float therapy, like journaling in the sauna. Like that is not as taxing maybe. I mean, I guess the sauna is kind of hard, but like that's not as physically demanding, right? But like cognitively that's forcing me to do things that are, it's more comfortable for me to work out for two hours than it is to sit with my thoughts for an hour and a float deprivation thing. You know what I mean? So it was like this year, a lot of time. It's amazing. We'll talk about that out there. You need to do it. I did it once. I did it once. I did it more than once to get to really get in there. But, but like that kind of stuff, like that was such a challenge, you know, for me. So it was like this year, I was like, I'm going to challenge myself like to do those types of things that are much harder, like physically, it's certainly not hard. But allowing myself to get to that place mentally is going to allow all these other things to like be in line and then using physical fitness just in different ways. Yeah. Because again, I was so used to training as an athlete, you know, you're just, oh, I have one singular goal. Whereas now it's like, no, I'm trying to use this to be like a more like focused and like optimal functioning person. So a little bit different. Well, you have to understand when it's time to elevate your game as an individual, you know, and as you're growing as an individual, as a leader, as a business owner, you've got to just change the way you do things. It's just part of it. Yeah. And that was that's one of the things that kind of tie this all up. That's one of my favorite things about the muster, which again, we've talked about this a million times with people, but it's a two day leadership conference with JP, Jaco, Leith, all the all the instructors, it's phenomenal. It's the best run event that I've ever been to, which is why I've gone multiple years in a row, because of that. But what I love about it is not only is it, you know, it's exceptionally well run. It's very professional. The information is amazing. But there is a all the other components are tied in, you know, so like we do the PT in the morning, it's optional, but you know, you should probably go PT in the morning, right? Then we have the lectures, then there's like quality food, then there's interactions, then there's jujitsu, like all of these things together. So it's not just like, Hey, we talk about this stuff, and we don't actually do it. It's like it's an integration of all of the pillars of leadership put together. And it's like, that is all very intentional. Like it's intentional that there's the workouts and that there's quality food and that there's social interaction, and there's time for that. Like all of those things are making people better leaders. And that is why I think I think that's how it stands out so well too, is because of that. So yeah, I know one more time, we're going to plug the muster definitely save save up and do it. I think it's worth it. It's worth it. I mean, the event's incredible. You know, I've I went to the first one and I've spoken at every single one since then. And I still have I still take pages of notes every single muster, you know, just listening, you know, because you hear something different, and like you and I were talking about it, you're like, Hey, I'm in a different place in my life every time I go. And you know, and that's the same thing for our individual FTX is that people can sign up for and the individual FTX is are similar to muster is two full days of running these scenarios. And I mean, it's just incredible. And we have people that have been to multiple individual FTX is because they're like, I get something new, I implement those things, and it brings my business to the next level. We had a guy who he came to FTX 002 in San Diego. And he sent me a message, you know, we stayed in contact over social media, and he sent me a message nine months later, because I can't just want to give you some feedback from, you know, what I what I took away from the muster, what I've been implanted, I'm sorry, what I took away from the individual FTX, what I've been implementing into my business and my personal life, he goes, my business is up $6 million. He goes, so the return on the investment was incredible. I'm like, I would say so. Yeah, I would definitely say. But you know, and the guy was being super humble, you know, he's just like, he's like, these are the things that I implemented. This is what it did from this aspect of the business. He goes, I just want to give you this feedback so that you can pass this on to other people that are wondering like, hey, should I do this? And he goes, I could have gone and not done anything with what I learned. And I'd still be in the same spot. He goes, I wouldn't be hurting, but my business wouldn't be up $6 million. He goes, I'm able to be a better husband, a better father, I'm able to give more to my church and bless other people. He goes, I just want to say thank you for the lessons that you guys passed on and the tools that you gave us. And I was like, man, that's amazing. Like to hear that testimony is incredible. And then we have other ones where we had a couple come to the individual FTX and at the end of the FTX, the husband, and if you look at the husband, you're like, dude, this, he's a, I don't want to give up too much of his personal information. I mean, he's just a big, he's a big burly man, right? And he's just, he's just a big dude. And you just look at him and you're like, dude, that could do is a bad ass, right? He has like just bare paw hands. Like, I don't have small hands. When I shook his hands, I'm like, Oh, I have tiny baby hands right now. You know, my hands aren't like small, right? Like, and I shake his hand and I'm like, Oh, little baby hands right now. Oh, yeah. I mean, it was, it was crazy. And I'm like, don't squeeze because you'll break my hand. And, you know, and so him and his wife came through the FTX and at the end of the FTX, he's given his, his key takeaway. And he just starts crying. And he goes, I realized that every single problem that I've had in my personal life, my business, and he looks at his wife and he just starts crying again. He goes, and our marriage is 100% my fault. He goes, and I've never seen that before. He goes, and these last two days showed me that everything has been my fault, but I also have the power to fix everything in my, and I was just like, and like, Jaco and I, like, everyone's like super emotional and Jaco and I go to look at each other and we can't make eye contact because if I see him looking somewhat emotional, I'm going to lose it. Right? I can't do this. And it was just incredible. And she stands up. She's like, no, honey. She's like, this is my fault. And like, they're like, I'm like, this is awesome. Right? Like now they're arguing over, you know, over taking ownership, right? Instead of bleeding everything. And they're business is still doing good and their marriage is great. And, you know, it's just really cool to like, see those things and hear those things. And, you know, it comes, it comes down to like, you can have all the tools, you can have all the knowledge, you can have all the resources in front of you. But if you don't implement any of that, nothing's going to change. Knowledge isn't power. And I know you've heard this knowledge, you know, people are like, Oh, knowledge is power. Nope, it's not. It's the application of knowledge that makes you powerful. If you decide to put the knowledge that you have to use, that's why you should be reading because it gives you more knowledge. That's why you should be putting yourself in vulnerable positions to challenge yourself so that you can learn. Right? I did that jujitsu tournament. I lost my first match in the absolute open. So pissed off. So mad. I sat on a chair for 10 minutes, just furious with my performance, because I don't like letting people down. And I had all my teammates there and my coaches there. And I don't like letting people down. And afterwards, I know like none of them were like, everyone was like, Hey, man, that was awesome. I'm like, what losing? Because losing is not awesome. No, I know, you just being out there doing it, right? And I'm like, Che, yeah, thank you. Appreciate it. You know, like on the inside, I'm like, I don't want to hear this right now. But they're so nice and kind, right? Like my teammates are, I love every single one of them. So, you know, just, but had I not done that tournament, I wouldn't have that experience. And now I get to take the experience of what I learned from that tournament and implement it into my training, into my regiment. And I can tell you my workouts since then have been fueled by the fact that my hand was not raised. And the times like last night, I didn't want to work out, like getting back at nine o'clock doing everything with, you know, the kids and the dogs and unpacking and all this stuff. Like, do you think I wanted to work out last night? No. But I remembered what it felt like not having my hand raised. And I remember what it felt like not being able to perform a certain move in that tournament because I wasn't physically able to. And that came down to me not being physically prepared. Ooh, that shit makes me mad right now thinking about it. But you know, like, you guess what? So I went and worked out last night and it was a great workout that I had. And so you just, you have to take what life presents you and use it. Life gives you the opportunity to train every single day. Every single day we can train. It just depends if you want to find those ways. And that's the perfect way to end this. This was so great. We could go on forever and ever. Probably have to do a part two because there was a lot of things that if the one you say, let's let's for sure do a part two. Let's go to a part two because there are so many other great things. But before we sign off, where can everybody find you? You know, when's your book going to come? When's your book coming out? In the link, link and bio. What is that what they said? Yeah, so on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter, it's all JP Dennell. So at JP DI N N E L L. It's just like dinner, but with two L's at the end. So easy for people to remember. I'm definitely going to change your name. I'm changing yours back then. Perfect. All right. We, so yeah, JP Dennell, mostly active on, on Instagram, just because it's just easier. I use it. It seems like it's for what I do. It's better. LinkedIn, I think it's just Jeremiah Dennell on LinkedIn. And then I mean, big thing is I would be following Eshalon Front for sure to see what we do. We have an online leadership training academy, extreme ownership academy. So if you go to extreme ownership.com, it should bring you to that, I believe. And we just have everything, you know, we have a lot of different things linked out there. So if you go to extreme ownership.com, it'll bring you to all the stuff that we have. But yeah, the, and that was one of the things I was going to say earlier and I'm glad we're talking about now is, Hey, as you're looking for an escalation, I mean, extreme ownership academy, you know, we have live trainings throughout the week, you know, right now during this time of year, we just have one, I think we're going to increase it back up to two again. But you have access to all of our live trainings are all in the is that you can rewatch. We have videos that you can watch, take tests, progress along with these different courses that we're working on, getting the courses like accredited and all this other stuff. So it's pretty legitimate. And so as an individual, that's an amazing tool. And we have companies that actually buy those seats for their employees. It's like, cool. Hey, part of your work days, you join this live training. And like, so this Monday, I'm doing a live, it's jocco and I doing the training. So this next coming Monday, jocco and I are doing the live training. And let's say if you're on there, you could type in a question in the chat box. And, you know, I read it to jocco and he's like, All right, Lauren, where you at? Go and come off mute. Let's talk about this. And so tab access to jocco, laith, Dave Burke, Jamie, all of our instructors is pretty incredible. I, we've had multiple people be like, Hey, you guys really need to raise the prices on what you guys offer. But they want it to be accessible multiple people. Because at the end of the day, our mission is to share the lessons that we learned in combat so that everybody across the world can implement them into their personal professional lives. And that's what we want to do. So that's another thing that you can check out. But I appreciate the opportunity to be on your podcast. You're a badass. You know, I love you, girl. You're a good friend. And I'm proud of the work that you're doing, the lives that you impact and change and what you will continue to do as you build out your business. And I'm excited to watch you grow. And it's cool to be a part of this podcast. So thank you. Oh, well, that was so touching. Okay, now I'm going to get emotional. All right, well, we will come back for part two at some point in the future. And for more information, you guys know for coaching and services, you can visit team local fit.com. You can also check out our app at redefinehealthy.com as well. All information on that. So thank you guys so much for listening. And we will talk to you next week.