 Hey y'all, welcome back for part 3 of our little mini-series with Dr. Campbell. Hey y'all, welcome back for part 3 of our little mini-series with Dr. Campbell. So, I wanted to talk to you about why we've been focusing on female physique research and kind of how that's different than a lot of other labs. If you guys aren't familiar, most, a lot I would say of research is focused on males. The only place that females are really over-represented is the dieting population, which usually, which makes sense. More females will diet than males typically, so that's where a lot of the research with women is, overweight females dieting. But just in general, males have dominated research, and a lot of that honestly comes down to hormones. Think about it from a logical perspective. So, we ran into this with my study. You can have massive weight fluctuations as a female during your menstrual cycle or just around that time hormonally. And now we have some body water machines. But when I did my study, we didn't. So, can you explain how the ultrasound picks up like water versus like lean body mass and muscle and all that? Yeah, so, when we did your study, we used a two-compartment model, which is basically how much fat do you have and how much muscle do you have. What we were not able to do then, which we are now, is we are now able to estimate how much total body water you have. So, if a female, or even a male, but typically if a female is retaining more water, we will pick that up. And we'll say, hey, let's make sure we don't count this as lean muscle mass. Let's take that out. Yeah, because it's basically just fat-free mass. So, fat-free mass is obviously water and muscle. So, but if you have, and some females spike a lot more than others. So, I have clients that I know like will fluctuate five, six pounds, you know, in a week. Some people, it's only a pound. So, it can be very different, but they're, you know, that's not something that you can control in the research. So, that's why I would assume that that's why a lot of people probably never used females, right? It's one of the reasons, the fact that you have to work around the menstrual cycle. Mm-hmm. Or if you don't, that you just, it's a limitation of your study. Yeah, you have to write it in there like this is, you know, a limitation. And every study has limitations, but it can skew things when you are looking at lean body mass in particular. So, that can be really frustrating, but thankfully we do have the body water machine now. So, then we can look at that, get like a better full picture. Yeah. I think that's like a really cool addition. And it doesn't take very long, right? I mean, it's not. No, I mean, the actual assessment takes about 12 seconds. Now, what we do is we have them lay down for 10 minutes before the assessment so that all of the water equilibrates throughout their body. So, that they're not shifting. We're saying so many big words. Equiliberate. And this is a science video. This is a science video, so we have to use all the big words. Yeah. And be super esoteric. But, so that's a really big quality of our lab that's a little bit different. We've done, we did the last study that we talked about in part two of the video series was the protein and female physique training study. So, that was all females. But a lot of the research that we've done has always been like mixed, which again is not typical. It's becoming more normal, I would probably say, than it was in the past. But it's definitely something like, when you called me before I was even here, you were like, I want to focus on this. So, we definitely are building an interesting culture, I would say, of people who are aspiring to either be in fitness competitions or like how that looks. And it's just completely changing. Like, when you called me and you wanted to do that, when I was leaving undergrad, it was still at the point where I was one of the main people who worked. Like, there was literally a few girls who worked out and at my gym. And this was obviously several years ago. And I was like, I don't know what Dr. Campbell wants to do like this. I mean, I'm all for it, but I'm just not seeing it. And then as the years have progressed, there's, I would say, almost an equal amount of females training than there are males. Maybe not everywhere, but a lot of places. Like, you go to the school gym and it's not just guys anymore. Like, there's a lot of females. Almost everyone knows about what a bikini competition is, even if they don't want to do it. They know someone. Yeah, they're aware. Yeah, they at least know someone who maybe has done it before. So, it's really, really cool that we've been able to kind of focus that. And what was the other thing that you said with sometimes the funding with the... Yeah, so in typically or historically, dietary supplement companies who will fund a lot of resistance training research aren't willing to fund female-based resistance training studies. Traditionally, most of the dollars spent are from the male consumer. The purchases are made by males. So, that's been limiting in the past for supplement companies to... Focus on female research. Yeah, focus on it or be willing to fund it. Yeah. I would say probably in the next few years that'll probably change just because of how big of a shift in the sports supplement market. So, the other cool thing about our program is that we are trying to focus on female physique research, but we're also trying to focus on female scientists in general. Yeah, so I was just... I mean, Lauren was kind of the trailblazer in this regard. We've... Over the years now, we've had several females that I try to actively recruit to come here because if you look at the exercise science field, at least in academia or universities, it's very male dominated. So, we have... We focus on females as research subjects trying to do female-based studies, but also on the other side of the equation, the research design phase, trying to get more females involved in designing studies, becoming exercise scientists. So, it's a... This university and my lab in particular is very embracing of females getting involved in physique research or sports supplement research, resistance training research. Yeah, it's been really cool and I know, like you mentioned, two of the other girls in my age, like in my group, have gone off to do PhDs. And then one of my best friends, Danielle, is also now in the master's program as well. So, she's going to be doing her research this year, which I'm super excited about. Can we tell the topic? Sure. Let me just preface it. This is going to be big. This is going to be almost as big as like the flexible dieting study. Oh, bigger. No, this is... Yeah, this is a pretty... We're doing... Well, we're... Danielle is doing a study on refeeds. Oh my God, I'm so excited. If you're not excited, then stop watching. But, no, honestly, we had like that little meeting that one day, like it was just so... It got me so excited because we've really... There's no refeed studies. And Eric Helms has been talking about this for years and he's like, I don't know why nobody's done one yet. Watch part one of our video. Yeah, okay. Watch part one of the video series. But it's been something that a lot of the people in the field have been talking about for a while and it's just been completely ignored. So we are here to help y'all. And if you have dieted and you have wondered about refeeds or, you know, there's all different ways to do it. There's one day refeeds. There's two day refeeds. There's consecutive refeeds. There's every three days you do one or four day. There's binge days. There's cheat days. There's a lot of different ways to have calorie cycling, basically carb cycling, however you want to call it for the refeed day. We have very limited research. So I'm super, I'm like so excited for this. And I know you guys are too. This is just another study in the series of just practical physique based research. And Danielle has been working hard. I mean, it's. Yeah, it's going to be amazing. And yeah, that's, I think practical is our, our thing. Uh, there's a lot of research that's, that's great. Um, that isn't as practical as we'd all like it to be. So that is definitely the focus of, I would say our lab. Yes. Can you take the results and apply it to your training and nutrition? I always say our, like I'm still here. I always call you my advisor. You're not my advisor. But you're always going to be my advisor. This is always going to be my school. So, um, if you guys want to learn more about USF. Uh, one contact me. Uh, my email is bcampbell at USF.edu. My Instagram is bcampbell. Yeah. Ph.D. Next year. He'll be more on that. We are working on his social media, uh, in the next few months. Yes. Lauren is one of my mentors with getting my, my message out there. He has so much great knowledge and there is a lot of bad information on the internet. So we need to get some more good people. Um, and you're definitely gonna be one of them. So yeah. Thank you. If you think that this is interesting research, if you've thought about getting a master's, we have the undergrad program too, as well. Um, so if you're looking to get an undergrad, um, or you're looking to get a master's, uh, this is definitely the place. If you're interested in this type of research, like there's really nowhere else that would that would be as applied in the research sense, uh, that we know of honestly. So yeah. Like you said, very applied, very practical. So the questions that you have, I'd like to think we're doing research to answer those questions. Yes. So thank you so much, Dr. Campbell for, um, you know, taking part in this little series. I hope you guys enjoyed. Uh, as you guys know, I like doing more informative videos with great guests. So I couldn't have thought of a better person. I don't know why we haven't done this before. Actually Ryan was like, why don't you do videos with Dr. Campbell? I was like, why have I not done that? Like, oh my gosh. So, uh, finally we got a few videos out. So hopefully you guys liked this comment below. Love to hear your thoughts. Thank you so much.