 All right, naringin, tatto, naringin, tatto, naringin, All right, today's question is, why are intra-workout carbs helpful, beneficial, why should I use them? I am, you know, all honesty, new to these, as far as in May, when I went to the Physique Summit and learned about this, all the great people there, but since I've implemented it with myself and my clients, I've seen amazing results, and it just really, really helped, so I have not been through a diet phase yet with this, I'm not sure what I will be doing with them during that dieting phase, but from what I've heard, with all the people who've talked to me about it, you know, John Gorman, John Meadows, Cliff, all of them, they all say that they keep that in, even through a dieting phase, so I'll be interested to see how that works out, but I can't speak to that yet. I've had my clients try and do that, even when they get pretty low, you know, it's a little bit less, maybe it's only 15 grams of carbs during the workout, whereas in the offseason might be a little bit higher, but I've found, again, it to be extremely beneficial, and here's why. So if you're having a carb powder that is designed to be absorbed very quickly into your system, it does not require digestion, and it's just an immediate hit, bam, of those carbs for your body to use to continue to push. So the biggest thing that I have found when I'm dieting is that I will really, really struggle during my workouts to, like, even finish them, to have the energy, and a lot of that is just due to the calorie deficit and being tired. So I'm really excited to implement these carbs during that, you know, restrictive period to kind of keep pushing me and keep me going. So the number one thing that intro workout carbs help with is training intensity, and this becomes very important during your prep just because that can go down tremendously because of being tired and the calorie deficit. It's also important in the offseason because that's when you're building the muscle that is necessary for your competition season or your diet phase. Whether you're a competitor or a non-competitor, everybody needs muscle mass in order to diet down and, you know, look like they work out and have a healthy metabolism. So you really need training intensity in all aspects, both offseason and during a diet, and this is honestly an amazing way to push that. I mean, there's obviously pre-workout and things like that. Like, that can help you as well, but I've just found that the carbs are just, they feel completely different, and it's not like a jolt or like a boost of energy like a caffeine and like stimulants and nootropics give you. It's more of just like this constant energy and just feeling like you continue to push. So I'm really excited to try them while I'm dieting next year. So far, I've had great success with myself in the offseason and as well as putting it into my clients' programs. So if you guys haven't tried it, check it out. If you're curious about how many carbs, like what kind of carbs should you take, if you're watching this, you can email me at locofitconsulting at gmail.com, and I will send you my PDF guide. It's my supplement PDF guide that I've made, and it, you know, I list, for example, like, you know, if you're eating around this many carbs, you should probably have this much. And, you know, there's ranges for things, and there's also suggestions. So if you're interested in that, shoot me an email, and I will send you the PDF. Put that in the email description, though, so I know that's what you're looking for. And try intro workout carbs, you guys. I think you will find that you have such better workouts both offseason and during a diet.