

=== FILE: 1 week down ｜ My First Week of Grad School [E2bPb40cIts].txt ===

 alrigh y'all, I made it through my first week of classes, and it was a lot, alright, it was a lot. And when I wanted to start this series and really just kind of documenting things again, to be honest, I'll probably do every two weeks, but as we all know, in the beginning of a new journey or a new goal or a new habit or new whatever, the beginning, like the first few weeks are so tough to like get into a groove and there's just like a lot of newness, right? There's a lot of new things in terms of changes to schedule, in terms of emotions, in terms of just things that are just changing. So I felt like, alright, this is the first week and I'm having a lot of these like feels, and I know how important it is to document this kind of stuff. But if you guys are like OG followers and you listened to the breast-og vlogs back in the day, nine years ago, you remember that I did a video like every week for the first month, and I know that like this is so different, right, than that, because that was like a surgery and like literally every day I felt like there was a new thing and just like a new feeling. So this is certainly very different, but I just know that in the beginning there was a lot, and so anyone who's also embarking on like a new journey or anyone who is maybe going back to school or thinking about it, I feel like this first month will be really, really key. So hi, if you're new here, I'm Lauren. I am going back to school to get my master's in clinical mental health counseling, and my life is very different than the last time I went and got my first master's degree in exercise science. So I am running a full-time business. I'm in a relationship. I have great just relationships in my life. I have a lot of things to balance and figure out as a 32-year-old with a home, and just life is just very different. So this series is just my attempt to document some of the things that I'm learning in school, and then also just some of the things that I'm learning on how to handle and navigate just when life is life-ing, and it's a lot. So these first few videos, I'm probably going to do a lot of just like sit-down recap type stuff like this, and there will definitely be times as the videos progress as I get like more into the semester, where I'll probably find something super relevant and valuable to share, you know, from class, right, and be able to hopefully share it on here, or different routines, you know, like morning routines, night routines, all of that that is really working for me. I'm still in the process of kind of sorting all of that out. So that's the first thing I wanted to touch on. If you guys listened to the last video, which I would encourage you to, you know, just kind of shameless plug, and really also just to see kind of like what this program is about and why I'm going back to school to become a therapist. But I go over, I created this like skeleton of a schedule, which is kind of what I'm calling it, and honestly, it made such a difference, like biggest like helpful thing that I did before school started, and I did this with the intention of, all right, I want to set up like just like a skeleton of a schedule, and I don't want to get all of that out every single thing detailed out because that is very overwhelming to me. But I know, okay, I'm going to wake up, I'm going to do this. These are the days that I have to be here at this time. And it was so valuable to me. And honestly, last week, outside of one day, because I had two appointments back to back that I normally wouldn't have, I was able to stick to my schedule and it was amazing. But like on that day, I didn't get upset at myself that I didn't, you know, do everything perfectly. It was just like, all right, this came up, this is like real life, and that's where it's going to work. I have obviously limited days that I can set, you know, appointments and things like that now, just like between my work schedule and my school schedule. So really, really happy that I did that. And even just like figuring out like the commute times and all that, like I pretty much nailed it, very proud of myself. I mean, I've gone to USF before, so this isn't like totally new, but going at this time, like just like all of that, right? So overall, first week was great. If you guys like I said, listen to that last video, that was, I filmed it the day before I started classes. So I only gone to orientation. So I really had no idea what I was walking into. And obviously, anybody who's fun to school, you will read the syllabi and you're like, hello, what is this? It was so overwhelming. And all the professors are honestly amazing. I am so grateful for just all of their knowledge and their expertise in so many just like different areas, which I really, really loved. Everybody also has a lot of experience outside of just teaching, which is really awesome that they can bring that experience into the classroom. So I'm just really excited to learn from such a wide like array of professors with like all these different backgrounds. And I made some friends in class. So that was great. Everybody is very like warm and welcoming and open, which makes sense for all in this program to become, you know, counselors and all the teachers themselves are, you know, counselors too. So it just makes sense that everybody is like like that, but it is just a very, very different than the other programs that I've been in. And it's a lot more interactive, which again, also makes sense. And I expected that, but it's just going to be very different than like previous classes I've been in for both my undergrad and my last graduate degree. So I'm excited to see like how that unfolds. I am like a little nervous. The one class skills and techniques, like we are already like going to be diving into doing like role plays and things like that, like which I guess I knew was going to happen soon. But part of me was like, oh, maybe that'll be next semester after we learn some more like theory. But they're like, nope, we're just going right into this. And which is very exciting, but also just a little bit nerve wracking. I'm not going to lie, I'm a little nervous. But thankfully I do have a lot of experience like speaking in front of people. So I'm not necessarily nervous like about that. It's more so just like remembering like, okay, what are some of the things that I should be doing, not be doing, and kind of like those checklists. And you know, there's other people who have come in, you know, some of the classes have like a teaching assistant. And then even during orientation, we had a few people come in who were previous graduates and they were like, it's very awkward when you're doing those things in the beginning. And like everybody feels that way, but you will get better. So I'm like, okay, okay, gonna feel awkward. Check already feel awkward. So just in life in general. So this will just be a little bit extra so I can handle it. But I am very excited for just kind of learning all of that. I will say the amount of reading is definitely going to be an adjustment. And y'all know like I love reading. I love, love, love reading. So my favorite thing. So I could just sit around and read. I'm so happy. I just love reading and learning and sharing information. Like it's just my favorite. But it is just a lot for four classes. And like reading is very different, obviously, than just reading and like synthesizing and processing things that like I'm going to be tested on and like have to reenact and do. So it's just different than me. Like I could of course just like go through it quickly. But I'm really trying to just like, okay, really read and synthesize and like understand as much as I can while I'm doing it. And that just is a different kind of reading, you know. So it is an adjustment in terms of the workload there with like the readings and the assignments and the writing and all of that. But I put everything, I think all properly into like my Google calendar so I can like very easily see like, all right, this week I have to do this and this and this. So it is, it is just going to be an adjustment and that also has been one of the biggest adjustments is figuring out like, okay, hey, gunna have to be like the boundary queen. Especially because I'm someone who notoriously always just like says yes to a lot of things because I love opportunities and I never want to turn down something and I definitely recognize that like have to say no in some instances and I'm very big on advocating that for a client. So this is not something that is like totally new for me, but I've just been in a place in my life where I can just say yes to really everything or I can just pick up and go somewhere. And I've had the ability to work, you know, virtually anywhere. And while you can still do this work, obviously not on the class times, but do my work virtually, it is just going to be a lot harder to do that because I have to be so diligent with my time. That like even, you know, thinking of things that I need to go do, right? Okay, that's a two hour drive. Like, all right, what could I do in that two hour drive that would like set me up? Like, I mean, it's like that's where I'm at. Like if I have to go somewhere, I have to start to factor in those things or like, okay, do I say no because those were a few hours that like I really need to like study or I had a quiz this weekend already. So like I had to like the first week, like had to do that. And that's what graduate programs are, but it's just like, I knew all this, but it just was still kind of like the realization of like, oh, okay, all the freedom that I had is not that it's gone, but it's going to be pretty minimal. And that's challenging because I'm in a place in my life right now that I have so many great friendships and I want to be able to do, you know, all the things that I normally do. And a lot of my friends are not in Tampa, so I do have to go travel and see them, which is fine. It's always historically been fine, but that takes time on both parties ends. And then most importantly, my relationship with Chris is long distance and that has been, you know, our norm for our entire relationship for the past year. It's been over a year. It's crazy. But that is just something that it's, you know, previously I could spend, you know, as much time as I wanted, as I wanted, but you know, like spend, hey, I come up for a week or do whatever. Now it's going to be a lot more difficult to do that and be like, all right, I can come for a weekend, you know, so, and even just like our talking times, you know, like us connecting at night. Usually when we're FaceTiming and stuff and I'm taking nighttime classes. So there's a big learning curve with everything we made at work. Fantastic last week and he's very, very understanding of all this. So it's been great. But yeah, there's just a lot of changes kind of on that end in terms of like my schedule. And I just, I have to be super, super diligent with my time because otherwise there is just entirely too many things for me to do right now between my coaching clients between relaunching my mentorship program and then also schoolwork and just a few other things that I've already committed to. That I was like, yeah, of course I can do that. Huh, why did I do that? But I did it and I do not back out on commitments. It's just not who I am. So going to make it work. Going to figure it out. But September is about to be a busy month. But I do love it. I already feel so much better being this like dialed in and over the summer I had so much travel, which was amazing. But I had a lot of travel and had quite a bit of international travel. So I spoke in Australia at the end of April. I spoke in Singapore in June and then I went with my family to Ireland in July. So literally like those three international trips, just like the travel, the time zone changes alone totally kicked my ass. And then I got super sick at the, was it the end? I mean, it was like the beginning of August. I was sick for almost two weeks. It was brutal. So I feel like I have just been like very off of a schedule for like quite some time. And I also knew I gave myself some grace like, okay, the last week before classes started, I was like, yeah, I'm going to sleep in. Like it's okay because I'm not going to be able to do that moving forward. And I am certainly not. But it's also been great because I wake up and I have so much purpose and I'm like, all right, got to get up. I have my morning routine to do. Got to do this, this and this. So it's, you know, there's pros and cons to everything in life. And I'm just in the season of going to be focused, going to be dialed in. And there's some really great things that are going to come from that. So lots of emotions though this week. I'm not going to lie. I'm feeling pretty put together right now as I'm doing this video, but not going to lie. There have been lots of ups and downs over the whole week. And you know, some days where I'm like, oh my gosh, I am so overwhelmed. How the fuck am I going to do all of this? Like, I don't know. Um, you know, am I capable really, you know, but as soon as those thoughts come up, I'm like, I squashed that. And I'm like, no, like you are. That's why you're in this. That's why you were called to do this. You have all the skills to accomplish this. You just have to like be diligent, be organized and really be like open to learning. So I know that I'm doing the right thing. It's just, it's just a lot. And I think that's one thing too that I want to end the video on where a lot of times in general, and this is something I talk with clients about all the time is just, you know, we want to kind of erase anxiety or erase negative emotions. And that's just not possible. Right. What we can do though, because especially if we have anxiety around like a big situation that like we cannot change, whether it's real or this like future predicted thing or whatever it might be, we can control. Okay. How are my daily actions setting me up for success or not? Right. Like what are some things that I can do that are in my control that can put me in a better position and what are some things that I can take away that are not putting me in a good position. So that's what I'm really trying to focus on and really ground myself and center myself with all of that. So just wanted to give a one week in update as things kind of progress with school. I cannot wait to share more stuff in terms of like what I'm learning and then also just like in general, as I get into this routine, I want to give it like a few weeks of like, okay, how, how is my morning routine like looking? Is that something that is, you know, replicatable, et cetera, et cetera. Yes, here's what I'm doing for my nighttime routine. Also, we dress business casual for this program. So while I'm certainly not getting like dressed to the nines, it is also like a change for me. So, you know, just like dressing business casual for like, you know, meadhead self, me who's always in like athlete leader, definitely different. But yeah, lots of exciting things to come and I'm very appreciative for anybody who has listened to the first video and also this video. We're back on this channel. And if you guys have any recommendations for me in terms of topics you would like me to cover, please drop those in the comments. And if you have any way that you have ever read and studied and like process and synthesize information quicker, also let me know that. All right, guys, this is still can't close out the video. Oh, maybe one day, maybe by the end of this, I'll learn how to do that. But today is not that day.

=== FILE: Episode 251： When to start or stop therapy [KxgCmtN8zU8].txt ===

 Welcome back to another episode of the Loco Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and this week I'm joined by Rick, our mental health counselor, and we are going to talk about a few different topics. When to start therapy, when to stop, and then maybe how to integrate like coming back. We'll be getting some questions about this, and I think that there's a lot of people just in general who maybe listen to the podcast, what was therapy right for me, or just in general, it's becoming a lot more common, and they're just wondering, okay, maybe when do I start, when would I stop, and I know we touched on this in a podcast, I think one of our very first ones like a long time ago, so it was definitely time to do like a reboot, and also talk about some other questions there. So, when to start therapy, what would be some of the things that a client may be experiencing to where you would recommend that they start? Sure, pain. Okay, hard hitting topic. No, therapy isn't a new concept by any means, and it's something that's gotten a ton of publicity over the last five, 10 years, it's really grown in popularity. There's a lot of different mediums and avenues for people to start to seek it out. And so I think everybody kind of has a general idea of what it is. When you're ready to start therapy is when you're ready to confront some of the things that have been happening, like if you want help in dealing with aspects of a relationship, if you're feeling depressed, if you're feeling anxious, if you're having difficulty at work, if you've noticed that you have a tendency to do certain things or patterns that have emerged in your life, you know, you keep ending a relationship after three or four months of dating somebody, and you can't figure out why, you know, long term relationships aren't there, or maybe you have some trust issues that have developed or if you're of abandonment, you know, and every time you kind of recognize the same thoughts, the same feelings, the same patterns, redeveloping, reemerging, but different people, different situations, you know, and so when to start therapy is really an individual process. There will be other people in your life, and I encourage you to kind of listen to that sometimes. If everybody's saying like, hey, have you considered talking to somebody about this? You know, if your husband or wife is saying that to you, if your mom or your dad is saying that to you, one of the things that we really want to pay attention to is our people, the people in our lives, are they asking us to get help with something? Because sometimes they're the ones that care about us, and we might not want to hear that message or receive it, but they usually are the ones that do care about us the most, and so especially if it's coming from like multiple sources, it's at least some, I think people in your life are trying to say that, hey, something isn't right, and so really therapy is just kind of a personal journey. I would never force anyone into it. I've been in that situation, and it's not always a bad thing. I mean, I used to work with felons, people who are incarcerated, and so they're kind of forced into therapy. It's like mandatory for them, but what most of them will tell you is that while it starts as a mandatory process, they're really grateful for the process. Once you get going into something and you start something, starting is always the most difficult part, is once you get going in it, you'll realize that it's not as bad as you thought it was going to be. It's a little bit more freeing, so it's really a personal journey, but usually what drives people to therapy is they're experiencing some level of pain, and it's that pain that has created enough discomfort in their life to start to say, look, I want to start talking about this or getting help with it. Would you say that somebody, because you mentioned, okay, if you have a recurring thought or a recurring behavior, would you say that it is necessary to have figured those things out first before going to therapy? Meaning you might be like, oh, something's kind of off, and then you kind of show up to the session, and then it's like, hey, so what's going on? You're like, I don't really know. We've talked about this on the podcast in general, but you have to be ready. You're only going to share with a therapist what you choose to share, obviously. You can go in there and be like, well, I don't really know why I'm here. I kind of feel like something's off, but you're not really sure how to answer those questions or really answer the question of why are you here. Do you think that it's necessary to really have a significant reason? And that reason might change, right? Like, you talk about often, people think they're coming to therapy for this, but then really, after a few sessions, you realize it's really about that, right? But do you still think, in your professional opinion, that coming in with some type of a hypothesis working theory, whatever that is, that like, this is why I'm here? Or is it if you're just kind of like, hey, things are feeling off, maybe I should start to see someone. Do you think that that's even worth that person's time? Or is that going to be just too, like, murky? I think both theories have validity to it. Some people might feel like, hey, something is off. I just don't know what, and I'm looking for somebody to explore that with. And oftentimes, the therapist should be trained enough to be able to start to explore even vague topics with people. If somebody were to come in and be like, you know, I just felt like I needed somebody to talk to. And things have been off in my life. I would start a session by saying, tell me, describe what off is and feels like and looks like. You know, you kept mentioning that something didn't feel right in your life. Tell me what right looks like. Tell me what not right looks like. And so it starts to create and paint a picture, right? You start to see the person has to answer those questions. Now, what did I do? Those are open-ended questions, right? I didn't ask yes or no questions. I said describe to me what not even a question really, it's a direct statement. Like describe what feeling off looks like. And so the person can start to describe things and what might they start to describe, right? Some feelings, emotions, which might lead me to that. Well, the person is struggling with depression or hopelessness or anxiety. And so it starts to take shape in that direction. Some people are much more intuitive and self-reflective and possess incredible amounts of insight. And they will come to session. You would even have to ask them to do anything. They'll have like journals, books that they've read that they're recommending to me, you know, and so they're just like, this is what's going on. And sometimes they're looking for a person to see if they've thought of everything. Sometimes they're looking for a sounding board to bounce ideas off of. And sometimes I'm just like, have you considered this or thought of that or done this? And then the person's like, great. And so both have their space. If you're a super intuitive person and like to self reflect and analyze and go through it, you'll probably really enjoy the therapeutic process. It's probably like more comfortable, so to speak for you versus the person who like has never talked to anybody before, doesn't know what it's going to be like, am I going to be judged, accepted or not? And so it can be a little bit more frightening for that person to, you know, take the leap forward. I actually think what's beneficial about this podcast is that, and it's funny because I've actually referred it to people who have called and inquired who don't know me, but like people who listen to the podcast get a sense that they already know me, they know my personality, they know my voice, you know, what I'm, what I find funny, you know, something like that. They know a little bit about me. So they feel comfortable already coming to talk to me, which is a great medium. I've had people where they'll call up and be like, you know, I'm trying to find a therapist. I'm not really sure. And so sometimes I've actually sent them old podcasts and then like, you know, they were calling about trauma. And so I'm like, here, check out this podcast on trauma, like see if this aligns with what you think or what you feel. Sometimes I'll do introductory phone calls with people and, you know, spend 15, 20 minutes on the phone with them. They call it a console call, because I believe that you want to have an refer therapy to be successful. I want you to have a good relationship with that therapist. Like it's important that you, the therapeutic relationship or therapeutic alliances, what we call it is just, is probably one of the most single important factors in determining a client's success in therapy and in treatment. And to connect with your therapist, they don't mean, you know, they have to be think exactly the way that you do. But like, for example, like, I know some therapists who will like, you know, like talk about their spirit animal, or like, you know, what are the signs telling you? And, you know, they're just very like soft and won't really push or challenge. And they believe in this totally fine. Not that you align with that is you as a person, find that person. Right. That isn't me. And so really? What's your spirit animal? I don't know the the jujitsu choke. That's my spirit animal. You're so lame. Okay. Well, I asked that question because I think a lot of people maybe find themselves in that that former part, right? Like maybe something's off, but I'm not really too sure. And I don't really have like a laundry list of reasons as to why, you know, I feel like when somebody like, Hey, I got cheated on, I don't know how to navigate that. That is a little bit easier to say, maybe I should go see a therapist, right? Or, you know, I'm finally feeling like I'm really angry all the time, or I'm not handling work as well as I used to, like maybe I should go see a therapist. But I think a lot of people, at least in my perspective, are in that spot where they're kind of like, I'm feeling like this, but I'm not really sure. And I, you know, at least for myself, I was always like, I'm not going to need a therapist for that because I don't even know what's going on. So how are they going to be able to know? So I think that a lot of times people maybe stop themselves from that, or think that they're not prepared enough to go into a session because of that. But to your point, a trained therapist will be able to tease those things out. But it might take some time to find the right person. And honestly, to even find that information out, which is my next question point, you know, what are some realistic expectations? Because I think that a lot of times, you know, especially when people are in a lot of pain, which is typically why they're coming to therapy, they're looking for like the solution, the answer. And they want it right away. We all want everything right away. But when we're working through these things, it's often a lot deeper than like that first level that we really think it is, you know, it's like, Hey, this might be why you're here. But there's like 15 other things that are really have gotten you to this spot. So what are some realistic expectations for people in terms of when you start therapy, like, you're not gonna be able to say, Oh, after three and a half sessions, you'll feel this way. But what are some realistic realistic expectations when starting therapy? Yeah, I think depending on why you're coming to therapy and what you're working on, set an expectation, like if you're coming on a weekly basis, because you're struggling with a particular aspect or an aspect of the relationship, right? So for example, we're talking about an intimate relationship that you have with your partner. And you're one of the first things we might focus on is communication. Okay, like I might bring out the four horsemen model, and I might start teaching people the underlying aspects of communication. But sometimes the first session or two is really about understanding me learning about you, right? You've been an expert on you for your whole life. I know you for an hour, if that. And so I don't want to rush the judgment on some stuff and trying to get a complete and accurate understanding in a full picture. And I think that's a really important aspect because sometimes people will come and they're like, I'm paying you so I expect results right away. And I'm like, you get that, there's certain things that I have to figure out first. Like I can't just say like, fine, if you're looking for 10 tips on how to improve self esteem, here you go. I don't think you need me for that though. And that's not therapy, that's educating maybe or providing resources. It's psycho education, sure. And you can do that. You know, but and I think, you know, and I think so sometimes it's like, this is a process, am I willing to commit to something like this? And so I kind of, I liken it to this, I liken it to personal training a lot, right? And I can speak from a firsthand account of this because I actually have a trainer, right? So this is the person that I meet with once a week. Okay, she might lay out workouts and exercises for me in my one hour with that person is great. If I did nothing else other than that one hour, Lauren, how much progress am I going to see? Not a lot. No. So it's incumbent upon me to take what's done in that session with her and practice it, like, and to go to the gym and to work out and to do the work so that my one hour with her turns into five or six hours with myself. And then I come back and we're like, Hey, here's this, you can start to correct certain things and adjust and roll. No. And then what happens with that is that now you can actually make more progress because you've done some things on your own. And that's a really big part of therapy and coaching and training and all of that kind of stuff. You know, the one session or the two sessions is not going to be, you know, like that one or two hours is not enough to sustain you for the whole week. Right. You have to revisit that. And if we're talking about psychological things, you know, you need to revisit that on probably a daily basis in some type of reflective way. It might be 10 minutes, you know, but doing that on a more frequent basis on your own is only going to, you can go see a therapist three times a week. But if you literally end of the session or you walk out that door and you never think about that again, you're not going to make any progress. Yeah. The person who sees a therapist three times a week versus the person who sees a therapist one time a week, but does the work every day is going to get more out of it than the person sitting with a therapist for three hours a week who does none of the work outside of that session. And I think that comes with an inherent idea and understanding of what you're working on. Right. So if the problem wasn't created overnight, don't expect an overnight solution. Okay. This isn't the Tony Robbins seminar where he's like, you're capable of everything. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Like we're going to go walk over hot coals and like everything can be solved at the drop of a hat. Don't get me wrong. Love Tony Robbins use a lot of his work. I've he's incorporated tons of psychology into what he does. But having a realistic expectation of saying, look, sometimes some of this stuff takes time. It's layered. It's complicated. And if I don't want to rush to judgment, I want to make sure that I have a complete and full understanding of that picture. So here's the other side of this. If you're coming with like a laundry list of things to work on, and I mean, it can be I've and I've had this, I've had people who are like, I've got these things and the list might be 10, 15, 20 things that they want to work on. Okay. But they're going to come once a month. Okay. Pick one thing on that list that we can focus on. I don't know. And if that's you, I'm not the therapist for you. I don't know. I don't know anybody who really can do that. But good luck. I can't. I can't look at a list of 10 different things that are various aspects of who you are and be like, okay, I got you for one hour this month, and I'm going to address this one thing. And within one hour expect to see tangible results. And so what does it look like? Well, people will say, well, I struggle with anxiety. Does that mean I'm going to get rid of my anxiety? I don't want to be nervous anymore, Rick. I want to be free of that. I don't want to have any more anxiety. Okay, no, you're human, you're going to have anxiety, you're going to be depressed, you're going to be stressed. The idea isn't to get rid of emotions. The idea isn't to learn how to manage them. To lessen the intensity or to give you the tools that when things get hard, you have the ability to manage it successfully without the therapist there because I don't live in your life. The idea is to use what you're learning in that session and take it and kind of integrate it within your life. So yeah, I would say that probably some good realistic expectations to start is the first few sessions might just be the therapist getting to know you. It's kind of like a coach. When you first start working with a coach, you're not going to like the I always tell people the starting plan is just that. It's our starting plan. And we may keep that the same for many weeks, just because of the other aspects of coaching, you know, the, you know, the consistency and, and, you know, just being more on track and all these different types of things. But a lot of times like that initial plan is just that we might be changing that there's nothing wrong with it. Right? Like it's just like, we're going to make these minor adjustments, but it takes that period of getting to know someone. I'm not going to say like, Oh, I don't know you or your body at all. Here's this new plan. Oh, first week didn't work. Let's completely trash this plan and restart it. That would be terrible coaching practices. So when you go and see a therapist, they're still getting to know aspects of you. And again, based on how much you are sharing, right, you know, you can't expect to withhold certain information and then expect the therapist to be like a mind reader. So going into it with, okay, like a first few sessions might be that person really getting to know me, getting to know the issue, and then, you know, actually being open and honest and vulnerable, which is really scary, but, you know, you need to be in that place in order to get a lot out of therapy. And then from there, you know, you'll be able to start to make those changes, but also recognize that it's not just the session. It's what you're doing outside of that. How are you shifting your mindset? What reflective practices are you doing outside of your sessions once a week or every two weeks? Right? And then finally, frequency. And I know this is again, very vast depending on what the issue is. But generally speaking, is there kind of a trajectory that you would suggest when people are first starting out as just kind of general guidelines? Yeah. Okay. So let's assume money's not an object right now. Okay. And I know that it is. And so obviously, if money's an is an issue, you guys, something is certainly better than nothing. I would rather you do something than nothing. So start the process period. If it's something you see value in, start the process. It rather you do one session a month than nothing a month. However, ideally, and this is kind of typical for most people, let's just say we're not dealing with something like super severe, right? But I would usually say it's beneficial to start with weekly therapy sessions. I like to start my clients with like, let's get into a routine, let's get into the consistency of talking, exploring and doing some of this stuff. Now that can vary from client to client, depending on what we're dealing with. But I like to start with weekly sessions. And once we get a good handle on understanding of what we're working with, what we're talking about, then I'll like to kick it back to biweekly sessions. Now what that does is it says, okay, I have a good understanding of who the client is and a comprehensive understanding of their background, their history and what the problems are, we started to create some solutions and or some strategies to manage that. And so now what I'm doing by taking it from one session to two, I'm giving you a little bit more time in between sessions to gauge how you're doing with this, right? And so if you're coming back after two weeks and we're like, Hey, how did it go? Like, I'm fine, you know, things are pretty good. You know, no real issues, none of those old patterns or thoughts or feelings kind of emerged, like great, we stay on that path. And for a few sessions, if two weeks works for a while, and then if you're having good success, I might say, okay, let's kick it back to once a month. Let's see where it goes. And so we taper it back. Now what's happening is you have four weeks in between sessions. And so that's a really good amount of time to see how you're managing yourself. And if things are good, we kind of continue on maybe on once a month basis until it gets to a point where it's like, Hey, you're off doing this, you're managing this, I don't know if you really need this on a day to day or weekly or biweekly or monthly basis anymore. And so that's generally the progression I like to start with weekly kick it back to two gives you a little bit more time than drop it back to once a month. And then keep it at that pace until we feel like yep, you're doing pretty good. And that's the next segue, look at me doing a segue. When would you maybe recommend stopping therapy? And again, these are just kind of generalizations, of course, there's no hard answer here. But you know, what are some signs maybe that somebody is ready to stop therapy? Because generally, while there might be sometimes people are coming in like, Hey, I have this one specific issue, like we talked about, it's it's usually a lot of different things. And there's a lot of moving parts. It's rarely like this happened. And now I came to therapy for this. And oh, it's all of a sudden solved, you know, like most of our problems are not like that, especially when we're dealing with emotions. And our lives are so dynamic. So what are some signs that maybe it has it is working and you can go off on your own pretty well? Yeah, I mean, depending on what the problem is, if you're seeing like, okay, I'm, I'm managing my anxiety, I'm using these tools, I'm, you know, doing whatever it is that we've talked about in terms of that strategy. And it's working. And again, you started at weekly, you want to buy weekly around monthly, and you're managing things. Great. Here's what I want everybody to really understand is the benefit of having a relationship with your therapist is that once you stop therapy, it's okay. Like it's not supposed to be something that's going to last a lifetime. For most people, I think people with like more severe problems, like if you're dealing with somebody who has personality disorders, things like that, like therapy might be more of a consistent pattern within their life. But for most of us, it's not going to be. And so you can take a break from therapy, it's good to take a break. I've actually encouraged, you know, some of my clients to do that. I'm like, Hey, this is what your intake was. You came in with these problems, right, or these issues that you wanted to address. And we've worked on them. And now we've reached a point where none of these things exist anymore, or this your life has changed in ways that has addressed some of these, these issues that you originally came with. And sometimes you feel like, yeah, therapy just may have stalled in that space. And so I will say to people, I want you to just take some time to yourself and think and see what comes up. And you can always come back. You can always go back and the therapist will pick right up, you'll remember them, they're not going to forget you, you know, you'll pick right up where you left off. And you can go forward. Sometimes you might feel like, Hey, you know, sessions started off really strong, and we were doing really great work, but it just kind of feels like I'm checking in. Like, Okay, take a break, say that it's okay to challenge the therapist to be like, Hey, I feel like, you know, we've been coming and we've been talking. And I feel like it's just gotten to a space where it's like more like a check in, like, Okay, that's fine. Like it just either things have progressed with enough time and the ability to kind of process through that. Or is there something else that we're really missing in this space, you know, and it can be a lot of reasons, financial things have come up in their life that have detracted or pulled them away. But by and large, you know, it's normal for therapy. And you might have been with a therapist for six or seven weeks, and been like, Okay, like that was good. It was a good start. I'm good. I don't think I need to go back right now. And cool. So you don't come back, people do that all the time. Other times you might be with it more consistently. And then realize the severity of maybe what's going on. So yeah, so that's like when to start when to stop. But then I also wanted to discuss, you know, maybe how to come back or why to come back, right? So you kind of touched on a little bit. But like, is this a thing to where people maybe have like maintenance sessions, like, hey, you know, I'm kind of in a good spot. But you know, maybe every two to three months, I just kind of check in, like, is that something that you you experience recommend? Or is that kind of like, no, you're either doing it or not? No, I there's there's people who who do that. I have clients who every two or three months will just schedule a session randomly. And we'll just kind of check in and I'll be like, Hey, how are you doing? I'll ask questions. I'll kind of probe and they like the idea of maintaining the relationship like and not like sounding more like you said, yeah, it becomes a habit for some people, a healthy habit to say, look, am I keeping this checks and balances with myself to say, Okay, so yeah, so every two or three months, it's totally fine. If you're don't need it, you don't have to do it. It's not mandatory. And it's always okay to come back under any circumstances, right? If you might have been like, Okay, I really address this, this is great. Well, life is an evolving concept, right? And so it doesn't just start and stop once therapy ended when you were 35 years old or 42 or whatever it is, you might enter a new relationship or something may have happened in your life. And you're like, Hey, I would really like somebody to talk about this with so totally okay to come back. I said clients do that. They were gone for like a year, literally dropped off, didn't say anything like we're in the middle of therapy and just stopped coming. They didn't schedule any more sessions and they were gone. And then a year later, it's like Hey, Rick, I want to come back. I want to talk about some stuff and they send an email, we put them on the calendar and then boom, you move forward. Yeah, and I think that probably like after you know, why you came to therapy initially, right, you may have, you know, resolved that issue. But now you've developed enough introspection to realize that maybe, maybe when things are off. And then you might say, Okay, well, maybe not, I may not be feeling this, this other situation anymore, because I can handle this. But now I recognize within myself that maybe this is not right. And I still don't know, I'm kind of back to that square one, like, I know something's off. I don't know what it is, but I have a better sense of something is wrong. But it's not as far down the line, right? So like, Oh, I've felt like something's off for five years, and I can't put a finger on it. Like this is more like, All right, I've been feeling like this, maybe this is a sign that I need to go back. Or maybe the things that you were working through before have come up. Or like you said, maybe you did work through an old relationship, but now you're in a new one. And there's a new challenge. And because life is very, very dynamic. So hopefully you can use those skills in different areas. But sometimes I do want to go back a little bit and just talk about the expectations for therapy, though, too. I think sometimes people have an expectation that they're going to come to therapy and that they're going to walk out of sessions, happy and go lucky. And like, everything is going to be bright, and there's going to be rainbows and sunshine in the sky, and they're going to feel amazing, and nothing is ever going to be the problem. And sometimes people are going to come in with the expectation that, Oh, because I connected this dot, right, that this is like this level of insight is going to be the key to my existence, and it's going to open up the world. And the reality is, the changes are going to occur within you, not the world around you, they're going to, they're going to change by you recognizing what your old habits and patterns are, by recognizing what you're thinking and feeling, how to challenge and dispute those things, and then make changes. And so one of the frustrating things in being a therapist is there's no building that stands when we're done. And what I mean by that is I have a friend who's in construction. And it's an amazing thing because when he goes to work every day, it's a pile of dirt. And then when he leaves work and the project is done, there's this huge tower that's standing. And there's nothing concrete sometimes that we can put our hands on in sessions. There's nothing concrete that we can say like, I built this, I did this. It's just like looking through sometimes the journaling, it's looking through the sessions and the tears and the processing that goes through some of those things. And so I think sometimes people have this expectation that we're going to go to therapy, I'm going to make these insights and my whole world is going to change. The world only changes inside your mind when you're willing to challenge it daily. And so I want you to have a realistic expectation. I want you to challenge your therapist, if you feel like they're not pushing you, tell them like I recently had a had a client who I used to laugh at her because like the first time I recommended she read a book, she was just like, I am not this like was adamant with me about it. Two weeks later, she's like, that was me. I'm sorry. I just like my initial reaction to it wasn't there. But she kind of came around. And so but I respected the fact that she was like, this isn't me. I was like, okay, explain why you think that's not you or what is it that you're what offended you about that process. So you like have that kind of conversation. But managing your expectations and sticking with things long enough to see if there's there's actual changes that can occur because it's not the therapist that's going to change you. You are going to change you this person is nothing more than a guide in that process. And I'm not an expert on you as a person. And nor do I have to live with the choices and the consequences that you make. This is about making your life healthier for you. And so really kind of managing that expectation is important. And I would say lastly, just to tie this up. Is there a time where you feel like maybe people can use a therapist as a crutch, like in a negative sense, like we said, okay, if there's like if there's one habit, you're going to have like probably not a bad habit to have a recurring therapy session every month, right? Like probably a healthy habit to have. Probably the best codependent relationship you'll ever have. However, you don't want to joke about that. But but people can maybe potentially fall into that trap of thinking like, well, I have to stay here or I can't like this person is why I'm seeing these results or these changes, right? Like do you ever see this happens? Or is this not really something that ever comes up? No, I think it can come up from time to time. I think most therapists should be pretty aware if the person's using you know, but I mean, like as the person using therapy as a maintenance and a check in to just kind of keep themselves balanced and create the habit fine. There's nothing wrong with that. You know, if they're coming to you know, every several months, and they're just kind of there, like I said, checking in, no big deal. If they're refusing to move forward, or they're coming to you just to complain and not make any real progress anymore, right? If they're just kind of using therapy as a space to bitch and whine and not make any real changes, you get to you know, you get very frustrated in that space. And some therapists will allow that to continue for a really long time because they're just they like the consistency of it, perhaps, you know, and they're not necessarily challenging the client. But yeah, I mean, if therapy is being used as a crutch, or you know, a way for you to refuse to like you're coming to the therapy and having conversations with your therapist, but then not going home and dealing with the issues that exist in your life. What's the purpose? Like get a friend at that point and use that as a tool. It's certainly cheaper. But yeah, you don't want to be using it as a crutch to avoid dealing with conflict in your life. Yeah, and I think that's probably rare, but I would feel that there's probably some people who might do that. So, you know, having a therapist that can be honest with you and also just again, you having some reflective practices in place to see okay.  amygiscomininhere, justevent, which sometimes it's gonna happen, right? Like, sometimes there's just a lot that happened that week, and it's like, I just got to get this all off my chest. But if it's on the week after week after week, and there's no progress on your end in terms of like, what you're willing to challenge yourself on, then it might be, okay, maybe I'm using therapy as a crush, because then you could say to yourself, well, I'm going to therapy, so I'm working on it, right? Like, okay, you're going to therapy, but are you really working on it, or are you just going once a week? So, yeah, we wanted to do a little update on this podcast, because I feel like, you know, we added some different things here, and I feel like a lot of people can probably find themselves in this space of like, I want to start, but I'm not sure, am I ready to end this? Do I come back? Yeah, all those are normal things. I encourage you to talk about those things with your therapist. Therapists sometimes reach the end of their scope with a client and say, look, hey, it's maybe time for you to move on, or you need a specialist in this, or do that, that's okay. Also, remember too, that the therapist themselves is a human being, and they're going to be capable of making mistakes, and they're still trying to figure things out. And so, I think sometimes that goes along with managing expectations. You know, if you're one of my favorite things is people will be like, what do you do? And you're like, oh, it's psychotherapist, and they're like, oh, well, you've probably got me figured out. It's like, no, I don't. Like, you're a pretty complicated human being. And after one or two sessions or a conversation with you, it doesn't mean, yeah, like you met someone at Starbucks, like, oh, you figured me out. Like, I'm gonna psychic. Like, no, you know, so I think sometimes when you have a good relationship with your therapist, you can say things like, hey, I want to move in this direction, or I'm not feeling challenged enough, or I'd like more help in this area. And so it can kind of force that person into giving you the work that you're looking for, or maybe it's up to them to be like, hey, maybe it's time for you to find a specialist in this area or do something different. So, just remember they're human beings and talk to them like a human being, and you'll be okay. Yeah. Well, I hope this cleared up some maybe questions or situations that you guys might be dealing with. If you have any other questions for us, you can drop them below in the show notes, there is an anonymous link. We will also provide Rick's contact information, but what is the email? Full circle therapy, fl at gmail.com. Wow, you said it right this time. Last time he was just like full circle therapy, which was not an email, but all good. So we will put that below in the show notes as well to be the first to hear about our app, which at this point, when we're really seeing this podcast, it should hopefully be out, redefine healthy app.com. That is where you'll be able to find all the information and then for all their information about coaching services and the products that we offer, you can visit teamlocofit.com. So thank you guys so much for listening and we'll talk to you next week.

=== FILE: Episode 252： Learning to overcome childhood obstacles with Tommy Vext [4Q64Cz-ZKiw].txt ===

 Welcome back to another episode of The Locofit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlin, and today I'm joined by my friend Tommy Vext, who is a singer, musician. Resident Weirdos. Yeah, team Weirdos. You guys should have just heard what we were just talking about. You had an excellent Jordan Peterson. It's not that good. It's not that good. It's terrible. It's literally the worst Jordan Peterson. Doing impressions is necessary, especially for men. I mean, darn it. He sounds nothing like Jordan Peterson. In my head, that's, you know, in the committee in my head when I'm like trying to make decisions. They're like, no, listen, listen here, buckle. Like, okay, sick. Okay, so Resident Weirdo taught me. Jordan Peterson is in my head. Like, you know, there's so many different voices in my head. Oh my God, me too. Just reassigning my personality types to like, you know, other people's voices. What are we going to do today? Who are we going to be? Yeah, Kermit the Frog comes out. Yeah. Maybe that's why I like him because he's so, so, you know, I don't know you guys. Okay, so we're not going to talk about impersonations today. Maybe we will. But we are going to talk a lot about your mental health struggles and how fitness has helped with that. And I think that that's going to be really impactful for a lot of people. So first, give a little background. You are a singer, musician, artist and resident weirdo, but give a better intro than that. My professional resume would say that I am a multi-platinum selling international recording artist. Okay. Solid. Yeah. I got a couple of number one songs at radio. I just, I went solo in 2021, left my band after a very successful couple of years. Dominating the charts. Now I'm dominating the billboard charts, which is probably the highest selling independent rock artist in the United States of America. So that's pretty cool. Yeah. And I would say so. Yeah. And I'm about to leave on a U.S. tour. I'm dropping my first album since I left my band. So I'm putting out a solo album. And that's what I do. I'm also 13 years sober before my music career took off. I've been a musician since I was 14 years old. So, and I've been signed to record labels on and off since I was 18. But I had a serious dance with drugs and alcohol. And I wound up getting sober at 27. In my early 30s, I became a drug and alcohol counselor. And then I ran a sober living in Santa Monica. Then I became a sober coach where I was a live in sober mentor for the Hollywood elite athletes, pop stars, actors, crazy stuff, crazy, crazy stories. Yeah. And I'm my book is coming out next year, my biography, which was co-wrote by Riley Perez, who's a writer at HBO and Showtime. For many of the shows you guys probably want to try. These are my humble brags. Yeah. I'm just casual flex. What is a sober coach you live with these people? Yeah. So sober coaching is a pretty intensive 30 to 90 day gig. And so a lot of people who are very famous or very wealthy, it would be extremely disruptive for them to be in a rehab facility. Because of paparazzi or because the other people in there wouldn't behave right. Or, you know, it's the anonymity aspect is highly, highly important, especially if you're trying to help someone before they get in the tablets for the train wreck they've become. So someone like myself, you know, there are other people that do this. I work for a corporation first before I opened my own Um, sober companion company. And we live with you and shadow you and make sure you don't buck up. Yeah. I mean, that makes sense. Yeah. So it's like, I never really thought of it that way until you said it. Yeah. It's relapse prevention. A lot more sense than going to rehab. Yeah. And then we identify trigger points, you know, like I've traveled with artists with other artists who, you know, we discuss when they're at what point in the day are they triggered to drink and use. And I, you know, that's a it's a very important time to replace that with either a group therapy or count or one on one counseling or just replacement therapy. So there's a lot of that's like the very small kind of what I what I did. Yeah. Yeah. No, I'm just, of course, that's like where my I'm just curious now and I have all these questions, but that actually makes a lot more sense because going to rehab is it's kind of like any behavior change. Right. When you take yourself out of an environment, you're going to be acting maybe differently than if you're at home, right? Because at home around all your normal things, like that's when you're probably going to be a lot more triggered. Correct. And then if you're in an industry where everyone is enabling you or if you're an actor and you're on set, or if you're an athlete and you're in the offseason, everyone wants to party. Or if you're an artist and people are bringing free drugs, these are a little bit more specific issues that most people don't have when they leave rehab. Most people get out of rehab and go back to the office and their families and whatnot. And the entertainment industry, yeah, and the entertainment industry, you know, and it's I've seen managers who sabotage their their artists who they want to keep them high because they don't want them to look at the books. They don't want them to start seeing how all the money is being stolen. Yeah, it's a very, you know, it's AI mean, LA is gross. That's so horrible. And so that's the thing is like they want you to be sober enough to get on stage and do your thing, but they don't want you to be too sober that you're starting to be aware of everything. You know what I mean? Damn. Yeah. There's some I mean, I don't know anything about this life. So how did I guess go back to your journey? Like when you started, is that when you started to have your struggles with that or was this like way earlier on in life? No, no, my story begins with my birth mother. I was adopted. I have a twin brother and my birth mother was a crackhead and she used while she was pregnant. And we were born in Brooklyn and Green Point Hospital, which isn't there anymore. And my mom left us. And so we went into the system and then my adopted parents took both of us. And we're, you know, two mixed race kids in 1982 and my parents took us in. And my father at the time was sober. He was a Vietnam vet. You know, we had I came from very humble beginnings and we had a lot of normalcy in my early childhood. You know, and then my parents adopted my sister and but my father and my mother's relationship started to strain. My brother had severe mental health issues and started to be institutionalized around 11 years old for extreme violent behavior. Like kind of really disturbing stuff, like hurting animals, setting fires. Yeah, like he's currently incarcerated right now. He's he's currently serving a 20 year sentence for attempted murder. But to give you the idea of like how out paths in life, even though we both came from the same situation, it's about choices. You know what I mean? And so, you know, I think by the time I was 13 or 14, the family dynamic had deteriorated. And I found myself, you know, like in the experimental stage of like stealing beers and booze from my friends, parents and smoking weed. And I joined a band like, you know, I've gotten a heavy metal. You know, everybody was in a rap. I like rap music too, but I was angry because my life, you know what I mean? And I had a lot of resentments about I probably didn't. I wasn't sophisticated enough to understand the complexity of the emotional complications of my origin story, right? And what what not having grown up with my real family and also, you know, being being black and having not look like my white parents, you know, stuff like that. So all those issues and I was angry and I found a microphone and I found that I could sing. So, you know, since I was 14 years old, I pretty much, you know, have been in a band and I started drinking and party. And then then like things escalated to other drugs and I had a pretty was your family involved at that point or did they not really know? No, we were kind of on our own. I mean, and things were different than to this is you're talking about like 1995, 96 were, you know, my parents had their own problems going on. And yeah, that's what I mean. Like they were in their own shit. Yeah. And I mean, I had a job. I was working as a deli boy and, you know, let's I was just doing my own thing, saving up for concert tickets and, you know, scamming, you know, like so. But yeah, so like I basically sketchy shit. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, you know, my my my my adolescence can kind of progress into being a teen. And then in my early twenties, I was selling drugs. My brother was a drug dealer. My brother kind of he's bigger than me. He's way tougher than me and way scarier than me. And he kind of made a name for himself in the neighborhood and he was doing his thing with with some pretty heavy dudes. And I thought I was a tough guy. And then when I was 21, I almost got killed by a gang. I was drunk. I got into a fight with this guy and his friends came back and jumped me and my buddy. They ran me over with a car and then they beat me and my friend up with baseball bats. So we almost so we were dead. And like a car pulled up in front of the library and like, hey, you know, you're like, so that was a wake up call for me. Like I remember, you know, and I was living in my dad's basement and I had no heat and no air conditioning. And I had like a rusty weight bench that somebody I picked out of the garbage. I mean, we were really poor. And I was like, I couldn't walk. I had to have my dad and my brother carry me to take a piss every time I had to go to the bathroom. And it was so like incomprehensibly demoralizing. I got the like I got the message. I'm like, this is not the life for me. And I don't want to do this anymore. And I, you know, I pursued music, right? So I was like, I'm going to be this is what I'm doing. And so I got really serious. So by the time I was 22, the band that I had, I've been with the same band since I was 14. I was like 22, 23. They weren't taking it seriously. People were getting real, you know, they were getting city jobs and, you know, somebody got a girl pregnant and they all, you know, whatever, all that shit. And I was like, I'm doing this, you know. And I've auditioned for a band in California. And it was a band that already was like signed. I used to listen to their music and they had a new project. So I like I broke into the funny story is this is self will, right? The self will of the alcoholic addict. And also too, like I should mention that I was obese too. Like I had a food addiction. So I, my weight fluctuated from 220 pounds to 320 pounds on and off during this period of time because of, you know, the, I always had depression. My first suicidal thoughts started when I was about eight years old. Like something I've been dealing with forever. And so food was the first coping mechanism. And then it became drugs. And then it was living in a certain lifestyle. And the only time I ever felt comfortable, my skin was when I was on stage. So that, that being comfortable in that is what drove me like to go so far just to be able to be a performer. And so I want to, you know, I worked security after I stopped selling drugs. I got jobs as a bouncer in security yard. And I work, I went to this club that I used to work at. And then these, there was like a record label was having a 25th anniversary. And so all these celebrities were rehearsing at the club I used to work for. So I wore my security shirt, my old security shirt and broke into the rehearsals and started singing the songs with the bands. And then that's how I got the job. So two months later, I got flown to California and I moved into a trap house with this guitar player guy who I didn't even know. And that was the beginning of that. It's notable because where, you know, I still didn't make the direct correlation that the drinking and the drugs and, and, you know, alcoholism and addiction was my issue. I still believed that it was because I was from Brooklyn or it was because my mom left me or it was because my dad drank in my adopted mother abandoned me and my brother was crazy and blah, blah, blah, blah, you know, poor me, poor me, poor me and drink. And so I went to LA and wherever you go, there you are. And, you know, I signed a record deal, toured all over the world, made a pretty cool metal album. It was very renowned, you know. And then, you know, I kept just doing, I kept partying. Me and the guitar player, the band did not get along. He tried to fight me. I beat the shit out of him on stage. Then we broke up. I joined another band. Then this punk rock band started. But during this time, like, would you say that you? I was a coke head. Yeah, was it getting worse? Was it? Oh God, it was horrible. I was, I mean, I remember going on. I joined this next band and I was like, yeah, I'm going to be sober. And because they had one. So you had the intention that you wanted to be though. Yeah, yeah, but I could. It was a problem. But I couldn't fucking stand myself. Yeah. I couldn't look in the fucking mirror. I hated myself. Right. Why would I do anything good for me? You know what I mean? And so I got to the point on tour. So the next band I went on tour with, they were literally one of the posters on my wall and the singer died in a car accident 10 years before. I was a huge fan of this band, Snot. And they hired me to do their 10 year anniversary tour of his death. So we did a big tribute to him and I crushed it, but I was miserable. Absolutely miserable. I was, you know, the first two days of tour, I'm like, I'm going to get up early. I'm going to go to the gym. No, three days in, I'm like walking off stage and I won't drink before I go on stage. That was the one thing I didn't drink. I couldn't do drugs before I go on stage. However, as soon as I got off, as soon as I got off, I was like, boom. You know, I figured you would have probably done that before to like get in that zone. But you said like, no, because once I start, I can't stop. So I, if I ruin the show, they won't give me drinks. You see what I'm saying? So I, all I have to do is operate well. No, no, no, no, I need to be. Yeah. Yeah. I'm like, I'm a wrecking ball. Well, I feel like that's part of some people's problem is that they do operate well, right? Like when they are on being influenced. No, this is what, so when I was like 20, I did a show wasted and I got naked on stage. Like I was like, I'll never get, I was like, all right, memo. I got you. So that's why I wouldn't, I would never do that. Like I tried it. Not a good, not a good idea. You know, my girlfriend at the time, you know, not happy about this. I definitely got my ass beat. So what I was doing. Don't remember why. And yeah, like, so anyway, long story short, you know, I was like getting on stage. Drinking Jack Daniels to the point of blacking out. And then I would have to find cocaine to like balance it out. So then I would do coke. So now I'm drunk and high, but I'm too high. I can't go to sleep. So I got to take pills to go to sleep. And then when I wake up, it's like, you know, three or four o'clock, five o'clock the next day, and I got two hours before I got to be on stage. And I was opening up for a tour, you know, then I'm on stage and I'm like, Oh, everybody down, everybody left and right in here. And like, I was literally like Richard Simmons on crack on stage and they're like, man, this guy, so much energy. He's just, he's the truth. And I'm like, I am a fucking crack and freak. And we're going to fucking have a good time. Everybody like, you know, and dude, it was good because the shows people are like, yo, like I was coming out early and like, I'm like, ah, you know, it's like, just riding the snake. Like every see Jim Carrey talk like he's like, do methamphetamine and run. He's like, ride the snake. Like that was me. It's like, go boys. And then I just crashed like, you know, and then it just, it wasn't working, you know, it just wasn't working. You can only do that for so long. Yeah. Before you like lose your mind completely. Yeah. Or you do some stupid shit. Well, the tour ended and I like, I was like, I have nothing to live for. I want to kill myself. Like, I wonder why. Yeah, I wonder. Yeah. I realized all this stuff about myself, right? So was this really the first time that you probably were reflective enough on that? Yeah, I just was. I mean, I just remember the like the my last night of drinking and drugging. It wasn't some glamorous thing. It was like, I lost. I like shit and pissed and threw up on the floor of my friend's bathroom, who was like my normal friend who didn't do drugs. And I was so embarrassed and I had to clean everything up. And like, I just remember being like, you know, I had the foxhole prayer. I was like, God, I can't do this anymore. And I heard a voice that you don't have to. And I was like, I was like, am I still high? Am I still high? I'm like, is that you? Maybe. He's like, call Sonny. I was like, so I called the dude. I'm like, hey, man, you gotta come get me. I'm cracking. Because we all know everyone knows. It's like everyone knows besides you. Yeah. Yeah. So and then I began my journey in sobriety and yeah. And so, you know, there's a lot of things that you learn in 12 step programs. I think every person should take the 12 steps. Right. And if you if you take the 12 steps and remove alcohol, you can put anything in there that that you're powerless over. Right. Some people are workaholics, right? Like so, you know, I'm powerless over my workaholic, my workaholicism and my life has become unmanageable, right? Or I'm powerless over relationships. I'd power us over my partner's behavior and my life has become a manageable. That's the start. Right. So for me, it was drugs and alcohol then and almost every couple of years of my recovery, I have to, you know, because I'm I'm kind of like a fucking jungle book. Right. I was like raised by the fucking streets. Like there was nobody. Like I'm a literally a fucking animal. It's a it's a miracle that I, you know, pay my taxes on time and have a car and you have, you know, my credit school and I'm like, oh, all these like, you know, these are things I was like, oh, these are white people things. Right. Like, dude, this is really serious, but that's the fuck the fucked up part is like, dude, where I come from shit is so fucked up. Like, but this even all the poor people are kind of the same. Right. Everyone's like, we don't know how this shit works. Nobody's teaching anybody how this shit works. And so I had to learn. So I was like, you know, I had to become accountable. Part of the 12 steps is you have to make an inventory of all the things have gone wrong. Right. All the people who harmed you, your perception of that. And then you have to look at your own part and then share it with another person. Yeah, that's the I think that's probably the really powerful part of it. Like I've heard about, you know, people just just going to those meetings and just the fact that you have to, you know, talk and like put yourself out there. Like that is so hard, but that really keeps you accountable. So those 12 steps, though, like I know that they have like, I'm not sure what the name like obviously alcohol, alcoholics. Yeah, there's there's a, there's an, a, which is narcotics. Yeah. And there's this OA, which is overeaters, anonymous, which is a little bit different. I was gonna say, are those all the same 12 steps or the principles are basically similar, but there are different parameters because X, Y and Z. Yeah. Cause you can't be absent. Like I personally think that like food addiction is the hardest because if I don't smoke crack, everything's fine. But if I don't eat food, I'm going to die. So you see what I'm saying? Abstinence is not, um, you can't be absent from eating. You know, it's a life function. And so it's really difficult. I gained 30 pounds. My first 30 days of sobriety, but I have no money. And I was homeless, but I was eating pints of ice cream for $2. Like that's where I was getting my calories. At what point were, like at what point were you in your fitness journey at the worst? Cause you said you fluctuated a lot, like 220 to 320. And then so at like kind of a peak of, I got out of being super fat. Uh, like when I was doing, when I moved to California, like a little before that, because I was so ashamed. So the shame of seeing me on stage at that weight and stuff. And the shame of like, you know, and I also, I had a super hot girlfriend. I don't know why the fuck she was with me. I was like a fat fuck. And like we're still friends to this day and she's married with kids and has moved to Europe and has a wonderful husband and like a six year old son. And so I'm like, you realize how fucking much of a mess I was. And she's like, I just loved you. You know, I was like, they don't make them like this anymore. Ladies and gentlemen. Yeah. I mean, like it was like, what was the movie, the TV show with the fat guy and he had the hot wife. He was like, work for UPS. It's like the most bullshit. Like this would never happen. Um, you know what I mean? Oh my God. King of Queens. Yes. Yeah. Looks like that was. Except I was fat and working construction. I was just like, this is bizarre. You're like, why? But yeah, she's solid good in you. Yeah. But that's interesting though, because so you lost away or, you know, made some changes because of shame, but that wasn't enough either. You know what I mean? Like, it wasn't enough to beat the drugs. Like, look, this is a thing. Shame, there's healthy shame and toxic shame. Right. So there's the toxic kind of shame. Like, you're not, I'm not good enough. Right. I'm not doing enough. I'm not this right. Because toxic shame is when you place yourself in a, in a position to judge yourself for not being omnipotent. There's no way you can do everything and be everything all at once. So by placing those expectations on yourself, you're setting yourself up for failure. Healthy shame is when you are behaving in a manner that is making you unhealthy, embarrassing yourself, hurting your family members, hurting your future and saying, I need to make a change. Yeah, that's healthy shame. So when people are like, Oh, don't fat shame as a former obese person, fat shaming is essential to saving your life. My aunt Tina died of morbid obesity. Right. She was a wonderful woman. She was a nurse and she adopted three children that were had came from hell and gave them a life and she didn't get to watch them grow up because she couldn't stop eating. And my mom, I, you know, I come from an obese family. My mom, after my aunt died, she was the first inspiration. She lost a hundred pounds. She was like, I'm not doing it. My mom's five too. She was 200 pounds. And she just one day she said she would walk one mile to the park and walk around it as many times as she could rain, sleet or snow. Like there was no stop in this woman, you know? And so that was my weight loss journey was like, I'm like, my mom can't do anything if she can do this, then I can do this. Yeah. I mean, like, you know, because I'm like, my mom's a little lady. She's not like, you know, big, you know, she's tough, but the perception is like, well, you know, and that's the domino effect is that it was more impactful. Not that my aunt died. It was more impactful that my mom changed. And so when people were like, Oh, you shouldn't fat shame. We should accept all bodies. This is up the other. It's a, it's a healthy thing. Right. Like if my, if my best friend has asthma and is smoking, I'm like, bro, don't smoke around me. That's a boundary for me. You're like, Oh, I'm fucking, I'm like, no, I'm not going to tolerate this. Like I actually just had this conversation. There was, there was somebody I was, I was talking to like romantically. I was interested in and we were friends for a long time, but she's got a drinking problem. And like, I know this. And so time had passed and she was like, no, like I don't drink anymore. This at the other and, you know, the more you're around somebody, you see it. And I'm like, listen, like it's okay to drink if you're normal, but you definitely drink like I used to drink and you disappear for a whole weekend and then end up in the hospital. And like you are not, you're in, first of all, you're not being honest with me. And no matter how much I care about you. I have to set a boundary. Like, you know, I have to file people off because you're not going where I'm going. Like this is where I'm going. And if I care about you, you're the train doors are open for the people that I want. That, or that are, if you want to get on, let's go, but I'm going this way. If you don't want to get on and you want to sit here and wallow in this shit, that's on you. You know what I mean? And so, you know, sometimes people, when you really love people, you should tell them the truth about themselves so they don't die. Do you know what I mean? Yeah. And there's different levels to everything, right? Like obviously there's a lot of people who drink alcohol, who don't have a problem with it. Yeah, yeah. There's a lot of people who eat sugar and have snacks once in a while. And they're like, look, you know, I'll always see somebody like you ever go on a date and somebody has a piece of dessert and you're like, how did you do that? You know, and like we have a lot of friends who compete and, you know, did the most extreme sport, like bodybuilding. And I'm like, I don't know how you know. Many years. Yeah. Many years. I'm just like, how do they do this? It's just like anything. I would change, you know, I mean, I literally like, oh, Schmigo want cake. You know, people are like, what's wrong with Tommy? I'm like, it's crap. We just need it. I should have Milky Way. You know, I ain't looking for a freak. So I don't even put people. Like I know myself. I'm like, I'm not even putting the people around me through that guy. You know what I mean? Through hungry becs. Like, no, it is a whole like, and when you're not in that place, it's super easy to be like, oh, of course I wouldn't act like that. You know what I mean? But then I think back to all those those times where it's like, when you're that like hungry, it is a totally different feeling. Because it's not just like, oh, I didn't eat lunch. Right. Like it's like, I've dieted for nine months to 10% body fat. If I don't have this meal, I literally feel incapable of functioning. Yeah. And it's like being awful. It's like getting off drugs. Being on prep is like detoxing. Like because your body is like, I need the thing. And you're like, we can't have it. Yeah. And like you said, it's like food is like food is everywhere. You know what I mean? And you have to, but you know, that's part of what you sign up for. Like when you do a bodybuilding show, you know, you're getting into. And it's something that we obviously coach a lot of our clients to like listen, like, especially with hunger. I'm like, hunger is a part of this. Like if you are not prepared to be hungry, this is probably not the sport for you. And it's just what, honestly, just accepting that makes it a lot easier. You know, it doesn't eat like it. And he doesn't eat during the day. I never see him eat. He doesn't eat, but he talks a lot about, about if you can control your hunger, you can control everything. And he also used to, you know, he lost the shit on a weight and he used it. He got big and I think it depends to again, like where, like how you're wired and like what works for you. You know, we are very big on talking about different, like there's different methods for everybody, right? For some people, you know, incorporating just, there's just so many different ways to achieve the same result, but you have to know what works for you. Yeah. I have emergency sandwiches all over the place. You're like, what's this? You open my glove box. You're like, what's this? I'm like, I got first form bars melted first form. I was like, that's melted as fuck. If it's dude, my worst nightmare is like getting pulled over after the gym and after I've eaten and I'm like being held up. Cause I'm always nice to the cops, but when I'm hungry, I'll be a fucking asshole to my grandmother's spirit. Like, you know, I'd be like, well, get out of here grandma. You know, I'm like, me and you as Snickers. Yeah, just calm down. Everything's fine. Everything's fine now. So Tommy's still very much struggling with his food problems. I'm just kidding. Whatever. Listen, this is a game to the right place. Yeah, yeah, the honest podcast. Um, but so anyway, so tell me about yourself. Yeah, healthy, healthy shame, food, drug addiction, sex addiction is another one. Like that's a whole other thing I went through that whole fucking thing. Well, it all relies on the same patterns and behaviors, right? And there are differences. I'm not going to say that a cocaine addiction is the same as a sex addiction. The same as a food addiction. Well, they do all work on the door. They center in the same parts of your brain. And it's also, it's like redirecting and regrouping. And then, you know, we're living in a society where, uh, unfortunately, the corporatization of America has allowed, you know, the FDA and there's, there's not really any regulations for corporations in this country to, uh, not poison us, right? So they're putting stuff in, you know, they getting kids started, you know, like the shit that's in McDonald's, the stuff cereal, like the stuff that we feed kids. If you go to  in Europe, they have to put certain, you know, if there's toxins in our food, in the European and Australian countries, they have to label it. So, you know, Nabisco, Johnson Johnson, whatever, pick any of the big five food distributors, they won't put the toxic stuff in the food that goes over there, they'll put it in here because we don't have to list it. Because the food companies in America also lobby for the politicians, so they control what has to be the regulations. So imagine if I own a corporation, maybe say I sell cars, and I just buy the government because I have so much money, and so I'm like, we're not going to do regulations, if the seat belts don't work and the airbags don't work, you're not allowed to sue us. And so I spend a bunch of money because I don't want to pay lawsuits, and so, you know, I have a bill passed in Congress, and now I'm completely indemnified from if people die from using my product. You know what I mean? So they're doing that with food, they're doing that with the medical industry, they're doing that with medical medicines and drugs that they give us. So, you know, this is like another layer of self-love is understanding like, there is healthy shame and toxic shame, don't destroy yourself because you got to a certain place, educate yourself and understand why. Right? You're in a system that is designed to make you fail because we have a, there's probably 1100 families that run the entire world as billions of people on this planet, and part of them control all the food. They want you to be fat, they want you to be lazy, they want you to be complicit, they want you to have low testosterone, they don't want you to build relationships with people, especially men. I mean, they've really, they've attacked women and demoralized the value of relationships in our culture in America because men will die for their families. We will, we're naturally hardwired to fight and die for our families. That's why wars are fought. If you don't have something more important than yourself to live for, you won't put your life on the line. If you don't have kids and you don't have a, whatever your person is, right? Like whatever kind of relish you have, there's nothing to fight for. So it's easy to control a population that is, refuses to fight back. So it's easy to, it's more easier than ever to be obese. We've never had this much access to calories. Yeah. And the lifestyle has completely changed. You know, like most, I would say most people are doing work behind a computer screen. Are they doing something that's super sedentary? And unless you are actively going out of your way to move on a daily basis to exercise, to be healthy, like it is much easier to, to your point, to be unhealthy. And when you think about the traditional like setup of, of, you know, nine to five, eight to five, whatever it is, you know, there's not a lot of people who are like, Oh, let me go take like a walk break. Let me go outside. Let me go get sunshine. Let me go do this. Like those things are not instilled. And when you're sitting behind a screen all day, you are going to feel really tired. And then you're like, well, when I get off work, I'm too tired to go to the gym and now I don't want to go train. And now I want to just sit on the couch and I'm going to watch TV and then I'm going to like eat shitty food. And it all just compiles really easily. And we all have days, obviously, where, you know, we're not maybe our best, but you have to set those things, those habits in place. Because if you don't, then you're going to look up and be like, wait, where did the last three months go? Where are the last three years? The last 30 years? Look at the cost of food. Oh, yeah. Right. You're like, Oh, I could feed my whole family up a dollar menu every day for a year. I'm like, yeah, cool. And then they'll never do anything. They'll get diabetes. They'll get, you know what I mean? It takes time. You know what I mean? Because the human body is resilient. Why is like, why is the produce section of whole foods so fucking expensive? No, I don't know. Why is everything so far? But that's what I'm saying. That's a little bit, sorry. You know, it's, it's, you know, it is. It really is sad though, because, but ultimately, like there is like a, the short term pay off is or the short term when really is like this long term. What's the word I'm looking for? Well, it's like recovery. It's a day at a time. Anybody, all you have to do is try to be healthy one day at a time. You don't have to look down the line. Like, you know, that's what happened to me. I'm like, I'm just going to do today. And then 13 years goes by and you're like, Oh, I'm free of the bondage of drugs and alcohol. You know what I mean? How much would you say that training consistently like helped that? Do you think that that had any advantage or? Yeah, of course, because I needed like, I wasn't getting any dopamine hits. And so, you know, I it's like, I was, I did cardio queen for, for probably two years where I was like getting the high from running, you know, because I'm just like, all right, what is cardio? Cardio queens are people who go to the gym, but they're like main focuses to do cardio. You were referring to yourself as a cardio. Yeah, yeah, like, is that like a program? Did I miss this? No, no, it's just like, I'm going to just do I'm going to, you know, and it's like, I have chronic anxiety. I constantly want to get fucked up. I can't deal with life. I'm like, I'm going to take caffeine and I'm going to run. You know, and that's what you do. And like, and then after you're running, you feel good, right? You're like, Oh, all right. And then, you know, the next day, you're like, I want you, it's I need it again. But your body doesn't look the way you want it to. And you're not really strong. Yeah. So then it changes, you know, so everything's about finding balance, but it gives you something else to work on. And, you know, I would basically run away from my low, if that makes sense. You know what I mean? And so, you know, even, even sometimes when I would run outside, I would pretend I was being chased. Because I'm like, I'm tired. And I'm like, no, if you know what I mean? I'm like, if you don't, if you don't keep going, you're going to die. Like everything has to be so dramatic. I mean, I'm like, I'm going to keep going one more mile. Can't just go for a run. And I'm like, you didn't get me. You know, in the stick, it's running away from like giant bags of Coke and needles. It's like, this sounds like a fever dream. Yeah, but I'm just like, so anyway, so I did that. And then, you know, I didn't like that. And I started lifting weights again. And yeah, so I mean, it's very important to replace one thing. And I think going to meetings was the most important thing, right? Like meeting makers make it and being in a group. You know, recovery is the first place is the real me too. It's been going on for 100 years, because the most powerful thing that somebody can say when you come in there and you're like, I can't fucking do it. I'm fucking, I'm losing my place. And I'm kicking out of my job. My person left me and my dog shit on my bed. And someone's like, yeah, me too. Like, I went, what? You know, like, whoa, because we're all think we're terminally unique. We think we're terminally unique in in our struggles financially. We think we're the only ones going through our weight problems within our only ones going through our addiction problems, our love problem. Everyone's having a relationship problems. The most toxic thing that could have happened to society, Instagram is the most toxic thing that could have happened to traditional relationships in in a society period, because it's this fake grass is always greener. And like, I'm dating some of the I've dated some of the, you know, I've got millions of followers. These girls are miserable. They're really unhappy. Because they're they're everything about them is like, I got to check my phone. I got to see like, do people still like me? Yeah, if you let it suck you in like that, which I feel like at some point, it does even if you don't want it to, you know, even if you are rational, because I mean, part of it too is like, if you're putting something out there, you're like, well, I'm putting this out the intention that somebody is going to not necessarily like it, but like it, enjoy it, get something out of it. So you want it to be dopamine. Yes, from social media. So the social media has been designed by some of the most sophisticated casino game designers. So they literally format, you know, the metaverse Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, I had a buddy who his dad made he built casinos in Vegas, right? And so we got sober together. And so it's like 10 years ago. I remember going into the casino and people was, you know, in old town in Vegas and people were smoking cigarettes, just so sad, they're coins in. And I'm like, Oh, this is the Lost Souls room, like in Beetlejuice, you know, and they don't know they're dead. But now we're all doing it. Because we're all like, and I do it too. Yeah. Like, like I turn my phone off to go in the park. I'm like, off. I turn my phone off when I go to dinner. I turn my phone off when I go on a date. I turn it off. Oh, it's I don't want it to have that power over me. You know, and it's very subversive in the way that we get addicted to it. And so I don't want to reward prediction error, which is basically what they're basing all this off of is so powerful. And that way, like, okay, hey, this one post got a lot of interaction. And then the next few didn't. So you're like, Well, and then there's a higher dopamine response when there's when it's incoherent pattern. So basically, if it's like, if it's okay, every third post you get a lot, then you're going to know that's the pattern. But if it's highly unpredictable, that's what keeps people sucked in. And that's how they design it. Engagement that way. And the thing is, Instagram, a couple years ago, Instagram was cool. You're like, it's just me. It's just my friends doing stuff. Here's my here's my uncrustible and my here's my melted protein bar. Yeah, yeah, all people would post their food. Oh, yeah, they're like person. Now it's like people are like, Oh, I don't know. Like, we've been together for six years. I don't know if I should post you on my page. Like, what? I think that the so weird, such an interesting dynamic like relationships on social media, right? And I often find that the people who are putting it out there so heavily, like this like perfect life, I'm like, I feel like y'all are having the worst problems because I went through that people. Yeah, no, I went through that. Like, I had a my friend and I we were friends for years. And we had both kinds of breakups at the same time. I think we kind of rebounded with each other. And, you know, we fell in love. And we weren't supposed to date. And then we did. And then it was everywhere because we both had big followings. I'm rock star guy. She's like, I'm fitness model, blah, blah, like, and, you know, she's one of those people who her whole platform was predicated on telling other people how to live their best life and this at the other and, you know, health and fitness and this. And she was the probably one of the most damaged individuals I ever dated. You know, it was like, we would have episodes of like, she didn't drink all the time, but every time it was violence. It was like, you know, I found the pills, I found this and it was like, it was just the cheating and the lying and the manipulating. And then, you know, we broke up. And then I'm the kind of person like, once the last strike happens, I'm gone. Like I'm out. And I just packed all my shit. I was paying for our apartment and I had my own place. And I was like, I just moved back home. And I was like, cool, you're on your own. And, you know, that I saw a month or two later, I started dating somebody else. And then I got a phone call that from a detective and was like, Oh, we're investigating a domestic violence report. I'm like, of who? Like I'm like, was I a witness to something? And they're like, Oh, of you. So like this girl like could not handle that she lost her, you know, like I was paying for everything too. And I was running her businesses. I made her a lot of money. And then she she like lost it. So she tried to meet to me and then I beat it in court in criminal court. And then she sued she she didn't sue me. She cut a restraining order against me. And then tried to get me to give her $100,000 to drop the restraining order. So I said, I'm like, No, this is illegal. So I went to court that again. And yeah, and the judge was like, there's no evidence of domestic violence. So like, we'll give you, you know, you can get an RL for anything. Like if you yell at me, I can go get a restraining order. I'm scared for my life. So they gave her an online bullying restraining order. So I didn't spill a tea on her, because I had evidence that she was she was prostituting. That's why we broke up. And so this is what I'm saying, like this person is making $150,000 a year, teaching women how to live their best life. She's a complete total fraud. Right. And like, that's just one example of many. There's so many of these gurus this all like, and I'm in the I'm friends with a lot of the people in the entrepreneurial entrepreneurial business space. Bro, if a lot of these people just snake oil salesman, right, like I fuck with the real guys. But everyone knows like there are people out here like, Yeah, you got to do this and blah, blah, and their whole platform is predicated on. I'm going to get like, I'm going to teach you how to make money. You don't even have money. The only money you have is from scamming the people you're pretending to teach how to be successful. That's your six, your Ponzi scheme. It's like a Jacobs ladder. It's like click, click, click, click. It starts off with nothing. And you just that's so gross. It's so gross. Yes. This has been going on. I mean, for for a long time, but it's gotten so much more saturated. It's it's like, but that also too, like people will I just heard about this story the other day. I don't even really know these people, but someone was telling me like this couple was was like basically selling the dream of like their relationship. And they were doing like relationship workshops and all this stuff. Mind you, they literally like we're in the middle of like getting a divorce. And you're like, okay, so you're going to paint this like perfect picture to then like get these sales for like these events. And listen, like, I'm not saying that because you teach other people about relationships that you can't have your own relationship struggles, obviously you can. Listen, this is the thing. My friends went through a divorce like this. And they're not their fitness trainers. They have nothing to do with whatever. And they don't they're not online celebrity people. And they had the most amazing divorce ever. And I was like, Listen, if you're going to get a divorce, show everyone how to do it. Like if you're a fitness, if you're if you're a guru couple of love, and be real, because you have to set realistic expectations for your audience, that sometimes it's not going to work out. And there's a dignified honorable way to separate amicably. And that is the kind of that's a people will buy that more that's a more powerful example to set. Like the I I come from the generation of when you said buy to your friends, people like yo, keep it real, like keep it real. That's how you would say goodbye. Like I come from a culture where you're not allowed to be fake. It's despicable to be exposed for being fake. And that's why I've exposed a lot of people in Hollywood. I've exposed a lot of people in the music industry, because they're doing their stealing, they're doing illegal shit that you know, there's a lot of fucking fucked up shit going on. And people and if you fuck with me, it's just like, well, yeah, it's like, it's like, don't, don't try to ruin my life with a lie. If I can ruin yours with the truth. You know what I mean? And so it's just nobody wants to work anymore. You know, like I don't, I'm like, we don't need any more influences. We need leaders. You know what I mean? Like everyone's like, I just want to fucking do this. And you know, it is crazy when you like, stop and think about it, like where things going and then I'm gonna do only fans shit. I don't. Oh my god. Yeah, I know. But I don't like, I'm like, you know what? I mean, it would be it would delegitimize my artwork. Certainly, what the fuck? Certainly has crossed my mind. But like, what it's one of those things too that like, I think a lot of people look at that and they're like, Oh, well, I'd like to do that because it's easy. And I'm like, it's very easy. But it's not that easy. But it costs something. Well, it costs. Yeah, like, you have to want to do that. And if you want to do that, that's totally fine. But like in order to be successful, it's kind of like everything now, like you can't just like, put up a mediocre photo and do this, like it is like work. Yeah, like it is, I guess. I don't have to do it. So I make artwork. Yeah, yeah, no. And then I put it out and people like it. And I'm like, Oh, sick. But like, I think a lot of people are like, Oh, just starting to leave and you make 20k months. Like, no, that's not an accident. Yeah. But it's not. Yeah, of course, it's not an accident. But it's also like, it's, you know, do you want to sexually objectify yourself? Right. And maybe I'm mentally ill. But I've dated sex workers. I've been through this right in my addiction and in recovery. And like, I'm like, you know, I'm at the point where, you know, I'm in a place of the rejection of modernity, right? So now my value systems are starting to, as I'm maturing, I'm starting to understand the value of old school, right? Like, you know, it's like, I want going on a date with someone who has no social media is sick. Like, you're like, you're not on social media. What do you mean? Not all you mean, like, they don't have to check their phone. They don't have to check in and take a picture of this. You know, and it's cool. And, and that's one one aspect. But it's also to like, you know, I'm at I'm at the age where like, I'm not looking at a relationship. You know, I took a long time off from my last relationship, because it was so toxic. And I've had other toxic relationships. So I've had to go in therapy and really identify what it is about me that is attracted to this personality type. And now I, I, you know, because I've identified the things that I value in a partner now, because I didn't know what they were, because I didn't think know what I deserved, right? I don't want to pin a model on a partner. I don't want a project. I want a partner. I want somebody who's like, sees me working hard, and is like has ideas about how we can make more money together. Because when I'm in a relationship, I make my partners wealthy. Like, because I love them. And the way that I love people is to give them independence. I'm not a jealous person. Like, I can't do the, who's this girl? Who's that picture? You like, I'm like, dude, this is not reality. You know what I mean? I was like, who's paying for all these bills? Like, who's showing you how to quadruple your monthly income? Oh, me, you know, like, so I don't want like, it's just about prioritizing things and understanding reality versus fiction. And I'm somebody who like, obviously, I risked my entire career to be publicly outspoken about my beliefs, whether they were spiritual, whether they were primary political, whether I questioned narratives, you know, you know, I and I went through it, you know what I mean? I went through a multi-million dollar lawsuit. I was betrayed by lifelong friends over money and power, which now there's none of because, you know, some people have juice. But once you, you know, the thing is, when you lose the sauce, it's over, you know, and so, you know, often duplicated, but never replicated, you know, the entire next, and that's the thing. It's scary to have integrity, right? Being an influencer just means I'm going to take this stuff that somebody else made and be like, here, being a leader is like being the captain of the Titanic. If the fucking ship's going down, you ride it to the bottom, you know, and that's what I did. And then, you know, this is one of those, it was one of those things like, you know, everybody has to get, everybody gets in a life pull first, and then I'll, and then if I, you know, because I'm responsible for everything, I put myself in that mode of responsibility and I take the hits and I come, I just refuse to stop fighting, you know what I mean? And so now, because I fought the fight that nobody, no one else in my industry is willing to do, I'm completely independent. I don't need anything from anyone. I'm making more money than bands of artists that are 10 or 20 times my size because I'm not getting ripped off. And, you know, these are the things, the sacrifices. Sometimes we don't understand what, you know, what the universe or what God, whatever you believe in, why it's giving you trials, right? You know, I've been in the witness protection program, right? My twin brother is doing 20 years in jail for trying to murder me. When I testified against him, he put a hit out on me. Like, I've been through the craziest shit. And in those moments, I wanted a drink and I wanted to use it. This happened in my sobriety, but I couldn't do it. I didn't know why I was going through these things, you know? I was so miserable, you know, I felt like I was made out of glass that if I was walking down the street, if I tripped, I'd fall and shatter into a million pieces because I had, it was so hopeless and so bleak. But sometimes life has to bring you to those moments because that's how you build courage. Courage is not the absence of fear. It's a judgment that something else is more important. What helped you through those moments of like that exact situation, like walking around feeling like you were going to just fall apart? Helping other people, right? You know, I've talked about this on the Andes podcast, like my suicide attempt was interrupted because some kid had overdosed on heroin and called me before I jumped in front of a train in New York City and asked me to help him get sober. And I was so low and I had just put my brother away to jail and I felt horrible with twins. Not only how could he have done all this to me, but how could I do this? And like, it goes against all my, like the code of the street. And I just, everything in my life had been so bad up until that point. I was just like, I don't want to do this anymore. And yeah, this kid called me and I wrote a song about it. Actually, it's on my new record. It's called Strong for someone else. And, you know, sometimes we don't have the self-esteem to take care of ourselves. We lose, you know, we just, you know, lose the will to keep fighting. And every time I get into a place where I feel beaten down, I now I try to find somebody to help. Because that's really what we're made here to do, right? You know, this kid called me like the train that was supposed to kill me took me to meet him and I sponsored him. And now he's still one of my best friends. It's been 10 years. His life is amazing. He moved from New York to Miami. You know, he became rich off the stock market. He's a super brilliant guy, but he would have died if I didn't take that call. He probably would have just got high again the next day and died and I would be dead and then there would be nothing. You know what I mean? And nobody would have been there to tell our story. And so it's not my story. It's not even just a story, but the impact that you've had and he's had on other people's lives and like the impact that the like that ripple effect is completely unimaginable. I think so. It is. I mean, it is because even if you impacted one person, that person is going to impact one more and then one more and then one more. And those are all positive interactions. And honestly, that story literally just like gives me chills. The fact that like he's doing so well and you're doing so well and to think that that all could have been taken away. And I think that that is a perfect place to end because thinking about, okay, everybody can find themselves in these really low moments and that's going to look different for everybody, right? We might find different vices or it might be like whatever it might be. And if you're in that spot, like getting out of that by not just reflecting on your own self, but being able to help someone else really is probably the best way out of it. And I think that that's one of the most powerful things that like we just talked about here. And I think that if like just taking that lesson is so incredible. So if you are in that place or you know someone in that place, helping someone else is always going to it's only going to elevate you and everybody else in your life. So there really is no downside. And that's the 12 steps. The 12 the last step is in all the programs is taking what you want and giving it away freely. Yeah. You know, and that's what anybody can do that. And a bunch of different ways, you know, whether that's an in-person conversation, whether that's a podcast, whether that's just being fucking nice to someone, you know, I was at the airport this morning and flew here. And it's so interesting, like the airport is just like the wildest place ever, right? Like there's just, I don't really know. I don't really know. The airport's weird now. The airport, no, but it's always like people who are freaked out. But like, not this flight. But the last flight I was on, I got there at like 5am. People are drinking. Like, it's just like a lawless place. Like people are sleeping on the floor. But like, it's just always like, if you really like, if like an alien came down, they're like, where are we? Like, it would just be the weirdest situation. But on top of that, there's the airport's a very stressful place, right? People are late, people are running behind. There's like a lot of the crowds, whatever. I feel like it just, it can bring out the worst in people. And I was watching this lady in front of me today. And I was just like, I was so struck by her, her negative presence, right? And she was, she was super loud about how, you know, she was late and this and that like, everything was a complaint. And I was like, I was watching her and she was making everybody around her miserable, right? And I watched that and I was like, Oh my gosh, I have been that person at some point. So I was like, Okay, give this person grace. Like I have been there. Don't you don't need to get irritated by this, right? I felt bad for everybody else. And I was just like, Wow, this is such a great reminder to, yeah, maybe you are late, maybe you are behind, maybe there's all this shit that's popping off and going wrong. But that is not going to help. Right? Like you complaining out loud, you doing this is not helping. And I don't know why I got on this tangent, but I was just like observing all this. And I was like, man, like this was a really good reminder to Yeah, sometimes the best reaction is no action. Yeah, right? Just like, okay. Yeah. All right. But it was just, I may be hungry, but you get to live today. One more day. Another day. All right. Well, thank you so much for coming on the podcast. I appreciate it. Where can people find you if you don't get a band again from Instagram? Oh, my Instagram gets deleted. Like every time I get 200,000 followers. My Instagram is at the lone wolf gang. But I'm mostly on TikTok now, where Tommy is vexed on TikTok. Okay, Tommy. We are at T vexed on Twitter. My website is probably the best way. Probably the best place. Yeah, I have about 100,000 people subscribed to my site. So that works too. When I'm on YouTube, I got 12 new songs out. Okay. Some covers. What is the website? What is the website? The website's Tommy vexed official.com. The YouTube is Tommy vexed lone wolf. Okay. YouTube slash blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Right. And we're coming on tour. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I think we're playing Tampa. Are you? I think so. Yeah, we have four shows in Florida. So the grand theft, the grand theft audio tour kicks off August 18th and Ramona, California. And the album releases August 19th. I love how the voice just changed. Yeah, I've never done this. I haven't done the radio voice 350,000 times before. Get your tickets at tommyvexedofficial.com. The tour is featuring Peyton Parrish. I don't know if you've ever heard of the Viking guy. No, I haven't. I was really hoping you would say this in the Jordan Peterson voice, but oh yeah, go do it. Oh, listen, buck, oh, what are you waiting for? The tickets are on sale now. It's essential. It's necessary. You got to go. We're playing all over the country. I went, I don't know what that was. I think I went Scottish. This is our, this is our cue. We need to go eat. Bye.

=== FILE: Episode 253： Shadow Work ｜ Carl Jung's concept on our shadow self [9KaGHT-UOj8].txt ===

 Welcome back to another episode of the Local Fit Show, where we redefine healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and this week I'm joining my Rick, our team on a health counselor, and we are going to go into, I guess, part two. We did an intro to curl-yings, we're kind of like a general overview, and I would say that most people are familiar with shallow work, or at least they've heard the term. I feel like it's one, super important, but two, very misunderstood. So I wanted to do a follow-up podcast to dive a little bit more into shallow work. So we did discuss that in the first one, and kind of an overview of a lot of his work. He has a lot of work, we just covered a few of the most important things in that last podcast. We really wanted to dive more into shallow work on this episode. So here we go, part two. Alright, so let's talk about what the shadow is. The shadow is an aspect of the unconscious, right? To roughly define what the shadow is, it's the repressed or suppressed aspects of the conscious self. These are the dark aspects of the psyche. That's a very basic, fundamental way of looking at it, and in nutshell, that's what it consists of. So when somebody's talking about doing the shadow work, what they're really talking about is looking at and exploring the unconscious motives, the things that drive us, that create behavior that we don't understand where it comes from or why it happens. And most of the time it's coming from this place, of the shadow, and it's in that place because it's been socially unacceptable or we've been taught to not explore these areas. We're going to get into some of that, how that develops, and so it gets repressed. We call it like in the darkness, the dark parts of the psyche, because we're unaware of it. And so the purpose of doing shadow work is to take things that have been repressed or suppressed, these unconscious motives, right, and move them to the surface to integrate them with our complete awareness. To no longer realize that this is not an unconscious motive, right? It's not something that's moving me and I don't know why. I know why it's moving me. And now I have the ability to control it. I have the ability to understand it. And that's the part, is this is really about gaining insight into your own behaviors and your patterns. And sometimes people, this is not a lighthearted topic. I question sometimes where people are and why they're doing shadow work. I'm really interested in it because some of this is going to be realizing parts of yourself that you might not want to touch. One thing to do shadow work or to do therapy in general is one of the general rules and principles is don't tear down the wall unless you have something to put in its place. Sometimes these defense mechanisms exist for very specific reasons. So unless you're prepared to, I guess, explore all aspects of it sometimes. You know, it's really important that you don't go digging around trying to find answers to things that maybe you don't really want to know the answer to. In some ways, ignorance is bliss for people. You can get to a space where we're happy, content, so to speak, with lower feelings. And then, you know, people will back off and that's okay. Each person's on an individual journey. I'm not here to judge it. But that's essentially what shadow work is. So as a therapist, would you, and this is just a hypothetical situation, so if somebody is ready to, like maybe certain patterns keep coming up and you're like, hey, you know, I have a kind of a hunch that it might be because of these things or do you want to explore? And I ask, like, how would a therapist go about bringing this up to a client? And then likewise, how would a client maybe bring this up to a therapist is something that they might want to work on. You know, granted, they're still kind of new working with a therapist and maybe because, you know, when you're coming to therapy, you are ultimately presenting what you want to present and you're sharing what you want to share. And sometimes you are purposefully avoiding sharing certain things. And sometimes you maybe just, maybe you haven't matched right with that therapist or maybe they haven't asked you for whatever reason. So like, what would be the dynamic of this conversation when working with a therapist? Well, I think it has to be explored within the individual relationship. Is the person looking for a deeper understanding as to what is creating these motives and why they're happening and looking for behavior change? Or are they just simply looking for a behavior change where they don't really necessarily care as to why it's happening? I just want to know some steps and things that I can do differently. Every person is a little different. I think when people are coming to me and we'll get to this toward the end, I'm listening for things that they have strong emotional reactions to. I'm listening for things that are judgments, right? Because that's where- About themselves? That's where we're about other people. More or less, more likely other people. Which is really the reflection of what you're doing. Well, it's an area of, well, and we're going to start getting into this, is that what we don't like in other people is oftentimes inside us. And so we reject and we criticize and we judge other people for doing something that we fail to recognize within ourselves. And so that's where the projection comes from. That's where denial comes from. And these are typical ways that people will deal with the shut up is to deny that it's existing. Or to be someone aware of it and to continue to project it into the people that are around them. So we'll get into that. And one of the kind of ways to start this conversation would be to go back to some of Carl Jung's teachings. And human beings generally do not like to think about themselves in their own negativity. So what happens is we tend to push our thoughts and feelings into the darkness because it makes us feel better and it's easier to ignore it. So essentially what I want you to think about is sometimes whatever the threat is, it's our way of pushing the threat away. And this process is what hinders self development. And so part of understanding the shadow is this. This is a far reaching concept that I want people to understand. Shadow work isn't about judgment. Judgment is taking a position on something. Shadow work is actually removing the judgment. So what I mean by that is I want you to start moving beyond concepts of good and bad. Right or wrong. Evil. Right. These by removing the judgment from those experiences and the aspects of yourself, you move toward the concept of a complete person. Not a good person. Not a bad person, but a complete person. Okay. You're not good or evil, but a complete human. And so when we stop relying on the truths that have been told to us, it allows our conscious to kind of feel out our own truths through our own consciousness. And that's what Carl Jung kind of really starts to get into with his teachings. And so I think with people, one of the difficulties is learning to accept that you are not the good version of yourself that you've projected to the world. Excuse me. Carl Jung wrote, and this is one of my favorite quotes from him, as a whole, man as a whole is less good than he wants to be. Everyone carries a shadow unless it's embodied in the individual's conscious life, the blacker and denser it becomes. Right. So what's he saying there that we aren't good human beings by nature. Human beings aren't the things that we try and portray ourselves to be. Right. And there's so many different versions of this, but we spend our lives developing defense mechanisms to protect ourselves from the person we actually are. Right. We want to believe we're something better and more wholesome and good. Well, what is wholesome? What is good? What is better? Those are judgments. Right. I'm elevating myself, injecting the position to some other value that I deem not appropriate. So I'm making myself better. I'm this more improved version of myself. And the reality is we have created personas to be in acceptance by our peers and project to the world a version of ourselves that we're not. Okay. Social media is the perfect representation of this version. Right. I watch it all the time. I watch people post their virtues about the world, their favorite Frederick Nietzsche quote, what they're going through and doing throughout their day. They project the perfect version of themselves into the world, their attitude, their outlook, their motivation for the world. They put all this out there when inside they're lonely, they're weak, they're desperate, they're angry, they're worthless. And that's not the image that they're projecting for. And so literally, like social media has become a persona in and of itself to project this like false reality of who we are. Right. I want everybody to see this. Forget even collecting the likes. I'm just putting out what I want everybody to see the fabulous life that I have, the great person that I am, the motivator, all these things. And it's that inability to really connect with who the person is on a deeper level. So there's a few things I want to say about that. So first, I'm like, all the things. First, I guess, what is the alternative though? Right. So as a person who's sharing something on social media, right, as the person who's sharing, you know, there is a level of vulnerability that I think is useful. But then I also think that there's a point where probably shouldn't be sharing that, right? Like those are things that you should probably keep to yourself. And there's certainly people who overplay that angle as well. Right. So it's like, what is the right, and this is again, this is a judgement. What's right, what's wrong? There is no answer right. This is the side of the whole thing I'm posing. Like, what is the right thing to share or not share? Because if you only share this perfect life, right, or who you want to be, and you're not sharing the other things, the loneliness, the anger, the regret, the whatever. But maybe those are things that you don't want to share. Likewise, is sharing those things useful? Or is that now keeping you stuck? And is that oversharing? Right, it's like this really weird spot because how do you come out ahead and then, like, as a person, not like I'm talking about, like, social media likes and stuff. Like, how do you come out ahead, like, keeping yourself intact, but then also helping people and showing everything without showing too much? And you know, like, it's very, it's just this, I don't know what the right thing is, and this is something that I've always struggled with, you know, because it's like, well, first of all, I don't want to just share it with people who like, anything that you put out, anybody can see it, technically, right? And that's what happens to people who are your followers, can see it. But other people, sometimes you will just stumble upon it, right? So anything you put out can be seen by anyone at any given period of time. They could see a post you made two years ago, right? Which would be unlikely, but they could. And so it's, you know, like, do you want to share all those things with people? Like, probably not. I get what you're saying because, like, I don't know what the right solution there is either of, like, striking that balance of, like, sharing enough to be vulnerable and open, and, like, maybe sharing those other sides. I don't know what you're saying. The original intention behind social media was to create what it's become today. I don't know if it's the right platform to be sharing those things. But then how, then what, what do you say? What do people do prior to social media, before Facebook and Instagram existed and TikTok and all that kind of stuff? This isn't work that most people didn't have a platform to run to the internet and, like, share what they've learned. This is an individual process where they're sharing it with their families and their loved ones. That's where that vulnerable space comes from. Social media has transformed and transmuted into something that no one expected. It was originally a way for Mark Zuckerberg to get laid, right, to meet single people, to date, to connect. And from that... I know, but now who we are? It's like, what do we do? I know. And what I'm saying is, is I don't know if social media is the proper platform for people to be displaying these things. I think it's a version that continues to perpetuate an inauthentic self. So you think that everybody should refrain from sharing? Everybody. No, no, no. Okay, I'm saying, like, as a general thing, you think that people should refrain from sharing personal, I guess, personal, like a personal brand. Right? If you're going to use something as a business platform, use it as a business platform. Got it. If you're going to use it as a vehicle for self-discovery, I don't know what you're going to get out of it. I don't know what it gives you back. Yeah. I'm just asking. I'm not like... And I'm answering the best of my ability. I mean, I have a client who had a career as a motivational speaker, right? And through therapy, what we discovered was that it wasn't about motivating other people. It was about self-dissolving gratitude that came from the elevated position, right? So this person is no longer a motivational speaker. Like, they chose him because what they recognized was they were doing this and it was kind of repressing. They were repressing who they authentically were and they were getting this version of themselves praised and validated that wasn't real and authentic to who they were. And that conflict that had been created within them was more important to resolve that conflict and step away from the careers of motivational speaker for the health and reality of accepting himself for who he was and who he wanted to become and these other aspects. So he had to move away from this public image of himself that he had created, that everybody loved and praised and got all this, but it was inauthentic to who he was. And he wasn't a complete person. And he's like, I don't want to just live in these fake virtues anymore. I want to be real with myself. And it was so important that they moved away from that career. And so that's kind of the space that this enters sometimes is... And that's where social media, we don't have to spend too much time on social media because that's like a whole separate topic. But I don't know what it gives back to people other than reinforcing whatever it is you're putting out there which many times isn't in an authentic way. If you're sharing pictures of yourself or your family or your friends and just like, it was a fun weekend to stay connected with my friends and family and to see pictures of your nieces and nephews who live in California grow up. Like, fine, it's fun. It has a purpose. It has transformed it into something very different for people. And through that transformation, I don't know if this is the right tool or venue to be sharing and looking for an authentic self because you don't know what it gives back to you. And we can do one other podcast on that. Because I think that that's... Like, I'm asking these questions because this is really important because a lot of people are doing that in the sense of sharing in terms of a personal brand. Because most people, most businesses are built off of personal brands. Whether that is a business personal brand or an individual, that's becoming much more common. So when you talk about using something for business, well, technically a personal brand is building that person's business. So it's like, how much of that do you share? How much of it do you create? And I cannot remember if I talked about this in a podcast or not and everybody forgive me if I read this. But I just saw this other video. The only other channel I go on, YouTube, it's called Africa School, they talk about a lot of this kind of stuff too. Psychological stuff, philosophical things. And they do like really cool drawings with it, so it's really nice. And the one topic I want to kind of put you right, it was one of the most recent ones. And it's basically how the audience creates the influencer. And how the audience shapes that person. Because what happens is then they use this example of this guy who was like a violinist or something. And then he was a vegan and he was sharing his views and his skin and whatever. And then all of a sudden he decided to stop being a vegan and he became a, he started doing book banks, which is a video camera. And that's where we get a lot of views because people like these kind of videos blow up. And it became like, oh do this, be more extreme. Why don't you do this food challenge? Why don't you do this? And it became all these things. And now the guy is morbidly obese. I don't know where he is now if he's gone on a journey or not. I hope he does because it was like, honestly, like I was watching it and I was so close to crying. Which is not his physical appearance, but just seeing like the transformation. And it was just so sad because it was like, oh my gosh, now this person is literally just chasing what has been created as their image. Right? And so like the audience essentially is creating this influencer. So it's like all of these and. And that's a perfect representation of what. So what you're talking about. Yeah. So you repressed various aspects of who he was and the world told him what to do, which is what we've done. We've taken values and traits that are consistent with the human beings. And over years we've said, these are bad. And so we've learned to repress those aspects and put forth the version of ourselves to the world that everybody else wants to see. And so we're not whole or complete people. And that's what happens with that person. It happens all the time, right? There's like a jujitsu guy, right? No one gets shit about this guy other than through his jujitsu, but he happened to make a post or something that he was eating. And so this whole separate thing has spun off where it's like this jujitsu guy eats food. And so there's people who follow him just for his diet. Like what he's eating, what he's making versus the only thing that he really has to offer is quality. Is it like funny? So let's see, maybe like funny or. No, I think he's just generally like showing people what he cooks and what he's making. But so that's an example of a personal brand. He's building a personal brand. Right. And are you building a personal brand or are you more interested in self growth and development? I don't know what he is, but I'm just saying that's how somebody would spend that. So it is, but at the same time it's like, well then why not share this with somebody? You know what I mean? Well, and I think this is the important part to distinguish between, there's a difference between building a brand and a business and self development. And so before talking about this from a self development perspective, that's where I would want to keep it. Not necessarily about building a brand for yourself. Building a brand but just sharing like, hey, I learned this, don't I saw this? And that's, again. But what you're saying is that that can potentially maybe hinder your progress? It can because like you said before when you start posting things and you're looking for the gratification that comes with it, the validation that comes from the likes, the comments, the people like, oh my God, yes girl, like this is amazing and you're amazing. And oh my God, you're beautiful. And like more like this, God, you spoke to me on a different level. It's like, okay. And so what happens is people start filtering that because that's what the public wants. That's what their followers quote. Yeah. And so it's not about their personal journey and development into discovering aspects of themselves, but giving people what they want, which is literally a persona, which is creating that image and projecting it to the world of what I think you want to see rather than who I really am. And so when we're talking about shadow work to kind of really move back to the central topic is we're talking about integrating shadow work into our conscious awareness, like being aware of these other forces. So an integrated person knows that whatever is wrong in the world is actually wrong within themselves. Okay. Okay. Learning to deal with the shadow means actually doing something for the rest of the world. Okay. For the people in your life, for the people in your community and society. The only thing you can control is you. And so I feel like what happens is we get lost or wrapped up into much larger causes and things that we can't really affect change with. And we lose the ability to say, look, the one thing that is within my control is me. And if I really want to change the world, the where to start is within myself. Right. Because that's the only thing within our control. And everybody's always worried about something grander, you know, large, big picture kind of stuff. Like I've got to do this and, you know, that virtue signaling thing that comes with rather than looking at themselves and saying, like, what is it within me that I can start to change? Because then once you do that, then you recognize that like maybe those are the things that, like all the stuff that you're, you know, either arguing against or fighting against, like you have all those aspects within yourself. And it is, it is frustrating because I think, like you said, people want to feel like they're making a big difference. And it feels like you'd be making a bigger difference if you're standing behind something really large. But the reality is like, how much you can like move or navigate that is going to be a lot smaller than if everybody just focused on an individual level to say, hey, I'm going to be like my most excellent version of myself. Yes. Integrative. And because like you said, that is the only person you can control. But if we all actually did that, then we would really collectively be a lot better, you know, and if that's just going to have to really remind myself of all the time with coaching, somebody like, what I do is so minuscule, you know, I mean, like nutrition, somebody's habits, their mindset, their training, like, does this really matter? You know, sometimes I'll get down when I'm thinking about like bigger problems and bigger situations. And then I have to say, okay, no, if I can help someone in this small area, then that would potentially free up other areas in their life where they can pursue more growth and excellence and integrate themselves. And then they can be a more high function individual, which then can contribute to society in a bigger way. But I think it is so easy to get stuck in that big picture. And I think that grand only, oh, I'm a part of this. And that's not to say you can't do that, but you should focus on yourself first, especially because I feel like what happens is people want to make that change. But it is really frustrating when you're part of a big group because you don't have that much influence. Even if you're the top person, you know what I mean? Like when there's a lot of other people involved, it's going to be a lot harder to make a substantial change versus if you are focusing on you. And then maybe like your immediate family, you know, stuff like that, you'll actually be able to make more of an impactful change. Yeah. So to understand the shadow, there's a concept that I want everybody to really start to explore, which is the concept of kind of opposing forces, okay? Opposition. And what I mean by that is the good and evil, the devil and God, healthy and unhealthy, angry, calm. The opposites of a teeter-tar, so to speak, like that balance, okay? And so I think with shadow work, one of the easier places to start is with the emotion of anger. Anger is an emotion that everybody feels. Man or woman, it's just the most common space and it's one of the easier concepts to start to dissect, so to speak, especially in a platform like this where we're trying to educate and learn about it. So by the large, early in our lives, we were told that anger is generally considered to be negative. And we've been taught that that message has been received to us and talked to us through the social framework that we live in. Our view of anger growing up as kids, as young, small children, is very narrow. It's incomplete in many regards. It's limited. So anger becomes repressed because it's unacceptable to society, right? Like when you see a kid who's really upset, what's the first thing that we do as parents? We like stop crying. You know, you don't be angry. You're taught literally by your parents, by your family, by society, by the community to repress aspects of an emotional response that is human, right? And so what happens is your anger response gets shelved into a space where you know you're not supposed to display it, especially if you're throwing tantrum, right, where people are going to really call you out on it, especially your parents. And depending on who your parents are, how they correct that behavior, it can be even more damaging and more repressive, right? Especially if it's followed up with abuse or if we're judging you even harsher for it, right? Name calling, withdrawing from the relationship from you because you're angry. These are very common things that happen. And sometimes it's totally unconscious, motivated by the parents. But what's the message that we receive that anger by and large is considered to be negative? And our view of it is very incomplete, right? And what do I mean by that? Well, as we grow and mature in life, we understand the dichotomy of anger, right? And that we learn as we get older that anger actually has some positives to it, don't we? Anger is not always a bad thing. Anger provides direction, it provides change, motivation, leadership, survival. Those are all positive, affirming values and beliefs that come with anger. And so because it has these redeeming qualities, it also is redeeming to the person in the community and society. These are confirming principles of anger, okay? So there's the juxtaposition of anger. We have the emotion, on one side we're taught that it's destructive and hurtful and hateful and aggressive and it's not good. And on the other side of it is it's like anger actually provides benefit to the person as well as the community. And so you start to see where some of the repression starts to take place. And so, and we can kind of come back to this, this is like more like a personal observation that I've had, but I believe part of the issues, so the problem starts, you can begin to make the argument that as children we don't possess the ability to cognitively understand the various dynamics of something complicated like that. Like anger, explain that to a six-year-old that like anger is a negative thing but also a positive thing. And they're kind of headsets that's spent on an access because they don't really understand it. So like a perfect example of something like this would be a concept of fairness, right? If you take two kids out and give a son and a daughter and your son does great at his baseball game, right? You're like, let's go out for ice cream. Well, let's say your daughter didn't do anything that day, right? Do you just buy him ice cream or do you buy her ice cream as well? What are you going to do Lauren? We're all getting ice cream. You included so. That was a terrible example. Right. So the idea is as a children we learn that the world... I don't know what the right... I'd buy both of them ice cream. I'm like, I don't know. That's another trick question. No. So we begin to see the world as fair, right? Because I bought a little Jolly ice cream. I got a Bicissus ice cream as well. So the idea of fairness is this belief system that we put in place when we're kids. The idea that the world must be a fair place and fairness not trying. Right. Is that the case when we get older? Does fairness apply itself to things? No. No. Right? We learn quite the opposite that the world isn't a fair place and that fairness doesn't always try enough. But here's the problem. It starts to conflict with the world view that we had as a child when mom and dad bought us both ice cream. We were equals. Everything was fair. And so we hold on to this childlike brain. We stay stuck in childhood. We're with adults. I hear it all the time with adults. Oh, so and so is doing this and that just isn't fair. And I'm like, since when is the world a fair place? We still have an expectation that the world is fair. We know that it's not cognitively. Right? And rationally we know that. But when it's not a fair place, we get upset by it. When a police officer gets off or something, he shouldn't have gotten off the floor. Or when a school teacher does something that they weren't supposed to do, everybody's like, oh, they should be punished for that. Well, the world's not necessarily a fair place. And so they don't get punished for it. And so it creates this like imbalance within us. We're like, oh, this just seems not fair. This isn't just. So we start seeing conflict in these values early on. And so we still hold on to our childish beliefs, our feelings, our perceptions of the world. And that continues to stay with us even as adults. And so what I feel like happens is because that mindset is there when we're kids and it doesn't necessarily get challenged, even though as adults we're able to see both sides of anger, we don't always view it in the same regard. We're not looking at anger as a positive, reaffirming value within our system or ourselves. And would you say that if somebody is repressing that or having those thoughts about it, that they are maybe using anger in that negative sense? Because they're either using it in a negative sense, which can be true, or they're not using it at all. And that's making them even more angry. I would say they're still, yeah, I guess, I don't know how to phrase this. They were somebody who would be expressing angry emotions. They're not seeing any of the positives of it because they are only viewing it from this negative lens. That's more so what I mean. Yeah, so like the impact or the impractical aspects of anger are used as a deterrent so that we repress all possibilities.  denomin Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood You know, there's a difference you do when they say, you know, this is always funny to me. People are like, I have an anger problem. Usually it's men who are coming to me saying that I have an anger problem. And to me, one of the first things is to look at people and I'm like, when I hear that, what I hear is it's not just an anger problem that they have. In fact, usually it's not anger that they have a problem with. What they have a problem with is expressing other emotions, like depression, sadness, guilt, shame, embarrassment. Why? Because no one ever talked about how to do those things. So here comes the problem. The only tool I give you is a hammer. Everything begins to look like a nail. Because it's the only thing I have in my arsenal. And for some people, anger is a survival tool. So they've learned that the only way they're going to get what they want is through anger. And so then it's a different, it takes a different tone with them and it's not necessarily the repressed aspect of themselves, but kind of the opposite. We need to get them to recognize the danger that comes with their anger and acknowledge and not see it as just a beneficial thing, but start to recognize the other side of the danger and the unhealthy habits and the safety that it creates, or lack of safety that it creates in other people. And so you're kind of trying to always strive for balance. And so when I talk about balance of those opposing views, that's what we're striving for in therapy. The acceptance of you as a person that possesses both dichotomies, the good and the bad, so to speak, right? To blend into that neutral person. But reality is you're a complete person. And when somebody is coming to therapy for this, would it be something that you would probably want to tackle maybe one emotion of time? Or would it be something to where, like, obviously we're talking about anger. But I believe there's going to be many parts that somebody is really repressing or having issues with as far as emotional regulation. So when you're talking about doing shadow work, is it something to where, like, let's tackle this one thing? Are we just kind of shifting the view in general and then it kind of works for all of the emotions? No, because I think for some people, they struggle with accurate expression and identifying what emotion they're feeling. So it's kind of like, I ask you a story about something that makes you angry. So I say, okay, and I'll give them a feeling checklist, so to speak. And they'll say, all right, anger is there, so we're going to circle it. But what other emotions might be there? And you're dealing with an adult who's articulate enough and intelligent enough to really possess just enough insects, or at least identify what the emotions are. And then so I'll start to say, okay, what is a healthy way to express shame? In fact, if you want to start digging a little bit more into it, it's like, how did your father express shame? How did your mother express shame? How did they encourage negative, quote, unquote, emotions to be expressed? And what you realize is those things were never really encouraged, and they don't know how. And so they want to be taught these other things. The reaction sometimes is, did they go to anger? But if anger is like the tip of an iceberg, right, and that that's the part that the rest of the world sees, that's what we show, well, then I spread 90% of its mass to submerge under water. And so all of your other emotions are underneath anger. So like when I'm sad, anger comes to the surface. When I'm frustrated, anger comes to the surface. When I'm stressed, anger comes to the surface. When I'm lost and confused, anger comes to the surface. Like, well, anger is the one emotion that we're comfortable expressing. So sometimes you can do multiple things at a time. Other times it's like, okay, let's kind of break this down. Let's look at what are the other emotions you're feeling and how to start to express those, right? And so does that help? No, I just ask, because I know a lot of people are probably listening, they're like, oh, I might be dealing with a few of these things. And just understanding the therapy process, I think for a lot of people, and the kind of logical framework of how are we going to tackle things. Because one of the biggest things we're actually going to do with the podcast on when you need therapy, when to adjust, so that'll be coming up the next one after this. And some people just don't even really know kind of what to expect. They feel like they might need it, but they're not really sure. So that's why I'm asking some of these questions. So if people are relating to this, it's like, yes, these are the kinds of things that you can work through, maybe one at a time, maybe all together. But yeah, I would say that anger is, that was a really good point of how that is usually what's shown, because it's like this volatile emotion that comes out. But there's so many other things underneath why that person is probably angry. And it might actually be like anger itself. It's all these other things that maybe they haven't identified yet. And they might not even know what it is either. I think a lot of times people are just so like, I know that there might be something off of how I handle this or that, but they don't know what it is. And I don't know why I have this reaction. And it's because of all of this stuff that they've suppressed or repressed for so many years that they're not even really aware of it. And so that's part of the process, is for them to identify what they're feeling and then learn to communicate that with the people that are around them. So that your wife or your husband, when you're used to being angry, the person can say, well, I'm angry, but I'm also confused right now. And so through that therapeutic process of me working with that one client, that client can then teach their spouse or their significant other to their children or their neighbor or whatever it is, how to react to them in those ways. Because they're working on changing, so I might need help when I say this, this is what I hope you'll do instead, right? And so it starts to go that way. So let me kind of dive a little bit more into aggression and how this has transformed into shadow work and where it goes. So aggression is considered negative. And kind of like when we're talking about the idea of aggression, it's widely considered to be a negative trait. And when we're talking about that, we're talking about like broad social or societal terms. It's widely considered inappropriate to be aggressive, right? So people have been taught. Unless you're in a jiu-jitsu class. I just know a lot of aggressive people still are. Isn't this the norm for everybody functioning? No. So people have been taught to be more passive and not really engage in conflict, right? Why? Because what we're doing is we're judging and criticizing aggression. And so what's the opposite side of that? Well, I don't want people to be engaged in conflict. I want you to be passive. I want you to take the path of least resumeness. Or the path of aggressiveness overshadow. So what happens then is that the result of that kind of teaching, right, is that we always feel weak and impressed or we feel victimized. And so what happens is that when you finally start to speak to this person who's had years of just repression and not saying anything and bottling everything up inside, you stop to that person and you find out they're really angry. Like they're really pissed and they have something to say. It's finally in the safe environment where they're like, they're expressing to me what's going on, right? And so you're like, oh wow, this person's got a lot of anger. They're full of resentment. They're full of contempt. Like there's a lot of negative space in there. So you start working with that person. And what I try to do is to get them to realize that, hey, you actually have something to say right here. You want them, I want them to start to confront their partner, their neighbors or friends, whoever it is with what they're feeling because they need to give it an outlet. Because if you don't give it an outlet, this is where unconscious motives will find a way out in different behaviors. Okay, it has a mind of its own. If you don't give it an avenue, it's coming out in some way, shape, or form. Whether it's whether you're keeping inside and it eats away at your health and you feel stressed and angry and pissed off and bitter at the world even though you're projecting this super positive, fluffy person, right? You hate yourself, hate your life. There's no real joy or excitement in it. You feel lost and empty. Or it starts to manifest in other ways like you drink more or you gamble or you need other convulsive behaviors or you start to withdraw all the way. There's thousands of different ways that this stuff starts to manifest. And so we want to start to give that person an outlet, a healthy outlet to express those emotions, right? To say to that person, it's okay to be aggressive right here. It's okay to express your anger, right? Because in expressing that anger, one of the positives in the Virtues Zone is that you're finally hurt. You fucking matter enough to where your anger is justified and the other person deserves to hear it, right? And so it starts to move in that space because it's dangerous to keep it trapped inside you. And so this is the work. We work to integrate it, right? We're becoming that integrated self. We're wanting to take something that our anger has been repressed for years and so we're looking to move it to the surface and integrate it into a part of who we are. That I'm not a perfect person who's always sweet, kind and nice and always going to take the passive way through it and let you walk all over me. I'm going to assert myself. I'm going to speak my mind. You're not going to push me around. You're going to say what I want to say and feel what I want to feel. Do you think that's taken too far in the extreme to the core? Of course it can. Everything can be taken too far to be sure. The idea is about balance. For the individual who has repressed that for a long time, do you feel like there's a stepwise way to do that? Because I feel like if somebody has truly repressed all those feelings and there is a lot of anger and contempt and resentment and then you say to someone, just go and share that with everyone, I feel like they're probably not going to be the most articulate about it. So what is a way to manage that, to integrate, to manage and integrate it? Because if you were to tell me, hey, really suppress this, go tell this person. I would say something that would be really not appropriate. So that's what I'm like and I know that's not what you were saying. One of the ways that I might go about this, most recent within the last month or two, is that a client had some things that she really wanted to say to her father that she hadn't been expressing. So one of the things that we did was I told her to start to write about it. I said, write what you want to say. So she did and it was very harsh. Some of it was very harsh. Things that, what's the important message here? What do we want to get at? Do we want to hear our message or do we just want to be done all the way ahead? That's what I'm saying, yeah. Right? And so one of the things that we decided was I was like, look, you write what you want to say. I said, write it. I'm filtered the way that you want to say it. And then when she read it back to me, it was kind of like, okay, is there parts of this that you want to change? Well, parts feel too harsh to you. And so she did. And so we worked to kind of rewrite to keep some of it, this exact same, the way she had written it. And in some ways it was like, what's a better way to say this so the person won't hear it? Yeah. And so we did that. And that was within context of her having a conversation with her father, taking front-end on this one thing. I feel like that, that definitely helps. Because I feel like a lot of times, at least, again, maybe this is me as a person, but we're the people that I know. But like say something, somebody's wronged you, right? And you're really, really upset. And this is not just one time they're wronged you. It's multiple things that have built up that you left slide. Then one last thing kind of took you over that edge. Right? And I was having a conversation with someone actually about this. And he was very, very upset. And he could talk to her about all this. And I was not going to judge the situation. And then he said some of those things. I was like, listen, I hear you, but you can't say that to this other person. Because the way that this, I'm not going to get into it, the way that this other person would have taken it, it would have, they would have not listened ultimately. But then more importantly, they would have spun it in a way to really showcase that other person's bad intentions with everybody else. And I was like, they're going to purpose and make you look bad if you share this. So it's not like you want to get this message across to this individual because you're hurt, but they're probably not going to care and not listen. So you just need to recognize that. You can tell me, you can tell a few other close people in your life that that other person is going to purposely spin that and make you look bad. So now ultimately you've gotten us off your chest, but you've done nothing to convince the individual that they've done anything wrong. And now they're going to make you look bad. So like you can share this invent in certain situations, but to that person, it's probably not going to be well received. And actually make you, you look bad in a situation where you shouldn't look bad. But you're going to, because you're letting this, the way that you're saying it, come across as a way. So I think the writing part is really helpful because I think just honestly, there's something so cathartic about just getting stuff like that out. Which I'm sure obviously as a therapist, you probably just hear people just come in and they just share something, right? Yeah, sometimes I've done nothing except listen. And they haven't done anything. They're not going out of the session like, I've got to do these things. They just said finally what they need to say. Yeah, and sometimes that's enough because, you know, it is nice to have like a third, I guess third, third, third party. Somebody who's not really involved in that. Unbiased. Unbiased person who's not really in their life, you know what I mean? And then they also like, you're not burdening people in your life with that information, because that can't be a big dream. Somebody's always like dumping on you and you're like, hey, I love you, but you know what I mean? So I think that sometimes having a person who's, you know, you don't know and nobody else, they don't know anybody in your life, you know, ideally, and then you're able to really share that without any real repercussions. Correct. But I think that the writing too, if you maybe can't see a therapist who don't want to, the writing I think would be really, really impactful for people. Yeah, and I agree, you know, and I think sometimes the idea is can I tap into my anger at this repressed aspect of who I am and have it lead to the outcomes that I'm looking for. If the outcome is to inflict pain and hurt the person, then you're going to accomplish that by using your most harsh words. If the objective is to look, start to find my assertiveness and start to express myself so that I don't feel victimized, there's ways to give the person to listen to you without hammering them over the head with, you know, your anger and now you want to like turn it on them. And so, you know, and this is, I think this is where another message that like, it's again to go back to Jordan Pierce and I mentioned that we kind of reference him. He's got a pretty famous bit. I've heard Jill Rogan talk about it several times if you follow Rogan's podcast, where Peterson talks about like the monster inside you and that you should become a monster, right? Well, if you go back to understanding like where some of this comes from, like let's go back to that quote, from Carl Jung, right? Man as a whole is less good than he wants to be, right? Everyone carries a shadow unless it's embodied in the individual's consciousness if it becomes black or indenser. And so what he's talking about right here is when Jordan Peters was making reference to that monster inside you, like you should become a monster. He's talking more or less about like physical aggression, for example. The concept that he's talking about is when he's saying you want to become a monster, what he's saying is that being weak isn't a virtue, right? Not possessing the ability to defend yourself or stand up for yourself isn't a good person, right? You're not being strong. Assuming the weakness role always leaves you feeling constantly oppressed. It leaves you feeling angry and victimized, right? You're always the victim. And so it's better to acknowledge that that aggression in this other side of you exists, that monster that's inside you is there, but learning to control it. Yeah, so that's the second important part of that quote, is to learn how to control it. A good man isn't a weak man. A good man is a man who understands that he is aggressive but has learned to control it, right? And so this is, you know, and I think sometimes people just want to not listen, and they want to judge again. They want to judge him. They want to judge other people, and they don't want to listen to the message. And so when he's saying, you should be a monster, right? He's really talking about this inner conflict within you, like, to be aggressive, to be angry, to be all of the things that you're not supposed to be, but recognizing that it exists and learning the ways to control it so that it doesn't harm, right? And so, like, he talks about the angry version of you, okay? And what is anger? Anger is very rigid. Oftentimes it's impulsive. It's short-term. It doesn't think about the past unless it's specifically thinking about the person who hurt you, right? And in which case you'll ruminate on that for a really long time. And it's not concerned with long-term consequences, and it wants to be right, right? And so what happens when that anger, which all human emotions eventually disappear, right? I talked about this over and over again. Human emotions are temporary, right? You don't stay angry forever. You don't stay sad forever. You don't stay happy forever. You don't stay excited forever. They eventually return back to baseline. So what happens when you return back to baseline and you quote-unquote, like, normalize? And the normal version of you reappears? Well, what happens is we start to reflect on how angry we got. And in many cases, if you recognize that your anger got really out of control and you maybe said and did things that you thought you wouldn't normally do, it starts to reveal parts of yourself, parts that can be very terrifying for people, and horrific to look at, right? And in some cases, like, for example, extreme cases where people behaved in ways that they never thought they would, but for example, war, it can create immense psychological stress on the person, okay? And this is where people start to struggle with this concept because we want to put ourselves in a space to be above that, and we're not. The worst atrocities the world has ever seen have been done by mankind and other human beings. You are a human being. You are a part of that system. No one wants to admit that. Everybody wants to look at Nazis, like, oh my God, Nazis are this, like, subclass, this monster, right? People want to look at pedophiles. Like, I work with sex offenders. People are always asking me, how can you work with them? Right? Do you know what the number one and number two responses are when I tell people that I work with sex offenders for treatment? They kill them and ship them off to an island where they cannot live together. Right? I don't even, I don't debate it. I don't even tell people I work with them anymore. Like, when I'm on a plane, right? It's like, what do you do? I'm in sanitation. I love trash. I'm like, what the heck? It's like, we're really good to go. Yeah. So the headphones go on, no one wants to talk. I'm like, oh, the playwrights. You're seeing a super hero on the phone, that's for fun. You know, so no one really asked. But like, I get tired of almost having the conversation with people because what they want to do is they want to put these things, they want to put the sex offenders, they want to put the Nazis, they want to put these people into place that villainizes them and demonizes them and separates them from themselves. That creates distance between the threat and them. We don't want to see ourselves as the person who could have been the Nazi. We don't want to see ourselves as the person who could have been the sexual abuser. Right? And last time during this podcast, we kind of went through a series of questions where I asked you, like, have you ever been cruel? Have you ever been deliberately intentionally mean to somebody? Have you ever ignored the consequences? Those are all aspects of sex offending. Those are all aspects of being a Nazi. Right? And so I'm not saying that those are good things and those are things that we should strive to be, but what I am saying is that monster lives inside all of us. And whatever it is that you find yourself judging other people for, lives and breathes within you. And that denial of that began, there's denial. How do people deal with the shadow? Number one way is denial and projection and other ways. But this is exactly how it starts to form. You're a human being, which means you are not void of this discussion. This is a part of you. Right? People always talk about the differences between men and women. Well, there's very little differences actually between men and women. On a large enough scale, like with the exception of a few, like hormonal things, like a man and a woman are both human beings, which by and large, we're the same. Right? It's through kind of social rearing in our culture that creates small differences between us. But human beings are by and large the same. So I think that's the part that makes it a really uncomfortable space is to start to recognize that this perfect person who you've been your whole life and you can try and live up to this image that your parents or that you created for yourself doesn't actually exist. And who's the uglier version, this dark version of you that's been repressed that you haven't shown to the rest of the world. Does that make sense? Yeah. And then that's, I think the first part, like when you mentioned, say somebody got really angry and they started to reflect, okay, maybe I said things or did things and I wouldn't only do with this, that and I would just want emotion. Or maybe I was being really judgmental and he said some harsh things or whatever. And then that person reflected and recognized. But that's somebody who's already even starting to reflect and recognize. And then you're like, most people until they're aware of this or want to be aware of this, right, are not realizing that. Oh yeah. And they're having these conversations or these things are happening and they're not thinking about their options. But I know I used to do that all the time. Like, you know, until you start to recognize those things and then you're like, oh wait, like when I say and how I act, whether it's out loud or not, you know, it's still like a thought pattern that's happening. And I think some people think that it has to be some big grandiose thing like somebody throwing stuff at someone and they're still making, no, no, no, that's not the real stuff. Like those are the, those are pretty big deals, but by and large, that's not what's normally happening. You know, it's like those small comments that really cut people down or it's that judgment that you're making. You may be not even vocalizing it. Surely. You're literally saying that. And all of this does not mean that you're never going to have an angry thought or a judgmental thought ever come into your mind ever again. But the idea is that you maybe have that and then you say, okay, now how do I maybe not act on it or not, you know, stay this out loud or how do I redirect my thoughts? It's kind of like anxiety. We're always going to have anxious thoughts, but the idea is recognizing that you had an anxious thought and not letting it spiral and get out of control. So the same thing with these negative emotions and the things that are repressed and these really just dark, awful parts of you, doesn't mean that you're going to have this. I mean, I literally have some thoughts and I'm like, oh, and what? Like, why would you even think that? You know what I mean? Like, wow, like I can literally step back and be like, who is this person inside of me? That was an awful thought. And I would never actually want to say that. And then it's like, okay, well, I'm not going to act on that. Hey, just thoughts go away. But like, I think there's a big, you have to recognize, like that's a really big part of it is just even getting to that space and then working on it can start because until people recognize that and that's the confronting that is really uncomfortable. Cause you're like, oh wait, I do have these terrible thoughts. Maybe I'm a bad person or a lot of bad person. Maybe I'm not as complete as I want to be. And there we go. Accepting myself as I want to be. Yeah. Or which then makes me accepting or unaccepting the voters. Correct. And so, you know, we're going to get the judgments in a second because that's one of the key indicators to give a, like, well, where do I start with shadow work? Right? Well, start, like, you judge other people, like literally. But let me give you an example because you talked about like it doesn't have to be a great thing. So have you ever had a confrontation with somebody where you said nothing but the other person expressed everything that they wanted to say, but you said nothing and then left the conversation. And as you were thinking about it later, you started to get upset by it because you were like, why didn't I say anything? Right? And so that's where those questions start to come in. Those really targeted questions I guess. Yeah. That was a strange idea. I'm just going to avoid this and then later on. Yeah. Okay. That's exactly what I'm talking about. Why not? It's horrible. It's not a huge, like, event in your life or something through something at you, but you're having a discussion. The person expresses their opinion. You say nothing. And so later you begin to feel angry about that. You begin to feel angry and you're replying to conversation and then the questions start happening, right? Why am I feeling this way? Why did I behave this way? Why didn't I say something? There's that why question, the question that I love so much. And it's like, okay, let's be honest here. If we're going to be honest and answer those questions, it's because the reason you didn't respond in the way that you wanted is because you have repressed your anger and you don't believe that using it for its potential good because you've been told that it's wrong your whole life. So you've accepted a life where you're not strong. You're afraid to be assertive and you will let people walk away, right? And so this again goes back to that statement I made earlier. The impractical and negative aspects of anger are used as a deterrent, which represses all other possibilities that the emotion of anger encompasses, which are the positives to it. And then the irony is that you're still angry. Correct. You know what I mean? So like you're trying to repress something, but now you just end up living that out for yourself and creating more of that for yourself because you're drawing it in because it's all that you could focus on and ruminate. So it's like this weird self-fulfilling situation where you are trying to actively avoid this. But really you're acting that out more and you're still feeling that. And the work becomes in those like two or three little senses that I said. It's admitting that I'm afraid, that I'm not strong, and that I'm not assertive. That's why I didn't say anything. Those are negative things to think about yourself. Those are partial realities to come to Griswold. And you can start to dab down the rabbit hole. Where did I receive this message from? Who was the first person who started telling me to shut my mouth to not speak my truths about the world? We did a whole podcast on attachment theory, right? And instead of talking about attachment theories, right, when you're attached to people and your attachment relationships for survival and the need for authenticity, where you start to express your truths about the world and your opinions about the world, if those opinions start to threaten your attachment relationships, well, what happens? You have to make a choice. Either my survival or my authenticity. Well, what do you choose? Your survival, right? So you start to silence yourself. These are messages that we've all encountered. Now some people, less than others, some more than others. It's about your personal journey. It's not necessarily condemning it. It's just acknowledging that that exists. And so, you know, for many people, it's just, it's learning to acknowledge the positive sides of something that has been negative for years in your mind. And recognizing that that has a role and a space within it. Right? It's kind of like, I don't know, like, you know, confirmation biases where somebody presents 10 facts, right? And let's say six of them are positive, right? Reasons you should do this. But four of them are negative, right? So I'm going to ignore all six of the positives because I know that there's a handful of negative ones that come with it. So I don't do it, right? What did I just do? I completely negated all the positive aspects that come with it. And this is what we've done with anger, with the question, with the repressed aspects of who we are. We've shoved it into a space where we don't do a deal with it anymore. And I think because, again, we'll continue with the anger example, when you are repressing that and then you do try to, like, use it. A lot of times you are using it in that negative sense because you don't know how to communicate it. You know what I mean? So you are using anger in that negative sense because you've stuffed everything down and you've avoided it or you've not dealt with it. You don't want to confront it. And when it does come out, you are in this kind of really negative anger space. And it's like, I think that's partly why some people, again, it kind of confirms, oh, well, yes, the anger is negative, anger is bad. Because anytime that I do let this out, this happens. And then where there was those repercussions. So I think that, again, it becomes this kind of like self-fulfilling thing until you recognize, okay, this is here. This is not going to go away. How can I actually navigate it, use it for the positive, and then also integrate it?  and so on. And there's a lot of other things in a better way so that when I do get angry, I know how to speak to people. It doesn't mean that I have to suppress myself, but it doesn't mean that I get to yonn everybody. Either of those are quite effective. Yeah, exactly. So the key to shadow work is to accept, not ignore the aspects of these opposing forces in your life. To learn that they're real and that they're possible. And so think about it like this, to compete in something, for example, in almost anything. It requires that person to be dangerous or powerful. And just because you're powerful and dangerous, it doesn't make you a bad person. This is where having an understanding of man's virtues are important and understanding what are the principles and virtues are also guiding you as well. You can become a force for good, but in doing so become a person who also understands evil. And so what happens is in that position you choose not to participate in the evil because you aren't controlled by it. You don't feel as compelled by it. You become more aware and are able to integrate that aspect of yourself into your consciousness to know that you're dangerous. This is, people can use a thousand different metaphors for it. It's like knowing that you possess the ability to hurt people, but don't. It's knowing that you have a carrying and conceal permit, but don't pull out your gun because somebody cuts you off and track. It's learning to control that because there's a time and a space. It's knowing that you possess the ability to hurt somebody, to defend yourself, to protect what's important, but to not engage in just randomly at random acts of violence or hurting somebody so that you can feel powerful and strong. So this concept really falls more under, there is strength, but it's under control, demonstrating power without undue harshness. And that's a value. That's what makes a person good. And I think those things get lost. So to wrap up, one activity that I want to give you guys, if you want to start working on some shadow work for yourselves, is where do we start? Well, the first thing I would tell anybody to do if you really are interested in starting some of your own shadow work is, number one, pay attention to whatever things create strong emotional responses within you. Whatever you feel super passionate about, start to explore that. And also start to explore spaces where you are judging other people. This is kind of a common thing. This is just something that you guys can start to do. Let's take out a piece of paper and write down this and say, they do this. They do that. They are wrong. They should be fought against for, right? And so what are we doing? Getting used to recognizing what your judgments are. Some of you might have heard those statements and said, like when I said they do this, right, immediately something pops into your head and you're like, oh, they do whatever, right, or they do that, or they're doing this wrong. And so when I'm saying they, what we're doing is we're projecting this into the outside world. Projection, there's a key word, right? I'm judging it. I should be aware of that judgment. Why? Because if I listened to this podcast, I know that what I'm judging somebody else, worse, also within me. And so this is where the acceptance comes in, where's that judgment coming from, right? Do I do these things? And I don't want to see myself as the person who does these things, right? And sometimes we just have people who are in complete denial about this stuff, right? It's the guy standing in the gym, like looking at the Olympia, Mr. Olympia, you know, contenders, he's an earth contestant, so whatever they're called, competitors, athletes, and he's like, they're only up there because they do steroids, as he's got a needle hanging out of his ass, you know what I mean? And then you're like, but you're doing steroids. And he's like, well, I have to do it in order to compete with them, right? Well, no, you don't. You don't have to do it. So they're going to like never do this. I know you've had people in your life, and I have too, people who are like, they'll literally be talking to you about something that somebody else is doing in their life. They're like, I can't believe they're doing this. I can't believe they're cheating. I can't believe they're lying. I can't believe they're acting in this way. And yet, you know, like they have literally done the exact same thing. They just don't see it within themselves. And so it's that weird defense part of us where it's like, I've got to see myself as good and whole, and I've got to look at the rest of the world as evil so that it can justify this kind of victim mentality and that I keep myself whole and preserve when I'm really not whole. And that's the hard part. You know what I mean? Once you start to recognize, like, wow, I used to judge people for this, and then you find yourself there. Or, you know, when I was talking to somebody about just, we're talking about meditation. We're having an Instagram live, and he was asking about meditation and mindfulness and just some different stuff that we were, you know, he's been diving into and some stuff that I've been sharing. And I think that's a great point that through just simply being more mindful and meditating, just judging people less by simply just being aware of things more like whether it's your own self or how you, you know, move throughout the world. And I was like, you know, that is such a great byproduct of that. Simply just being mindful of yourself and your intentions. And for whatever reason, like that, like, there's a bunch of different ways that people can meditate. And I was talking about, like, you know, everybody has this idea of like this like monk meditating like in a forest or like a fairy and everything's like perfect and you're like levitating. It's like that's not what most meditation is for people. I mean, it's not people. They can certainly achieve that. But for most people, it's like a 10 minute guided meditation or it's, you know, they're sitting in the sauna and they're just able to reflect on their thoughts. But just creating that space to be able to reflect on thoughts, whether that's written or with a therapist or just kind of, you know, sitting and letting those things come to mind is really how all this is going to start. And Carl, you believed a lot in my dream analysis, which is where this stuff comes from. He used to pay attention to studying dreams and he was heavy into mythology and symbolism. And so he looked, people look for symbols all the time. I was looking for signs, right? And so, you know, you start to pay attention to dreams. You start to pay attention to signs. You start to pay attention to fantasies. Okay. So, what fantasies do you look for? Well, start with one where maybe you have fantasies of revenge on a person, right? That should start tapping into a part of you that you have been, you know, probably repressing and haven't expressed and we've all had them, okay? So, if you're listening to this, like, it's totally normal, you're fine, you're a human being, it's all good, don't judge yourself for it, again, move away from concepts of good and evil right and wrong and start to move toward I want to be a more whole and complete person who can accept myself and that's when we start see changes in self-worth and thinking and behavior and You become less frustrated with other people and more accepting of other human beings and their flaws because you can see yourself within them and so the one thing you don't want to be denied is forgiveness from other people for making the same mistakes, but You know, it's very easy And some people will never forgive other people for things that they've done because they refuse to see it within themselves You know for the exact same things that they refuse to forgive you for they're doing Just maybe to other people so you learn to Adjust to the idea that fairness doesn't exist and we start to challenge those Irrational belief systems that were developed as children with our adult minds And you can confront these aspects of yourself to become complete and whole And that's the goal of this type of work. So I hope that that reminded a basic understanding To start to do some some of your own work And kind of derailed us with some of my questions, but I want it sometimes I want to make sure that when people are listening, it's not just so like I'm sure you'll be about it in the comments I'm sure as well We're gonna meet you the last time I fucking loved my introductions on Carl Jung's podcast like as if Anyway, I'm not gonna go there. I'm not gonna get angry. You know, I'm just gonna let it Anyways, um, yes, I was just great because I need questions for us You can submit those through the link in the show notes. I'll also put ricks contact information But say that out loud for ways of hearing Uh full circle therapy at at gmail.com. Okay. Just just like that and it'll not give us that it'll be the outbox Remember, um, so full circle therapy at gmail.com and then for full circle therapy at l Oh, you don't have no your own damn. I know it is definitely a great full circle therapy at gmail.com And for all information about coaching visit teamloka fit.com and our app will be released very very soon So there is a page to be the first to hear about it So that is redefine healthy out.com so you can check that out put all that in the show notes and we'll talk to you guys next week

=== FILE: Episode 254： Coming off birth control [FDnJ9NU2qAM].txt ===

 Welcome back to another episode of The Look-a-fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, I'm with Coach Karina today. Hey guys! And we're going to be talking about her journey of coming off of birth control. So first and foremost, if you are watching this, you're going to be like, what is this kind of weird setup? We don't have the mics in front of us because the SD card got stuck in the recording thing that we use. So if you're listening, you're going to hear that the sound is not so great, we apologize, but we did want to get this podcast out. So if you're watching and it looks kind of weird, that's why if you're listening and you're like, what's going on? That's also why. But hey, we're still going to put out Michael Dachel's... Yeah, and we wanted to have this discussion because you came off birth control... Beginning of June. So yeah, so far we're doing it. And this disclaimer, this is not a podcast on the horrors or the benefits of birth control. We're not going to get into this, we're not going to get into the choice behind it. We fully support it, everybody makes a decision that's best for them. We're simply sharing your story of this. And I just want to say that because I feel like so many times, especially in the fitness space, it's just made out to be this really, really negative thing. And while there can be negative side effects for certain people, there's also a lot of benefits for certain people. So I don't want to paint it to be this monster, which then makes people who maybe feel like they actually need it for birth control protective reasons, to then feel bad about being on it. Right, yeah, and there is a lot of... So there's almost this wave of people coming off of it right now, only because there actually had been quite a bit of research coming out saying something about it. I'm not going to actually say it because I'm not very well versed, so I don't want to risk saying the wrong thing about the research. However, the tricky part with correlative data is that it's correlative. We don't actually know which variables are coming into play, and that data is much more reliable after we've seen years and years and years and years of evidence. But a lot of people are coming off of it right now. My decision to come off of it had kind of been from A. I... Basically, I had kind of noticed some physical changes happen, or maybe lack thereof when I started it. And I just wanted to experience, or I'm sorry, experiment to see how it would look or what would happen if I came off. Also, I, again, from the research that I have seen, I have not seen all the research, but I tried, and what we try to encourage all of our clients to do is make informed decisions. I gathered the most information I possibly could find and made my own decision based off of that. Just for my long-term hormone health, I have goals to have kids and not saying that there is any evidence to show that birth control causes infertility. Absolutely. Obviously, I'm sure there are some crazy cases, but that's essentially one of the main drivers as to why I decided to come off of birth control. Yeah, I think those are all really important reasons. I think that some of the negative stuff that comes out, at least from the fitness base, is there are a lot of people who are put on birth control as a band-aid for certain things. Right. Like PTSD, acting, all that stuff. Yeah, okay, and maybe that is what somebody needs, but it sometimes shouldn't be the first line of defense. I think a lot of the coaches and practitioners who speak out negatively are speaking on it in those terms, which, again, I understand. If you don't want babies, birth control is great. Exactly. It's your main reason. If your main reason is birth control, I think that that is very valid, and I think that people need to take that into consideration. However, using it as a band-aid for other things certainly shouldn't be the first goal. And I think that there's a lot of people who are, you know, all the negative stuff that's come out about it is because of that people feel, oh, I felt misled about this and ended up, and that's understandable. That's kind of true. It's kind of a lot of pharmaceuticals, right? There's a lot of drugs that people are just not, there's not really a large conversation about it. It's just like, hey, this will help you with this. We're not really going to talk about the side effects or the risks or when we would start it, when we would stop it. There's a lot of times a conversation that's maybe just a few minutes about it. In fact, ADHD is a really common one, right? And of course, people with ADHD may or may not need medication. But a lot of times it's like a three-minute conversation where it's like, yeah, you have these symptoms. Okay, well, here's a script. It's like no discussion about when to take this, how to take this, should you take this every day? Like, all these things, none of that, just like here's a script and how's this going to affect you? And that's where I think a lot of practitioners get frustrated, especially with the birth and full conversation. So what were some of the symptoms that you were noticing that you kind of felt wrong? So the main reason why I wanted to come off was, like I said, A, just want to make sure that I am doing everything I can to make sure that when I do decide to have kids, there will be no issue when it is that. Besides that to happen, I personally don't have a whole lot of medical history on my mom and my mother's side of the family. So don't really know, like, you know, what her health is in that space. So I'm basically just kind of shooting by and making sure that I do everything I can to make sure that when that time comes, like, I'm ready, my body's healthy, like hormones are in a good place. Second piece of that was I found that after I had been on it for at this point, three years consecutively, I had a really hard time putting on muscle. I should first mention that my body type, I think, is a bit more, I'm not a total ectomorph, but I'm, like, just looking at, like, my family, I'm definitely in the gene pool where it's not as easy for me to put on muscle. I need a lot more volume. I need a lot more food and I need a lot more time, whereas there's other people who are fantastic responders. And so I kind of noticed that I might be not losing muscle, but I just had a harder time putting on muscle than I feel like I had in the past. And so just doing some research, obviously. Without really any training, like, you weren't, like, not training as much. No, I mean, I was training more. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, and so, and I kind of noticed that there were some, like, recovery issues and things like that, like, so over time, just, like, my recovery felt different. I felt like it took longer for me to recover. Biggest part was I knew that, and I definitely still have plenty of time to put on some muscle, but the rate at which I could put on muscle in my 20s was running out. So I was, like, let me try to utilize this time as much as I possibly can and stop suppressing an endogenic hormone, like, estrogen, and kind of let my body have its normal estrogen levels, because that's essentially what my breath control was doing was suppressing it, so that I don't get breathnet and all of those things. So I just wanted to really maximize my ability to put on muscle at that time. So for me, and I was able to do this, I was like, okay, let me get off of breath control to see if this helped with my ability to put on muscle, and if it changes my body composition at all. So I'm only four months in. I don't really think there's a whole lot of physical change that I could see in four months. But that was my main decision. So I had also spoken to a physician about that, and they were like, yeah, I think that's a viable reason. Like, go ahead. And so I decided to come off some of the symptoms I experienced in the first three months so far that I can talk about at this point. Which one are you taking? Just to zoom in on. Because there's obviously a bunch of different types. You were taking an oral or a... I was taking an oral combination, though, contraceptive. I think it was called Junolfi 120. It was quite a low dose. It wasn't crazy. You wrote them. I think the one slash 20, right? Yes. It's honestly probably one of the more common ones. Yes. As far as the low dose. So if anybody remembers, low esterin, they've changed the name a million times. That's the one name I always remember. It's typically this one to 20 ratio of the synthetic progesterone and estrogen. So most oral pills are going to be a combination of those. And then there's very amounts, which would consider very low dose, low dose, more moderate dose. And then of course the other options are the IEDs, or any other kind of implant, like the arm implant. That's like nexopla I believe. And then there's the IED is either a progestin based IED like morana or the copper IED, which is not hormonal but uses copper to kill the sperm. And then there's another one. There's the ring. Oh yeah, the new ring. And then we're going to this. Most common, I would say most people, at least to get the pool that we work with, would be oral contraceptives or IEDs. And then you were on a pretty standard one. Yeah, I was on an oral contraceptive. Nothing crazy, a combination pill. So I decided to come off of it. Before I decided to come off of it, I made sure to do a lot of research to support my body in making this transition to trying to level out my hormones. I knew that taking out my growth control, there was a very fair chance that I could become estrogen dominant very fast. Do you want to kind of go over like the side effects that could happen with estrogen dominance? Yeah, so typically when we think about estrogen dominance, it's going to be obviously a higher ratio of estrogen to progesterone. There's always going to be a higher ratio, but it's going to be like a significant higher. And the biggest thing that birth control does is suppress progesterone. Hence, you're not ovulating this whole point of birth control. So it's already going to be super, super low because of whatever birth control you're on, which are on the pill. So then when you're coming off, it's going to take time to bounce back, but then now, like without the pill, the estrogen many times can really, really spike. So for some people when they have estrogen dominance, there's typically like a different fat distribution that we see. Some people talk about mood swings, people have skin changes. So those would be kind of the more common ones that I at least experienced with clients and I've seen. And particularly kind of a harder time, especially if you're getting into like a deficit, potentially having a harder time losing weight. It's been very difficult for a lot of people to work with. If they go into it being estrogen dominant, it is very difficult for them to lose any... Yes, the fluctuations are usually pretty pronounced too. Like the fluid retention. So anytime I have a client who doesn't metabolize estrogen very well, that's going to be a really common thing that they see is just a lot of fluidity. A lot of weight scale changes. Like, hey, I just woke up, I'm super inflamed, I'm super puffy. Just what makes you notice a big one that I usually see. They'll usually put on a lot of weight quite quickly and then they'll also feel like inflamed. They have a really hard time recovering from really hard workouts. It takes days and they can feel like I'm puffy in my fingers and in my face. The fingers. Like literally every client says that they have. They're like, I wake up with my fingers swollen. It's like that's not something that was probably dietary because if you've slept all night, there's big shifts there. I mean, it's normal for there to be sun swelling when you wake up just because of the distribution of your fluids when you're sleeping. But even in their arms and their legs, you can almost see it. So I wanted to make sure that I was doing everything I could to mitigate the chances of that happening to me, obviously, because I knew that was something that is very likely when people come off of birth control. So what I did was I looked into ways to... I started at lifestyle. What can I do with my lifestyle, stress management, activity and diet to mitigate maybe a less favorable goal transition and support my hormones coming back into places they should on their own? So I really just tried to keep stress minimal. So stress management was a huge thing. Exercise, obviously, I think. You should always exercise. One thing that was really... I'm blanking out on the word. But important to do was to make sure that you did sweat a lot to essentially detox the liver of all of the hormones. So I would train in the morning and sometimes I would try to train again in the evening or just go in Florida like it's a sauna outside. So I would go for a run or a walk and just make sure I got sweaty. Just sweat more often. You could sauna if you have a sauna. You could sauna. I just tried to detox the liver of all of the synthetic hormones. So that's what I tried to make sure I did the first four weeks was just sweat a bit more. Which again, in Florida, it's super easy. Especially when you did it. If you did it now, like in June. Yeah, especially in CrossFit Dance, because now I say like I'm good at it. So yeah, keep stress management, making sure I'm getting plenty of sleep, making sure that I'm recovering, sweating a lot. And then for diet, I looked up a lot of progesterone rich foods. So a lot of cruciferous vegetables, really. That's pretty much the only change that I had to make with my diet. And that will help with estrogen metabolism. Yeah. So lots of like broccoli, cabbage, brussel sprouts, Trader Joe's literally has a bag called cruciferous crunch. So I would just literally buy that, blend it in smoothie and drink one every single day. Can you taste that raw? No. No, you have like frozen bananas, frozen powder berries. No, you can't taste it. It's perfect. I feel like I don't ever taste spinach, you know, but I have like a bulky ass. Yeah, and it makes a nice thick because it is such a rough texture. But I'll like buy a bunch of bags, keep them in the freezer even still and just like blend it for the micronutrients. And so then the other thing I did was like my third most important thing. So we went lifestyle diet supplements. So I started looking into some supplements. I talked to other women who had gone through the process. And I started out with a progesterone cream that I put on in the morning in the evenings. And I can share that if anyone is interested. And then I started on a supplement called hormonal harmony by Nourishwell. And it just had, I really liked the product because when I went on the website, because I looked at quite a few, I also looked at first form's harmony. I liked the ingredients that Nourishwell used. There was also a lot of like research and literature available on the website as to why those were helpful. So I just went with that option. It was also a bit like more affordable. So I said, okay, I'm just going to give it a try. It's not great. It's fine. I'll try another one. And so I supplemented with that daily. And for the first, so I'm now four months, I've literally had a period on a clock every month so far, which I was not expecting because... I will say that it's not normal. Yes. So if you were going on birth control and you don't get a cycle, that's okay. That's why I'm like, this is... So here's a few things as to why I think that happened. I think like healthy lifestyle, me being on top of like diet supplementation, et cetera. But also I was on on birth control for three years. It's going to be very different for someone who's been on since for like 10 plus years and then are deciding to come off. It might take a while, but most clients who I've worked with who have decided to come off of birth control, I have never seen them have a period sooner than six months. Personally, I don't know. Again, I don't know if... I can't remember off the top of my head if someone was on birth control less than three years like I was. I would say three years is not a super long time compared to a lot of... Like just the population who's been on since they were, you know, for 10 plus years, eight plus years. So if you've been on for a long time without ever having a break, I think you can expect to take a little bit longer. So first month went by, got a period. I was like, okay, it's probably just like a withdrawal bleed, whatever. Like I'm sure my hormones are still going to take a long time because that's literally what I saw with every single client. It just took a while. I had one client who on average it took eight months to a year. And so then second month, like 30 days on a clock. And I could literally feel... I think what's helpful is like I'm more quite in tune with our bodies. So I can feel when I'm modeling. I'm like, oh, that hurt. So then I haven't been able to track. I also... Another reason I love the ordering is that it also tracks your basal body temperature. It says, hey, your period might be here in like a few days. And then third month again on a clock. So I should be here in a few days. We'll see if that comes up. We'll keep you guys posted. My streak. I'm like super proud of my streak here. But you never know because I have clients who like they have... they get off of birth control. They have three periods in a row and then like they skip a month or like it just takes six weeks instead of four weeks. Everyone's very different here. And that's one thing to keep in mind is like everyone's cycle is very different. Everyone's baseline like coming into the family, you know, pre birth control. Yeah. Like you said, afterwards, what are you doing? There's a lot of different things. And I think that, you know, under being accepting of that, like, hey, when I come off, like, I don't know how I'm going to respond. I might be to cycle this month. It might take me several months. Yeah. And I think that the unknown is what's super scary. Obviously, like, especially most people have a consistent cycle when they're on birth control. Not everybody, but most people do or they just kind of stop getting one altogether. So then people are like, wait, like I was used to like not having anything or like I was used to having a very, very consistent. And then afterwards it might, it may change. So if you do get it right away, that's right. I have clients both ways. I've had clients who as soon as they get off, they start to have a normal cycle. Not everybody will have an ovulatory cycle right away. Right? Like they might just be bleeding without ovulating. And then those are the best way to test that. They do have strips, but I would say if you can test, hey, that's weird. If you can test your temperature, if you have an oar ring, it's already kind of built in. Or you can just hit a normal thermometer test. And then that way you can actually track it a little bit more effectively. So yeah, some people get it right away. Some people it takes, like you said, it could be up to a year or more. Yeah. And when you're looking at a supplement for something like coming off birth control, like I said, if you weren't using the progesterone cream, I've had some clients who have had really good success with that. I don't know if there are people who don't respond as well to that either. I should say that I only used that for like the first three weeks. Okay. And then I stopped. Yeah. Because I literally just forgot. And then I was like, oh, I'm getting a period, but I think I'm okay. I'm getting my blood work tomorrow though, so I was like, yeah, I do want to touch on that. But like, so for some people they will have a really, really strong reaction to adding progesterone. Yeah, I don't know what legitimately like it's not good. But other people it fixes a lot of their other symptoms for other things. Right. So it's like, that's where there's so much inner like individual differences. And if you don't want to take progesterone like, you know, the cream or even oral, like bioidentical, you can chase berry is a natural supplement that is in a lot of those kind of normal balancing products. So chase berry and then a lot of the products are going to have dim and now which will help the estrogen metabolism. Some products are going to also include things like ash begonade and help with the stress management. So a lot of times you're going to see those types of products and they're going to have multiple different things to kind of hit all of those pathways. And obviously anything that you take the supplement over the counter is going to be significantly lower than something that is like prescribed. Yeah. Right. Because it's over the counter. So it could be a really great place to start and then do that for a few months and then test. So you did that for each of the registered cream for a few like roughly the first month. Yeah. And then you took the supplement for three months. Yeah. I'm still taking. Oh, okay. And then so now you're going to get blood work done around the four month mark. Yeah. So I have blood work scheduled for tomorrow. I was supposed to be down like two weeks ago, but we had like hurricanes, things like that. Yeah. So I'm getting blood work done tomorrow. So then I'll be actually able to see like, okay, should I still be supplementing with this as per description? Yeah. In a healthy level, et cetera. Two other things. Yeah, that's true to see that. Yeah. So I do want to talk about like some symptoms that I, as soon as I came off of birth control, I could feel like very different. First one, I think third week I was off. I had so much energy. It was crazy. Like I felt like energized everybody. Like I could just keep in a lot of factors coming to play. At this point I was already done with the master's program for about a month. So I felt like energized and I wasn't like completely drained, but I, I just felt like a different level of energy that I haven't had before. Now I know that I have a normal period in a normal cycle. I can very much like tell, okay, I have more energy right now. And once I move into that luteal phase, like, okay, I'm a bit more tired and a bit more inky. And I can feel those fluctuations in energy a lot more. I cannot, which is I really love because I can almost use my mental cycle as a framework to position my crossfit training. So in the, the follicular phase when I'm feeling good, energy is good, recovery is good. I'll train really heavy. I'll work on my Olympic list, my strength stuff. And then in the luteal phase when I'm a bit more tired, recovery is a little bit more tough. I'll focus more on like aerobic capacity, gymnastics training, which I just has been working for me for the last few months. So that's one thing that I, I noticed was a benefit was I did feel like a change in energy. Some people who I've talked to who have gone off of breath control have mentioned that like their energy levels have improved. Some people who are still under control, like, I feel fine. Like energy is fine. And then the other thing I've kind of noticed is that I do feel like my body composition is a little bit better. I won't necessarily attribute that only to coming off of breath control because my diet has also gotten better because I felt forced to improve my diet now that like I'm taking out these synthetic hormones. So whether that is diet and breath control combined or only diet, that's a benefit that I've experienced. So the only negative thing I've experienced is obviously one of the biggest pros to getting on breath control for some people is like your skin is super clear and really nice. One thing that I noticed immediately was my face just became so oily. Like I had like normal to almost dry skin texture, but now like if I touch my face, it's like I just picked up a stick of butter. Like my face is so oily. And so I'm hoping that it's just kind of like a symptom of like the beginning when hopefully my hormones level out, my skin gets better. I have an appointment to like see a dermatologist for consultation soon. So also let you know how that goes. Well, there's no follow-up. No testing of the tumor. But my skin got so oily and with that my breakouts have gotten like I haven't broken out this bad since. And it's not like cystic acne. It's just like a lot of breakouts from like me sweating a lot from working out daily almost. So that's just the only negative thing. It's like, wow, my skin is looking rough, which basically I just have to be more on top of my skin routine. And probably just do facials more often and things like that. But overall, like it's been smooth, which I'm very thankful for because like we coach people all the time. And I've coached quite a few people who have made the decision like I want to come up with breath control. And I'm like, okay, let's see how your weight responds. Let's see how you feel in training. Let's see what dietary changes we need to make. This experience has been really helpful for me in a coaching perspective because obviously like I've gone through it. I know some things to recommend now the more I've learned. So yeah, I think that's about it. But yeah, getting blood work done tomorrow definitely wanted to wait for at least three months to go by to let things kind of normalize. So now we're going into month four. So I can maybe like post an update on blood work and all that stuff. Yeah, I think that with any time you're looking at blood work, like if you have unlimited resources, obviously it would be cool to like do it right when you got off and then in three months and six months up. But that's like fancy like after most people work because blood work is really expensive. So good padding covered. Yeah, and most of the time this is not going to be covered because it's just like you want to see it. Yeah, it's not necessarily medically necessary. So the insurance is going to cover it obviously. So whenever you go to the doctor's, that's just generally why. So when you do auto pocket blood work, it's amazing we have that resource, but it is expensive. So what we typically recommend clients and this goes for coming off of any type of hormone or even coming off of like a harsh diet or like a competition prep. We recommend waiting about three months because things are going to take time to stabilize. And if you were to get it done a little bit earlier, you might not really get that full picture. Not saying like three months to the day is like the perfect time to get it, but it's like a good amount of time will exceed some changes. And even if someone is taking, if this goes for people who are taking exhaustion hormones as well, if you were taking any kind of HRT, any kind of thyroid medication, it's generally recommended to stay on top of testing. Because you don't know how your body is changing and responding to that medication. And I can't tell you how many clients I have who are on HRT who like the doses have not changed, like things are pretty similar, but then they start to feel certain effects and then they get the blood work done and it's all over the place, right? So it's just important to stay on top of it because you really are guessing otherwise. And when we're talking about adding in or taking out compounds, the best way to know is to get semi-consistent blood work done. Like if you do something like week to week, you're not going to see anything, but I would say three months is probably good. Yeah. Three-ish months is probably a good amount of time. Yeah, six. And then if you afterwards, if something comes up from that, then you can say, okay, let me address that. Let me either keep taking this. Let me increase something. Let me decrease something. And then if something is really off, then you can decide to retest in the few months after you make changes. Yeah. Yeah, but that's exciting. And I, again, we just wanted to cover this in kind of a general sense as far as like your story. I think that we wanted to make sure to kind of cover all those bases. And there's so many reasons why people come off or go on for their own personal decisions. So like you said, it's all about making an informed decision for someone else. Yeah. Well, I think the main reason I had the idea to talk about this is because when I was thinking about getting off of it, there was like no manual. There was like nothing that I could find like here or some things to expect. These are some recommendations based off of like maybe normative data during this time and like recommendations from like gynecologists or physicians. And so I just spent weeks watching other girls YouTube videos of like here's my journey of three months a year off of birth control just so I can have an idea of like what to expect. And here's the thing, like I saw all kinds of crazy stuff. Some chick lost hair like crazy. Like some girl like gained a bunch of weight. Like there's a bunch of different responses and so, but it was useful.  alfalfol, because then there were some things that I could take, like, oh, cruciferous vegetable-rich diet, definitely can do that, as easy, supplementing with some sort of, like, predestinal supplement, I can do that, not super expensive, so, yeah, like, I was very frustrated that I didn't know what to expect, or, like, I couldn't find a direct answer, and so, after the first I believe I posted a rail on just things I'm experiencing on my Instagram of coming off of birth control. But I was quite frustrated that there wasn't a whole lot of information on the transition of coming off of birth control, which maybe there will be one day like enough information to say like these are things you can expect. Here's a protocol you might want to follow that's more accessible to people. So that's what I wanted to share. I probably wanted to do this because that's the whole point is to say, hey, here's this experience, here's some things that are rooted in science that have scientific backing. And then obviously if you said lifestyle, diet, number one, adding in potential supplementation and or hormones as needed depending on the person, the individual, that's really going to depend on obviously how the person's responding, how long they were on birth control, what type it was. There's just so many factors here. I've already accepted that I've been on this for so long that when I come off and my age, I will most likely have to be on some type of HRT. I've just already accepted that maybe I won't and that would be cool. But there's also a large chance that I might or at least might need it for some period of time. And I think that just going into it saying, okay, what does my body actually need here? And it's just the same way that everybody responds differently when they're on it. Some people take certain, we can give 10 people the same product, whether it's birth control or whatever it is, and they have all different responses. Some people have IUDs and they have the best experience, other people have IUDs and have horrendous experiences. And it's like, the same thing looks like the shot and next one on. Yeah, that was the one that I was thinking of, the shot. That's not really super common anymore. And the over. Yeah, that was awesome. And there was another one that I was thinking of. Scandomy. Like the arm one, I've honestly never really heard any, like the next one, never really heard any good stuff in that one to be super honest. Do you know anybody who's had any good experience? I know an Olympia bikini athlete who's on it. Oh, okay. Yeah, because almost every client had who's been on it or was on it, had a shift. Again, just, just. We're heard in an extra like, like crazy. Like I don't think birth control is stopping her. They're just weird stuff. But the same thing with the IUDs. The IUDs are like 50, 50. Like some people have them and have zero issues. But then the people who do have the issues have horrible pelvic inflammation. Like horrible. So it's like, it just. It makes you feel like it hurts. Yeah. And then the little like micro tears that it causes. Like I think, I think that's like my theory is that for some people just happens to create these little tears and then it creates that inflammation response. And some people like, or their body's kind of just like projecting it. I'm not, again, I'm not really sure as to why but some I've just noticed those are very, very, very hit or miss. Whereas most people when they take an over the cap, like an oral combination of pillows, generally pretty standard. Yeah. I mean to me it would be like, this don't make me feel crazy. Yeah. It's not makes me feel tired all the time. Yeah. And I went through that as well where I was like trying out birth control and they were like, what are you saying? That makes me feel what is insane? Like I was crying all the time, like just so crazy. Did you hear that? Yeah, so interesting. But as always, we just want to share experiences and kind of create almost like a little bit of like a manual outsource people because, you know, it really is frustrating, obviously you're super credible and have, you know, looked into this a lot and done this now. So sharing that, that's why I did like the breastock vlogs, because like literally after surgery, I was like, nobody's supposed to know what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what Here's what size I got and I got like I don't care After a week where we if I want to go training three weeks what's happening? I remember And they were the worst videos anybody has been here since those videos you guys know They were just like me like propped up. It was like Christmas time Like the tree I'm like sitting on the ground and I'm like so I just had Like it was like so weird, but but people still are like I remember the The days but anyways thank you guys so much for tuning in sorry once again for the lack of great sound We still wanted to get this out because a really important message So if you are interested in coaching services or checking out anything else that we offer you can visit team look of it And we will put some of those resources below that you did mention In the show notes as well. So we'll talk to you guys next week

=== FILE: Episode 255： What makes a serial killer ｜ Inside the mind of killers like Jeffrey Dahmer [dnuJmuU_UPI].txt ===

 and we'll come back to another episode of the Locofit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and this week we're joined by Rick, our mental health consultant, to talk about none other than Jeffrey Dahmer. Just kidding. We are going to touch on that because it's a relevant show, if you guys have not seen it, well, we'll talk about it, but we do want to touch on just kind of serials and anti-social behaviors, because there is such a fascination around this, right? There are so many people who genuinely are interested in not just serial killers, but true crime, just shows, there's all these podcasts. I have not tuned into any of those things, so I'm not sure the format or the reach, but I'm pretty sure they're really, really popular. Obviously, anytime that there is a serial killer documentary or show, it blows up, and it's this very unique thing, and I don't really understand it. So, just in general, this show, anybody who, what was so funny to me was that people were like, who's this guy? Jeffrey Dahmer? This was happening before I was even born, and I still know all about this guy. This was a really, really prolific case and person, so for a lot of people, and these are people who were older than me, who I would just observe and talk to me, and I'd hear about them, like, who is this? Oh, and just hearing people interject about what they thought went wrong. Like, oh, just the bad parenting. You're like, that's really all you took from this? That's all you got from this? This was just bad parenting? I don't know. It was just so interesting that people, up until this show, did not know who this was. Yeah. For me, the Jeffrey Dahmer story in particular, growing up in Chicago and being a little bit older, I remember being at my dad's house at his apartment watching this on TV. I remember listening to the news and them standing outside the apartment while they're wheeling out the acid barrel, and they're bringing out the refrigerator, and they're tearing out boxes of evidence, and they're talking about how there's, you know, human body parts and remains and skulls, and you're just kind of like, I think I was like 11, maybe 12 at the time that this was happening, and so you're just like, what did this person do? Like, they killed him? He was eating them? Like, it didn't make sense, and it was pretty shocking. Chicago in and of itself had already, within the last few years, had a recent serial killer craze with John Wayne Gacy. He was pretty big in the late 70s, and he was alive, obviously, in jail going through his appeal process the whole time, like Jeffrey Dahmer was getting arrested, and obviously the TV show parallels the two of them in one of the final episodes. By the way, there's going to be some spoilers. There's going to be spoilers. So if you are, we should probably put the time stamp of when we stopped talking about the show in case people want to hear this, but they haven't heard it. The show is really good, and I mean, even if you know the story, I still think that it's a really interesting, and they just did a really good job. I thought, from what you remember, did you think that they did a accurate presentation? Of course, it's Netflix. They're going to add certain things, take out certain things, of course, you know what I mean? But it was definitely much creepier than I thought it would be. So how I even found out about this, I was getting, this is the worst day ever, I was getting a new phone, and remember I called you and you were like, wait, what happened? So I was getting a new phone, and anytime you get a new phone, you guys know it's just a whole fewer process. So I was like, all right, eat my breakfast, take my walks, do all my stuff, I bring my laptop, I bring a protein bar, like, okay, I'll be set for a few hours while this, I'll just work. I get there, nothing is working. Nothing is transferring. iCloud isn't going through, it's not uploading to my computer. Actually, it's, we started uploading it to my computer, and then he unplugged it by accident, thinking it was the old phone, we had to restart that. I was at AT&T for eight and a half hours. So I've obviously worked a lot, I left, I came back, like all these things, so I have no phone for a whole day, which actually was kind of nice. And then I was getting stuff done, but he's like, hey, do you want to watch anything? I'm like, no, I don't really watch anything man, like, I appreciate it. He said, well, this is a new show, like Daemer, and I'm like, Daemer. And then I look over and I see, like, all I see is the glasses, and I'm like, is there a Jeffrey Dahmer show? They're like, yeah, who's this guy? He's like, real weird. And I'm like, we're turning this on. And there was like, nobody there at first. And so we're watching it. And they're like, damn, we better be nicest girls. She's really into this shit. So I watched the first three episodes, which arguably, in my opinion, I think are some of the most intense episodes. I'm watching them in AT&T. And now at certain points, people are coming in, and they're like, what's on that? What's on that? I'm like, it's a new Dahmer show. I'm like, you guys want to check it out? And you come home? I think it's really good. People are like, what the fuck? Anyway, so I was just surprised at, I mean, they're not showing you like, it's not a gore film, like you're not watching him. In my opinion, though, that is more, I feel like that's a better cinematic experience. Like, I don't like overly gory things for no reason, like just hearing something. Like there was one scene again, spoiler. There's one scene where like the neighbor is obviously, he lived in an apartment at the end of like his career of all this, and he, his neighbor could pretty much hear everything. And there was one very distinct scene, which like, just get like goosebumps, like you hear the guy, like kind of like fighting back, and he's like, no, no, and then you hear him like hit him over the head with something, you hear the thud, and then you hear him taking pictures like the polaroid snapping, and then you hear the electric saw go, and then you hear more polaroids, and then the show ends. And it's like, that to me is creepier than like watching it. You know what I mean? Because it's just like, I don't know. So I thought they did a really good job. And at the end, it was so wild. Like, I did not know that the day that Gacy got executed executed, executed in prison, was the day that Dahmer got baptized in prison. And there was also a solar eclipse, like, what? Yeah, it's one of those so wild weird moments in life. I didn't even know that that was true. I looked, I did fact check that that was real. Yeah, I was like, is this really happening? Because there's so many shows like in My Hunter, which another amazing show we've talked about before, but like, there's one very disturbing aspect of the show, in my opinion, that they added, that was not real. And I was like, why was that aspect? In the second season with Bill's son. Oh, yeah, yeah, that was the worst part of the show. Yeah. And I was absolutely horrified to think that that was Bill's poor son. You know what I mean? But that was all fake. Like, why would you add this creepy ass shit? Like the show is already creepy enough. You know what I mean? Like, like, well, why would you add this? So I was thinking, Oh, they probably just added this for like the effect, whatever. I looked it up and sure as shit. Yeah, I think in that episode or that season of Mindhunter, what they were trying to do was somehow draw a connection to either childhood trauma and the development of psychopathology. For sure. I don't think they needed to I didn't particularly enjoy that angle because the show was really predicated upon the development of the behavioral science unit in FBI in Quantico and how they developed their profiling system to match serial killers. And so I felt like they really could have stuck with some of the other cases. But I'm not the writer or creator of the show. So I'm in no position to criticize it because I loved that show in particular the first season I thought was spectacular. So just in general, like, whenever you watch stuff, it's always like, you know, they're not going to get everything right. So like, the show with Dahmer, like there are certainly things that are like added or missing, whatever. But overall, I would say that it was a pretty by and large from what I remember. Most of the findings, most of the show was pretty accurate. I think like they took some liberties with certain one or two of the characters or some of the other stuff that was in it. But the methodology that he used to track people down the stories behind them like when the I think it was like the 14 year old boy that was returned to him, you know, him getting pulled over with the dead body in garbage bags in the backseat, which we're going to explain. I'll try and help paint a picture as to how and why these things can happen and why they didn't get caught. And how they respond, especially with most, most serial killers, it's not one thing, right, which is what was so frustrating. Like hearing people talk about this and they're like, oh, just bad parenting. Like that was certainly a big part of it. You know what I mean was his upbringing. But that was there was plenty of people who have even much worse childhoods in that one specific situation. You know what I mean? It's like every single thing that could have gone wrong. I feel like did, you know what I mean? So it's an excuse of behavior. But it's that's part of what understanding that is. And then it's also just like, I mean, if you watch the show, you hear him say it over and over again, he's like, I'm not crazy. I've felt like this for almost my whole life. I've had to repress this for literally since I was like 14. And it's like, that's just such a, I don't know, that's like, that's the moral conundrum of like, what do you do with that person? Because it's like, I don't know if even like a better upbringing would have changed it. Like, you don't know. It's like, it's really hard. With Dahmer's case, what makes it difficult is in the show, I think illustrated this point that he was exposed to a lot of different drugs, chemicals in utero, meaning as his body, as his brain was developing, his mother was taking psychotropic compounds, she was using alcohol, smoking cigarettes. There's a lot of different things that can create and damage the brain. He would have had a problem if it wasn't being accountable. Throughout his health. He probably would have had a problem in some way. And that, like, that's just so crazy to like how that went on. But again, she was not the only mom in the world who unfortunately was doing that. Right? There was back then, like, you know, she obviously had her own mental health issues that were exacerbated by being pregnant. But then she was like, Oh, the doctor is giving these to me, not the obviously the cigarettes and the alcohol. But like the doctor is prescribing all of these things, right? It was like 26 medications or something. And it's like, think about how many people, unfortunately, like before we had more like research went through that. But it's like, it was all those things add enough like together. They're used to never be surging general warnings on packs of cigarettes. And I mean, women could smoke. I mean, doctors used to walk into exam rooms smoking cigarettes. They didn't know, you know, you can only know what you know at the time as things develop. So I think that's the point. And so one of the things that we'll get into in a little bit is understanding how psycho psychopathology develops in people and most people believe most experts in our field believe that psychopaths are born. They aren't a byproduct necessarily of their environment. And I'll get into a little bit what's the difference between a psychopath and a sociopath. And by the way, for all intents and purposes, when you hear the term anti social personality disorder, that's essentially the the the diagnostic criteria that we use to define these this type of person, the terms psychopath and sociopath are no longer used in DSM materials. And when I say anti social personality, I'm referring to actual behavior traits that like go against societal norms, not like a person when we like commonly people will say I'm an anti social person, meaning I like to withdraw from social engagement and activities like I like to be I'm more of an introvert. We're not talking about that. When I say anti social, I'm referring to people who commit violent crimes who break the law who have habitual habits of harm and cruelty. So there's a very big difference between how people will use the term anti social and what it means in a clinical environment. So as we kind of get into that, we'll talk about it. But I personally enjoyed the show a lot from a clinical perspective, because I thought they did a really great job. And one of the things that was really kind of fascinating to me that I thought the show did really well was really try and draw an underlying connection between Jeffrey Dahmer's obsession with abandonment and his need to want to keep people with him and this, like they'll always be a part of me. And I think that's where a lot of the eating of the flesh came from was this, if they're a part of me, they can never leave me, I'll never be alone. And what you noticed throughout the film was, and this is what I've talked about before when we talk about emotional abandonment, a person can be present in your life and that you can live in the same house as them, but feel absolutely no connection to that person be completely alone. And so when you look at the mental health history of his mother, she presents as either somebody with severe bipolar disorder or borderline personality disorder, more likely, I think they demonstrated some of the features of like the manic depressive states. But also there was this really push pull relationship between them, like there's one great scene where he's a teenager, he's an adult and I think he's arguing with his mom and she's judging him and she's saying, well, you and your father used to screw around in the basement with your weird ass, you know, taxidermy things and dissecting animals and cutting them up, you're sick and disgusting. But it would have been nice if you asked me to join. It's like, that was so, that like literally cuts so hard when I heard that, I was like, to me, there's a push pull there. There's like, there's this, I'm judging you and condemning you for who you are, but at the same time I'm saying, but you didn't invite me. So his mother took this and victim stands. And so she was obviously emotionally and psychologically abusive and a very damaged person. But the father was this workaholic who withdrew from the family completely and he had no real stability in his life. And I think that was also a great point in the show was like, his father showed up when he was living on his own for an entire summer. And after three months, his dad finally shows up and is like, Jeffrey, where's your mom? Why isn't she here? I can't believe she would leave you alone. It's like, did you not talk to your son for the last three months? Did you not find these things out? Like, let me speak to your mom. Let me know what's happening. You should, I mean, these are things that normal parents check up on. They don't just leave their child alone and abandoned in a house. Yeah, but I think they, to your point, that it a really good job of sharing that if you understand the kind of psychological background and he even talked about it, like that the, like, killing, so to speak, was like his least favorite part. And he always drugged people beforehand for the most part because he wanted, he didn't want them. So he says to feel pain, right? It wasn't like he was trying to torture people because he wanted to inflict pain on them. He was doing these weird experiments because he's obviously, there's a lot of things going on there. But he like the only reasons he did a lot of those things, like you would see that pattern happen over and over again, like somebody would leave or start to leave and then they kill them. You know what I mean? It was like this, like they showed that cinematically so well and like the most like grotesque and awful way. And then obviously at some point just kind of degenerated. And I don't think that it turned, I think it just got really, really bad after that one, the one guy who he was kind of seen, you know what I mean? So the death guy. Yeah. Yeah. I'll put dating as like a loose term, but like that was, that was one of those things that you were like, okay, maybe this will be like the turning point in his life. You know what I mean? Cause it felt like it could have been. And then after that, it just like, I feel like the floodgates just opened, at least from what they showed, at least from everything that you can read, like things just degenerated like really, really fast. Yeah. And he was never able to establish healthy connected relationships at any point in his life. He had an absentee father who was in and out of his life, even though I think the show demonstrated his dad tried to take an interest and steer some of his behaviors into healthier ways. We call that sublimation, taking unhealthy responses and channeling them through healthier means. Like if you have an aggressive person, you get them in boxing, right? Or put them in football. It's like, okay, here's a space where you can act out your aggression. And then obviously a severely mentally ill mother who was emotionally and psychologically abusive and neglectful to him just created this abandonment issue in Dahmer. And so, and then just also not really being, I wouldn't say unintelligent, but not super intelligent, which is common for some serial killers. So like not really doing well, not doing really well in school, not really able to hold a job, not really being a high functioning member of society and really any capacity. Substance abuse issues. Heavily. You know what I mean? Like that was definitely one of the, I think that was the good, I mean, that was a heat again. It's like literally everything that could have gone wrong. I feel like at every turn, like did. Sure. And that's what I think is so like, from a just a viewing perspective, like, when you can look at these behaviors, it is so interesting to see how all this lines up. And I guess that is the question is like, why are people so obsessed with serial killers? It's a really great question. The best explanation we can give for it is, if you've listened to our previous podcast, is the element in the presence of the shadow. And so why are we drawn and mesmerized by serial killers? Well, I think for many of us, it's a way to access this repressed version of ourselves. We see the darkness in other people that we hide from ourselves in our own consciousness. So we actively repress our shadow, right, which is the, the aspects of ourselves that we deny these violent, aggressive, horrific sides of us. And it's triggered and intrigued when we see someone who is such an extreme opposite of what we consider to be our socially acceptable selves. And so we're completely engaged by it. Because we don't act like that we have thoughts, everybody does how many times does somebody cut you off and you're like, I'm going to fucking kill this person, right? We don't mean it. Okay. And if you've thought that it's okay, as long as you don't act on the impulse, but we are not supporting acting on these intrusive thoughts. Someone who is so willing to accept and play on that side of it, like it's the extreme opposite of where most people in society live. And so I think in many ways for us watching documentaries on serial killers, or trying to understand them is a lot like being on a roller coaster. And what I mean by that is what's a roller coaster. It's this thrilling ride without any real danger or consequences. That's not true. For the most part, most people go on roller coasters year after year, and don't get hurt. But things can go really sideways really quick. I'm not denying the presence that danger could exist. But how many people get injured on roller coasters? Look at push gardens. There's thousands, millions of people who visit push gardens. And when was the last time you heard of somebody getting injured on a roller coaster? So the idea of it becomes we like these things because they're thrilling and exciting, but we don't have to take on the consequences of it. And so being able to observe somebody like a Dahmer or a Bundy or some of the other serial killers, it's this way for us to engage this part of us that's repressed in a safe way without ever venturing down that path. We kind of try and understand them as a way of almost understanding ourselves. So, you know, there's other explanations for it too. Some people will say that the behavior of serial killers is kind of like a broader application. A broader application of their killings is seen as like a larger representation of our society and our culture. And that they depict their killings are depicting ways, the extreme ways that our society has become sick. It's just an extreme representation of what we don't see on a daily basis in our society. I never thought of that. Yeah, I'm more just interested, like we said, like taking all the things that I mean, I have such a low level understanding of psychology, but like what I do know, I feel like I find it interesting to watch that to see where things have gone wrong, or to kind of see like, Oh, as I'm watching this, this is because of these abandonment issues, like I find it interesting because of that. And just like being able to like put those pieces together. But I don't, I'm not like, Oh, I want to listen to all the true crime stuff, or I want to do like, I'm not really interested in that. I feel like I've never lose my like, I literally never leave my house and be so like, crazy. It can skew your perspective of people. Oh, and it does for sure. Because I mean, this podcast is a little bit more in my wheelhouse because of where I spent the first 10 years of my career. So for a lot of clinicians, they don't have experience talking to or interviewing or working with psychopathic or antisocial personality disorder people. Not every client that I had when I was in prison met that criteria. But there were a fair amount that I did interact with. And so this is where my career kind of started, you know, working in jail systems, both with juveniles and with adults. Would you be able to like, almost feel it like in a conversation, like when you were like in the presence of someone like that, would there be a difference? There is and there isn't. And this is the part that makes serial killers so intriguing. You look at a guy like Ted Bundy, who had been incarcerated and had multiple run ins with authority figures. And even while he's in jail, awaiting trial for multiple murders that he's suspected of, the police officers, the jailers, they're all like, Ted Bundy's a great guy. He didn't do this. People had to argue with the detective who started to string together his that started to link Ted Bundy to the first five of his victims. People are like, they were trying to talk to the defect detective out of it. And he had to try and convince people like, no, this is the guy. He meets these criteria. He has these, these pieces of evidence that he wouldn't have had and people didn't want to believe him. Law enforcement didn't want to believe him because he's this charismatic, good looking. He's going to be, he was studying to become a lawyer. He had had relationships and jobs. He was part of the younger. Nobody's like, oh yeah, Jeffrey Dahmer. Like, they're like, all right, Jeffrey Dahmer, you're like, makes more sense because he's this social outcast who's been rejected. He has no real relationships. He's awkward as hell. Right. And I think the show did a great job of demonstrating that like, yeah, the guy who acted like his acting, just watch it for the acting alone. I think he'll get an ME for it. He has to win whatever award he can win within that category. He nailed it. I haven't seen the show. He was in, I don't watch American Horror Story, but apparently he was in there too. And he played someone like crazy as well. And he was really good. But yeah, he nailed the acting. But Bundy and Dahmer are both serial killers, but they're very different personalities. And they're very different in their pathology and the way that they acted out their killings. Dahmer took very little pleasure in killing versus Ted Bundy who took extreme pleasure in it. And even like Gacy, they put him in there a little bit like he showed, I mean, he was enjoying the torturous aspect of it. And he was still denying that too, which is so crazy. Yeah. Didn't he like deny all of it? He did and he didn't. He initially, when he was getting arrested and he was going through interviews and he had been arrested and they were starting to link and tie things to him. After his initial arrest where they knew he would be found guilty, he started working with cooperators and there's detailed recordings and interviews where he's talking about these killings. Later, after he's been convicted and he's in jail is when he completely started to deny it and went through this whole process and said that's the part that most people were exposed to. But he actually drew a diagram for the police and told them in his crawl space where the bodies were, how many there would be, where throughout the house they would be. You know, and he had them underneath the barbecue pit. He had them in the slab of his garage floor that he had resurfaced. He had them in the crawl space of his basement. They literally had to unearth his entire house. And then they demolished it because they were like, we're not rebuilding this. Like let's tear it down. Obviously. So that was my neighbor. And moving one thing I want to kind of help people understand too is that psychopathic serial killers or antisocial personalities are not always clinically what we would call crazy or insane. Like when we're talking about insane people or people who fit the criteria for psychotic disorders, we're talking about people who experience delusions or hallucinations, disorganized thinking, abnormal motor behavior, things like that that are more consistent with psychotic disorders like schizophrenia, it's gets affected disorder, etc. Guys like Ted Bundy, David Berkowitz, I mean, I don't remember David Berkowitz that well, that was the son of Sam, he was the 44 caliber killer. He might have been legally insane. I don't remember. I don't remember his defense. But like Dahmer, Ted Bundy, they were sane. They knew exactly what they were doing. It was premeditated. It was thought out. It was 100% not the result of like, you know, hallucinations or delusions or people speaking to him and things like that or, you know, feeling moved or compelled by some other force like outside of them, they knew what they were doing. So they don't necessarily fit the criteria for insanity. James same thing, John Wayne Gacy knew exactly what he was doing. And by the way, if you guys are wondering how many serial killers there actually have been hundreds, we only know about like the top 10. That's what most people, but there's active serial killer investigations that are happening right now. You can research them if you want on your own time. It's literally hundreds of different serial killers. Okay, yeah, if you don't want to sleep, well, and this is the part where as the therapist, like if my population, if the people that I'm working with have such anti social traits, it becomes what you see in the world. And so I'm not going to sit here and say that I have some spidey sense where I can detect the psychopath more than anybody else. But there are certain cues and things that I might pick up in a conversation, right? Like, that guy's not right, like something's off with him because I've seen it and heard it before. That's what I meant. Like, was there ever like a different kind of just like energy certain people would put out when you would be talking with them? I'm just always interested in that. And again, to your point, not everybody, right? Because some people are trying to play up that like charming kind of individual. And some people are just kind of weird and awkward. But like, I do like the idea of that really like just malevolent person who you can like feel that intent, you know, like I just was curious if there was you can pick up on it because sometimes what you'll experience is they're taking joy and reliving the experience in front of you by telling you sometimes you're trying to determine whether or not they're trying to get shock value from you. Like if I'm talking to you and I'm like, Oh, yeah, when I used to cut her breasts off, or if I used to violate this person in this way, if you react like what you're doing right now, looking down at the floor, you're shaking, that's an arousal for them, not necessarily sexual arousal, but an emotional one, a psychological one, they're like, Oh my God, I got to her. So they're constantly looking for that type of feedback. I'd be the worst prison therapist ever. You might be. But sometimes you can also listen to their stories and they're completely removed from their, their act. And sometimes you have to determine whether or not that's a byproduct of some of the trauma they've experienced is to not emotionally attach to significant events in their life or the things that they've done because they don't want to be held responsible personally accountable for the things that they did. But you know, I mean, I've never per se sat in a room with a serial killer. I have sat and interviewed people who have killed people before who have not expressed any real remorse over their actions. That's another big thing is, you know, people with antisocial personality disorder, they don't experience or express any level of remorse for the things that they've done. And that's what really separates them from say like a narcissistic person. So let me kind of get into some of that. Let's get into some of the differences. Yeah. So first and foremost, all psychopaths or antisocial personalities are narcissists. Okay, I want you guys to know that. But not all narcissists are psychopaths. Very important distinction to make. And when we talk about, you'll hear these phrases thrown about, you'll hear psychopath and you'll have sociopath. They essentially mean the same thing. The major difference between them is that psychopaths are born. And sociopaths are made. And this is where the argument for bad parenting comes into play. And I'll even talk about one or two of the case studies that I worked on that illustrate this point even further. So a psychopath is somebody who has and does not experience any remorse. They have no guilt, no shame, no real embarrassment at all. They are completely void of care for other people's consequences, like what happens to them. You are a tool to service me. The whole world exists as a way for me to seek pleasure. People who are great psychopaths oftentimes can be killers, assassins. They can be business people who are responsible for coming in and like doing mass firings, because they legitimately don't care. Like some of the top CEOs in the world are probably would be psychopaths because they can make decisions that impact the lives of hundreds or thousands of people and completely destroy their lives and not lose any sleep over it. And so just like a psychopath, narcissists also lack empathy. They're entitled. They're grandiose, arrogant. They constantly seek validation. Where narcissism separates from psychopathology is that narcissistics are a disorder of self-esteem. And so everything that they're doing  naring is about getting validation and making themselves feel good and think that they're superior and think that the world exists to serve them. A narcissist can have empathy for other people. They'll do wrong and they'll be like, oh, I shouldn't have done that. That was bad. I know that I hurt that person and they'll experience some level of remorse. Whereas a psychopath is the exact same person, but will hurt somebody and absolutely not care. They'll kill you and not try to get any on their shoes because they don't want to ruin their shoes. There's zero remorse in their actions. That's the major difference really between them. When it comes to understanding psychopaths and sociopaths, again, same kind of concept. They're essentially the same, but what I mean is a sociopath is more or less born or, excuse me, is created and not born. You look at Jeffrey Dahmer, who would fit the criteria for psychopathology. You look at him and you're like, he was born that way. Now he did not grow up in a nurturing environment that did anything to change that, but you can make an argument that it was the in utero drug exposure, the mental health, all that stuff. But Dahmer even himself has always felt like he was born different from everybody else and he never truly felt like he fit into society. Sociopaths are made. What I mean is they're taught to be criminals and they're taught to be kind of anti-social. What I mean by that is imagine if I'm a father, which I am, imagine if I'm teaching my son the ways to lie, cheat, steal, and manipulate society and people in it. He's not growing up with a normal view of society. He's being taught these things. If you expose somebody to a criminal element long enough, they become criminals. Case in point, I remember one of my very first clients that I got, I was working in a juvenile treatment facility at the time. It was a substance abuse facility. I've had a couple sessions with this client, this kid, this adult, he was like 16 or 17. I forget how old he was. We were talking about his propensity for selling drugs. I was the first person to tell him, I was like, you don't have to sell drugs. There's other ways for you to make money. Later that week he had a phone call with his mother and he was talking about his therapy sessions and he was telling his mom, he's like, yeah, my therapist says there's other ways to make money and all that. The next time I went to go get this kid for his session, he's like, yeah, my mom wants to talk to you. I was like, okay. I call mom. I'm like, hey, and I've got it on speakerphone. She started cussing me out in ways that you can't even believe. Who the fuck do you think you are to tell my son he's not supposed to sell drugs? You don't have a fucking right to do that. He's got a responsibility to take care of his family. He has to earn money for this family. You shut your fucking mouth. You don't tell him what to do. I'm just like, this was the first experience I'd ever had with this. I was simply trying to tell him to impose my value system on him, which is essentially what I was doing. I didn't know that I was really doing that, but I'm like, hey, you get that there's other ways to make a living. But in his mind, in his family, the culture had been this is how you're going to earn money. So he was a kid who was taught the game, the street game, the hustle at an early age didn't know any other life existed, except this is how I make money. This is how I earn a living. So, sociopathic, not psychopathic, because he was taught it was created within him, not something that he was necessarily born with. Does that make sense? Yeah. But then how does the, would you say that somebody who is, like we're talking about the creating part to become creating that killer, do you think that both of those things have to come together? Because most people are encouraging someone to murder multiple people. Do you see what I'm saying? They're not encouraging it. Some families do, by the way, but with the exception of those, I think it's just a matter of at a certain point it becomes, or do you mean like an impulse within that individual? Okay. Yeah. I'm just trying to understand or break that down in case maybe anybody else is trying to understand. Maybe it's just me. Well, you look at, okay. So take a look at the Jeffrey Dahmer story. What did you start to see early on when he was a child? You started to see the tadpole mutilation. Like early or animal torture is a common thing where a lot of people will start off because it's a safer way of experimenting. How did it feel? How did it feel when they first did that? Did it feel good? What were the sensations that they had? Oftentimes you'll hear things like I felt powerful. I felt in control. I felt strong. That's not society shaping it. How is that like other people? That's the psychopath part. Yeah. But how does the sociopath part develop? I guess. Well, if you're exposed and you're not taught any other way to live, like this is what it is. Okay. My version of problem solving is to talk to somebody, figure things out, find a mutual ground. Right? If all I show my son is every time somebody picks on him to get up and go grab a brick and smash him in the face, he's not going to know how to talk his way out of problems. He's just going to be like violence is how you solve problems until you grow up in a violent culture. You'll see people as they develop later in life, they'll start to question their belief systems and the things that they grew up with and they'll have a hard time with it. Like Stanley Tookie was one of them. So Stanley Tookie, the leader of the Crips. He was one of the most violent gang members in the world. When he was sentenced in prison to life in prison, he started to finally challenge and connect different things to his upbringing. He became like a child's author. He became an anti-gang advocate. He started to do things to bring the bloods and the Crips together to greatly reduce gang violence and it's like how did one of the most prolific violent gang members completely turn around? And so there's an example of like later in life, they can start to question these things, but when you're young, your moral development hasn't arrived and especially if the people in your life are creating violence for you, that's what you're going to be. You don't have a choice. Yeah, there's always this argument like some people believe that like you can't be born essentially like a bad person and I don't want to put like a moral label on it, but when we're talking about fucking serial killers, I think everybody can agree that you're not a great person and you're a terrible person if you're doing this, right? So the idea that like some people think that you can't be born bad essentially, but it's like, I don't know, I feel like there's certain things that are just unexplained and certain people that it's like so many things can go wrong, but it's also like I feel like there has to be something underlying here because a lot of people have a lot of things that are wrong and they're not doing that. You know, so I do feel like it is that like nature and nurture together because there's absolutely no way that you can tell me that like, I don't know, I just. And that's the part where when you start analyzing the pathology and the etiology of serial killer development, it's not a clear cut path. It's very abstract. It's like, why is one person a serial killer and another person who experienced the exact same thing, a completely different person? There's a great book that actually talks about this. I don't know, well, not talks about this particular, but for those of you who are interested in reading it, it's called The Gift of Fear. It's a book written by Gavin DeBekker. Gavin DeBekker is one of the foremost authorities in the world on predicting violent behavior. He's a security specialist. He's like, developed security details for high level executives, presidents, politicians, VIPs, celebrities, etc. Well, in this book, he details his entire career. There's one really great chapter in this where he's working with inmates who are like in a halfway house. And what he experiences is with one of these guys, he's talking to one of these like, reforming criminals that the two of them essentially had the exact same upbringing. Like he's listening to history and he's like, I remember this, like we had the same life. And at one point the inmate looks at him, he's like, you and I are the same person. He's like, explain to me why I'm in a halfway house and I've lost everything and I'm a career criminal, but you have a beautiful wife, kids, a home, a successful career. How did we end up this way? We both had the same experience, but we became different people and why? And the only thing he can point to is he's like, along the way I had the right guidance at the right time. It's kind of like, I got, like if I'm a seed, I got watered just at the right moment to make it to the next level where this person didn't get any water. So they were left to struggle or find things. And when you're in a space of survival, you don't question things. It's like, I do this or I die. You start throwing morality out the window. And when you grow up in a morally absent environment, you don't have an overdeveloped super ego. You have an underdeveloped one and more to the point you've an overdeveloped or powerful id if we're going to go down like the Freudian pathology, which I'll get into in a second. And so it just becomes a byproduct of the, of the environment that the person is growing up in where they're never nurtured or taught to sublimate those things into healthier activities. I think that makes a lot of sense. Like at that point, there should have been certain things and that was lacking. I think that would probably crystallize that for a lot of people. So I do think that there probably is a certain aspect of like what these people are born with potentially. And then all of these things either going wrong or just not happening when maybe they should have been stopped or behaviors adjusted. And so when you're looking at like the series like Dahmer, one of the questions that people kept asking is they were like, why didn't the cops check the garbage bags when he got pulled over? Right? I wouldn't have thought to check the garbage. Would you? I'm not a cop. I can't answer that. I don't know. I guess it's a little weird. I don't remember what time at night it was for a guy to be driving with three garbage bags in the backseat. I guess I didn't. I thought that that was just kind of like luck that he didn't because like, I mean, you really could have had leaves in there. He could have and they could have checked and just poked one of them to see. I guess. I don't know. Maybe you could have a police officer on and talk to him about that. Like what would have been the. When you see a garbage bag, what do you do? I think sometimes though that they didn't want to see that. And I think that was the point. Oh, for sure. I think there were several episodes that allude to the idea that everybody had their eyes closed and wasn't looking at what was obviously in front of them. And this is the power of their serial killer actually has is in our minds. Again, with the shadow, we want to reject everything that has to do with violence and aggression and these ugly sides of us. So as a result, we tend to in our minds, create a mental image that a serial killer has to look like a monster. Like they're going to be different from us. They're going to have fangs and bleed from their eyes and be this horrible, ghastly individual. And the reality is they are us. So if you've listened to the shadow pod shadow podcast that we've done on shadow work, you'll recognize that when I'm saying acknowledging these things exist as a part of us that whatever is in Jeffrey Dahmer actually exists in you and some of these other people. And most of us when I when I make a statement like that, everybody's like, no, fuck that, not me. Right. And it's this inability to want to connect with it. And I'm not saying that you're Jeffrey Dahmer. I'm saying that you're a human being. And despite whatever platform you want to stand on, Jeffrey Dahmer was a human being. And so whatever was comprised in him, if you had grown in those same areas and developed in those same ways, it's not that far fetched. And so what makes serial killers a little bit different is their autonomic nervous system, which is part of the sympathetic nervous system, which is where the fight, flight and freeze responses are like the fear center of the brain, the amygdala, the limbic system. They have an underdeveloped autonomic nervous system, which means their brain doesn't register arousal in the same way that ours does. So like when you do something wrong, when you're, I don't know, like speeding down the road in excess and all of a sudden the cops pull you over, you see the sirens and the lights panic, you hear the sirens and see the lights. Sorry. You start to panic, right? You get that nervous feeling in your stomach. They don't have that, which is why they're able to stay cool because their brain doesn't register fear in the same way. It doesn't become aroused. There's this flat. Doesn't matter, which is why they can get away with doing the things that they're doing and have no real reaction to it. So they're very different in a normal person. When you're that autonomic system fires up, when you break a rule or you do something wrong, you feel nervous, you feel anxious, you're responding to the potential consequences to come. They don't think about consequences. They're highly impulsive people and arrogant in a lot of ways. And so they're not going to get caught and they're narcissistic and they think they're entitled to do these things. And think about that combination of being entitled and arrogant and thinking that you exist to serve me and to pleasure me and I can take and do whatever I want whenever I want. I have no remorse or fear about it. That was the craziest part about BTK's whole story is how literally he got away with it for like 20 years and then he was such a narcissist that he continued to write in to the cops or just write in stuff about it because he wanted to be known and it's like, dude, what? That's how you get caught is not because of all the gruesome, awful things that you did. You got caught because you basically turned yourself in because you wanted people to know about what you had done. That is just narcissism on a different fucking level. That has always been so wild to me to think that that's how you got caught. So just to kind of get into some of the other criteria that define antisocial personality disorder and what that looks like, failure to conform to societal norms concerning lawful behaviors such as performing acts that are grounds for arrest. So breaking and entering, using weapons, arson, drug dealing, things like that. Being deceitful, most of them are complete pathological liars and they take pleasure in lying and be able to deceive and manipulate and conning other people. They're highly impulsive. They don't plan. They're irritable and aggressive. Oftentimes you see a long history of physical fights, assaults, aggression. They have a reckless and complete disregard for the safety of other people. Consistently irresponsible. Oftentimes they have difficulty sustaining work, relationships, etc. They don't really meet a lot of obligations and then again, they lack remorse. Being indifferent or being able to rationalize hurting people without any real empathy for it. That's kind of the defining characteristics. And by the way, you only need to meet three of those criteria to be considered antisocial. However, one caveat to that is you do need to demonstrate a pattern of these behaviors prior to the age of 15. Really? Yeah. It has to be a long, consistent, pervasive pattern of it. What if you're from 30 to 50, you're on the spree of behavior? Nobody would consider that. Well, I mean, obviously the chances of you getting caught are pretty high, but I mean, maybe not. How many people at age 30 become serial killers without any of the other precursors prior to 15? I don't know. That's my point. Or antisocial behavior in general. That's my point. In order to have the diagnosis of antisocial personality, you have to be displaying these things prior to 15. Now, some people might say, we don't have an accurate history. We don't know. They're great at lying. So unless you have witnesses to some of these events, they can very easily just lie about what their history has been. And so it becomes a difficult thing to prove. And if you're under the age of 18, what you're looking at, the term would be, like if I'm dealing with a teenager who antisocial personality disorder fits the same criteria essentially as conduct disorder, but that's the diagnosis that we use for people under the age of 18. And so sometimes what we've had is we've had people who have demonstrated a pervasive pattern. Like from age 12, you can see signs of criminality and not just criminals, but like the lack of remorse, empathy, cruelty to people, et cetera. And so they're oftentimes diagnosed with conduct disorder. And then once they turn 18, as long as the pattern continues to persist, they'll eventually be diagnosed with antisocial personality disorder. Because I never thought about that. Yeah, most people aren't going to be like, Oh, turn 30th birthday going to be going to change my life around become a antisocial person. You don't turn it around. I meant in a negative way. I meant like you don't like you weren't doing those the first 30 years and all of a sudden now, correct, like most people like us aren't doing that. If you were a perfect person, let's just assume a totally normal person. And at age 30, you just like snapped. Most people would start to look for some sort of external stressful event that happened in your life. Right. Potentially. Yeah. Or something else that triggered these events. You know, and that wouldn't be necessarily indicative of the fact that like your entire life you had been sublimating this as much as it would be like you snapped under stress and under duress and you crew committed these acts. And that would be that might be something more along the lines of a psychotic disorder. Yeah. Right. Not necessarily antisocial personality. Interesting. That makes sense. Yeah. I mean, I don't know if I don't know what we're after time in terms of moral development. We wanted to get into that. Touch on your, their favorite thing to wrap it up. My favorite thing to wrap it up. Okay. Your favorite list. Okay. I don't know. Okay. I'll go back. I'll put you in the spot. I'll touch on the Freudian part and how this kind of develops into you and demonstrates where psychopathology kind of has some of its origins. So Freud talked about a moral code and this will help you guys understand the psychopath part, the sociopath part, et cetera. Freud talked about the internalization of a person's moral code. Usually it's our parents that represent our moral code. Well, there's three levels of consciousness that he identified. You have the unconscious, the pre-conscious and the conscious awareness, right? Which are defined by the ego and super ego. Okay. So the id is the unconscious part. This is the selfish part, the impulsive part, the instinctual part. This is like where sex and eating and aggression, the pleasure centers of the brain. Okay. That's what this is. This is a pleasure seeking principle part of you. It is like, some people will describe it as kind of like the devil part of you, like the evil part, so to speak. Then there's the super ego, which is the pre-conscious, which is like so if the unconscious is the deepest part, we're moving up one step, which is the pre-conscious, which is the super ego. This is like an internal guiding principle. This is where concepts of right or wrong, moral principle come into play. What is socially acceptable to think and feel? These are these guiding principles. So in many ways it's kind of like the opposite of the id, which is like the God version, the God complex, right? This is like the angel on your shoulder, so to speak. So you have the devil and you have the angel. They need a counterbalance in between them, which is the third level up, which is what we call the conscious, which is the ego. The ego's responsibility in these decisions is kind of like to take into account the reality principle, which is it's the balance between these two forces. You all have this. Think about a time in your life when you knew you had something to do, a project to work on, but there's this part of you that doesn't want to engage in it, so you find other things to distract. You jump on social media, right? That's what is social media. It's a pleasurable thing. It's a dopamine dump, right? So what are we seeing? You're seeing your id come into play right there, where your super ego is saying to you, hey, you have this responsibility, go and do this. You're supposed to be doing laundry right now, but instead you're screwing around on the phone. So eventually what happens is your ego steps in, weighs the pros and cons, and then makes the decision to say, look, we're going to be a responsible adult and go do these things. That's the representation of it. Now what happens if the internalization of the parent's moral code is absent from that person or the moral code is corruption, right? An example of this would be like if my father was a police officer, it stands to be that I would grow up with a strong ethical background, right? I might have an overdeveloped super ego, this sense of righteousness or a strong ethical command, right? Where I wouldn't break any rules ever and would feel very uncomfortable doing that. Why? Because it's the moral compass that was instilled in me as a child. Well, what happens if no one ever teaches me right from wrong or more importantly, that it's socially acceptable to hurt, harm, lie, cheat, steal and be aggressive? Well the id is overdeveloped and there's nothing to counterbalance it. So you become a highly impulsive, highly aggressive individual. Oftentimes these people don't have a sense of morality to them. And so since there's no remorse, they act on their pleasure. And so they kind of develop these patterns of abuse. Does that make sense? Yeah, it makes a lot of sense. And it really does point to like there's so many layers here. So I think that that's probably part of the fascination going back to that first question. Why do people enjoy watching this or learning about it? You know what I mean? And I guess part of it could be the shadow stuff or this deeper concept of like what's happening in society. But I also do think that some people are just curious about, I don't know, maybe I'm just trying to justify how I think about it. Well because I would never want to watch like a regular true crime stuff, I don't know. But I also don't like, I was just talking about this earlier, I don't like horror films. Anything like paranormal, like oh hell no, that's just like the absolute worst. But like the serial killer stuff shows or documentaries, whatever is interesting. And I think it's just because in a horror movie you don't know what's going to happen next. Obviously with all of this, you already know what's happened. You know what I mean? So like you're watching it as everything is over or done. And then you can just like observe what's happening. So I think that's why it's not as scary I guess to me versus like watching something like The Exorcist. You know what I mean? Or something like that. I'd be like actually not like what's going to happen next? Who's going to, like anything like, oh my god, it's like my worst nightmare. Like watching movies like that or like just those weird torture movies. Oh my god. I do not know how people get into shit like that. But everybody likes different stuff. And some people like that. And some people love that. I just get super, super scared about that stuff. And I'm like, I always wondered like why? You know what I mean? And I think that's the reason is because you're still, you're trying to, you don't know what's going to happen. Whereas like with these shows, like I mean, the person's already caught, convicted, probably dead and you're just kind of feeling in the deep like. So you're seeing it from that spectrum perspective. You're like, hey, I'm on this. We're all as human beings on this spectrum. How did this one person end up so far over here and in such an extreme case? And I think part of that mesmerizing part is, God, is this like, could I have done this? Is this in me? And that's kind of that acknowledgement piece that keeps you intrigued on that level. And it's a scary thing. It is really scary to think, wow, somebody who is similar enough to me, obviously very different, but similar enough that like did this so easily. Like that's so horrifying to think of. Like, oh, so obviously we've talked about a lot of different things today, but if you have not watched the show yet, you've been living under a rock, we would definitely recommend it. It does a pretty good job. And I just think cinematically, like even taking the story aside, I think cinematically they do a really great job, which is probably why I liked it so much too. Like those little details. Some people thought it was too slow for it because of that, but like I appreciate stuff that's slow that like builds story if it is filmed and like acted out really well. So if you like that kind of stuff, it's pretty good. And yeah, hopefully you guys now have a better understanding of psychopathic behavior and all these different things. And like I said, clearly people are interested in this and it's always like been on my mind like why are we so some people so interested in this. So hopefully this clears it up for you guys. And if you guys are interested in reaching out to Rik for therapy, not related to serial killing for other things, we will put his contact below. And yeah, talk to you guys next week.

=== FILE: Episode 256： The Redefine Healthy App ｜ Now LIVE! [x1pVsQENqTM].txt ===

 Welcome back to another episode of the LocoFit Show. For a very special episode, we're talking all about our app that has just launched the redefine healthy app. So if you guys have been following us for a while or even heard it on the podcast, we've been working on this for months and I'm so excited to finally announce that it is live. And I wanted to do a podcast to cover really just who it's for and what it's going to offer. So first, this is not something that is going to replace our coaching. This is completely separate and totally different. And I have been coaching now for almost 10 years. We started the business back in 2013, which is crazy to think about, right? And I love coaching. All of our coaches are super invested in coaching, but we recognize that not everybody is in the position or the place really to have coaching, but we still wanted to share with the world some of our coaching methods. And what we think will actually help you redefine healthy in your life. So I'd been wanting to do something for a while. I just wasn't sure what to do, how to do it. And then this just was the perfect thing. So there is going to be a few different pieces to this app. There is going to be a nutrition only component, a training only component, or somebody who wants nutrition and training. So like I said, this is separate from our coaching. We will not be doing our coaching check-ins on here, nothing like that. So if you are a current nutrition client, you would benefit greatly from the training programs. If you were a body blueprint subscriber, you will love this. It's going to be a much more personalized version of, you know, basically something like a body blueprint, completely different, like just so much better. Same great programming, but much more personalized to you. And then there's the other content on here as well, which I will touch on at the end. So let's go into training first. So for training, there's going to be several different options. So there's going to be a three day or four day training split. So three full body days or four days or two up or two lower. There's going to be building or cutting plans, which will differ with rep ranges and cardio that's prescribed or recommended. There is going to be 45 minute or 75 minute duration because we know that everybody has a different time that they can spend in the gym. There's also home and gym options. So that's a really nice feature as well. Did put a lot in there in terms of if you do have limited access, what can you do at home? And then from there, you are also going to have training demos for each of the exercises, which I'm so excited about. They came out amazing. And it's something again that I've wanted to do for a while, just didn't have the capacity, but this app has the capacity to do that. So training demos, so you know exactly how to perform it. There's also going to be an exercise swap feature, which is really nice. So let's say you're doing, you're at the gym and you have line leg curls on your program, but the gym's crazy and that's absolutely packed and you don't want to wait. You can do a swap there or say the machine is broken, or if you're at home, you don't have something. So it's a really nice feature to be able to change that right on the spot when you are training. And then also on there, you can track what you're doing for each session. So say it says four by 12, right? For again, line leg curls. And maybe you get 10, right? 12 is prescribed, but you got 10 or maybe you got 15. And then you can also track your weight and that you've hit for that exercise. And honestly, I know it sounds so small, but it really is much more motivating. Finish it, you get a little green check, which is super satisfying. I know that for me, when I have been using this now on the app for the past few weeks to test it, it's definitely held me much more accountable in terms of like, all right, I was maybe not that I was gonna skip it. Not like I would ever do that, but there's certain days where you're just like, man, I really don't wanna do this. And seeing it on there is just a totally different level than like, oh yeah, it's on my program. So everything is super convenient. It's all on the app. And all of these programs have been designed very carefully by our training director, Ryan, tested these out back in July, me and Sam did when I was visiting her. And like I said, I've been using this for a while. So there's so many different options, you guys. They are incredible. So that is the training piece. And if you're a current nutrition client, or maybe you already have a nutrition coach, or you don't want nutrition coaching at all, the training only is an option for you. Next for nutrition, this is where it's gonna be a little bit different. So with our nutrition coaching, that's 101, there's weekly check-ins, all of this. There's no check-ins, there's no coaching within the app. Which is why it's great for people who are just starting on their journey. Don't really want or need a coach necessarily, but they want something. Or maybe there are clients who have transitioned away from a coach or are taking a break. This is a really nice filler to say, all right, I have some accountability and some structure here without the weekly check-ins. So we wanted to make something much more accessible to a larger pool of people so that we could help more individuals, which is what our ultimate goal always is. So when you're signing up for the nutrition portion, you're going to put in your body statistics, or think height, weight, age, et cetera, your activity levels, and then you'll have goals. You can either have maintenance, a building, or a cutting goal. And then you have different dietary preferences that you can choose from. There's I think six or eight options. So general is going to have the most meal variety. Then there's easy to prep meals, so really quick basic stuff. And then there's other options, dairy-free, low-carb, vegetarian, et cetera. And then you're also choosing how many meals a day that you want to eat, three, four, five, or six. From there, a meal plan will be created with a meal plan, macros, and a grocery list to go along with all that. So it's so seamless. And that's why I said it's really great, especially if people just want some accountability, or really just don't know where to start. The grocery list, I think, is probably my favorite part. So let's say that you have, you're gonna have seven different days of meals, but say you really like day one and day two. And you're like, you know what, I'm just gonna have day one and day two, and repeat that for the whole week. You can actually add, okay, I want these days, and I want three servings of it, let's just say. And then the grocery list is populated with those amounts. It totally streamlines the process, and it's all on your phone for easy access. So incredibly excited for this option. There's also a meal swap option, right? So sometimes, you know, some of the stuff on there, you're gonna be like, I don't really like that, and I never really wanna have that personally. And that is another option there as well, so you can have a new meal come in after you submit the meal swap. So tons of great options. And then some days, if you don't want those meals at all, you can still see the macros, and there you go. So there's a lot of different features here, but like I said, the nutrition component's a little bit different. So I know some people were thinking that, oh, is this where they're gonna be putting their check-ins and their coaching? This is completely separate. Now, another great feature that we're gonna have is the focus of the month. So every month, our team, mental health consultant, Rick, is gonna be putting together some content that is going to focus on mental health, which as you guys know, as a listener to the podcast, and just anybody who follows our coaching philosophies, you know how important combining physical mental health is to us and at the core of our philosophies. So I really wanted to make sure that we had something here. We already have a few months preloaded, so in the mental health resources tab, and then each month, like I said, is gonna be some written content, and also some prompts. I think the prompts are what I'm most excited about, and even the ones that we already have preloaded, there's some really great things to think on in there. And when I was adding, I was like, oh, this is, I got a journal about this. So each month, there'll be a new focus, and then there's also just other content on there as well that is exclusive to the app, and then moving forward, we're also gonna be adding exclusive content to the app. I already have a few ideas of what we're gonna be rolling out in the next several months. I'm so excited for this, you guys, and I know the whole team is as well been putting so much effort into this, and it's just something that I've really wanted for a while. I wasn't sure how to encapsulate all these different things with training, and nutrition, and accessibility, and mental health, and extra content, like what we're gonna do, and then this is gonna house all of it. So below in the show notes, I will link up the websites, so you guys can check out more information on it, and if you're interested, you can sign up, and of course, if you have any questions, please feel free to reach out at info.atteamlocafit, just send us an email, and we will certainly get back to you. Once again, thank you guys so much for all the words of encouragement along the way in this process, and I'm just so excited that we can finally share that the Redefine Healthy app is live.

=== FILE: Episode 257： Cannabis and mental health [CppZAuwQAyI].txt ===

 welcome back to another episode of the Loco Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and today I'm joined by a team mental health consultant, Rick, and we're going to talk about... this is kind of an interesting topic, but your experience as a therapist with cannabis, not personally, that's not a wrong intro. I commend low lights. This is my favorite string. Kenny G on the radio. Oh my God, Kenny G. Well, that would be your choice. Candle. So your experience working with clients and how cannabis... Potentially, we're going to be talking about some of the negative effects, primarily, because obviously there's a lot of positive effects. There's a really big push for a lot of the positives, and I am a big proponent of using cannabis in a productive and healthy way for you, but quite like any substance, there can be misuse, and I want to use the word abuse, because obviously there can be abuse of any kind of substance, but there can often be a mis-abuse, and that's really where you want to touch on mostly, like using it in a way that you are not really addressing things, and maybe just kind of pushing them away. And I think that there are... it's looked at so differently now, because obviously there was a really big, like negative stigmatization of cannabis in general, and then now there's been this really, really big resurgence, and then there's this explosion, which I think is great, I think having more access to this, and having more access to regulated THC is incredibly important. However, like anything, there's downsides, right? And I think in the hands of the wrong individuals, it could be more detrimental. So let's talk about it really from the therapy side, and where you see maybe some of the mis-abuse. And again, this is not a podcast that is demonizing cannabis whatsoever, like I am somebody who will use THC semi-regularly, very much enjoy it, but it's quite like anything, and I think that sometimes now, kind of like psychedelics, right? Like psychedelics are amazing, there are so many positives to them, but the fact that some people are just kind of like willy-nilly saying, like, yeah, everybody should take them, like, hold up, not everybody is probably in the headspace to do this, and particularly in certain doses, right? The dose is going to be everything. If you're using a little bit of THC, it's very different than consistently using a very large dose every single day to avoid, you know, your problems. So let's get into that. Yeah, so first let me start off. I'm not going to shit on marijuana here. It is okay to use, you guys are fine, it's kind of one of those, my body, my choice kind of things for me. To each person their own. You know, I don't have a problem with it from a moral perspective, but let's kind of have an honest conversation about what it is. It is a mood-altering substance, and first and foremost, I think it's important to recognize that aspect of it. I'm not judging it. If people want to smoke weed, go smoke weed, have fun with it. There's ways to do things responsibly, right? Like, don't smoke weed and then go drive a car. Same thing, I would advise people don't drink and drive. So there's boundaries and parameters to know and to understand. Well, that's, I think, where this big kind of like, there's been this shift, right, where obviously I think everybody knows that alcohol is not good for you, right? And I would say that there's a lot of detrimental behaviors with alcohol and abuse. But people are like, well, alcohol is so bad for you, so just smoke weed. And you're like, okay, maybe. But also, like, are we going to have a conversation about how much? You know what I mean? Like, it's kind of like anything. Like, if you're having a glass of wine, that's very different than saying, like, I had 12 beers and four shots and then I drove home. Like, both of those are ingesting alcohol, right? So it's like, we can't just say, like, oh, this has no problems. I always enjoy when people start having that conversation where they're like, oh, I don't like, you know, alcohol is bad for you, but marijuana is great for you because I love when I run, like, some of my substance groups, right? And I would always see, like, like the alcoholics would be there and they would be like, yeah, but we're not potheads. And then, like, the pot people would be like, yeah, but we don't do meth. And the meth people are like, yeah, but we don't do coke. And the coke people are like, yeah, but we don't do heroin. And the heroin people are like, we don't do LSD. You know what I mean? It's like, so everybody has this way of kind of making themselves feel righteous in their choice. And you have worked in those groups. Absolutely. So you have a lot of experiences, not just, you know, like you have a first-hand experience with us. No, this is used as treatment as a substance abuse counselor. And so, you know, the other thing I also want to kind of clear up to, or that I would like to address my perspective on it, is, you know, we hear the terms like gateway drugs a lot, right? And I think for years marijuana was dinged as a gateway drug. And for, it made sense for the time, like, when I was in high school, marijuana was still a class three controlled substance, which was like where heroin and LSD were in that category, and marijuana. When I was in high school, so this is all relatively new in terms of changing what it means, what marijuana means. And I think there is without a doubt in my mind, absolute medicinal benefit for marijuana, for a variety of illnesses and ailments. And so it absolutely has its place within the medical community. It has its place as a form of treatment or an ancillary form of treatment to other things. So by no way, shape or form, do I want to see anything happen to the production use and prescription of marijuana as a potential treatment for people who need it. In fact, I'm glad it's being decriminalized. I'm glad that most states are starting to turn their policies around in terms of medicinal use. I still think Florida is medicinal, not recreational, correct? Correct, yeah. There's a handful of states that have medicinal and recreational. California, Colorado, places like that. Yeah, I think it's Nevada, Colorado, and California from what I know. I would imagine Oregon is probably on that list too. Because they've decriminalized basically everything. But my approach and what I've come to understand is once you venture down the path of taking any mood substance, mood altering substance, that in and of itself, all drugs are gateway drugs to other drugs. Like very few people just go, I've never done anything before, but I'm going to drink today and then enjoy drinking and then never try marijuana. Or never try mushrooms. Or never try coke, right? Most people at some point try something else. You could make the argument that a cigarette leads to drinking, right? And drinking leads to other drugs and substances. And so I've always hated the idea that marijuana is seen as a gateway drug when I think, like, look, if you're going to do any drug, it certainly opens you up to the possibility of doing other drugs. It doesn't matter what the drug is. So this whole, like, of marijuana as a gateway drug, like bullshit, alcohol as a gateway drug, cocaine as a gateway drug to some other drug, you know what I mean? It just, the logic falls short with me, especially when I've seen those patterns not exist in real life. That was just part of, like, the time because maybe people in high school had more access to weed than they did heroin. I don't know. I'm just trying to imagine, like, the public service announcement in terms of, like, this is a gateway drug. Be scared of it, right? Like, it's going to melt your brain. Like, whatever the hell they used to say. So was it like... This is your brain on drugs, right? Yeah, that, like, was there a campaign? Was that part of, like, I don't know. I don't know why they would have picked on that, you know? Because it's like there were so many other things to, like... They didn't test it. Like, marijuana was big in the 70s because of the hippies and everybody used to smoke it. And I grew up in the 80s, so I don't really, I was a child that wasn't exposed to it. None of my family really smoked, you know? But certainly when the 2000s hit, things changed. You know, he started seeing, like, adults going in the garage and smoking weed and, you know, it became much more socially acceptable. I think now, even in this time, in this state, you can carry a certain amount of marijuana on you and it's not a criminal offense. So it's changed and I'm grateful for that change. But I think in the past, it was just because it was in the same category as heroin and LSD. So why would you not... I just feel like it was a funny one to pick on. Having an anti-drug campaign, you know? Well, they would, because it was the leaf and then they would have the pills and then they would have the bottle and the pipe. And it was really nice to just put that big circle with the red extra. Like, what looks the best for the graphic? That's the gateway drug. That's the gateway drug. Yeah. You know, so from that perspective, I think it had a bad reputation and it's slowly starting to come back. That's a really good point, though, that, like, anything is a gateway. Because once you are somebody who is personality-wise open to different experiences and different compounds, you're probably going to be open to a lot of things. And then your knowledge and information of, like, maybe I shouldn't do this because of these reasons. You know what I mean? I understand regulation to a point, right? Because obviously you want people... You don't want this to be in the hands of the wrong person, especially children, right? Like, that's understandably why there are restrictions on certain things. And not just in children, but because they're small or naive? Because their brains and bodies are still developing. Like, you know, I'm somebody who I think almost everything should be legal. Like, just as a personal person, that's my beliefs, obviously, over a certain age and regulated. Because I think that some of the biggest issues from drugs are just the... It's not regulated, so it's not just coke, it's coke and fentanyl. You know what I mean? Obviously you don't want that for any underage person or any, but I think if you're an adult, you can make your own decisions, but hold it in podcast. I really like that point because I think that if somebody who is individual who's just open to different experiences, like, but I don't think a lot of people think that way. You know, I think that message is less now, but it's still certainly a message that people will remember. I think it also comes from the large majority of people who don't smoke weed or don't see a benefit in it. You know, from a recreational perspective, they want to kind of demonize it a little bit. It also is a lot more mild in comparison, let's say, to cocaine. Smoking weed is not going to... it's going to produce an effect, but it's not going to produce the effect of... So I think that maybe it was also an easier way to label it because you're like, alright, there's effects, but they're more mild, but continuous use over time, especially for an adolescent brain, is going to create... and probably with working with a lot of the juveniles in the prison system, I would imagine that there was probably a lot of substance abuse patterns with those kids as well. But I would imagine that that probably was also a contributing factor to not only their decisions, but also like their development. I don't know what the stats are on that, but I would probably venture to say they're pretty high. People who are traumatized tend to require self-medication, and so they turn to drugs and substances, and those substances help lead to worse decisions and bad behaviors, and you know, they create patterns and cycles for themselves. It's difficult to get out of. But that's where this can kind of go wrong, and that's what we're going to talk about. So by using a compound maybe like THC, right, or alcohol, but we're going to stick to THC for this podcast, people might feel like they're coping with things, but they're really just covering it up. Is that what you would argue is probably the most... That's my biggest issue with it, is like most things, people aren't really dealing with the root cause, right? If somebody comes in to their doctor's office, you're an intelligent person, you can do this, you can walk right into your doctor's office and give them a highlight of a few talking points, and boom, get your prescription from Medical Marijuana. Great. You're going to take that prescription, you're going to go get it filled, and you're going to start smoking weed, or edibles, whatever it is, whatever form you want to take with it. The issue that I have with it, and the issue that keeps popping up over and over and over again, is so you are going numb to whatever is causing the anxiety, so you're anxious, so you smoke weed, now you're relaxed, right? Guess what still exists? The anxiety. Whatever the cause is of the anxiety is there. You've temporarily numbed yourself to it, but you're not addressing what's actually causing the anxiety. You're not addressing your thoughts around it, the feelings or emotions around it, the behaviors that are surrounding it. You're not looking at the experiences, the people, furthermore, and this is the key point. You're not developing the coping skills to manage stressful situations anymore, or anxiety, or any negative emotion. One of the goals of a parent is supposed to be to teach your children how to handle difficult situations, situations that are unfair, situations that result in punishment, situations that where a person is rejected, or don't get the grades that they wanted, and have to deal with disappointment, and guilt, and embarrassment, and shame. Now what's happening is instead of us developing these coping mechanisms to live a well-adjusted life, we're just smoking weed, or popping an edible, and we're like, I'm no longer anxious, or I've got bad anxiety. Well, no shit you have bad anxiety. You've done nothing to actually address the things in your life that are causing it, and all you're doing is going numb to it. And so what I start to see is this pattern. Either people need to smoke in the morning before they do anything, because their anxiety level is really high, and they want that mellow to chill them out for the rest of the day, or by the time they come home, they need a little bit of a hit, they need their edible, whatever it is, to mellow them out. And it becomes a habitual process. And more to the point, too, is a lot of the people that are seeking out medical marijuana, or getting their green card, or whatever it is, are already people who enjoy smoking weed. It's not like the glaucoma patients or the cancer patients. Don't get me wrong. They're out there. But by and large, the main people pushing for marijuana use and recreational use of it are people who already enjoy smoking it. Because most people who have anxiety, they're speaking to their doctors, and their doctors aren't necessarily prescribing it. But when you go to a doctor who has a propensity to prescribe it, you're going to kind of get what you want. Or they're just prescribing other drugs, but that's a different conversation. So there's always a... So I guess there's... So I have a few points here. So first, do you think that it can't... We both agree, certainly, that if you are using this as a way to cope and not address the problem, then that's not beneficial. Do you think, or have you seen as a therapist, that there are times where things are just so absolutely... So the person is so deep into their anxiety or whatever situation that maybe, like, hey, using this for one month, two months, three months, whatever it is, might just get them past that point. And then, hey, let's have this conversation about tapering off or kind of using as necessary. Like, do you ever see that to be helpful? And that's 100%. That's a great point. I'm glad you brought that up because there's nothing wrong with that, especially if a person is like, look, I really don't want to take Xanax or a Clonazepan or something like that and some other anti-anxiety drug or... I don't feel good with that pharmaceuticals, have a lot of negative side effects. Like, is there something else that you can prescribe? Sure. And if that person is in intense or severe emotional distress or pain where it's like, do they have the ability to be able to radically change their situation or their circumstances right now, but over time they can? Sure. Absolutely. It's when it's the opposite, right? It's when they don't deal with it and there's no other ancillary treatment that comes with it. And that really just speaks to where people's mindset is at. I know people who smoke either daily or almost daily or ingest some type of THC almost daily. And it's not because they're avoiding the work that they need to do. It's because they have done all that work and they continuously do that work, but they just really like it. And they'll admit that. They're like, I just really like how I feel with this. Whereas, and I do think that that's very different than somebody who is using it as a way to cope and is not still doing that work. It's kind of like drinking, right? Which obviously, again, there's a lot here. But like, if you are reaching for a drink because you're like, I am so stressed and I don't want to deal with this and I just want to numb myself, that's very different, I would imagine, correct me if I'm wrong, that you're like, you know what? I really want this drink because this is going to be enjoyable and I really like this and I'm still doing all my other work. And maybe this does temporarily numb whatever I'm feeling because that's how alcohol works, but it doesn't mean that I'm doing this to avoid other stuff. So I think, right, like the potential use could look the same, but like the intent is very different. Do you see that people are able to regulate that way? Well, yes and no. Like if you are the type of person who can drink or use drugs recreationally without it becoming a habitual process, then yes, they can use it sparingly or they can be the person who has the 30-day prescription and once or twice uses it throughout the week when there's a high stressful day. Okay. Where do you see that go wrong, I guess? I see it go wrong when I start to see it become more of a habit-developing issue and marijuana has habit-forming components to it. THC is the psychotropic compound found in marijuana that provides the high. So where I see the problem with it becomes, and before I did this podcast, I reached out to three people that I know that have their green card or their medical marijuana card. Two of them were clients, one of them was a friend. And the range that they're being prescribed is anywhere between 1-2.5 ounces. 2.5 ounces was pretty much the highest amount that they could get. And to put this into perspective, and this was from one of my resources, they said like, essentially they like to smoke blunt. And so they'll put about 1 gram of marijuana in a blunt. Okay. And so 1 gram or 1 ounce has about 28 grams of weed. So in 1 ounce, you're getting 28 blunts, which is essentially one blunt a day for 30 days. If you have anything over 1 ounce, you're looking upwards of 2-2.5 blunts a day. So let me ask you, and here's the thing where you have to separate... Yeah, be high as fuck. Right. You have to separate smoking marijuana from alcohol consumption. I would ask you or say to you that if I came home every day and had one alcoholic drink every single day, One. Would you just one? Would you see it as problematic? I'm probably not the right person. Okay. So you say no. It's okay. Say no. I would honestly say that I feel like it would be the intent. If you were coming home and said, man, I really can't wait to get home and have that drink because I'm so stressed out and this is going to take my edge off. Versus I'm coming home and I really enjoy this bottle of wine and I want to pour that glass. I don't know. To me, it feels very different because I've felt both things, but maybe that's my bias. But I would say that yes, one every day might be considered excessive for most people. I grew up a little differently. Maybe I'm not the best. So let me ask you, would it change if I said I came home every day and I drank until I was drunk? That's very different. That's very different. Okay. To me. How do you differentiate? Now there's varying degrees of high. You just said, oh my God, two and a half months a day, it'd be high as fuck, right? But one blunt gets you high. So you're intoxicated. Well, it might not. If you're... You're right. It might not, but I am large. It doesn't... One blunt doesn't get you high. No, no, I'm saying it would for me, but I don't know about people who use a lot. So my point becomes at what point are you, now that you're smoking it every day or you're chewing it or ingesting it in some shape or form, your entire day now revolves around you on some level at some point requiring this substance in order to manage your day. Because what happens? Yeah. Take a person who's been smoking weed every single day for a couple of months. Everybody's like, it's not addictive. Bullshit. Take it away from them and watch what happens. Oh yeah. The dependency is definitely there. All right. Honestly, I can't name a true substance that produces such a strong physiological effect. Obviously, some things have a small effect, but any substance is going to be like that. Like caffeine, my other favorite substance. It's looked at as not as insidious because, oh, it's just a few cups of coffee or it's just an energy drink. It's just waking you up. But if you look at how people consume caffeine in all different forms, you know what I mean? Most people would label that as an addiction. It is an addiction. And there is a horrible withdrawal from caffeine when you take it away. But that idea of when you said the reason I'm bringing that up is because when you said your day revolves around it. Everybody listening, you all know, oh, I can't wait to make a cup of coffee. I can't wait to crack that energy drink. Oh, I'm so excited for that pre-workout. Maybe I'm just speaking to my own issues, but like those are the things. But then you rationalize, well, at least it's not this. That's how I rationalize. Sure. It could be worse. It could be so much worse. So you talk yourself into the habits that make sense for you. And I think that for THC, at least currently, the narrative is that because it's natural, it's safe, and there's really no problems. And I think that's what you're trying to speak to is like, listen, using this occasionally, getting through a hard time. Like all of that is super understandable and clinically could be really, really valid. However, at what point are you using this in a way that is circumventing working on those problems, creating those coping strategies? And I think that it can be hard and that does get really blurry. And I think that it is super individualized because like I said, I know people who are very much heavily into their personal development and working on themselves. They just really like weed. I just do. So it's like, I do think that there are potentially people who can do that. But I think that the conversation needs to stem around that first. Kind of like any conversation with all this, right? Like, why are we just going right away to, oh, hey, here's a solution. You know what I mean? Or like, hey, use this to fix whatever. And it's like, yes, but also what else are we doing? Like, are we going for walks? We're cutting sun exposure. Are you sleeping? You know what I mean? Like, are you, you know, how are you eating? Are you training regularly? Like these are the conversations that aren't happening with any prescription. And it's just so frustrating. You know what I mean? Obviously, it's much more frustrating for you as a therapist to like know that there's so much that can be done. That's just not even touched. You know what I mean? And it's not even like it has to be, I mean, obviously, ideally it needs to be multiple sessions over probably multiple months. But even if it was a 30 minute conversation, you know what I mean? Hey, I'm going to write this script. Also, let's touch on the like, how is this and like leave with some like prompts for someone to think through and then some resources like wouldn't that be so much better if you like the great business plan, you know, you have like, hold on, hold on. You know, you, you're getting your, you know, your card or whatever, you know, from your getting your script filled. And then instead of just, oh yeah, I need this. It's a copy. It's an actual conversation. And then, you know, provided by potentially like a therapist. Here are some talking points. Here are some prompts. Here's resources to follow up and here are some contacts for people that you can reach out to like that, I think would change things so much. So any marijuana doctors who are listening, hit us up because I think that we have a great business plan. Free samples. First of all, I like edibles. I don't smoke. But I mean, everyone's not like it. Anyways, I do think that that would that would completely change this whole conversation, you know, and I think that it's really misconstitutional. I think that it's really misguided to just say because it's natural, it's okay. That's the same conversation with psilocybin. psilocybin is natural. Has anybody ever done a huge dose of psilocybin and had a bad response? Fuck yes. You know what I mean? And to just say, what if that gets in the hand of somebody who's literally on the edge of potentially their psychotic break? It might be exactly what they need to push through that. Or now we know what happens, you know what I mean? It's just a downplay of the positive benefits of something like psilocybin because there's tons of research on this and tons of personal anecdote. But it's about being responsible and saying, okay, how are you using this? What kind of headspace are you in for? What else are you doing around this? You can't just expect to take anything. And that's, I think, where your frustration is, right, as a therapist is people are just, oh, just take this and you'll feel better. And it's like, oh, really? What they recognize is, too, they're coming in and they're smoking weed or they're taking their medical marijuana. And then they're still coming in and being like, well, things in my life aren't working. You know, there's still sources of anxiety. The relationships, the issues that are creating it are still there. And so we start working on coping mechanisms and they have none because they've become dependent on it. So you can start from a space where I've got anxiety, I'm in therapy, and I start doing this. And so you start going to, you start getting your medical marijuana and you start smoking it. It can very quickly, those tables can actually shift where it's like you stop doing the work that you need to do and you become reliant on the substance, which is habit-forming, right, which creates a dependency with it. And then you stop developing the coping mechanism to actually deal with or manage the anxiety. And then people are like, well, I just want to smoke marijuana or I just want to get higher. I just, I need this, but you're not actually addressing these other things. And so as a result, it's, in some ways, it's weakening people's ability to manage and cope with life in healthier ways. And again, I'm not against it, but I am warning against it in the sense of it's a slippery slope and it's very easy for it to become a habit. It's very easy for you to become dependent on this and it's very easy for you to stop doing the work that you need to do because you're allowed to go numb to it. And so it's really weakening a person's resolve and their ability to cope. And I'm just giving that as the warning that's been my experience with it. People are coming in and they're like, I've got anxiety and I smoke weed and I take weed and it's like, okay, we're going to start from ground zero here and start working on your basic coping mechanisms and they struggle with it because it's like, I don't know how to do these things anymore. I don't know how to have conflict resolution. I don't know how to sit with my anxiety. God forbid people sit with anxiety and feel it and actually resolve it now. Nowadays, as soon as somebody has a negative emotion, they want to numb it. They want to distract from it. They want to push it out of their life. They want to avoid it. They want to smoke. They want to pop a pill and it's like, your mental health suffers if you don't give those negative emotions apart in a space to process and work through. It's always going to be there. So if you're 25, 26, 27 or 38 or 39 or 50 and you haven't been dealing with these things and smoking weed is just, you're just pushing it down the road. It's not going anywhere. You're not actually dealing with it or developing the skills that are necessary. You're just going numb to it. And so I just wanted to bring awareness, I guess, to that aspect of it to say like, look, use it if you want to use it. But understand like, are you, you know, and I think the other part of it that just kind of bothers me is there's the recreational users that make up and bullshit their way to get it just because they like to smoke it and enjoy it. And it's like, that bothers me a little bit just, you know, from a personal perspective, because it's like you're, you know, they're taking advantage of a system for people who fought really hard for this who need it to help with their medical ailments and disorders. But, you know, it is what it is. And be careful. There are some people like myself who, if I, if I have too much THC, I have horrible anxiety. I get so, like it is panic inducing. And it's, it's really bad. And that's not something that is, I mean, it's not the most common thing, but it's not super uncommon. Like I'm certainly not the only person that I know who feels that way. So it might not also be that like silver bullet that you can just use to fix everything either because too much and shit gets really weird. But I really like that point. And I appreciate that because I think that, again, it speaks to this larger issue, which is why we try to talk about some of these other things that are working on these skills. You know what I mean? Like, why do we talk so much about like walks and journaling and meditating and all of this shit and talking and writing out things like because those are forcing you to sit with. Those emotions and actually process them and work through them. And honestly, I don't know if there's really a way to get to that place faster. You know, like obviously there are certain things that people would argue potentially, especially with psychedelics. You can make those breakthroughs faster, quicker, but even with that, you know what I mean? Like you still have to, like you're not avoiding that work. You know what I mean? I don't know anybody who has ever been able to get past that, you know what I mean? With using any substance or just doing anything or just avoiding it. Like you have to address that and that is the most uncomfortable thing in the entire world. Trust me, take it from me. Like I would rather do anything besides sit with those types of emotions, but there isn't, like you said, it is going to catch up to you at some point. And the longer that you put it away, the harder it's going to come back. I think sometimes it comes down to a simple question to ask yourself. Do you want to be the kind of person who can sit with really negative emotions and be uncomfortable and be in that space, but know eventually these things will move on? I can process my way through this and go through it. Or these negative emotions exist. I don't really want to deal with them. So I'd rather take something to kind of numb out the pain and not necessarily deal with it.  alfalfine, it's your choice, it's your life. Just understand that until you're willing to confront these emotions and develop the skills necessary to deal with them, they're going to be present in your life. They're not going anywhere. And I think that's the part that people get frustrated with when they come into therapy because they want, and it's a quick solution, right? Like here's the problem. I give you a joint and immediately you feel better. Within what? Immediately after smoking it, you're good. Where if I'm like, go home and journal and sit with your emotions like, oh my God, that's hours, that's days, that's weeks. That's months. It's months. And so who wants to be uncomfortable like that? And so when I say this isn't an easy thing, it's kind of like it's not. And it's not supposed to be. Life isn't easy. Life is pain. Life is suffering in many ways. This is the part where I just kind of feel like it speaks to a larger societal problem. Is it our inability to deal with difficult situations in healthier, natural ways? We're looking for this like, let me just smoke, let me go numb, let me not deal with it and kind of backdoor this in some way and expect it to be different. It's like, yeah, it's not. So just understand kind of the slipper slope that you're putting yourself on when you go down this path. I think that's a perfect place to wrap that up. Do you want to? No, I'm good. I think that pointed to a lot of really great things and perfect segue. If you're interested in therapy and learning how to deal with these emotions, look at that. What is your email? FullCircotherapyFL at gmail.com. And we will put that in the show notes. And for any other inquiries, you can visit teamlocofit.com and you can also download our app, the Redefine Healthy app. We'll link that below as well. We'll talk to you guys next week.

=== FILE: Episode 258： Crossfit and Josie Hamming [uCj-X6MHwWU].txt ===

 welcome back to another episode of the Loco Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and today I'm joined by my friend, Josie Hamming. Hi. Hank. She's giving peace signs to the camera because she keeps looking at the camera. Okay, it was one time. One time? But I'm done now? You're done now? Yeah, just had to... Okay. Had to do it once. Okay. Well, anyways, I'm super happy we did this. I know, I'm excited. We were like, let's just get some coffee and then we'll podcast, and we were literally talking for like... Yeah, whoops, wasted all your time. Like an hour and a half, and we were like, oh fuck, we actually need to go podcast. So... Yeah, how do we take everything we talked about for the last two hours and just shorten it into this podcast? I almost said disintegrate it instead of... Dissect? No. There's a word that should be there. No, it's not disintegrate. Or dissect. Yeah, the others are the D. I know, I gave you a new option to do it. I thought maybe it might spark the other word. Okay, so Jose Hamhawk... Dude, spark on. They asked for my name anywhere I go to eat. I give them Josie, they call out Jose. I'm just wondering how people miss the eye. Because then if I, at Starbucks, I get my drink and it's spelled correctly. Yeah. Yeah. J-O-S-I-E. And yet they call out Jose. I'm like... That's me again. That's me. Look around, yep, I'm the only one in here. Awesome. I get Laura all the time and it bothers me so much because I've never introduced myself as Laura once. Well... Once. Makes sense. Because it's not my name. It's not your name. Not my name. And I get it, like I spelled my name weird. I get that. I start to be able to spell my name right. But Laura? And there's something against Laura's. But then I've talked to... It's really an enunciate to N. I'm like, Laura-N? Yeah. Lauren. So you'll laugh at me. So we were making a video of me and Sam. It's on my TikTok, shameless plug. Just kidding, there's like five videos on there. That's her handle with the handle. It's just my name. So Laura... Well now you know her name. So we were doing like a review. And like, have you ever had the like caramel creams? That's like a candy your grandma would have. I mean, is it hard? Or you said caramel cream and now I'm wondering if it's like taffy? It's like... Like the Werther's? No. Okay. No, it's like soft caramel with like cream on the inside. This is not even worse and worse. Okay, so anyways, I was like, oh, I love these. And I was like, I love circus peanuts. This is getting better. I guess I said it really quickly. So it sounded like circus penis, obviously. And then Sam just like stops and we're videoing this and she just stares at me. And she's like, you really need to enunciate peanuts. Peanut. I was like, maybe I just speak incorrectly. Like is this a myth? You're starting to think it's me. Maybe people just need to listen better. Yeah, there we go. It's not a you thing. It's never me. Never. I'm taking, I'm untaking ownership. Yeah. All right, well, we're four minutes in. Oh. And hey, hey, so classic of us. So just ramble about nothing. I'm literally crying. Okay. I love it though. Honestly, this is my least favorite question or like a little bit. I know, I know. It's like what people do. Give me a little, a little hit. Well, where'd you grow up? Jose. I was born and raised in Michigan. Then I moved to Florida when I was 20, lived there until 26 and now moved up and moved to Tennessee. Hey, had to get out after you're in Florida for a while. I mean, I know you're still there. I know. Um, if you don't go to the beach and you don't drink and you want to be outside, it's really flat and it's hot. All it's hot as balls here too. You're not wrong. But there are stops what you do at least Hills, mountains, different sorts of foliage. You know, there are and new, new faces, new people. So yeah, now I've been here for a couple months and work from home. Do you like brand development, social media stuff? Because I had been competing in CrossFit for years and then COVID happened. Everything was kind of shutting down. I got injured. Had all these things happen at once. And I was like, this is just the sign to take a break. And also just like the longevity of it. I was like, this feels selfish of me to like continue to put so much time and effort into this sport when like my passion lies in helping other people. And so it's just like not fulfilling that side of me. It's like, I got to change things up. So how did you get into CrossFit first? Um, did you play sports growing up? Yeah. I was like, I was doing a lot of football, like in school and like a travel team. And loved it. Wanted to go to school and play in college and then just became too much. My dad was pushing it and he wrote up a contract. And in the contract, it did say that I had to do CrossFit on top of my other training. At least three times a week because he was doing CrossFit and he loved it. And he was like, this is going to be really beneficial. And I'm like, I get it. But also I am 16. So I'm now like doing softball training four days of the week and then CrossFit three days out of the week. And then I just said, I'm not going to play softball anymore. And I just dove head first and CrossFit loved it. So he was right. I did like it. But you're like, thanks. Totally threw in the towel with softball. But I'm honestly really thankful that I did because CrossFit saved my life. I hate saying that because I feel like that's so cliche for people to say who do CrossFit. But like when I started, I was not in a good place. 16 reckless drinking drugs, smoking cigarettes. Not proud, not proud. It was just like a weird time to be alive. And then I started CrossFit and I was like, okay, I can't keep doing all these things and be an athlete. But you could do that with softball, a problem? Yeah, I mean, I feel like it didn't hinder it as much. I mean, I would show up to games like hungover as a teenager. As a teenager, you can kind of get away with it, but also like, still not great. And it wasn't affecting your performance. Yeah. But with CrossFit, you felt that. With CrossFit, yeah, I was just like, you just learned so much about yourself and you like want to be better. And so slowly, but surely I just like started making little changes and then started competing honestly like a year into it. Went to regionals with a team. And then when I moved to Florida, I went to one gym, didn't really vibe there. You got to find your right community, find your people. So I went to this other gym because they had a lot of competitors and just kept training. Like went to regionals with them a couple of times and I just love it. I don't know one specific thing that I love. I just love the community aspect, the way it challenges you, the way you have to show up every day and push yourself to reach new limits. Instead of just like settling for like, this is good enough. It's like you're always chasing the next thing. Did you do the team competitions or was it just so low self? I did team until I think it was 2019 because a lot of the CrossFit stuff was changing and the people I was competing with decided they weren't going to compete anymore. And I was like, well, I still want to do this. I'm like, I'm here to compete. So you do your thing, I'll do mine. And then I went solo, excuse me, sorry. I went the individual route, which like is a very different competition. It was fun. Like your weaknesses stand out a lot more. So you learn so much more about you as an athlete, but also your strengths are able to shine through like in those moments. So yeah, with the team CrossFit, I feel like that's so different because it's not just about it's like any team sport, right? It's not just about you. It's about your team. So I feel like that creates a different sense of community as well. But like anybody I talk to who does CrossFit, even if they do it casually and like don't compete, they all say like the community and the gym. If you found the right gym, they all love that. And I've never done CrossFit. Yeah, it's like a immediate friends. It's so cool. Especially like now that I've been in more of a traditional gym for the last year, year. Yeah, year. So different. It's so different. So different. Even if you have a training partner. Yeah. Traditional like just weightlifting, bodybuilding is so the training for physique is very different. So I've done almost everything. Well, not almost everything, but I've done a lot of things like Ben. Done it all. I've done it all. Retiring, throwing in the towel, seen it, done it. Got a lot of t-shirts. They were really shitty through the mall way. They need to stop printing t-shirts for swag bags. Just don't hand me swag bags. Or just swag bags. Yeah, just like literally don't hand me anything. Don't even look at me. Shake my hand. Thank you. So like powerlifting, right? If you are at the powerlifting gym or even just training like typically people who do powerlifting have like a little community and that is so different, right? And then Jiu Jitsu obviously is a very weird and intimate sport, but you like immediately become friends because it's like hey, I'm going to kill you. I'm going to straddle you right now. I'm going to sit on your chest and then you're going to choke me. Day one. With like cotton pajama. It's very strange. And her sweat's going to be in my mouth. In my mouth. I'm very close with everybody at our gym, clearly. Everyone has good hygiene. Not everyone. It's really fun. I have developed, like I was always super hygienic, but I've like developed even weirder obsessive tendencies. You're covered in other people's sweat. Yeah, it's kind of an issue. But I literally have to shower multiple times a day, even if I don't train Jiu Jitsu. That sense of like, I love training Jiu Jitsu, but it's really not convenient for my life. So I haven't really been training that much. Like in that way. Just like the time. Yeah, you can't obviously can't do it whenever you want. You know, you have to go to a class. Whereas I was so used to bodybuilding, like, I mean, you can just go to the gym whenever you want by yourself. I typically am not somebody who ever, I have had training partners over the years, but I always kind of gravitated towards training solo. I don't know. I just do. But when you train Jiu Jitsu, like you can't just have also one person, right? There has to be multiple people. Right. And then at least with our school, like it's a smaller school. So the times aren't really convenient. They're like a lot later. So like I have an early flight or like something going on. I can't really go train, but like the only like I miss our like group, you know, and I still hang out with a lot of the friends outside of it. A lot of us go to the range and stuff together too. So like we still do like just more violence. So it's just kind of a, you know, violent community. I love it. But everybody's great. So it's like, I get that whole thing where you're like, I want to show up not just for me, but like for my people. Yeah. I have like people relying on you and like holding you accountable and like you do your shit and then you can like kind of hang out and talk and like, how's that? It's cool because at a CrossFit gym, you can show up and people will just hop in a workout. You know, like sometimes it's a class program one or sometimes people do their own programming, but like everyone knows the movements and they're all scalable. So it's like, if you don't want to work out by yourself because you don't maybe push as hard on your own, you can just jump in. And I think that's so cool because everyone knows the drill. You know, like at a traditional gym, people want to work out. They don't know the drill. They don't know the drill. I was like, hey, lots of talking, lots of resting. Let's lift. Like we can chat, but also like we're on the clock. You know what I mean? People, it's just different. And I guess that's also just been ingrained in my brain that like, hey, we're on intervals right now. So control your breathing in 10 minutes when these intervals are done. Oh, we got all the time in the world. Like just wait. And that's what's so interesting to me about CrossFit is like, it'll be like this crazy workout, but it's like 15 minutes. And then it's like done. Whereas like if you're like a bodybuilder, you could be at the gym for two hours. And that, I mean, you have to do that for like there's, it's just a different way of training because you're trying to get a different type of stimulus. So you can't do that type of training in that time. It just doesn't work. I mean, like the second I started doing programming from my coach, it was like two hours twice a day, four or five times a week. And so at that time, like that's a job. You know, like I was also working at the gym at that time. But yeah, it's. But to be a high level CrossFit athlete, you have to train like that. I don't think anybody like you literally have no choice. If you want to make a run for it in the competition world, gotta just put in the time. Was that your goal to like what the games is so that I'm really stupid right now. But no, it's fine. When I was competing on a team, it was my goal. It honestly makes me a little nervous to think about going there as an individual and also like not that I couldn't do it and I would. But where I always like kind of held myself back was you have to give up everything. Like there's a big sacrifice when you want to go from competing at like they're called different things now, but like regionals or their sanctioned events is one thing. But to go to the games, you're on a strict schedule like your eat, sleep, train, repeat, no traveling, no like extracurriculars. I mean you can, but it's like to a certain degree, you know, and I just kept finding myself like wanting to go on vacations, but it was always revolved around like where's the closest gym. And then you'd like are in a new place just working out, you know, and I was just like, then is that really like what I want to do. Like I love working out and I love working hard and the competition aspect is really fine. Like the CrossFit Games just happened and I watched it all weekend and I was like, you know, like it just found that spark that I've been waiting for for quite some time. Then battling some injuries so all good. But yeah, it's it was just something that I was like, you work all year to like plan these competitions and if you don't have a team or at least one person to help you, it's really overwhelming. Like it's expensive to book these hotels if you don't have sponsors or all of the logistics of competing for like a three day comp. You have to get there earlier. Just like, yeah, it's just a different level right like when you want to, I think at some point, once you're good enough, you can't just casually do it right like when when you just get. Yeah, like when you just got started, you know, okay, hey, not a big deal. But now that you've gotten to a certain level, it's like me with bodybuilding. I did that for eight years. I did it at the highest level. And I wouldn't I wouldn't just be like, well, let me like maybe die. Like, no, I've done 23 shows. Yeah, like I'm going to do my absolute best, right, which means giving up a lot and that's part of that's part of it. Yeah. And it's not something that's like a bad or like a negative, but you have to be willing to accept all of those parts. Not just when you watch the games and you're like, that looks great. Right. Right. Or like, you can watch a show and be like, oh my God, that looks so cool. Or like you think that's a big misconception is like people want to just show up and work out. You can do that. But people forget that those athletes competing there are going home recovering, like rolling out stretching, going to yoga or massages, drinking enough water. Their diets are on point. They're sleeping enough. Like they're doing all the things right. And that's what it takes. And I did that for a while, but life things just kept happening. And I was just like, I maybe just need some time. And then you get up for a while and you're like, I don't know if I could ever go back to training for two hours, dude. Like, it's so it's so great. It's just such a different life when you're in it. It's your normal. When you come out of it, it's just like, oh, there's no way. It's just like when you go to school. Like you have to slowly build back up. Like everybody says, like once you grab, like if you want to continue to pursue higher education, like you have to continue to go. Because like once you like take a break, like a lot of people try and take a break between the masters and PhD. And that like lull period for a lot of people, not everybody, but for a lot of people. Like once you got out of that routine of like being a student who's like not really able to like do other things. Like you're just so in that habitual nature of what and then you get out of it and you're like, wait, this is like real life. So it's kind of the same thing. You probably picked up another job or something and now you're trying to fit in school on top of something like a new schedule. Different life. Right. And the same thing with training and the same thing with competing. And again, if you like want to just do it casually, like that's different. But if you really want to be good and if you've been good, you're never just going to do it casually. Yeah. Right. You're never going to be like, oh, I know. No show. No show. Why would you do that? You know, it would be a waste of time and it would be like it just, it would literally be pointless. Yeah. So I think that for a lot of people, like the allure of doing a lot of things in fitness is like because they see that end result. And we try and talk about that a lot on the podcast, especially with, you know, competing because people see, especially like with bodybuilding, you know, they see the end result. And it's so glamorous. You know what I mean? Like everybody has like these like sparkly suits, their hair, their makeup and like everything like they peaked. Like that is like the best you look like for like an hour for like nine months. You know what I mean? There's so much that goes into it. And there's, and you look like a wet, sad, noodle, like 90% of the time. Yeah. You're super hungry and your eyes are sunken in like. That's why I could never do it. Like someone just approached me the other day at the gym. Like some guy was like complimenting me and then also asking if I did any, any shows. And I'm like, no, not really my vibe because I like to eat. I'm like, I won't give up cheeseburger suit. I won't do it. I don't want to. And I don't even feel bad about saying that. You know what I mean? Like you have to want like, I know myself that will not make me happy. But I will say what this time off from CrossFit. Like I like to just use my fitness in different ways, you know, and it was like now that I'm out of the gym or not spending as much time there, I have an opportunity to just like, oh, if I want to go ride a bike, I can't walk mess up my training. Dude, same. If I want to go climb a mountain, I don't have to worry about getting hurt or something happening with my training or not. I'm going to be tired. So after it's just like so nice to take that mental break. And then I feel like it'll just lead me to my next adventure. But I have no idea what that looks like right now. And so you, so you were competing at a high level for many years. And then what was the injury or injuries? I had a few and I was really just kind of like working through them. As we do. Like 20. Yeah. Everything's fine. This is fine. My legs. In 2015, when I moved down to Florida, I was working out trying to like max out or PR a snatch. And you're, everyone kind of knows like three attempts is really like after that, just try another day. Didn't want to, wanted to do it that day. So my arms buckled and the barbell dropped on my back and spat me out the front, like pushed my hips to the ground, shot me out the front. And I was just like, am I paralyzed? Oh fuck. But then I had already, I had committed to a competition the next weekend. And I was like, I can't cancel on them. I'll figure it out. So I flew all the way back to Michigan because there was a team comp. I was like, I'm not going to make these girls miss it. Yeah. Oh dude. I was hurting. Yeah. We had to grab up. Oh shit. I was in tears. I literally couldn't walk. Like so bad. And so like that's just a reoccurring injury. I was in your back. Like what, like what? Did I go get a number? No. But, um, You're like allegedly. I'm like, hmmm, feels like a disc thing, but I operate best if I just don't know. I know that's not great advice, but I honestly, You're like, hey, I came on the podcast to tell everybody this. Don't figure out the real problem. Avoid it. Don't figure out the root of the issue. Just tell yourself you're fine. No, but I do feel like if I knew that something were actually wrong or like, I don't know, a doctor said you shouldn't be doing this sport because this could happen. It would like be in the back of my head the whole time. But I know my body well enough. Like I know the differences in pain and like if it's skeletal or muscular, like in the moment when I should let up all those things and I was like, I'm going to be the doctor. No, but really like that mentality of just being like, I'm good until my body says I'm not like I don't need a doctor to like cover his bases or her bases and be like, hmmm, I wouldn't, you know, because I want to keep doing it. So it was my back and then on my shoulder and then I had a hernia repaired last year and that was way more intense than I thought. Everyone's like, oh, it's nothing or like they see my scar and it's like, oh my gosh, it's so small. And I'm like, so it's, I understand that it's just a couple inches, but it's in the center of your abdomen, like above my belly button. Do you know that you use your core for everything? Like the doctor made it sound like I would just be up and moving in three days or so. Couldn't even stand up straight in three days. Couldn't stand up straight. Yeah, no, those are pretty serious. And I like really had too much time on my hands, but just like sat there and realized how important fitness was to me. Like it's such an outlet, whatever it looks like, whether it's just walking outside. Like I'm also, I like to be independent. I don't want to ask for help. So all these things I was just like, wow, I take so much for granted. Like it was kind of an eye opener of being like, damn, if I couldn't walk or I couldn't go to the gym or I couldn't do these things. Like I'm just grateful that I am able to, you know, a new appreciation. So yeah, but really once I quit coaching in 2020, I was coaching across the gym. Once I quit coaching, I was still training, but when I was working in the gym, I would like warm up with the athletes. I would cool down with them. So I was stretching, I was moving, but I think once I stopped doing all of that and I was just working out on my own, I stopped stretching as much. I would train and then go sit down and my body just crumbled. Like I've, and it was years of doing it. Yeah, you know, it was probably like the injuries were finally like catching up. They always do. Yeah, always. And I knew I was going to bite me in the ass and I'm totally paying for it and wouldn't recommend. I mean, there are some things that I tried to fix, but also like everyone gets a shoulder injury, but also I'm not going to quit my sport. It's not as bad. Like it's not falling off my body. I'm just going to keep going. It's part of when you get into something like that, you know, you are going to expect something, you know, there are certain sports that have a higher injury risk. And just if you do anything repetitively, you're going to run into some issues. And I think again, like it's all about like setting your expectation and understanding, okay, what am I willing to give? Am I willing to give up? What do I not want to do? You know, and then that has to guide your decisions because if you're like, listen, like I don't want to do like when I was training, you did two more. And I was like, okay, I really enjoy this, but like it's pretty fucking brutal. Right. And everything is super repetitive. And you typically do a lot of things on one side of your body. And like it's like the same motion over and over and over again. But like in a different way than like lifting, right? Like obviously when you're squatting, like you're doing the same motion, but like contorted. Yeah. So it's not like a normal motion. It's like, hey, we're trying to do like a joint manipulation over and over and over again. And obviously you're going to tap like you're not going to let somebody rip your shoulder off, but shit happens. You know, one of my training partners, she was just, you know, rolling and was doing a normal move. And then something just went the wrong way and she had her whole ACL blew out. She was just casually at the gym. You know what I mean? So it's like, there's a really high risk of just anything, but you have to understand, okay, how much do I want to give this? Am I doing this casually? Am I doing this just for fun? Right. And I felt like, you know, I was still training. I was in pain. I knew I was in pain, but if something like that were to have happened, I would have no choice. But I didn't ever want to take the chance or the time to hear that something was wrong and I would have to take a break because that's hard to come back from. You know, I was just like, maybe it's just my, that's called gaslighting yourself. No, but I mean, I'm looking back now, I'm like, there were so many things that I could have done better, but I was also like young and a lot of it, I was like working so many hours in the gym. I wasn't always on point like from the beginning with my diet and all of that. And it just was like, neglectful. And now as I get older, You get away with it when you're younger. Yeah. And now I'm like, they warned me. They warned me. It's just like with all the, like the dieting, right? So whether you're dieting for, you know, competitions or just in general, right? Like we always talk about on here, like there's like a compounding effect of diets. And, you know, the more and more that you do it, you're going to have natural adaptations, metabolically, hormonally, all of these things psychologically. And these are all normal aspects of dieting. But if you do it over and over and over again, and you don't take any time off, all these things build upon each other. And it doesn't matter how resilient you think you are, it's going to catch up. You know what I mean? So at some point you have to say, okay, what can I do to mitigate this? But that also is important from like a coaching perspective because you really enjoy coaching. So now I don't think it was like all in vain because now it's like, hey, you can relay this to other people. Yeah. I mean, they have to be able to listen. Yeah. I'm just so hard on myself that like, if anybody else were to come to me and explain the pain they're having that I have, you know, just switch world. I would be like really important for you to, to read this. You know, like I would have given way better advice to somebody else, but to me, I was just so hard headed. And I love learning the hard way to just try to be better about it. But there are just some things that I am better at spotting in the moment being like, okay, like recognize this in yourself, slow down, take a step back, whatever it may be. But when it comes to like athletic stuff, I'm like, keep going. Don't be a bitch because I felt like that's what people were going to say to me. So I'm like, won't say a word. And then it was before my hernia surgery. We were like CrossFit was in semi quarter finals stages, whatever. I drove down from Orlando to Miami. That's where my coaches are. And I was going to compete down there just so they could like be there, guide me, whatever. And I don't usually work out on Thursdays, but they wanted to do, yeah, rest it. Oh, it'll make sense. Because I go like Monday, whatever, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday's like active recovery day, Friday, Saturday. Like fuck Thursdays. I just play by play hour by hour. I would wake up at approximately 5am. But I drove down there, the workouts got released and they were like, hey, I think it would be a good idea to knock this out of the way. And it was just like a max lift. And somebody else, yeah, mind you, I had just sat in the car for four hours. Yeah, I was already thinking this already sounds. And I knew, I took a look inward and I was like, dude, probably not your best idea. But your coaches are saying based on the workouts, based on how this is laid out, it wouldn't be a bad idea to knock this out. And I'm like, I can do it. Fuck, don't be a bitch. Blew out my quad day one.  literally first event for it was a friend squat for three reps or something. My quad just like it didn't fully tear because it wasn't like super bruised but I could not bend at the knee without collapsing. I was just like mmm should have listened to myself. Damn. Yeah so injury upon injury here we are. Kicking it. I'm like slowly trying to add CrossFit stuff back into my workouts because I really just love the way they feel but ever since my hernia repair some of the gymnastics stuff I'm gonna say I bet it's probably the gymnastics stuff right? That's how I got it in the first place. So I was like I'm 16 watch me jump on this pull-up bar. Okay so bad. I feel like that's the hardest part I mean obviously unless you're a gymnast but most people aren't and then they try to get into this and I feel like that stuff is for a lot of people so challenging. The like body awareness, the coordination is the struggle but so fun to teach. Like I loved that stuff because it's so important to know like how to move your body properly you know and people don't really even realize how they're maybe compensating for something or like you know not using proper muscle groups or how to be more efficient in ways and that's what I like to get out of that. Yeah because I mean unless you do a sport that is involved with that there really is no need for a lot of body awareness you know unless you're like a wrestler or a gymnast or something like that. Like why would you need that? None of the sports that I did growing up did you need any body awareness which is very apparent. And when you watch someone just jump up there and do it you're like looks easy. You get up there flopping around like hmm I'm missing a piece. Something about this doesn't feel the same as what they were doing. And it's always this stuff that looks so easy like people make it look effortless that's like the absolute hardest. Yeah like like a deadlift. Love using that as an example because people just think it's so simple. I'm like there is a technique to that. Yeah or like oh my god how does somebody lift that much? It's like well because they have the right form and they're lifting. Steroids. Yeah. No that's not it. You know technique goes so far. You just are literally like flopping around. You're doing it wrong. That's why. You're lifting with your back anyway. But I love that one because it's always the lift that people bring up and they're like oh I hurt my back with a deadlift. I'm like that doesn't surprise me. Yeah like because you probably watched in a lot of cases people just watch it like someone else do it and they're like I can pick up a bar from the ground. Not knowing what muscles to engage at all. How to set up where the bar goes, where the weight distribution is and they're just like picked it up. Yeah with your L5. You sure did. And how do you feel? Yeah that will be my only rep for the day thank you. Yeah wherever again. Weird I'm picking up water aerobics. Dude my grandma does water aerobics she loves it. Stop. I'm dead serious I was so excited to hear that. She just oh yeah I went to water aerobics. Me and my girls. Because it's so cute. That's amazing. But no seriously like as my grandma has gotten pretty sick recently and she was never super active. She was only like a healthy body weight. And thankfully I think that wards off obviously a lot of issues. She used to dance but like you know wasn't really anything. No she used to take dance classes. Like what? Dance. What kind of dance? Like top dance. Like dancing classes. I don't know if grandma was whipping out the tango or what. She was like twerking. I'm just trying to make sure I get the right grandma in a hip hop class with her sweatpants. Basically. No she used to do that but like she just was never really super active. And watching her age and just like deteriorate so quickly now it's like it's so scary. Because like you know you learn about this in school you read about it. Like you under like I understand the mechanisms and then you really start to see it and you're like oh my gosh you go downhill so quickly. And people don't realize how much movement can like affect the longevity of your life. Like just move your body. You don't have to do crossfit. You don't have to do bodybuilding. Go for a walk. Fuck yeah. Trainers. Hey we're trainers. We work out. I frequently. No just kidding. Bad joke. Didn't even know where I was going to go with it. I'm going to stop myself right there. Like a sick joke. We actually do stand up. If you guys want to come check it out tonight. What's his name from Joker. No we wouldn't. We just wouldn't be able to wrap it up. We would like ladies you done an hour ago. Yeah trying to figure out how to circle back to the initial. Well we'll figure it out. Look at the way I am going to go sidebar here because we're talking about grandma in hip hop class and what I really want to do is the freaking bouncy shoes. Zumba they're just like jumping around. You've never seen that. You remember like moon boots back in the day. Okay. Imagine like an upgraded version. They're like roller skates but with a trampoline on the bottom. Well worst description ever should never advertise for anything. Yeah. Okay. So. This is a little sad because I wanted you to be so excited because it looks so spastic like you literally are just bouncing around the whole time like moving and grooving. It's usually I see people on a video. I want to parking lot just vibe into music. It's like Zumba on steroids. It looks so fun. I'm going to show you. Yeah I'll do it later. You know what. I have not. Yeah we can go back to the main focus here. I really want you to be excited about that because I know that you would do it with me. Oh for sure. I would eat shit and that would be hilarious. I would tape my ankle so hard. Actually I need to wear like to help with the thickest thing. I have so many concussions. Really. Yeah from riding horses. Yeah. Yeah. It all makes sense. Wow. Okay you answered my question as I said it so that was awkward and looked at you. You're like I'm the interviewer now. I'd rather talk about you. What. I am sweating so bad right now. Do you ever have that where you're like you know you had an awkward pause and I got a little bit of that. I just uncontrolled my laugh which is like a huge issue. Yeah because I was just like. Don't worry. Everything is already tuned out. No dude stay with us. We've got good stuff coming up. And next up are the trampolines. No literally one of the first podcasts that I ever did with Rick our therapist. If you've been listening for a long time you know this story and he asked me you'll die this. He was like hey we're going to go through like an exercise and I was like okay. And he's like so on like a scale of like one to ten like how was your day. And I was like what. I like literally like I froze up and he was like and he didn't know. No but what he was trying to do was like if I would have said seven he would have said well then why weren't you with this or why weren't you this to try to like recalibrate like your mindset. Yeah it was it was it was a valid drill but I can't answer questions like that on the spot. And then I had to go through and I was like well I'm I'm not sure and then and then I was like well what about like I just threw out a number he said people would have this one and I was like I was visibly. They took all of it. I literally was visibly drenched and he said he's like you are sweating and I was like oh my god I'm bringing attention to normal for me. And then he's like okay how about you ask me the question and I'll answer it how it should have been normal person right and then you mirror me. And I was like so how was you know what's your day and then he's like well I was driving here and my AC went out and I was like oh my god seriously and he's like this is the drill this is all fake. No my AC didn't go out I'm trying to give you a role play Lauren so there was like a five minute meltdown bro I am dripping sweat and I was like it's the lights he's like no I think you're just like you keep bringing this up. The more you tell me that it's actually me the more insecure I'm feeling and the number is going down on the scale. I said seven now I'm at a three you know what crushed my confidence because of this podcast. Yeah but one a scale from one to five way worse than one to ten I'm always going seven seven is I'm always going seven. I don't care what it is what it's about not the seven is you know I'm never really too good at anything. But it's never too bad but it's never too bad like dude way. Maybe it was the herniated surgery that was it that was it too. Plomidine. Wow hit pretty close rock bottom not rock bottom but saw it. Good see you just start crying. Flashbacks me alone in my apartment so sad no sunlight. Oh were you that just not when you were by yourself depressed. Not good gonna work out got fat. We were eating our feelings tried to manage it but I was just like yeah you couldn't really do much. Yeah like all your normal outlets were very lost in that time. Yeah that's so hard fitness and even just like the people I was surrounding myself with like that was kind of also changing. So that's brutal that's brutal in and of itself. I got really good at Amazon Prime. What does that mean was buying lots of books. So I could sit and read you know let me at least do some brain stuff if I'm just gonna sit here. Yeah yeah anyway what was I gonna say. I could segue though I don't know you're gonna find traveling boots but no when you can't work your grandma. No I was actually gonna tell you about the weird time that recently that I paused and just stared at someone accidentally. I just moved here a couple months ago. Go to this gym. This girl had come up to me to compliment me but I didn't know it was a compliment like I. She worded it so weird that I was like am I having a stroke. Repeat that one more time. She was like oh I'm so glad you're here because I never like to be the biggest person in the room. I was just like looking at her height dude I'm like you know I'm not like that much taller than you like I'm so confused because I don't. Look at myself and be like yeah yeah no I just feel so very normal and so when people approach me like that I'm like I have no idea what you're talking about. Give me some context clues I don't like to be the biggest person I'm like I literally did this for seven seconds. Yeah it was so awkward because I was like trying to put the pieces together like what are we talking about. So I'm like out of breath my brain's not working. Not firing on all cylinders and she's coming at me with a back like weird compliment very nice of her once I eventually figured out. It's just like I definitely fucked that up. Haven't seen her since. So this is a how to make friends and influence people podcast right. You wrote the second you wrote the volume to. I did I have a did you read that one I have a little piece in there and says don't do anything I do. If you if you do opposite of me you will be smooth sailing so many people will like you. But if you're like me it's going to be a tough road as I said I like to take the heart and everything and I guess that doesn't stop at making friends because. I have no idea. Well yeah that's because you know just both be like. All right next and then I realize all my people because if you can just laugh off an awkward moment. I feel so much better like handshakes I always mess them up. I'm like I don't know if guys want a handshake. I like don't really know you but you know me or something like that and so are we hugging are we. Oh we're doing the bro hug guys step on your foot. I broke a guy's sunglasses one time. Wow panic hugs I'm like a hug person but if the other person isn't ready for a hug it becomes very weird and also if you don't really know somebody and you're kind of doing the like weird hug. And then I don't put my arm because I am always sweating. I'm drenched right now not my. Unfortunately the first one sir is just like a deodorant. All my friends know that I'm just always sweating. It's horrible and obviously I live in horrible conditions. And my face is always sweating like number one place I sweat my face like. Oh that upper lip baby nice shelf nice shelf to place him sweat droplets. And so my makeup is like you wanted to stay on not today bitch. No setting powder no nothing like nothing works. But you have great skin so well thank you. You make up well I am wearing I mean I wore it but like it by the end of the day it's like whoa hey. Last lights turn those up. Oh my god the greaser over here yeah and school you know I have dress codes my nightmare. Well I went to a Catholic school so I had to wear a uniform even more of a nightmare for me because I mean it's easy because it was way easier. Yeah you don't have to be. I have an over thinking issue so I feel like if I would have had to choose. Yes I do think that's different but also I don't think those skirts would be my best. Yeah well then we all just kept making them shorter and shorter every year. Yeah schoolgirl things and then they finally get cool and then finally they're like y'all get khaki pants and. It all rocks and khaki's it's better than that knee length skirt. Oh yeah like my legs aren't built for that. I'm sure you look great in it me. As I said I have cancels and kneeling skirts that are flowy. Come on what do I have to work with. Anyway sweating dress codes always had to have our shoulders covered. I always had pit stains. It was so embarrassing so embarrassing that was I swear to God I'm traumatized from that. Like you like raise my hand in school just always keeping it pinned to my side. Hello question. Could we get a show of hands to me. I'm missing a little bit higher. Jose is that you. Jose. Present. No seriously like that was probably my favorite part about moving to Florida. I was like no sleeves ever. I will not wear a shirt. I won't wear a shirt. And I feel so suffocated like so claustrophobic. I'm like get this material off of me. I've never seen you. I won't do it. First of all because my pit stains were from the middle of my bicep to down by where your bra is. I mean you're also like you're pretty big. Pretty muscular. Let me take up more space here. What did she say? You're the biggest person in the world. I didn't say that. I would never say. I literally thought she was talking about how tall I was. I am so confused right now. We're like the same height. Don't know what you're saying. So it took me a minute to realize she meant muscular. But yeah who designed women's t-shirts? I don't know. I don't. I'm not sure what the other pids are crying. I'm either wearing like a bra tank or like this kind of situation. Or like the oversized. Really? If it's loose. Got room. So I can just drip down. Nothing to catch it. Just falling out. You get a little airflow. I am so sorry if I'm the worst guest you've ever had on this podcast. I'm sure that I was supposed to have a really awesome message. But sometimes I get a little sidetrack. I mean I feel like there's been good messages. And hey we all sweat. I do have good things to say. Sometimes I just get lost in those moon boots. I just self-sabotaging. But also I can recognize what I'm doing. Yeah women sweat. Women sweat. I had so many women like DME. I thought you said a Chicago CD. I thought you said a Chicago CD. I was like hmm. Tie this. Show me the relevance. So I can get on board. You're like yes I'm here for it. I'm supportive. The musical. It's a classic. Yeah. No honestly. So women DME you out sweating? No. I was actually going to go serious for a second. They did. They're like you can get Botox in your armpits. I'm like and then erupt from the inside. Where is all of this going to go? Yeah I don't know. I mean obviously I get Botox in my face. But I'm not too sure about the I'm not sure how I feel about stopping sweating. That just feels very. I know that Botox isn't natural. I know that Botox is natural. I know that Botox is natural. I know that Botox isn't natural. Right. But my face being frozen isn't natural. Is a natural response? That you should not be blocking. In my opinion. Yeah I feel like that just sounds like. Like I'm going to overheat. Where else is it going to go? I can't do that. I can't do that to myself. I don't remember the serious note I was going to try to say. Women DME you. No. Let me circle us back. I'm trying to circle it back. No I was going to bring up how we were talking about earlier. I was going to bring back. We were talking earlier about being misunderstood. And I literally this is what I do. I'll just be silly goose. Just talking about random stuff because I think it's fun or just interesting to talk about. And then I'm like why do people just think I'm a hyper and stupid. Because I never actually share knowledge about anything because I don't think people are going to listen to me. Or. So it's easier to sabotage it. Yeah I mean. I think I've just had so many experiences where I go full blown therapists and just like my dad's a psychologist so it's just what I know. I like to sit and listen. It is something I enjoy just hearing people out. But people don't actually get that sad of me because most of the time it's like in a setting where like that's not the vibe to sit and chat. But yeah there have been times where it's like somebody that I know and they want to vent and I'll like have them take a second and like look inward. And I'm like oh dude don't get all deep on me. I'm like well once you get punished for that I'm like silly. It's like remember when Trotter so you guys have listened to the podcast Mike Trotter was on maybe like two months ago. His interview was awesome so definitely check that out. And I like this one. I'm like oh I like this one. I just can't. Dude I'm going to lose sleep over this one. Can't lose any more sleep. No so he I came up to him at Summer Smash and I just had this look on my face like I was going to say something weird which I did which we don't need to talk about that here but and then he was like you know dude he's like it's always something deep or weird with you and I was like what? And he's like every conversation is either super deep or super weird. You and me? We are alike. Like we're either going in or we're off the charts because what's the in between? Like I'm not just going to be like so where are they? So that's what I was saying with that intro I'm like I know this is necessary but those are things that I'm like this is going to sound so boring. Like people with like dating stuff will just ask these questions like that's not what I'm worried about. I'm worried about hey it's five minutes in and we're talking about like conspiracy theories What would you do if I just if I was a pickle would you love me? So if I got in a car accident and I didn't look the same way that I do now would you stick around? No literally we were at a bar I was like with a few friends and then this is 20 minutes into meeting someone I've never spoken to before and I'm talking about the Soviet concentration camps and I was like this is why people think I'm insane. It's like you just get a second where like other people are talking and you can just sit back and be like hmm wait. I'm always having like 18 conversations I'm having this conversation then I'm observing and then I'm thinking about something else and then I'm like okay wait I know this is weird but I can't stop and I'm like the gulags and I'm just like oh my god what just talk about anything that's normal Yeah I can't but also I think honestly it's good to have people like us who will just not to toot my own horn but like I do think that Is this one of these weird back-handed compliments? No but I do think that people want like those conversations are interesting to other people but they don't want to be the person to bring it up like so everyone just thinks like oh we have to do the tip of the hill Yeah like where are you from what do you do and sometimes I do want to know somebody like I will also add an appropriate time or maybe inappropriate just hey I see I'm watching all of you you're all bored why are we doing this I'm gonna just toss this in and see what you guys do with it because now we're all interested like sometimes you just need to do that Yeah and I got a lot of thoughts dude I'll spew them out There's too many thoughts Oh you're bored let me just go through my roll adductors of things I've been thinking about in the last ten minutes There's like eighty seven times that are open and I'm like hold on which one are we gonna Come on Brain get it together This is coming out but then there it is as I'm trying to say it two sentences happen at the same time Or sometimes if I'm really out of it I'll have zero thoughts and then I'll just be like just keep skimming pat each other and then I'm like we're just gonna just free falling I hope I catch up to something I was always at the worst times I just can't think of anything and then the awkward pauses happen because people do expect us to be like talkative and a little off maybe almost like scripted so then when I can't say anything then I'm just like I should maybe just come up with a script like a little backup in case of an emergency these are like avocados hmm well long version or short version one time somebody said they tasted like penis and now I'm like oh god you ruined it for me now I ruined it for all of you and I'm so sorry I heard it on tiktok and I was like so anyway I don't even know where this stuff frequently asked questions like I should have a planned answer so when I hear that Q word under hypnosis just thing have an answer but instead I'm like come up with something new because I use this on the last person I'm like I'm still me but I'm still trying to come up with a new way to say it why? stick to the script dude I'm like I gotta have a new way to say this because what if somebody overhears me saying it the same way I got issues like you might want to talk to your dad about that nah and jumping off I do believe this is where we sign off I'm gonna get my radio voice to hand it over to you and I am horrible at closing out podcasts but this was a fun experience this was an experience and now I want to go buy an avocado and just sit with that for a moment get a few different ones like it ripe over the ripe ones that shouldn't be edible like not ready, not ripe not edible like so hard you can't do and where can people find you in case they're dying for more Jose Hamilton at Josie Hamming on all platforms ok which is what platforms Instagram Twitter you'd be using Twitter randomly decided let me see what's up over here that's where the real stuff happens people are real on Twitter and I said I'll share some of my thoughts oh really I mean it's just different because sometimes if I try to record myself on an Instagram story I'm like this was fun here in my head or like the way I record it or like oh what if I send it don't think twice because that's what people do on Twitter and it's so fun so just like all those random thoughts live on Twitter because how weird of me to pull up Instagram and be like hey you guys ever seen that those moon skates or twangling skates and then people would just be like ok so Instagram is more of like the professional side of me Twitter just throwing all my thoughts out I feel like I had another one what other platforms exist no currently I believe those are the only ones I just have two Instagram accounts yeahokchill is just my dumping grounds for everything that doesn't make it on my main platform how did I not know about this I don't really advertise it because there's just weird stuff out there I like pulled my phone out follow it right away we will put all of that in the show notes thank you for coming on this was super fun I'm sorry I am so just no we love it I love it I'm speaking for everybody here and for more information on any of our coaching services or anything sick outro you know what you guys know you know the vibe baby everybody knows that I'm terrible at outros teamlocosit.com peace and I'm out

=== FILE: Episode 259： Loneliness ｜ Dealing with loneliness and recognizing when you are affected by it [0_pXvJXbmSo].txt ===

 welcome back to another episode of the Loco Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlin, and this week I'm joined by our team at Mental Health Consultant, Rick, and we're going to talk about a sad topic, but an important topic, and that is loneliness. And this is something that I think affects people in similar ways, but also very unique ways, depending on their circumstances and how they view interactions. But there's like so many things now where everybody hears this, like we're more connected than ever, but we're lonelier than ever. And I would say that I agree wholeheartedly with that, just given how technological our world truly is, and we're going to get into some of those topics today. But even down to, I know people who, I mean, straight up just, they order their groceries to have delivered, they Amazon, all of their stuff, they work at home, maybe they even work out at home, and then they're like, oh my god, why am I so like by myself? And like this and that, it's like, well, because you're not doing anything. And I get it, like a lot of those things are convenience things, right? Like, I'm not against any convenience options, because we all need them from time to time. But if every single one of your in-person connections is gone, and you live on your own, and you maybe have a, like a, you know, you might have a partner, but maybe they don't even live with you, right? Like, there's so many different things that I, and I know so many people like this. And it is heartbreaking to think about it. But yeah, let's get into some of the, I guess, topics on loneliness and what increases it, how, what can we do about it? Because I think anybody listening could probably be like, yep, I've either found myself very lonely before, or yes, I'm currently living in this space. Yeah, I agree with a lot of what you're saying. I think technology is really useful in making things convenient. And kind of one of the overall arching themes of loneliness is that making things convenient technology also eliminates, like, friction. It eliminates conflict, right? Because it's just easier to load an app and order your groceries and have them picked up or delivered to you. It's easy to go to Starbucks and say, I don't want to wait in the line, I'm just going to order something on, on here. And then I'm looking at everybody dead in the camera who does mobile orders. Listen, listen, it doesn't make anybody's life easier. And now there's a huge mobile order line. I'm an anti-mobile order person, if you can't tell, especially, listen, I get it at some places. Okay. At the airport, it should be outlawed. There should be no mobile order at the airport. Okay, I'm going to get off my crazy person right now. I get very, I don't think I understand. And there will be two people in line. And then I'm still waiting because there's 1800 mobile orders and they're all jacked up because somebody ordered it and then it wasn't right. And anyways, anyways, wow, okay. Whoa, it is too early for this. It's too early for me to be yelling at people about Starbucks. That technology, the use of technology eliminates, I guess, friction. It eliminates conflict. It makes things easier. And unfortunately, the byproduct of that is we get lonelier and lonelier because in order to really have experiences and connect with people, we almost need to embrace a little bit of that conflict. Like, for example, you know, we've all been there, right? You get the phone call at like five or six o'clock at night, somebody's like, Hey, we're going out, we're doing this. And immediately you start kind of running through the permutations in your head. You're like, Well, if I have to get up, I have to shower, I have to get ready, I have to put my makeup on, I have to like get my shoes, we'll close, what outfit am I gonna wear? We're like, whatever. So there's a lot of effort that goes into that. That's friction. There's a little bit of conflict right there. And our life over the last several years has been about eliminating conflict, eliminating friction, making things systematically easier. Now, it has gotten easier. But to address loneliness, we're going to need to go back into that conflict area because it's not something you can't, I mean, you know, the comedian Sebastian Menoskelko, he does this little bit where he's talking about Uber, and apparently you can do like Uber cat, where somebody can like order a cat for an hour. And somebody brings over a cat and you can like pet a cat. And he goes through this whole kind of comedy bit with it. And I'm wondering at a certain point, like when somebody's gonna do like Uber friend, and somebody's just gonna show up and like talk to you for an hour. It's a real gamble on who you get. What is the criteria for Uber? I don't know, could you like select like religious person, philosopher? I don't know. We're laughing, but it's like the next million dollar idea, I think. But literally, if we come... Sorry, if I'm yelling. We haven't stopped yelling all podcast about nothing. So he did. Uber friend. Uber friend, if you guys already hear first, if we stop everything that we're doing, and we make a quick pivot, this is why. But the conflict thing makes a lot of sense, right? Because there are certain situations, like when you are in person, right, dealing with another human being, or not even just a human, like just outside elements, like just things, just life, there is potential for more conflict. And a lot of people want to avoid that. But I mean, I think we can both attest to this, like the best interactions come out of that, good and bad, right? Like if you did have a really ridiculous interaction with someone, like, yeah, it might have been stressful, but like in a week, you're going to be laughing about that, right? Also, now you've learned how to navigate a potentially like bad situation, right? And then the good stuff that comes out of it, like the good interactions far outweigh anything that you could ever have in a non-human, like a non-in-person interaction, because it doesn't have to be humans. It can just be like looking at a tree and like seeing like the depth of it, or like the sky, or like whatever, or I don't know, something so small, or just like appreciating like a piece of art that like somewhere, like, I don't know. And you're not going to be able to see or experience those things unless you have that prerequisite conflict. It's kind of like the whole idea of like the suffering creates meaning, like, can you have any meaning without suffering? I don't know, because at some point it's like that a lot of those types of things are very fleeting, or they're just not as deep, there's not as much depth to them, which is a whole, I guess, different topic. But yeah, the loneliness thing and the conflict, the low conflict is such an interesting thing, because like you said, it was designed to be easier. But I think it's actually made things harder just in different ways. Like, yeah, you didn't go to the grocery store, but now you had zero human interaction for the day. They might have even gotten your order wrong. So now you have to actually go in and deal with that, you know, and you now have not had any of these positive, potentially positive interactions that you could have. And this is not demonizing grocery delivery, like I have all here for it, you know, like every once in a while you have to do it. But if your day constitutes of doing nothing face to face or out of your normal environment, like that's why I come here a lot of times, even though I'm not in like I'm in an office, but there's still like other things happening, you know, and it's like the idea of like, okay, I have to get dressed, I have to drive down here. And that could be potentially pretty hazardous, as was this morning for both of us. It was, I don't know what was happening in the greater Tampa Bay area. A lot of fire trucks. A lot of accidents, a lot of fire trucks. But, you know, that was obviously not really the ideal way that I wanted to spend 75 minutes. But I was actually able to listen to two podcasts that I wouldn't have otherwise been able to do. So, right, like, so there's little things that like come out of it, that if we had just completely avoided it, we would have a frictionless life. But we also have a kind of an empty feeling life. And I guess that's the feeling of loneliness. It is. So let's kind of, I guess, give a rough definition of what loneliness is for most people. And essentially, it's a feeling of not being connected, not being understood, that no one is really with you, and that you're feeling alone. That's kind of the short and long of it, really. I mean, there's a lot that can be covered in there, like there's a difference between feeling connected to somebody and feeling alone. There's a difference between being understood. And if you're not understood, it can oftentimes feel very isolating. You can feel alone because no one seems to get you. They don't really understand what you're trying to say. They don't know where you're coming from. So you feel lost a little bit as a person sometimes when those things can happen. And I think one of the most interesting aspects of loneliness is it doesn't necessarily have to mean that you're physically alone. There's been times that I've made this comment to, you know, clients and clients have made the comment to me that they're they can be in a room full of people, family, friends, and still feel completely alone. And I think that speaks more to the concept of I don't feel understood. I don't feel like somebody is with me. I'm not connected to the people that are around me. And that's where loneliness really sets in. Sometimes people associate loneliness with depression, they're very different. Not to say that a person who is feeling lonely can't feel depression or vice versa. But they are kind of separate emotions. And we've done topics on depression in the past. So I really kind of want to stay away from that aspect of it. And so it can be, you know, loneliness is associated with depression. It also has there's low mortality rates on happiness. You mean higher excuse me higher mortality rates are sick. Long Japanese below. So some of the contributing factors that increase feelings of loneliness for people number one, the use and increase use of technology. First and foremost, that's one. But overworking is pretty common. The rise of remote work spaces being away from the office, which removes you from people and interactions and isolation, both personally and professionally. You know, we've talked in several podcasts about a multitude of topics. But if we go back to the social media and dating, right, like, there's a lot of people now who are interacting with a picture of a person, and they're texting each other without before they have their first meeting, and it's like dating used to be kind of the opposite way. You used to be out in public somewhere, or if friends would say, Hey, I'm going out to dinner, I'm bringing Susie with me, I think you would really like her come meet her. And so you would show up and you would have this face to face interaction with this person. I doubt people even do that anymore. I don't think I mean, I don't think that there's anything wrong with somebody saying like, no, like the friend thing like that. Like, I like, I haven't heard of that. Like, it's definitely rare. Like an older thing. I guess so. I guess so. It's my generation. But that's like a really good, I mean, that makes sense. You know, I just haven't heard of anybody who is like, I haven't heard of any of my friends who shared that, you know, like, oh, met up with someone or they did that for someone. Like, I just haven't heard of that being a thing. But that would make a lot more sense. So in person meetings is are so important because yeah, like just interacting with like a screen. Like that is one, like once you know someone, that's a little bit different, you know what I mean? Like if I have talked to you a few times, I will be able to understand like how you're texting, like we have some kind of background information, like we understand how to communicate now. If I don't know someone, it's so weird to be like, Hey, so what did you do today? Like that's just like such a foreign concept. And I just feel like that is it's so shallow or as we've talked about on other podcasts with like the Narcissus podcast, people will say a lot of times like things that you want to hear or that they think that you want to hear, but that when you actually get to know them, then you're like, oh, yeah, whoa. And the idea of it is is you can be on an app like that and be interacting with two, three, four, 10 people, whatever, but have no real connection with them. And furthermore, when they meet somebody else, it's very easy to disregard you and just kind of move on from that space because there's no real connection. There's no intimacy with it. And again, so it's kind of like the opposite before you used to meet somebody, have a face to face interaction, exchange phone numbers and build a relationship from there. Now you're communicating with each other, which is essentially through a series of pictures and text messages before you exchange phone numbers and start talking to the person. And then the date comes later. So you've, you're the concept of like what loneliness is, is like, I can be talking to five different people, but have no real connection, no meaningful relationship with any of them. And I'm still sitting in my house. I'm still alone. I'm still isolated, right. And so when we talk about like remote work and people isolating themselves, both personally and professionally, I think that's kind of where some of this is going to you see people spend more time online, engaging in Instagram posts. And you see them doing more things with social media than they are actually interacting with other people. And so it's like, if you're at home and you're creating content, fine, like do your thing, I'm not judging it. But what I am saying is, is there isn't much interaction between people, both professionally and personally, learning to isolate yourself through a series of technological advances and kind of like the traditions that have changed over time, and how dating might be evolving. So there's a lot of different ways to kind of look at loneliness and how it's infiltrating your life. And there's nothing wrong with some of these things. But again, everything in life goes back to how do you create balance with it? You know, any one thing taken to an extreme is usually unhealthy. I'm not going to speak in like, in absolutes here, but that's why I'm saying is usually pretty unhealthy. Like if you work out seven hours a day, that's probably an unhealthy thing. You know, if you're drinking excessively, that's an unhealthy thing. You know, so everything is just about balance in life. And I think technology and concepts of like convenience are wonderful, but it has to be balanced against the benefits of connection of meaningful relationships of developing, you know, an understanding between two people. And I think that's the part that has gotten lost as we've progressed as a society. And that's why I mean, like loneliness is definitely on the rise. Like, I don't meet a lot of people anymore who are like, yeah, I've got an abundance of friends and family that I don't know what to do with. I don't know how to spread my time out. Like it just doesn't seem to be a problem that most people have to deal with. Yeah. And you touched on a little bit, but like you can be loneliness is not just about being alone, right? Like you can be spending time alone and still be very fulfilled and not lonely, but you have to balance that out with other interactions. You know, you can't just expect to be alone all the time. It's not to say that you have to be with people all like 24 seven and you need to be because I think that some people can use that as like another outlet, right? Like, Oh, I'll just spend time with other people and doing a bunch of things, but they're not really like creating or spending that quality time on their own to maybe process things or work on their own things. So there's that kind of balance there as well. So it's not just saying like, Oh, if you are alone, a lot, you're lonely. Like, that's not what we're saying here. But there are going to be a lot of things where on it kind of a day to day or at least a week to week basis, you should probably be checking certain boxes as far as like human interaction and just like outside life interaction and that kind of friction. So when I was at Huberman's lecture, a few weeks ago, he talked about the importance of seeing people's faces like just facial recognition, even if you're not necessarily interacting with them, but just like seeing a face, seeing a smile, like seeing an expression, like how when people are completely isolated from that, like it's mental health really, really deteriorates. And think about that, you know, that person that we all know, maybe like an older person or, you know, like the crazy neighbor down the street who like literally lives on their own, doesn't leave their house, all this stuff, right? And it's so sad. And it's like this different level of loneliness. And also just like, then you become like not really aware of how to handle yourself in those situations because you're like, well, everything now feels really foreign. Who's the skill of interacting? Yeah, like the more that you do something like going to airports now is an actual breeze. Like, I mean, there's obviously things that are going to happen travel wise that get fucked up. But like the process of traveling now for me is so easy. Like whereas before it used to be like this whole big thing. Now it's like, okay, no, no, I have like, I have everything down like nowhere to go, how to get there. Like I can navigate almost anything pretty easily. But that only happened because I did that a lot. And now there's like a much lower threshold now, like the flight you get to later, something gets moved. And of course, that's like stressful. But it's totally different than before. It'd be like, well, where, how do I get this? And how do I tag my back, you know, like all that kind of stuff. And like, you know, you don't do it, then you're not going to have that skill. And one thing to really make note of too is I think the pandemic really accelerated a lot of the problems that were already starting to develop with technology, with being overworked with remote workspaces. The pandemic literally told people to isolate themselves. I mean, I've made the joke before like, if only the White House could consult with people who had an idea of what it would mean to isolate people from their friends, their family, their work environment, and how detrimental that would be to their mental health, like, God, if only we had a group of individuals who could have enlightened them about what the protocols and what the dangers of that would have been. But it is what it is. And whatever happened happened. And so forcing people out of the office, away from travel, deeper into isolation, away from the gym, away from friendships, away from connection connections, it creating a life that was deeply embedded in concepts of isolation and kind of solitude. And what really experienced what we started to experience on a much larger scale was the loss of community that really exists. That is necessary for human beings to thrive. You've heard me say in the parenting podcast, you've heard me say in other ones, where I've talked about the community being such a fundamental important role in the development, like, we used to have the old saying, like it takes a community to raise a child, it's not just mom and dad. It was the brothers, the sisters, it was the aunts, the uncles, it was the neighbors, it was the church goers, it was the football coaches, the basketball coaches, the cheerleading coaches, it was everybody within that child's life that had a role in mentoring and shaping. And when you look at the evolution of human beings, we evolved from incredibly social creatures and we we move in this pattern that is isolating ourselves. So like, look at kids, like I have a six year old that goes to school, he's in a classroom of 20 people, like every single day he's interacting, and that's going to be his life all the way through. Let's just assume, I'm not going to assume he's going to go to college, okay, but let's just say that's the pattern that his life takes through high school. What happens after that? If he goes to college, great, but that's just another four more four more years of what he just experienced. But those are forced interactions. Right. So what happens when we become adults? Well, you get a job. And so you're, if you don't work for a huge company, usually you work as part of a team. And so the 20 people that you interact with, you know, in a daily basis, or, you know, moving from classroom to classroom, it moves from 100 people down to 20. And then what happens when you like move a job or you take, we work, get a job with a startup, like as you become an adult, your social circle and your community begin to shrink. You're not involved in sports or athletics the way that you used to be. You go to the gym now and you throw your headphones on, because God forbid somebody comes up and talks to you at the gym, right? I'm here to do work. Like I didn't come to socialize. Like I love that on the back of everybody's t-shirts. It's like, don't talk to me. It's like, all right, well, fuck off. I won't put your headphones on, be a bad ass, you know, like every woman in the gym, I think they just assume that every guy and there's like, oh, they're just going to come up and hit on me. So no one talked to me. So they throw their headphones on and there's like this here in a public place, but you're still isolating yourself. And so what you see is traditional gyms, I would say that, you know, CrossFit does a good job of this powerlifting gyms or powerlifting groups within gyms do a really good job of this. They've always trained more as traditional kind of athletes, right? Like you have typically, if you're at a powerlifting gym or a group, you know, a lot of times you will all have, you know, a similar-ish workout, you know, you're lifting these crazy weights so people are, you know, together. There might not even be like headphones or probably just music at the gym, right? CrossFit gyms very similar, you know, I don't, I mean, maybe people use headphones, but typically people are going in there, they have a group workout, you know, that whole kind of, you know, jujitsu, any kind of stuff like that is totally different. I would say that the traditional gym setup is definitely like, fuck you, don't talk to me. I'm just here to do my shit and, you know, here to lift, not socialize, but it really does depend on the gym. Like, I'm just giving it a hot time, but you see the point that I'm making. And so as kids, we grow up with this huge community. But like, what do we do about that? Right? Like, what do you walk up to people? Hey, do you want to talk to me? Like, do you want to be my friend? Do you want to be my friend? Do you want to be on Uber Friends? I can Uber you somewhere to talk to another person. They're like, bro, this shit's on crap. Well, sooner or later, you're just gonna be sitting at your house, you're just gonna be knocking at the door and be like, Lauren ordered you a friend for an hour. Be like, we call these prostitutes where I'm from. No, no, no, my clothes are fully stained on. Fully stained on. But that could be part of the criteria. What are you in? That's an extra fee. That's Uber Friends plus. Yes. The idea of a community is fundamentally important when we're talking about addressing the topic of loneliness. And so I would encourage people, you know, like, what are some of the ways that you can start to explore your life and analyze? How am I isolating myself? Right? And what are the things that I've done, maybe career changes, moves that I've made, things that I'm doing in my day to day interaction, like that I can do those things. Like, maybe I show up in the gym a couple of days without my headphones and I say hi to some of the regulars and I get to know them and just strike up some conversations. You know, there's been plenty of times where people have said something to me or, you know, just a general conversation starts, you know, it doesn't mean like we're going to exchange phone numbers and go out for coffee later. But it's like, that was a nice interaction. It was five minutes, you know, you get to learn something about that person next time they see you, they're like, Hey, how are you? And now all of a sudden, you're starting to build a little bit more of a community. And so it requires you to move away from this isolating aspect. And I think this is where, again, when we're talking about the concept of conflict, right, I'm asking you to do things that are going to make you uncomfortable because everything else in our life is designed for convenience and ease and to eliminate friction. Well, now I'm telling you that if you want to address loneliness in your life, you're going to want to start moving into the space of more friction and being uncomfortable, being a little bit awkward, maybe having some strange social interactions of people that don't like work out, but later in life, you can like laugh about it. Oh man, that's one of my favorite things about traveling, especially like solo, I'll just go and I'll sit like at a bar, either it's like a bar or like drostanolone bar. And I genuinely enjoy talking to bartenders, just I don't know, just like talking to them, but then you also get to experience like maybe the person sitting next to you or whatever, like a conversation might strike up. And a lot of times it's great. And then there's other times where it's really fucking weird, but that's still to me like a great interaction, because like this is weird, but I'm enjoying this and I got something on this is a story, you know, I mean, this is like a something. And I think that like that is obviously like nothing weird happening, but like a weird conversation, you know, but like part of it, like that's part of the fun, or you could have been the weird one, you know, like there's plenty of times where I'll say something like, Oh my God, I was the weird one, or that was super awkward. But then you kind of just move on. And the more again, that you do that, the better that you're going to get at it. I mean, I'm still awkward and weird. So maybe don't take any advice from me. But this is super important. And I think too, this is something that I never really focused too much on. But as I'm getting older, I'm noticing like this is probably important is doing things not just in a community, but like the community that you live in. And that used to kind of be like the norm. But now with just having things more online, and you know, for me, I've always had an online business. So I've never had like roots, you know, somewhere to say like, Okay, like, you know, I'm here, like this is going to be like, I'm doing things in this area. And now I'm like, maybe I should actually kind of focus on that, you know, because I'm very blessed. I have so many friends and colleagues, like all across the country, like I can almost go anywhere and like, know somebody. But again, there's a difference of like that versus, okay, like on a kind of a weekly interaction, like what's how can I have more connections. And that's hard, though, because it's like, Oh, where do I go? Is this going to be weird? Are they going to like me? Am I going to like them? Is this going to feel like a, but you don't know until you actually like, try that and do it. Yeah. You know, and again, moving into that space, where you're more likely to do those things, like you're, you're willing to put yourself in an uncomfortable space and be like, Okay, this may or may not work, but I'm going to try it. You know, you're kind of the you have the type of personality where you're like, I'm going to take adventures, right, you're going to go and grab a group of people to go see the Hoverman podcast, you're going to take some groups of friends to go say, Hey, I'm going to see Jordan Peterson talk or, Hey, there's a symposium on this and I'm going to go do that. Or there's this meeting in this other state. I'm going to fly out there. I'm going to tie my trips together. So you're willing to do that. Now there might be some social isolation while you're doing that, like you're traveling alone, and then you're going to meet a group of people, et cetera. But you're willing to confront that frictional space. You know, and for some people, it kind of happens, you know, accidentally, they can kind of find themselves in a much more lonely position in life, you know, because they made a career change or they've done something different, like me personally, you know, when I made the transition from working in the jails full time to my own practice, one of the biggest things I recognized was I was like, I'm spending a considerable amount of time alone now. Like my day, if I see eight or nine clients a day, well, that's like 10, almost 11 hours worth of consecutive work. But it's like the only interaction I'm having is with my client versus screen, not even in person. Yeah, some of them are in person. But you know, before I would come into the office and I had case managers that would come up and talk to me, I had guards or staff that would come up and talk to me, had other therapists, you know, that I would speak to you or supervise, I had administrators, we had visitors that would come into the we had trainers that would come in and out. And so throughout your day, you had all these different interactions, not to mention the clients that were there in the prison themselves. With groups and everything like that. And so it went from this much larger community and being a part of a company, something that was bigger than myself to like, okay, now I'm spending a lot more time alone. It's just really me and my clients. And it's like for hours and hours and day after day. And so it's a very different interaction, which means like, for me, some of the social things that I do are much more important. Like I go to a gym where everybody kind of likes to talk and engage and the regulars are all like very friendly with each other. So I get a great social interaction there. I love to train jujitsu. So I go there and, you know, some of the other relationships that I've kind of manufactured through work, like I'm calling them more, I'm reaching out to them more engaging with them more. I'm like, Hey, do you want to go to a training? Do you want to do this? But this is kind of the point that I'm starting to make. And this is where it's going to get into how do we address this? The onus is on you. This is not a this is like you can say, well, this isn't fair. I don't care about fair anymore. This is like, you're the one who's feeling lonely. The nature and the way to address this is through your interactions and being proactive and you reaching out to other people. If you're sitting back and going, I'm lonely and I'm waiting for everybody else to interact with me, you're going to feel pretty empty. And here's the problem. Most of the interactions we have through social media, don't fulfill us in a meaningful way. So if you make a post and it gets 400 likes, well, there's 400 people who are liking your picture. And maybe there's 20 comments, but they're not real comments. They're not engaging with you in a meaningful way. They're like, Oh my God, this picture is amazing. Love that place. Wonderful. I visited there, you know, fire emoji, whatever. Rick's favorite. Yeah, my favorite. But it's not like you're sharing a space with them. You're not interacting with them. And so here's what you're going to do if you want to address some of the loneliness. Number one, you have to reach out. The onus is on you to connect with other people. So you need to make the calls. You need to set the plans. You need to take charge of get togethers. You need to organize dates and dinners and vacations or trips. You're the one who's required to put the effort in. Now again, do you see why I said this is about reengaging with conflict? Because this is going to feel awkward. You're going to call your friends. And as we get older, again, our social and community network shrinks to the point where the majority of the interactions you have on a daily basis is with your significant other and whatever other family members you live with. And so as people get older, they become more isolated. Their family takes more of a priority. So it takes effort to engage people, to go on trips, to do things. And sometimes you may need to be the person who does this. I recently went to a trip to California where I got to connect with two of my best friends who I haven't seen in years because they've been busy. We had a pandemic. They had kids. You know, it was building a business or my practice, things like that. So it was like, I haven't seen any of them. In order for me to reconnect with them, I needed to book the ticket. I needed to fly. I  niacinidotorganizedthings. And so you do it. I'm not saying I'm the perfect model of this, but that's the effort that is required. Absolutely, and it is hard because there is the possibility that somebody does reject that, or does kind of make you feel blown off, or that they don't have enough time. So there always is that potential. But if you don't put yourself in that situation, it may or may not happen. And again, this is something that, as I've gotten older, I'm like, I have to really make an effort for this, because I have developed a lot of great friendships of people who don't live here. So I have to be that person who like, hey, just check it in, let's do a FaceTime, let's talk, and it's, you have to do that. And even with the travel stuff, none of that just happens. It's like, I decided to put myself in those situations because it was like, these things seem important, but let's make the most out of this. And those things aren't just happening by accident. You have to really want this. And I recognize that because literally, same thing, I'm working all day on the computer with individuals, but at this point in my career, I'm working with them online. And it's like, okay, if I could go an entire day without seeing one single person if I wanted to, or interacting, right? Because even if I did, let's say, go to the gym, I could just train at home. I could literally not leave the house. And some days, let's be honest, that's after a bunch of traveling or a crazy week, sometimes it's nice. But you do that for a few days in a row, and then you're like, oh my gosh, I'm gonna go crazy. So it's like, no, okay, if I have a few days and I'm at home, I need to come to the office, or I need to go to the gym, or I need to set up something. I need to go to a class. I need to call my friends. It's not convenient, but it's like little things like that. Like, hey, let's go meet up for that drink. Let's get coffee, let's talk. And those are the ways, and I love how you said that, like it is on you. And that's a whole extreme ownership mindset. And I think a lot of people wouldn't really apply that to loneliness, like people here, stuff like that. Like it's all on you, it's extreme ownership. They apply that to like business, or their relationships, or, you know, like, but not their own loneliness. But that's really the only way. The solution exists within you and your ability to look at those things. And so I used the example of me moving from a much larger company and community to being more isolated. And so one of the other things that I've done to address that is in the past, I'd been renting an office that I only needed twice a week, because I would only see clients in person on those two days. Well, I've now signed a new lease for a new space that I have seven days a week access to, just so that I can start to be around other people. Now, they're not like my colleagues where I'm gonna interact with them, but they're sitting in a community area where they're gonna grab coffee and tea, and you can interact with people. And so for me, it was like, I can stay at my house and be completely isolated, or I can force myself into a position to be around other people, which is what you did here. Like you can do everything you do from your house. You know, you've recorded podcasts from your living room before. Like it could be done if you needed it to be done. But the idea of it is to say, look, okay, that maybe even costs me more money. But I want to be in a space where I interact with people. Those interactions are important to me, because I tend to be, if we're looking at this on a spectrum, I'm definitely more of an extrovert. I like to interact with people, and not just within a therapeutic setting. I like to have conversations. And so- Non-work conversations? Yes. It's crazy. Wait, you're not a robot? No. You don't only want to talk about therapy? Oh my God, no way. I think the major arching theme that I want you guys to remember is, in order to address loneliness, you want to step into that space of friction. The onus is on you. It can be difficult. It can be awkward. You can face some rejection. There's going to be challenges to it. But what I want you to really focus on is developing quality interactions. It's not about quantity. This isn't about, like, I've got to develop 20 friends. It's like, if you have two or three solid or quality interactions with people, where it's not online, and it's real life. And here's the other key. How do you know if it's a quality interaction? Are you willing to be vulnerable? Okay, are you willing to share parts of yourself that when you're having a bad day, or you're struggling with a relationship, or you're dealing with something that's really difficult for you, can you count on that person to one, listen, and not judge? And can you be in that space for them as well? That's a quality interaction. Which is why I say moving away from online is necessary, because people aren't using social media to be vulnerable in healthy ways. Let's put it that way. Most of it is attention seeking. But again, you can post a picture. You'll get 100 comments about how amazing this picture is, or how beautiful you look. But none of that is happening in a vulnerable space. There's no real give and take. And so it's about quality of the interactions, and what is a quality interaction. Any space that you can truly be vulnerable in, and communicate with people. Which is why our friendship is beneficial to me. Because for those of you that don't know, Lauren and I can pretty much talk about everything and have. Yeah, literally. And so it's like, I get to get something out of that, it's like we don't just get together and have podcasts. Like we talk about what's happening in each other's lives, I've talked about what's happening in the good, the bad, and the ugly, and everything in between. So that's a quality interaction for me. And you have other friends that you can do that with, so do I. And the idea is to really focus in on that community. And not just rely on your significant other to be everything for you, because that can't be. And you can't be everything for them. So expanding that network into being like, okay there's a class that I wanna take. And I can have some interactions with people on this class, or I can go to the gym. And maybe it's like, hey, if I like lifting weights, maybe I should join a CrossFit for once or twice a week, where I can just get some interaction. It's a totally different way of lifting or working out, fine. Or maybe do a Jiu-Jitsu class, or a karate class, or a yoga class, where you can talk to somebody. And just interact and have more quality interaction. Does that make sense? Absolutely, and I think that wraps it up really nicely. And it is gonna be work, like anything that's important. But I do think that there's a lot of times, just now people think, okay, just being around other people is enough. But it's like, you really have to focus in on not just being physically around people, that is one thing, but also that quality time. And making an effort, because say you do have a great friend who maybe lives across the country, doing regular talks, and then scheduling times where you guys get together is so important. I mean, I know like me, my best friend Chanel, if you guys are listening, you know her. We don't live near each other, but we will set aside times a few times a year where we will somehow manage to get together. Whether it's she comes here, I go there, we go to an event together, we plan something, several times a year, we kind of joke, it's like our quarterly trip, like we quarterly see each other. And then it's great. And in between that, we're obviously like, texting and FaceTiming, and not excessively, because we're both busy. But then it's, okay, when we do talk, it is about that like vulnerable stuff, and it's about like life and fun stuff too, but it's deeper than that. So I do think it's possible to maintain, like if you're like, oh my gosh, well I don't have anybody in my community yet, that's fine. Still maintain those long distance relationships, but also maybe try to do more things either in your community, or just going out and doing more things, going to an event, going to a conference, doing some kind of continuing education for your work. Just something that you're fucking interested in, just go and actually do that. So yeah, we're all about going and doing things, if you couldn't tell from all this, and yeah, this wraps it up great. So as always, I kind of made that a weird ending, but hey, one day. The weird ending is when I send the Uber front to your house. Yes, that's the weirdest ending. We're gonna have to discuss this heavily for another hour. You know who I think would make a great Uber front, is James. Nobody's gonna- James on this podcast one day, just so people could get an idea of who this crazy man is. Nobody's gonna understand the levels to that joke, besides the three of us and Jermaine. Okay. Jermaine will get it, yeah. Jermaine will get it. So thank you guys so much for listening as always. I will put Rick's contact information below in the show notes, and for more information on our coaching services, you can visit teamlocofit.com, and if you're interested in signing up for our app, which is live and thriving and amazing, you can go to redefinehealthyapp.com, and we'll talk to you guys next week.

=== FILE: Episode 260： How to avoid the holiday F＊ck Its [5Y6ejW4K_k0].txt ===

 Welcome back to another episode of the Locofit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and today is a quick solo episode on how to avoid the holiday fuck-its. And listen, I am saying this not in a patronizing way at all. We have all fallen into these one time or another, and a lot of times what I'm sharing is what I've either learned through my own experience with coaching clients and what works, or what has worked for me and how to get through this. So I know that this time of year it is so easy to just let all of the food-centric events and everything just pile up and us just be like, yeah, we'll just wait until the new year, wait until the new year, and I get it. I've been there before, I've been in that headspace where it's like, I'll just wait until this next thing, this next date, or once I get through this. And especially with the holidays, it is so easy to get into that mindset because there are so many different things that are going on. But what will happen is you will look up in a few weeks, whether it's the start of the new year or really any of your time, and be like, wow, I've really let my personal standards down. And not only do I not feel my best or look my best physically, but more importantly, mentally, you're going to be in a different headspace and honestly, just be in a rut. So here are some ways that we can combat that. First, if you have already solidified your habits and routines that you know make you feel your best, keep at them. I know it can be harder when there are more demands with travel and family and socializing and different things going on. But if you know, okay, these two or three things that anchor me during my day are so important, make sure you get them done. And I know that sometimes we have like all of these things that make us feel great, right? We're like, oh, no, well, I feel my best when I have these 15 things that's okay, maybe that's not realistic. Maybe during this time of year, that's not going to be realistic. But what are the top three things that you know make you feel your best? And when you don't do them, you really start to falter. I know for me, morning walk and journaling is absolutely essential. I feel so much better in virtually every area when I'm able to do that. Now, are there other things that I would like to add to that as well? Do I like to meditate? Do I like to read? Do I like to go for longer walks? Or like, of course, but at minimum, if I get a 10 minute walk and a journal for a page or set a timer for five or 10 minutes, that's 15 minutes that I've set aside for myself that I know makes me feel better. And that's not taking away from really anything else that's going on. A lot of times what happens is during holidays and travel and all this, we don't want to be a burden to other people in our lives. And I totally understand that. And I'm not asking you to say, hey, I need 16 hours for this. It's like, wait, what? Like for your morning routine? No, sometimes you're going to have to make some concessions, but you can wake up earlier and get in your 15 minutes that you maybe need for yourself. Do a workout for 45 minutes, some kind of modified lift. And then, hey, now you're ready to tackle the day. You're in a totally different headspace. You've hit your goals. You're feeling really, really great. And that's going to help you make better decisions along the rest of the day. And it's not something that you had to really take away time from your family or really set aside too much, just time in general. And that's one of the other things. Second thing would be to pre-plan your time and your travel. Sometimes things come up unexpected, understandably, but generally speaking, we have a rough idea of what we're going to be doing and when we're doing it. So if you know, okay, I'm going to be traveling these days, these days, or I'm going to be spending time with family here, or I have this event, whatever it is, start to pencil that in and put that in your calendar, whatever type of calendar that you use. I like writing things down. I can see everything much easier. But once you have a handle on what is going to be happening, then you can start to plan things a lot easier from there. Okay, I know I'm going to be traveling these days, these days. I don't know if I'll have gym access here or hey, no, when I travel here, we have the best gym access. There's an amazing gym that I love to visit. Or hey, when I'm going to be with family these three days, it's going to be really tough to do anything outside of getting maybe like a walk and some journaling or whatever it might be for you reading 10 pages of a book, something like that. Knowing ahead of time so then you can pre-plan is so essential. And even if it's not just for the week, but also just for that day, okay, when I have an idea of what I'm doing during the day, now I can pre-plan a little bit better. If in the morning we have something going on, okay, well maybe later I will do this or vice versa. If I know that later in the day, you know, we are going to be doing this, now I can wake up earlier and get it done. And I'm not saying to be obsessive and to be that person who is not making any compromises because you're probably going to have to make compromises. But this does come down to planning. If you know you're going to be gone for three days with limited gym access, get your training done before, frontload your training. Nobody likes training four days in a row, but if that's better than not getting it done and don't come back and say, oh, well, I didn't have time to get it done. You did have time to get it done. You just didn't prioritize things. And listen, that happens. We all slip up from time to time. We all don't prioritize it from time to time. We make bad decisions. But the idea is to try to make the best decisions possible and really do our best, especially if we do know ahead of time what we will be engaging or not engaging in. The next thing is understanding your worth it. And I don't like labeling food. You all know that, but this concept really rings true. It just makes a lot of sense. So what is a worth it? Something that you are really going to enjoy that you really want to be eating or drinking and is really honestly worth it. There's going to be plenty of times where you're presented with food or drinks that you just kind of find yourself eating or drinking. You're like, this isn't really even that good. Those are the times where you say, hey, this really isn't a worth it for me versus, you know, hey, you know, my mom makes the best whatever meal or side dish or you're really going to want that not some, oh, this was the holiday potluck and somebody brought like, you know, store bought what probably not. It's probably not it. We've all been there. It's not it. It's not it's not worth it. So that's going to be a time where you're like, you know what? I'm either going to make different choices or I'm going to bring my own food. I'm going to still be social, but maybe not in, you know, have any of these calories. And then there might be a time that comes up again. Vice versa that you're like, no, this is a worth it. This is one of my favorite things ever and you enjoy it fully and then you move on. So understanding your worth it is really going to make sure that this holiday season doesn't just turn into a everything is worth it. Even though we know that it's not. And then lastly, if you mess up, it's okay. What we don't want to happen is you have one bad day or two bad days or three bad days and then that becomes a whole month or two or three months. Like I said, that's when, you know, at the end of the holiday season and you know, the new year is upon everybody and all of those things have kind of, you know, fallen to the wayside and it's like, man, I like, who am I? Like, I don't feel like myself at all. And this is not to say that you have to be some robotic, perfect person over the holidays. Quite the contrary. This is saying, okay, let's moderate ourselves. Let's pre-plan. Let's say, okay, I'm going to be here these few days with my family. This is going to be higher calorie, maybe some more alcohol, maybe less activity. Okay, I'm going to make sure that ahead of time, I am really dialed in with my training, really dialed in with my nutrition. I'm going to be changing my schedule around to times where I maybe wouldn't normally train or do whatever and I'm going to get it all done. And then I'm still going to fully enjoy these things. I'm going to enjoy my worth it, but I'm also going to say no to stuff that maybe really is worth it. And that is all going to require some restraint and moderation and being less impulsive around our choices. But it truly is the way to get through, whether it's the holiday season or really just kind of any busy season and not turn it into a fuck it season. So if you guys need help or accountability through this process, you can reach out for coaching. You can visit teamlookwithit.com for more information or you can join our amazing app. There is training programs, there's macros, there's meal plans, all different sorts of things on there. If that is better for your time and your budget right now. I know a lot of people are not in a position honestly to even need coaching quite yet. They just need some help and accountability and a plan to get started, which is exactly why we created that app. So that is redefinehealthyapp.com. You can check out all of those details. And yeah, I know that this is a tough time of year. If you're listening to this currently, you know, we're at the end of the year. There's so many things going on. But using these strategies can really help you avoid turning the holidays into a fuck it season and coming out the other end and feeling really great about yourself and your choices.

=== FILE: Episode 261： Comparison ｜ Are you letting this take away from your joy in life [I20ghECwgSc].txt ===

 welcome back to another episode of the Loka Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlin, and this week I'm joined by our team mental health consultant, Rick, to talk about comparison. Oh, this is such a awful topic. I mean, it's a great topic that we're gonna be discussing, but comparison is such a awful feeling. And I'll start off by saying that obviously, I think there's a healthy level of comparison that we all need in our lives. I don't think that it's always a purely bad emotion, but a lot of times it can be taken really out of context and make us feel really, not just feel terrible, but actually act in ways that are making us even worse and it's becoming that self-fulfilling prophecy. So let's get into it. All right, comparison. This is a topic that actually felt like can resonate more with your fitness competitors and coaches because of the very nature of what you do. And I was recently having a conversation with one of our clients. And I was asking her, because she moved from one weight division to another, not weight or class. She was a figure competitor. She's moving to Bikini. And I asked her, I said, how did the show go? How did you feel about yourself? And she's like, I felt really good. She's like, I know that there's certain areas I went into the show knowing that I would be deficient in certain areas. And she was just like, you don't really know where you're at sometimes until you can see yourself standing next to somebody else. Oh, yeah. And I was like, this is definitely comparison. And so from that perspective, again, I've talked about most other sports. It's like you are competing against the other team and the result is who has the higher score, right? Not like I have to compare myself to the way this other person physically looks and the dimensions of their body as it relates to my body to determine whether or not I'm, I don't know, good enough, I guess, is the answer. Yeah, it's tough because there's a standard that will be set for physique divisions, right? Like Bikini, there is a standard of things that the judges are looking for. And certain people are clearly gonna fit that criteria a lot better. But there is so much inter-individuality that still fits those criteria. And then you don't know, like say you're really, really lean. You have good shape, but you're real lean. And then you show up to the show and everybody else is a little bit fuller, but the judges actually like that more, right? So both still fit the criteria, but it's a different look. Whereas some other shows, you might show up as that leaner person and they might actually go for that look. So that is where it's really hard because you have to say, okay, I'm only focusing on like myself and improving my specific physique because ultimately I don't know who else is going to show up. Isn't there a part of the show, and correct me if I'm wrong because I'm an idiot when it comes to this stuff. Like you need to go to a show. I do, I really do. I want you to actually walk me through what's happening. But isn't there a part of the show where they literally line people up and they just move people around so they can see them standing next to other people? Yes, come on. So, comparing yourself to the rest of the dais or whoever else is competing. Yeah, it's not just about, like that's why people will look at like a photo of someone on stage like, oh my God, you looked amazing. How didn't you win? And then it's like, well, if you look at the six other people next to them, it might have been really close, but it could have been really obvious, right? Or the one person just could have stood out in that way. And that's also the difference of photos versus in person. It's a lot easier to see things from a judge's perspective or those first few rows. You can really see things a lot quicker and a lot differently than a static photo. That's a totally different podcast. But yes, like there is a lot of comparison with physique competitors, but also just anybody who's interested in physique goals, any kind of physique enhancement, like, hey, I'm interested in building muscle here, losing fat here, whatever it might be. And chances are, if you're interested in that, you're either around other people at your gym or that you know or that you follow on social media. And a lot of times that comparison of, oh, I wanna have that person's body or I wanna look like so and so. And I always try to encourage clients, like this is great that we have someone that we can say, hey, this is kind of the look that I'm going for. Like I'm interested in having a physique like that. But there's a lot of other things you have to take into consideration. And I always try to, especially when it's somebody who, I know, has been an athlete their entire lives from the time they were like a kid, you're four years old and you're starting sports and then you're an elite level athlete and now you're 30. Okay, you're going to have a very different physique than somebody who just started weight training at 45. At 42. Yeah, but it's not a bad thing. It's just a, hey, this is just the reality of this and we can still strive towards it. But I think that that's where comparison can be useful in the sense to say, hey, this is kind of, I'm not maybe here, I would like to work towards here, but where it can become insidious is like, if I don't look like that, then I'm a failure. It's like, no, I can have, I can develop attributes that are similar to that and I can develop the work ethic and all of these things. So I think that it's, it can start as a positive, but then you have to change it to more of that intrinsic motivation to say, I wanna change this for myself and not only solely that I'm extrinsically trying to look like someone else. Yeah, like for me, when I started on, on like the weightlifting journey for myself, I remember asking and talking to my trainer and being like, okay, you've seen a picture of my body. Like here's some pictures of other male bodies that I actually like, like, but I didn't know enough. That was fun to search. Oh yeah, you should see my search history for that. Uber friend. Male bodies that I like. I was like, okay, this is not good. This feels a little weird, but. Especially when you do it on a work computer, HR is calling me into the office at a prison. Yeah. Like, oh, this is not good. But it was kind of like, all right, I didn't know enough to say like, what is it about these particular people? And so what I was able to surmise from it is like, okay, there's certain characteristics in these people that I like, like for example, maybe their shoulders, their traps, their chest. And that's like, okay, so these are areas that we wanna use to develop. Now, excuse me, what I didn't do was go back and see like, okay, what's my six month progress compared to them? I would look at where my picture was on day one and where my picture was on six months and say, okay, I'm making progress because I can see the change in me, but not by comparing it to them. I used those physiques as a template to be like, okay, this is the things that I like in a man's body or what I would like to see in mine. So you can compare yourself to that from a perspective, but not as long as you're measuring yourself against them in terms of your progress and your growth. And that's where I also feel like, again, the physique world is a little bit different because the entire sport is predicated upon not just how you look, but how you look compared to other people that you're standing next to. Yeah, so that part's super tough in terms of just the fitness kind of world. And then I feel like the social media world it seeps into everything, right? Because it's not just how somebody physically looks, it's also now like what they're showing, right? Or the life that they're showing that they're living. And a lot of times what happens is we will forget, like there are some people who I would say share a good amount of like their journey, right? Through things, but a lot of people, a lot of the big name people that you might be following have been doing this for 10, 20, 30 years. And now maybe they're just showcasing their stuff. So you're like, oh my gosh, well, how could I ever get to this level? And it's like, thankfully a lot of people are open and share kind of the struggles that they went through and what they actually did, but they weren't documented at that time because social media maybe didn't exist or maybe they didn't have it then. So you're only seeing the end result. And what's happening I think is a lot of people start to feel this really, really deep comparison. Like I'm not there yet. Somebody has it so much better in whatever kind of category you're interested in, right? Like everybody has a different category that they are comparing themselves in. And I think that it's so easy to dehumanize people, not in like a weird way, but like dehumanize them to say like, oh, this is just their achievements. Like everything is so easy for them. They have this all figured out, not seeing that like all the other stuff that they either went through or are currently still going through. And I don't think that people need to share everything on social media. I'm actually completely for not sharing everything, right? I think that's really, really important. But what happens is when people don't recognize that, they think that someone is sharing everything, right? And it's like, do you really think everyone, like even the people who share everything, like we know those people share everything, they don't still share everything. There's still things that are obviously very personal to them that they're not putting out there. So it's like to look at, but we all do it. I do it. It's like, oh my gosh, so and so is here. They did this, they did, okay. Hey, let's reframe this to like, what are they showing? What have they not shown? What else have they done beforehand? And it's just, I think that has, the time course has been sped up with technology, where people think that things should be happening really, really quickly. And if it's not, then they are a failure because they're comparing to what they see is like this quick timeline, which it might not really be quick, but that's how it feels when you're seeing it. Yeah, and I think, and again, I don't wanna go down this rabbit hole at all on this particular podcast, but I think when you're looking at people, especially in the fitness and physique world, who are making rapid changes very quickly, it's more than just their work ethic in the gym, okay? And I think people, like I've run into this a lot with people who aren't involved in any way, shape, or form in the bodybuilding industry. And then they'll walk into a gym and they'll be like, you know, they'll see somebody's before and after picture and there's like six months and it's like, it's very different. And so to a person who's standing on the outside, it's like, okay, this isn't just them showing up in the gym and counting macros for six months, where their body has made this radical change and they've put on 20 pounds of muscle in six months. And the other person's going like, well, why am I not making this progress? And it's like, look, outside of the supplements, they're telling you that they're taking, they're doing other things. And so I think understanding like, you know, and this is what you told me when I was starting, you know, in this journey for myself, it's like, okay, are you willing to say, can you commit two years to this? To see some of the changes and things that you want? So it's like, yes, and now here I am coming up on my first year of doing this, of like tracking my diet through a macro based system of going to the gym four, five, six days a week sometimes, and being serious and committed to lifting and seeing growth and progress. Now, again, if I compare myself to another guy who's been doing this for 12, 16, 20 years, I'm gonna be like, well, that's disappointing. But if I'm able to look at my picture of myself between the first day I started, the six month mark when I started and where I am at a year, those are very different people with different philosophies and approaches. And so are you getting into this to reach an objective that is comparing yourself to another person, which is what we're gonna get into? Or are you doing this for yourself? Are you bettering yourself? Because this is something that you saw benefit into, into getting it to shape or to making these changes in your life, not because you're comparing yourself to another person, but because it's the journey and the process for you that's meaningful. So comparison, if you're gonna listen to anything on comparison, you're always gonna hear this quote, comparison is the thief of joy. Right, and so I think it's a relevant quote because it's really talking about the idea that in comparing yourself to other people and measuring yourself against their accomplishments, not yourself, it's always without the end goal, which is the fulfillment of achieving what it is that you're set out to. So if the goal is determined by somebody else, it has no inherent value for you. It's accept to gain the acceptance or reach a milestone that somebody else had that you admire. So it's not really about you, it's about measuring yourself against that person. And so oftentimes it leaves this feeling empty. And that's a word that I'm gonna use over and over again throughout this podcast. Now, how and why do we start getting into you and developing the habit of comparison? It starts at an early age, it starts at birth, right? Like, you'll hear this all the time, you'll hear newborn parents talking about like, oh my God, my child is in like the 95th percentile for height and weight and you've got, they start talking about like their head size, like comparing their baby's head size to another baby's head size is if that means anything. And this gets reinforced through society's systems and agencies throughout your life. Like think about going through school. What does every school do with their students? They rank them. There's like the number one student through the 250th student. I remember in high school we had like 500. Now I'm saying, do they still do that? I think they still do. Which I'm surprised because isn't everybody supposed to get a participation trophy at this point? I think everything else is not ranked, so I would be very surprised. Honestly, I don't remember school, so. Don't ask me, was I ranked anything? But I remember we had 500 students or so in our class and I remember it was a big deal for everybody to know, like, oh, this guy, I think his name was. What school in Jesus? Ryan Ginsburg, he was like the top student in everything. He was truly gifted, but there were several people where it was like they were bouncing back and forth between the top 10. That was a big deal. It was a big deal for them. Were they like high school? This is high school, yeah. Okay, I was like, no way there was 500 kids in your elementary school or middle school. No, I don't think they count kids in elementary school. But that's, I don't think they ranked them. I don't remember this in high school. In high school we got ranked, you know, and that matters, you know? And so I think the art of comparing yourself to people, even when you start filling out college applications, you have two people who have similar scores, what do you start to look at? Their extracurricular activities and you're comparing them. So the art of comparing each other to each other has been reinforced throughout our society. We compare ourselves to the other kids in our class. We compare ourselves to our neighbors, to our cousins, to our other family members. Like, imagine if you're two siblings who have, you know, a birthday within a year or two of each other. There's always gonna be comparisons. My sister and I are two years apart, right? There was at one point where she was a junior in high school and I was a freshman. And everything was, oh, you're Nikki Youngy's brother. I was like, my name's Rick. Just in case you're wondering, I'm not Nikki's brother, but my sister, who is like this straight A4.0 student, three sport varsity athletes, and she was like a freshman. And it's like, here's Rick. I was like, yeah, not her. Part of me used to hate that comparison because I was like, no one can actually, no one cares about me. I'm like, oh, they're Nikki's brother. No, I won't lie. Sometimes it had its benefits. Like, I remember one time I was having trouble with a teacher in a class, and so I went to another professor who only knew me because I was Nikki's brother. And he helped me out. He was like, I'll get you out of that class for you. So I was like, oh, sweet. This is cool. It's all who you know. Yeah, it's all who you know. So that had its advantages, but I remember feeling inadequate as a child sometimes growing up because I didn't take academics seriously. It wasn't a big part of my life until much later in life. And my sister had that drive very early on. So I would come home with an average report card. My sister who's got straight A's and all of her AP classes and everything, it was like I started to feel bad because I would be compared to her through my parents or through my own comparison. Being like, I'm not measuring up to what the rest of my family is doing. So comparison is a very natural part of our life, but it can be competitive in some ways. It can be helpful in some ways, but in more ways than not, it's really destructive, especially in today's society. Because again, we're looking at each other in a way of measuring my self-worth against my accomplishments as it relates to somebody else. I'm not worth anything unless I'm making the same amount of money that you make. I don't have real value because I didn't make this contribution to our field. So if my accomplishments, my income and my status don't match the highest levels of people in our industry, we can feel like a failure sometimes. It can create a sense of inadequacy because you're comparing yourself to another person, not to your personal journey and not to your own goals and what's important to you. Does that make sense? Yeah, and I think that when you, at least I've experienced this, when you're only focusing on certain achievements or accolades or things that are very extrinsically based, it does feel very empty, right? Because you get there and then you're like, okay, what's next? Right, and there does need to be, it's like this balance, right? It does have to be what's next because you can't just be like, just sitting in your past accomplishments because that's not a way to grow or live either, just to always be like, well, I did this one time. Like that's not enough. You need to, okay, congratulations on doing that. What else have you done? But it has to come from that internal place and that place of like, I want to be better for myself in these areas. And I think that it's just really easy to get caught up in that outside stuff. And part of, you can develop a lot of good things with that. So it's not like there's, it's only negative, right? It's like anything, it's not only negative to be chasing extrinsically based goals, but if it doesn't have that intrinsic value to you, I do think that people end up feeling really empty. And then at least what I see, especially in what I do with coaching, is that if you are chasing that extrinsic thing constantly and then you may become close or you don't get it, then you feel like the only sufficient way to, like you have to just keep going or keep doing more. And it's never really addressing the other stuff. And it's really easy to put a bandaid on those kind of harder, more extreme things, whether it is like any kind of goal that you have instead of actually being like, what do I really, like really sitting with like, what do I really want to be doing? If you have a hole in the bottom of a bucket, no matter how much dirt you shovel into it, you're never gonna fill it up. And so the idea becomes like more is not always the response. And so there's two ways I really want people to kind of conceptualize comparison here. Number one, there's comparing yourself to yourself. And then the second aspect would be comparing myself to others or others' expectations of me. And now what do I mean by comparing myself to myself? Well, let's say you take a moment in your life where you're in some sort of crisis or some sort of difficult situation where you have to make choices or decisions or you behave in a certain way that doesn't align with a previous version of yourself. And so what happens is if I'm like dealing with a moment of crisis in my own life, but then I look back and I compare myself to how I used to handle crisis or how I managed a situation similar to this in the past. And I don't align with that self. Like suddenly I didn't react the way I wanted to or I expected to. And I can't perform the way that I used to when I was younger, right? Cause now I'm older and I don't move the same or I have less time to dedicate to it or my priorities have shifted. But I'm still comparing myself to who I used to be when I was younger. It can create this sense of, you know, misery and inadequacy and it can create a deeper level of shame because I'm not the person that I used to be. But it's like, well, in what other ways have you changed and evolved to where maybe this isn't as relevant as it used to be? If I'm 42 or 43 years old and I step on the mat and I'm like, God, this 25 year old is like running circles around me right now, you know, that never used to happen. Well, you're not 25 years old anymore either. You know, there's other responsibilities and things that you have in your life. Like is it important for you to be a good father? Is it important for you to be present in these relationships and in these aspects of your life? Cause the 25 year old does nothing but like wait tables and train in jujitsu or whatever it is that you're doing. Sometimes the comparison to your old self can be just as detrimental as comparing yourself to somebody else because you're not reacting in the ways that you thought you would or that you used to. And so you set yourself up for this disappointment by comparing yourself to an older version without understanding or appreciating the life circumstances that have changed. Does that make sense? Yeah, that definitely makes sense. And I think a lot of people have to create almost that like new, I use, I don't know how to use this word properly, identity. So like say you are going through like maybe you were just somebody who was younger, who could train a lot and do whatever. And then now you're like, now I have this new identity as somebody who enjoys training jujitsu. But now I am like father, entrepreneur, business, the like all these different things, right? I know that like a lot of new moms struggle with this really, really hard is like creating this identity now of like my new life is like me and this child. You know what I mean? It's completely different than like life that was just me. And I know fathers go through that as well. I just coach primarily women. So when I say it, that's because of that. But you know, it becomes this whole different thing. So it's not just about like, oh, I used to be able to do this. It's like, that's not even your life anymore. I know a lot of athletes go through this, right? When they are no longer the elite athlete, students go through this when they're no longer the student or the researcher. So anytime your identity is kind of going through this big shift, it's like you have to, to understand how to shift and create within that. However, where do you see that line of it is important to compare it to my old self? Maybe I'm like, I don't want to use the term letting yourself off the hook. But like, at what point does like, oh, I just have a lot going on and things are different now. And then that piles up and piles up and piles up. And then now you find yourself in a situation where you're like, oh my gosh, I don't even really know myself anymore. And I've neglected all of these quality habits that I've established for myself. And now I'm in a really shitty spot, right? Like, do you see where I'm coming from? I think you can compare yourself to yourself and say, look, if I was younger, I used to be more organized and have priorities and have more goals. And somehow I've lost focus of that. Okay, fine. That's an example of looking back and reflecting on yourself. And then saying, what can I do now? Versus shaming yourself in that process. Or comparing yourself to old goals and accomplishments and saying like, well, my life isn't as valuable because I'm not accomplishing those same things. Like every athlete has to come full circle with the idea that there's gonna be younger people or people who are like, yeah, maybe in your prime you could have beat them, but you can't anymore. And so it's kind of accepting the space that you're in and recognizing change and time and circumstances don't allow for the same level of performance. Yeah, maybe I was thinking less about comparison and more about just like standard, right? Like having a standard that you set for yourself. Standard can be like a fluid thing, right? Because that standard can change given the circumstances. But I know, I mean, I know that I've done that like, oh, it's okay, you know, I can't do how I used to do it, but it's because of all these things. And then you like, let a few things slip. And then you're like, okay, maybe that's the case, but I've now let my standard slip to a place that doesn't reflect my values. And so like being able to kind of check yourself there. But I guess that's kind of separate from comparison in the way that we're talking about it. You know, and to me, like for example, we have some guys that we used to train Jiu-Jitsu with who are older guys. Guys like, you know, Mike Billers, Joe Dominguez, Jeff Johnson, some of these other guys. To me where I see the value in that is like, they're coming to the gym every day knowing that they're not gonna be the best in the gym, that they're not gonna dominate, they're not gonna win every match. And in fact, they're going to get beat quite often, but they still keep showing up. They still keep going through the process. So they're not comparing themselves to the 20 year olds in the gym of the 30 year old guys. They're looking at this and saying like, this is my growth, my progress. And as a result, they're actually getting better. They're difficult to deal with, they're hard roles, they're growing and maturing, you know, even though they're older. Yeah, it's just a different skill level. They're not comparing themselves to like who they were when they were in their 20s. And so the idea of it is, is they're able to get something out of it because of the process of what they're doing is beneficial to them, not through the art of comparing themselves to the other students in the gym or who they used to be. But because of where they are right now and what their goals are. So there's a value in it and as a result, they keep coming back even though there might be more failure than there is progress at times. And that's the same for any person who's doing something new later in life. And so obviously the other form of comparison is comparing myself to others or other people's expectations. And I really want to highlight the social media effect in this particular space. Because this is exactly what people do like you pull up Instagram. And you'll start scrolling through. And all you see is filtered pictures of somebody's best life. And if you're looking at the best version of somebody else, that comparison can be very invalidating for your life. And it distorts your version of, it distorts yourself image and the version of progress that actually is being made. And so when we compare ourselves to what people are putting out on social media, you're seeing a very filtered version of their life. You're seeing like a percentage of the person's entire aspect of their being. You're not seeing all that. And it becomes this space and everybody's guilty of it. Everybody's guilty of looking at a picture and being like, I'm taking a vacation because I saw what a place looked like or I'm buying clothes because this influencer put them out there, I'm gonna buy this makeup or this watch or do these things because I see somebody else doing it. And so comparing yourself to or maintaining that level of comparison with somebody else or managing your expectations of your performance based off of somebody else's expectation of where you should be, it creates that same space because if you're not matching their version of you, you're always going to feel a little empty, a little lost, a little less valuable because it isn't and doesn't have the intrinsic value to you. It has value to them, not to you. And so the idea of this is to start to focus on what are my needs, what do I actually want? Not within the relationship of the people that are in my life but to me. And this is where like sometimes people struggle with like, well, isn't that selfish? No, it's important. It's okay to focus on yourself. And I think sometimes I find myself having this conversation with some of my clients, it's like, no, it's okay as a parent as a mother to focus on your needs, your goals, your ambitions. It's okay as a husband or as a boyfriend to say, look, these are things that are important to me. I don't have to compare myself to previous generations or older models or versions of other people or their expectations. It's about setting mine. And for some people, that's a really scary space to be in because our lives oftentimes are set by the expectations and goals of other people. And so you're learning to break a tradition, a habit that's been forming since you were born. And so when you're 30 years old and you're like, struggling with this stuff, it makes sense that you're struggling and it's okay to struggle with it. This isn't an overnight like, oh, I'm just gonna stop comparing myself to people like, done, like no, it's a habit that you are breaking and developing a new habit. And so there's this constant teeter-totter back and forth and you have to have conversations with yourself. Like I do it all the time. Like I'll walk into the gym and I'll see a guy lifting an insane amount of weight or I'll be like, oh my God, this guy's like ripped or physique and I'll remind myself, they've been doing this, like stay focused. Like where are you at in your journey? Like focus on, you have weight to lift right here. Focus on that. And so it's this constant like pulling yourself back into the reality of avoiding comparison. I was gonna say the reality aspect is really, really important. Like I think when people, and this is one of the detriments of a lot of technology is you don't get to see a lot of that backend stuff. So you kind of will just see that end result or you'll see something on a really short and timescale where you'll see the person. Even if you do see them in person and all you see is that end result. And it's like a lot of times we, like if our reality is not recognizing like the work that it takes to be there, then we become that like jealous and resentful and like comparing ourselves in that negative way. Whereas if it's like, you know, after you've gone through something, right? Like, okay, I've competed before, been 10% body fat many times. If I wanted to get there, I know exactly what I need to do to get there, roughly. I can look at someone's physique, who's in that spot and be like, damn, like that's amazing. Like they look awesome. Like I would, you know, I'd like to do that again or something, but I've done it enough to have my reality as understanding of what do I need to do before, during and after to achieve that physique. And I know that. So I feel less of a comparison now because I've been, and I understand the reality of a situation. You know, I don't see someone dead lifting 300 pounds and be like, man, you know, I would love to do that again. I've did it once and I know exactly what it took for me to be able to do that. And it was fucking awful. I'll never do it again. But no, it was great. But you know, like I know what that, like I'm not, I don't look at that anymore and go like, I'm just so weak. Yeah, maybe I'm not that strong, but I know what it takes to be that strong, right? Or some version of whatever that is. So I think having a reality of like, what is the work that goes behind looking a certain way, acting a certain way, living a certain life, achieving certain things. Like there is a lot that goes behind that. Like if you see someone, oh, they've published 10 research papers. Well, that wasn't just by accident. Right. You know what I mean? Like that's amazing that there are a prolific researcher and publisher. There's a lot that goes into that. You know what I mean? Like, oh, not how that person wrote a book. Okay, you can do it, but like the reality of like, what is that gonna take? Right. So I think that in order to stop that research,  and so on. That could be, I mean, obviously it happened. Well, actually, I have seen a few videos where people literally photoshop, like, themselves onto stock photos, and we'll talk about going on a vacation, and you're like, how sad. How, like, I'm hurting for you as an individual, who did that, you know what I mean, but, different discussion. I think one thing I would like to kind of highlight in this process of comparison, by focusing on what everyone else has, it forces you to see what's missing from your life. Your life becomes empty because you're only reminded of what you don't have, and you're not celebrating what does exist in your life. What you put effort into is what matters to you, okay? So what you focus on is the reality of your life. So if you only see what's missing, you can't appreciate, and you'll never value the things that you do have. And this is for every aspect of your life, right? Like your health, your finances, your physical body, your emotional health, your relationships, your occupational health, whatever it is. If you're only focusing on what somebody else has, you only see what doesn't exist in your life, right? If I'm looking at somebody in the gym and I'm going like, well, I love their shoulders and their glutes, and you're not focusing on your arms or your legs or whatever it is, because all you're seeing is the fact that I don't have the same glute package or I don't have the same shoulders that they do. Sorry, I'm trying to keep this in relative terms. I love glute package. Glute package, is that a thing? No. No? But it's going to be a thing now. Look at that glute package. Look at that glute package. Look at that glute package. What the fuck? I definitely need to go to a show with you to learn the language. And be quiet. Just listen. Just listen. Just take notes. No speaking alone. Look at that glute package. They're like, get this guy out of here. Oh my God. I would definitely yell that. I would definitely yell that. If I ever go back on stage, you have to come to my show and say that. Okay. But you see the point that I'm making, right? So the act of comparison, and when you're only able to see in somebody else what they have, you never focus on what is good in your life. And so what I say is, you know, what you focus on and put your effort into becomes the reality. If everything I see in somebody else is what's missing from my life, my reality becomes very empty because I don't have what they have. And furthermore, I devalue and minimize the things that are actually in my life that are good. What people fail to recognize, especially in the social media world, is that oftentimes the people who are posting pictures and the things that you really like about them, there's deficiencies in their life that they're looking at other people going, I would give up my physique if I had the relationship. I would give up my relationship if I had the financial health or wealth or whatever it is that comes with it. And oftentimes we kind of fall into this trap. And so what I want people to recognize too is that comparison is a habit. Okay. And the problem becomes when you look at someone else and you see what you aren't focusing on in yourself, your actual needs or the desires that for our lives that fulfill us. Once you get that watch or you get the car or you get the vacation or you get the house, you're disappointed and not fulfilled because it was someone else's dream. It was an illusion basically of happiness. And that's what you're actually chasing. So if something is important to me and I have a large following and I make this accomplishment in my life because it was valuable to me and I post it, there's a bunch of people who are looking at this going like, I want what Rick has or I want what Lauren has. That was a goal that was for me and you're now chasing my dream. So if that was what was important to me, but you're chasing it in the image of what you think it will give you, when you get it, it doesn't actually mean anything to you. There's no value to it. And so you still feel empty. You get it. You'll only feel joy or enjoyment temporarily. And then you start to shift your focus to something else that you don't have, something else that's missing. Because now that you accomplish this, I've moved on, you've moved on. What else are you focusing on other than what you don't see existing in your life rather than looking back and being like, I appreciate this. This is where things like a gratitude journal comes in. Right? Where some people are like, my life is terrible every single day and you force them into being like, what are the good things in your life? And so the focus becomes what? What exists actually in your life versus what's just missing or what you perceive to be missing and stop undervaluing what actually exists. It's always like, this is the grasses greener on the other side theory. It's like, the grass is greener where you water it. And so that's kind of the mindset and the habit that we've developed with comparison. Yeah, there's so many things. And I think that people can look to others as inspiration or motivation or aspiration. Right? Like, oh my gosh, I like how this person lives in accordance with these values. That's aspirational to me. Or I like what this person set out to do or they kind of carved this path. Like, I would like to do something like that. But like you said, you have to put your own spin on it and not be a carbon copy of someone else because that's probably not going to work for you in your life. And even if it does, it's not going to be your own. So it is going to leave you empty. But I do think that again, that's kind of where that positive comparison, at least how I'm mentally compartmentalizing it. Like there is positive comparison in the sense of you can look at people as like inspirational or aspirational based on certain different qualities. But then you have to make it intrinsically your own. Otherwise, you're just going to look up and be like, okay, I have XYZ, but now I don't really know who I am or what I actually want to do next. And I think that, I don't know, do you feel like more people are recognizing this earlier? Or I think a lot of people, maybe, and maybe this is the bias that I have. But yeah, I don't think they're recognizing it earlier. I think social media is actually contributing to it earlier. I think it's becoming more of a problem rather than an awareness that people are addressing. And so I actually think it's getting worse. It's not getting better. They might be aware of it. Like you hear people all the time talk about the dangers of social media, blah, blah, blah. But they just discard it and they go right back on Instagram or Facebook or Tik Tok or whatever it is that they're looking at. And they fall back into this rabbit hole of like, my life isn't as good because I don't have this much money or this many followers or I don't live in Hawaii or I don't get to surf every day or whatever else it is. So let me give you some actionable steps that you guys can take that will hopefully start to create a little bit more of a healthy environment for you. Number one, get off social media. Take a break from it. Here's the thing. You've done it. I know some of your coaches have done it in the past. It's like social media is not going anywhere. And I think sometimes there's this fear of missing out. And it's like, okay, unless you truly have a large following and you're dependent on that for some form of income, like take a break from it. See what a couple of weeks away from social media does for you and recognize how all of a sudden these, I don't know, picture perfect lives that you've been looking at and feeling jealous over, it's like it forces you to pull focus on the reality that actually exists around you, where you live, what you're doing. So number one, get off social media. Number two, identify the people in your life who are negatively judging you. Right? There's a difference between being a supportive person and judging somebody. And if you're looking around on somebody, it's like, I don't understand why you're doing this and these kind of underhanded judgments and comments that just kind of keep you down. Look to create distance or boundaries around those relationships. Because what good comes from that other than self doubt and inadequacy and making it seem like, well, they're judging me. And so what I'm doing doesn't have any value. So maybe I should listen to them and go after their goals. Well, now I'm comparing myself to somebody else's expectations. I don't want to do that. I want to find my own voice in this space. So the next thing I would ask you to do is sit down and write out what goals are actually important to you. Right? What matters to you? Not what matters to Sabrina on Instagram or whoever. What doesn't matter to this person who's at this point in their career. What matters to you? What are the goals that are important to you? Next, ask yourself, can you recognize your own talents and gifts? What are they? Write those out. What are the qualities that you possess? Are you a great listener? Are you excellent at writing? Can you are you good at giving public speeches? Are you good at research? Are you good at calculating numbers or risk factors? Like, what are you good at? What talents do you have? And that kind of goes into, are you celebrating your uniqueness? Because what you appreciate in somebody else, right, you're looking at them because that's a deficiency within you. But if you were to post what makes you unique, if you were to celebrate what makes you unique, well, that's what inspires other people as well. And it's like, well, that's not undervaluing what makes me unique in what qualities I do have. It's actually the opposite. It's starting to value the things that I actually bring to the table and not just what's missing from my life. And then when you ask yourself, what goals do you want to achieve? This is where you can start to say, well, what skills does it actually take to accomplish this goal? Not what skills I don't have, but what skills does it take to reach this goal? Well, now I can start taking classes. I can start reading books. I can start learning new things, developing new skills to reach these goals. And the value of developing and learning skills as it relates to these goals and what are important to you increases the intrinsic value for yourself and feelings of self-worth because you're now finally growing in a way that has meaning and purpose to you, not to somebody else. You have to be willing to understand what is and recognize what is important to you and not someone else. And understand this too, that when you start learning new things, it's okay to feel like a fool. It's okay to feel like I don't have mastery of this, that this is awkward and weird as hell. And I don't know what I'm doing. And I feel really inadequate. I absolutely felt that way walking into like a real gym for the first time. And like here I am with my trainer, like learning how to do basic lifts that I never really knew before, the right way to do them. And so it's like, but eventually you get more competent with it. You build some skills. In order to learn and become proficient at something, you have to be willing to be the fool. You have to be willing to be embarrassed. You have to be willing to take chances and fail. And so I think that's kind of the value of taking these steps. So get off social media, avoid judgmental people. What goals are important to you? Recognize your talents and gifts, celebrate your uniqueness, and then ask yourself, what goals do you want to achieve and what skills are required to get there? And then once you know what skills are there, start learning those skills. And don't worry about comparing yourself to somebody else who's been doing that set of skills for 20 years or 10 years. Like they're going to be better at it. Let them be the newbie, embrace it, and then one day you won't be. And you'll be proficient and you'll really have skills that matter to you. Yeah, those are really great takeaways. And I think those are things that people can implement immediately. Some of those are going to take some reflection, but I find myself so many times with clients being like, all right, your homework this week is to take 20 minutes, sit down and, you know, work through whatever it might be, like not necessarily that, but something. And I think that just creating that space to physically just sit down, write things out, work through like a prompt or whatever it is, is so incredibly valuable because otherwise it's just going to swirl around in your head and you're going to be thinking about it, but you're not really going to have an answer for it. So spending actual, like calculated plans time to where you're like, this is what I'm dedicating my brain to for the next 30 minutes or whatever, whatever you have, 10 minutes, 30 minutes, two hours, you know, everybody has a different schedule, but you know that you're going into it to actually think on this problem and topic. And then you will be able to be so much more efficient and actually going after it because like you said, it's like there are actual things that we can do here. You can just sit around and think about comparison, but you can actually say, okay, let me break this down into like, what is actually unique about me? What are the next things that I need to be doing? So I think that was so helpful. So I hope you guys really enjoyed the show. If you want to reach out to Rick for consulting, I will put his email below. There's also a place to submit questions if you guys have any questions for us to learn more about one-on-one coaching, you can visit teamlocofit.com. And then for more on our app, you can visit readafinehealthyapp.com. We'll talk to you guys next week.

=== FILE: Episode 262： Leadership ｜ Interview with JP Dinnell [5py9XVRFkmE].txt ===

 welcome back to another episode of the Loco Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Cotland, and this week I'm joined by my friend, JP Dennell, I'm so excited that he's on the podcast. He's a former Navy SEAL and the chief training officer at Ashland Front, which is a leadership consultancy. I love that word consultancy. I love you guys use that. No, it's like my favorite thing of consultancy. So they're a badass, I would say the top leadership company. You guys have heard me talk about going to the muster, the leadership event. I talk to pretty much everybody that I meet about it. And so this is run by Ashland Front. So JP, thank you so much for coming on the show. I appreciate it. How have you been? Good, good, good, good. Today is like a million calls. So just I'm on that call train today. You know, you know, we're both, ah, Jenny Cathy over here. So give us a brief intro about yourself, the abbreviated version because you've had a crazy life with a lot of stories. Give everybody a little bit of background. Yeah. So this will be a good little testament to me, uh, shortening my intro. So I was born actually fun fact. We are almost birthday twins, not that anybody asked. Yep. He means nobody asked while we're recording just the two of us. So strange. Yeah, this is me. Welcome to our podcast. Yeah. I, uh, born and raised Sacramento, California actually grew up in the same house that my dad grew up in. Went to like the same elementary school, same high school, uh, which is cool. And then you get like some of the same teachers, which is kind of crazy. Yeah. A few of the teachers recognized the last name. Um, so, you know, I had a really good uprising. My, my parents, um, you know, we're very, still are, but we're very hard workers when we were young. You know, my dad did construction and cooking, um, mostly construction. He did cooking whenever he needed to fill in the gaps here and there for seasonal work or just when our family needed more money. You know, and it's, it's through my parents hard work that I really kind of started to understand and see and embody the the, you know, just the thought process that you can make excuses or you can make things happen, but you can't do both. And, you know, my parents, you know, they never made excuses. They always made things happen somehow for our family. You know, and grown up in the 80s and 90s with your parents doing construction, my mom teaching stepper, Robics on the side, which you can. At times it was, you know, financially tight, like for a lot of people, you know, and I know the last couple of years have been crazy for some people as well. So it's, it's crazy how everything comes in cycles. We could talk about that at another time, but I was just very thankful for the, just the childhood my parents provided us. You know, we, we are always doing something fun, either going camping or just going for a road trip. I mean, gas was like 99 cents a gallon back then in California, which is crazy, you know. So in Texas, it was probably like 10 cents a gallon or something like that. But it was just where I live now. And I just, you know, we would, you know, drive from Sacramento up to Lake Tahoe or down to San Francisco to the Bay Area. And, you know, we'd just do fun stuff. I was always very active. Our parents had us very active in sports. I mean, we were always doing multiple sports at a time. You know, my parents met in a gym. So that was kind of cool. So they had that like common bond and I, you know, I just loved playing sports. I, you know, ever since I was a little kid, I don't like to lose. I hate to lose. I hate losing more than I love winning. And you want to like, I experienced that this weekend at a jujitsu tournament. We'll talk about later, because there's some really good lessons that I learned from that from the leadership standpoint. But as I was reflecting on that, I also look back to when I was a kid and man, I, I hated losing. Like I hated losing. And my parents, and the reason why I'm telling you this is because my parents were able to help kind of like take that energy and that direction and use it the right way and like push me to do stuff. And okay, cool. You don't like losing. Well, you better go get your ass out there and work out in the gym or hey, you better go do the reps. And so we're always doing extra stuff because I'm not, I'm not really good at anything. I'm just, I'm a good, I'm good at working hard. I'll outwork most people. And that's where I bridge the gap on a lot of things. And so I'm very thankful for that example. My brother and my sister, two of my closest friends growing up, we're all very close in age, you know, growing up, my brother and I used to play Navy SEALs. So I wanted to be a Navy SEAL ever since I was a little boy. Fast forward to them in high school, graduating high school, my dad kind of challenges me like, what are you going to do when you get done with high school? And I really didn't have any idea. I just, I didn't have any direction. I thought it was going to be like a whitewater rafting guy and live on the river. That's what my best friend was doing. And in, in Northern California, like, that's pretty legitimate. Like that's a, that's an amazing thing to be able to do if you really think about it. You're up in the mountains. You're, you know, you're a single dude taking people whitewater rafting all the time. Like my buddy's life was awesome. And I was like, I want that life. My dad was like, yeah, maybe the military, you know, like, something else. And which is funny, because that buddy ended up joining the military after I did also because I was like, going to the Navy kind of like, inspired him. My little brother went in the Navy too. I had a lot of friends joined the military after I joined. I joined the Navy to become a Navy SEAL. So I got a contract to go try out. I left for boot camp September 5th, 2001. And 9 11 happened six days later when I was in boot camp. And there's a lot of crazy stuff that was going on, but it solidified the decision that I made like, Hey, I wanted to serve my country. And, you know, any service, I want to be very clear, any service to the military is awesome. And I hate when people are like, Hey, man, thank you for your service. And I say, Hey, thank you for yours. Well, like, Oh, I didn't do what you did. I hate that shit. It bothers me because it's like, you signed your name to serve your country. You took a sworn oath. And whatever you did is awesome. Because if you weren't doing those other jobs, I wouldn't have been able to do my job. You know, and you look at like what we did in SEAL teams, if we didn't have our support personnel, zero chance we go out and do the missions that we do. And so I just drive me crazy when people are like, they try to compare their service to others. And that's another thing for all like the high speed operators out there, don't be a dick, you know, like don't like to other people and compare your service to theirs, like yours is so much better. And I wish I didn't cost because I hate I'm trying not to. I want people from my church to listen to these podcasts and stuff. But at the end of the day, like, don't be a jerk, right. And that's one thing that bothers me. So I started off on a tangent with us, Lauren and JP talking away. What we do, but that's, you know, my childhood was really good. And I'm glad that I have my parents that pushed me very athletic. I'm thankful for that. And, you know, being in ABCL was a dream of mine. And I was able to fulfill a dream because, you know, went through boot camp, went to Bud's, made it through training. I didn't quit. I started with class 242. There's 200, I believe 222 guys on day one. And I was one of 28 of the originals that graduated. So it's pretty crazy, you know, high attrition rate, a lot of guys that decided they don't want to be there, which is fine. It just means that that's not what they wanted to do with their life. And, you know, I loved what I did in the military. Working for Jocko was incredible. Obviously changed the trajectory of my life. You know, great leaders like Leif Babin, Seth Stone, you know, other guys that can't really say their names because they're still in or they got out and they're not really, you know, wanting to be in the spotlight for anything. But guys that really helped me when I was a young, literally a kid, 18, 19 years old. I was 19 years old when I was checking in the SEAL teams, like 20 years old when I was going through the trial. It was crazy to think about. Yeah, I was 20. And, you know, like these guys helped me become a young man in a very dynamic environment that most young people don't do well in because they're immature. And it's just, that's not, it's not the world that we need them operating in anyway. So I had to, I had to grow up real quick. Even though I look back and I think it's some of the stuff I did, I'm like, oh, man, I was a jackass sometimes. But I guess we all, yeah, we all were. And it's just so, it's so crazy to think that they had such a profound impact on you at that point in your life. And then now you guys still work together in a completely different capacity, but similar, but very different. Still helping so many people just in a different way. So it's just, it really does come full circle, which I think is one of the coolest things like from that whole story, you know, that you guys worked together that way. And then, you know, you came back. So, so you're in the military, you know, you're serving and then what happens kind of after, I guess we can get into that after, or do you want to do that now? We can, we can do, we can do whatever. You know, my time in the military was awesome. I deployed to Iraq twice, Afghanistan once. So three combat deployments, which is not a lot compared to some of my buddies that, you know, have five, six, seven, 10, 11 combat deployments, which is crazy. But the time that I spent overseas, I learned a lot. I'm thankful for that. I wish I would have had more deployments for sure. I liked deploying overseas. I like combat. I really enjoyed that type of lifestyle. And it was also for the camaraderie, for the guys that I was with, like I really enjoyed being around those guys. I believed in the mission. I believed in what we were doing. All the, all the political BS aside, like I was like, oh, what were you doing? I don't care. Like I know what I did. And when you know that you helped women and children get education and access to education, who's going to tell me that wasn't worth it? That's worth 100%. You know, when we deployed to Ramadi in 2006, as tasking a bruiser, there was four to 5,000 enemy fighters in that area. Like that's insane. Yeah, they had complete control over that city. They were flying their flag over the Capitol building. And I know you've heard a lot of this at the Musters, but for those that haven't heard it, and I just give a little clip notes of Ramadi, I mean, you know, some, a lot of people said it was unwinnable. You know, the unit that we showed up that was at the tail end of their deployment, they'd been there for 14 months of straight combat, like combat every single day for 14 months. And they still only controlled a third of the city. They had over 300 wounded, 94 killed in action. I mean, it was, it was absolutely insane. And we came in and then a new army unit came in with some new Marines that had this new strategy and Jocko, Leif and Seth is like, Hey, what can we do to help you guys? Which was cool because our leadership realized like, Hey, there's only like 40 of us, there's 5,600 of them, like we're going to support them. And, you know, really subordinating their ego. And that's when I, you know, at a young age, I turned 23 right before we deployed to Ramadi. So I was still very young. I was our lead sniper, our point man lead machine gunner, they put me in a position of leadership. So I was our leading petty officer in charge of a group of guys at a very young age. And what I saw from my leadership was humility of them going to these other units and saying, Hey, here's what we can do. Here's our capabilities. What do you want from us? How can we help you guys? Hey, what, what type of missions are you guys doing? Oh, we can help there. We can help there. We can help there instead of like the typical special forces, Navy Seal, Green Beret, Army Ranger, I'm better than you. You're going to support me BS mindset. Our leadership was like, Hey, can we help you guys? Cool. Oh, this is what we can do. And it was really cool. And that attitude was contagious. And that's why I'm sharing this is that's good leadership. And that attitude from our leadership came all the way down. Now, almost everybody bought into it. There's always going to be a few that are like, we shouldn't be doing these missions, because it wasn't the typical Navy Seal mission that we're doing. But that's okay. What are you going to do? Sit on the sidelines and be like, Oh, cool. Hey, we're not going to go do that. No, I want to go hunt the enemy down. And that's what we started doing. And it was really cool being able to help support them. And, you know, for me, as a young, as a young individual in a leadership position, being able to see my leadership subordinate their ego and say, Hey, what can we do to help? And then explaining to us, Hey, guys, this is what we're doing. This is why we need to help. How do you want to do it? So now they're just driving ownership. I'm 23 years old. And they're like, Hey, JP, how do you want to go support? I'm like, Let me get back to you with the plan. And now I'm coming up with a plan. And I have 100% ownership and I'm doing the same thing with the guys. And I'm like, Hey, guys, this is what we're doing. Hey, what do you think we should be doing? And they're like, this, this, okay, cool. Yeah, let's do that together. And now we all are bought in. And it was really cool to be able to see that in in Ramadi. And that's where the principles that we teach now at National Front were driven from. We came back from that appointment, which by the way, again, everyone's was saying it was unwinnable. It was pure chaos. And there were no forms of education for women and children, because the enemy fighters had complete control. And I know that's crazy. Like, we live in America, or hopefully people in different countries are listening to this, and you probably have equal opportunities for education for women and children. Now there are still some places in the world, where that's just not the case, which is crazy to me. It furiates me. And that was a reality there. And I want to say there's about 15 months after we left Ramadi, the first all girls school was established. And it's just, I know, I love it. You know, I'm so bad at it of twin daughters. And I'm like, dude, that's so amazing. Like these little girls were able to have education. And you can't take that away from them. That's what's cool. I know things have shifted overseas again. But think about that from 2006 until what last year, 15 years of education, you're not taking that back. You're that's changing generations, which is awesome. So to know that we had a small piece of that, well worth it. And, you know, we helped do a lot of other really cool stuff. Unfortunately, there is a heavy cost to that, you know, we lost guys, and there's a lot of guys that were wounded and killed them about like, almost 500 guys were wounded. 98 were killed in action, while the 11 a was D was there. So it was it was crazy, you know, we lost guys in our task unit, a lot of guys were wounded in our task unit. But we had a lot of lessons that we learned. And when we came back and jocotube over training, we implemented all those lessons to better prepare our guys for combat. And the trajectory of the training on the West Coast drastically shifted and changed, which was really cool. And then guys were able to go overseas and do some awesome stuff. I deployed to Afghanistan a few years later, and it was cool to be able to, you know, continue to learn and see different things. And then, you know, I decided that my time in the Navy was done. It just, you know, I just needed, I needed to close that door, because I was going back and forth. And I wasn't, I needed to fully commit to getting out and try to make a marriage work and be there for Amanda and the kids. And at the time, when I came in the picture, Aiden was only four years old, Amanda was pregnant with twins. And I'm like, I got to get out, you know, and for me, it was the right decision. And for some guys, like they stayed in, in that same type of situation. And it was able to work for them. And that's cool. For me, just, you know, Amanda needed to be in Mississippi. She couldn't leave Mississippi, or she didn't want to leave Mississippi, right? And, and I had to respect that. And it was the right decision. So I got out and moved to Mississippi. So, you know, you're born and raised in Sacramento, California. You have the Sierra Nevada's, the Foothills, you know, my grandparents property, which is five acres up in the mountains, going to the ocean all the time, stationed in San Diego for almost 12 years. You know, like you have the canyons, the mountains that I'm racing, so beautiful. It's just gorgeous, right? And then you moved to North Mississippi near Memphis, Tennessee. Gorgeous. I've never, I've never been so actually I'm not going to say anything because I don't know what Mississippi has in front of me. So I can't call that. I'll just, I'll just say this. It's not San Diego? No, it was a rough transition. And there's a rough transition for a lot of different things, you know, it's a small town. I don't know anybody. Actually, it's funny. That's not accurate. So I redact that statement is as I, when I got out and I lived there, I realized that Amanda and I actually had like a handful of common friends and it was from people that I would just meet being out there for work all the time. You know, you and I are the same, social butterflies. And it was funny, like I remember I was getting a new phone, Amanda broke her phone, so I got a new phone, gave her my old phone, and she's like syncing up all the contacts. And there's a lot of like duplicate contacts. And it was mined where she'd go to call her buddy and it would be his name, Jonathan, or it was mine, which was his first and last name and the notes of where I met him and what I knew about him and everything in there. And so it was like, we had all these common friends, male and female, which was just, it was comical, you know, just, And I need to start doing that, putting notes with people like, because sometimes you'll be like, Oh, no, yeah, you have on an iPhone, you'll have the first name, last name, and then underneath it, that's usually where I put the detailed notes. For podcast purposes, your nickname for a while will be redacted. For podcast purposes in case your church runs loose. And yeah, we have an interesting meeting. Let's just say it was a very, very me introduction. It was hilarious. But for a while, like that's what was the notes was in there. So and so met at first form conference, Jesus Peaker, right? And I was just like, you know, I remember you spoke before I spoke and cool, awesome. And, you know, we became like really good friends. And then you and man, it became really good friends. And like, we've been really close friends since. And so it's just funny, like, recently, I was like, I could probably change that. Like, I don't need that description to remember who I'm like trying to reach out to. But yeah, so, you know, small time is Sippy, which I met some really good friends right away, that I'm still like close friends with the day one of the guys helps me on the FTX is his name is Joe Pass. He's an awesome dude. He's a stud. He's actually going into the military now, which is cool. He's one of my MMA coaches, you know, so I had these guys like Zach Underwood, Jake Underwood, Andy Europe, Teddy Holder, Joe Pass that were my coaches for MMA. But then they also knew some of my former teammates, Aaron Vaughn, who had been killed on the helicopter crash, they Zach and Jake knew him from the school. And it was in a small town union tenant, Union City, Tennessee, right? And so it's just like a lot of like crazy, crazy things. And I just, you know, that was really cool. I think it was good for me. But then I was like now doing sale, you know, it was good and bad. The small town was cool, because that kind of forced me to slow down some stuff in my life, because I'd never been in a small town. I'd never operated in that realm before. And then, you know, then you're doing sales at a financial company and in the Memphis, Tennessee area. So I'm like, putting on suit and tie or dress clothes every day, sitting in traffic to go to an office, to sit in a cubicle, to make cold calls, to go on sales trips, to come back. Man, it was rough. Now, it wasn't bad. Let me, let me be very clear. It wasn't bad. Like, I was learning a lot. I enjoyed what I was able to do. I learned a lot about business, which was really cool. I learned a lot of good stuff and bad stuff about people and business. And I was like, oh, there's some shady mofos out there. That's crazy to me. I didn't, I was so naive. You know, I grew up, you know, very strong, strict Christian household, which I'm thankful for, because I would have been in prison, if not, like 100% prison or dead, had I not had that guidance from my parents and being in church and grandmothers and grandparents and aunts and uncles, we're all very close growing up, like very, very close family. And church every Sunday, Sunday nights, Wednesday nights, all that stuff, did Christian Boy Scouts. Like, it was, it was very good for me. But I was also so naive, because then you go into the military and then you only see the military. So I have that uprising, only military. And I get out and I'm like, Oh, people like just make up fake invoices to get funded and you can't persecute them. Yeah, we worked at a financial company where we bought receivables that had a delay to pay to advance money. So let's say you have a trucking company, you know, Lawrence trucking company, and you go deliver a load to Walmart, they're going to pay you $1,000, you have to wait 60 to 75 days to get paid, you give me that invoice, it's called factoring. And I'm like, cool, I'll give you $900 today, I'll wait to get paid. Once I get the other hundred, once I get the $1,000, I'm going to give you, depending on the volume, I'll give you of that $100 left, I'm going to give you 70 and I'm going to keep 30 for for that. And you're like, okay, that's fair, right, you're getting money right now, boom, boom, boom. So you'd advance 90 to 95%. We would keep that reserve, we'd, we'd get paid, whatever the reserve was, we'd give back to minus our fee. So it helps a small company grow. So for me, it made sense. I was like, Oh, cool, this is a, this is a good thing. It's a good company. It makes a lot of sense. But it was, it was crazy to me to see the illegal stuff that companies were doing, and how just common that was. And I'm like, and then I saw like the internal shadiness within the company of people just like backstabbing each other and like saying one thing and one, and I'm like, dude, this is crazy. It wasn't the whole company. It was just a few, you'd see that a little bit. And I'm like, and I remember that. But that shit's not going to fly like, you know, on a field team or or any, anything like that, you know, like you're just not going to do that. You're going to, yeah, it's human nature, but that gets squashed. And it's not like this dynamic of like clickiness and backstabbing like that's not going to work. Yeah, you might have some drama, but you're not backstabbing guys in the field teams. That that shouldn't happen. You know, and so it was just, oh my gosh, I'm like, this is crazy. People are crazy. And, you know, I was like, Oh, you can't, you can't, you can't do a deal over a handshake anymore. Because there's a few times I did that with some other guys like handshake deal, like for some business consulting that I was doing. And then nope, turn out, you know, I got screwed for thousands and thousands of dollars. I mean, it was, it was kind of crazy. And I learned a lot. The sales guys I worked with were great. Some of the owners were awesome. They really taught me a lot and really mentored me, which I'm forever grateful to those guys and gals for that for sure. And then I decided like, Hey, I need to transition. I need to do something that's fulfilling to me. I started doing my own consulting, you know, filling in the gaps wherever I could. I was an extra on Transformers 5. I was, I was playing in ABCL. So, you know, it was a big stretch. Yeah. And so that was cool. Like, to be able to do that. I was teaching shooting. I was citing in people's hunting rifles to make extra money wherever I could. And then things financially started getting like really, really, really tight. And that's when I was like, just doing anything and everything I could. I started working at Marcus Pizza to deliver pizzas. One of my good buddies opened a place up and, you know, he needed drivers. He needed a good, good people that were going to actually show up. I mean, at the time I'm in my mid 30s, I have a family and I have a nice truck. Of course, I'm going to show up to work, you know, like I was doing construction. I mean, I was doing everything. I was working for my landlord to rebuild his fences for different rental properties to like, Hey, if I do these jobs, will you offset my rent? He'd be like, Yeah, you do these jobs all by the materials, you do the work. I'll take three months off your rent. I'm like, done, like, cool. I mean, I was straight hustling anything and everything I could. I was selling t shirts at fight that MMA fight shows, just everything, everything. And then the opportunity came to see what Jacqueline Leif were doing. And that was a complete God send thing. Seth knew that I, you know, was struggling with some stuff. I really wanted to get back into the military. Regular Navy, I was having some issues getting back into the SEAL teams. So there's a little bit of issue there. Because a regular Navy said I had too many tattoos and too many combat related injuries. Well, I had all these tattoos while I was in an issue. And oh, the combat related injuries, where the hell do you think I got those from? Oh, when I was in combat in the Navy, I was so pissed off. And, you know, but that you talk about the bureaucracy of a big organization. It was so stupid. And so Seth knew I was struggling with that. Jocko was trying to help me out. And then that's when Jocko was like, now I was reaching out to Jocko about once a month and say, Hey, I need some, you know, you know, is there anything I can do to help you? Is there any, you know, I know the mentor doesn't seek out the mentee. Is there anything you need? Can I help support? I can use sales. I do whatever you guys need me to do. And, you know, finally came, he's like, Hey, we have this event called the muster. This is the first one, right? We have this event in San Diego. Come check it out. You know, just come check it out and see what we have going on. I'm like, Okay, cool. So I go, I check it out. And I meet Jamie Cochran, who is helping out on the operation side. You know, I hadn't seen Leif for a while. So it was great seeing him. Actually, last time I saw Leif was when Chris Kyle had been murdered. And I was at Chris Kyle's funeral was the last time I saw a life. And so that was 2013. This is now 2016. So it had been a while, you know, and I, it was awesome when I saw what Jocko and Leif had created. Now I had already read Extreme ownership. So I read the book and I was like, Oh, this is awesome. I'm all in. When I saw the event, I was like, Holy crap, this is crazy. Different. This is yes. Yep. You're right. I was like, This is different. There's nothing like this. I was a part of this, you know, and so when you realize like, wow, I helped a little bit to do some of this. It was, it was pretty cool. And then I was like, I want to be a part of this at a higher level, if possible. So then Jocko had me on his podcast, then he mentioned about me coming on board the team. And you know, it was really cool because afterwards he told me, he's like, Hey, I don't, I don't know what this will call. He's like, you might have one event over the next year, or you might have 50. We're not sure. He's like, to be honest, he's like, nobody's calling, requesting JP to know. And I'm like, I don't know that. But he goes, Leif and I are having to turn down gigs since we're too busy. He goes, and we're going to increase our price. And that there'll be people for you as long as you're okay with that. I'm like, I'm cool with being the second option. Like, thank you for the opportunity. And I took it very serious. Like I took it as like, I'm the first person that they're bringing on board. So I took it as if I'd been there since day one. And I was just, just obsessed with making sure that my brief and all my stuff was valid in. I mean, when you say, when people are like, Oh, I went all in, I can honestly say I went all in with this. And I know a lot of people use that term and they don't really know what it means. And this is something like, I mean, Amanda can can test to this in addition to the other work and all the other stuff I was doing to try to make ends meet, I was still rehearsing my one hour keynote six to eight hours a day. Like that's no, that is no exaggeration. Six to eight hours a day of rehearsing and tweaking and listening to myself, doing it in front of a mirror, watching my body  denominuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleuleule and jockel and leif. I had everything set up. I was like a man and the kids left the house. I had like boxes stacked up on this little TV tray because we lived at the time in a little two house in a little two bedroom house in Mississippi. All three kids were in one room. We had no kitchen because that was the office set up. It was tight. So we had TV trays that we ate dinner off of because we didn't have a kitchen table to sit as a family. I remember I had this TV tray set up with boxes set up on it and my laptop so that it was head level so that I could be standing up when I gave the presentation like I would and I got done with it and it was like an hour presentation and I hit right at an hour. I mean it was like boom I had everything and then we did some mock Q&A and it was cool. I want to make sure I say this and my intent comes off correctly. But it was it was humbling when leif goes I can we can we can tell you put a lot of time into this. He goes you did a really good job. And for you know and for me to like to hear that I was like it's like that's all I wanted. Like I just wanted them to be like hey you've put in the work good job. Let's make some tweaks though because we can always make things better as you and I have talked plenty of times about in all aspects of life and it was really cool to be able to like have that confirmation of like okay I did the right thing and it goes back to like when I was a kid. If you put in the time and you work and you work and you work and you work you'll get where you need to be. Most people aren't willing to put in that much work and you know think like this was for weeks and weeks and weeks I was doing these rehearsals like I was only able to go see leif do a gig and jocco do a gig. No I'm sorry I did the monster I went and saw jocco do a half day a full day workshop for a fire department in LA. I saw leif do a keynote with q&a in in Fort Worth Texas and then jocco do a keynote with a little sidebar q&a session with leaders in Nashville. And so those were the three things I saw and so I was doing all my rehearsals and those were the three things I saw and then I did my video rehearsal and then I went and did my first solo gig on December 14th and 2016 keynote with q&a by myself solo. And it was just cool to be able to do that prep and I mean that was you know over six years ago just over six years ago and now you know as we grew you know giving keynotes and full day workshops and half day workshops and you know dave burk came on board shortly there after me and you know we've just been growing out this company jocco leif dave jamie and myself jamie is now our chief operations officer she's one of our leadership instructors you know oh jamie's phenomenal and dave burk I mean he's just dave burk he's yeah he's just an amazing being right and and for me to be able to be a part of that executive leadership team is just incredible you know we started building out all of our field training exercises which were very impactful very you know jocco leif say it's the most impactful form of training that we have because it's all hands-on stress induced scenario based leadership training and it's just it's incredible and so grew that and then you know part of what we do is we teach people how to build teams and lead well we do what we teach and we've been able to build out teams and you know kody gandy came on board and he's been helping build out all the ftx's and now he's I got promoted he got promoted I got promoted he got promoted again and so like now he's the director of experiential leadership training and now I'm our chief training officer so the ftx is underneath me all of our first responder geared so the role calls which is specifically for first responders are under me the council the battlefield review and instructor development and training facilities you know and it's just like it's crazy right it's just crazy to be able to have that opportunity so I'm very thankful for where I was and where I'm at because I mean there was one time I mean I know you know this I didn't get into the details because I don't think that's really the purpose of this podcast but just for people listening like hey if you're going through some hard times tough times tight times you just got to keep working and you got to be got to be creative with what you're doing and you can't just get sucked into like oh I can only do this I can only do this I can only do this because if I would have believed those lies I wouldn't have been able to get out of that hole that I was in I mean there was one time I mean I had one time like a check I was giving from a guy that owed me a lot of money to balance and it put us negative $2,700 like you don't have you don't have any grace like when you're negative you don't have like oh let me pull from savings let me use our credit card credit card for maxed out we had zero in savings and now we're $2,700 negative what do you do you can't do anything literally you cannot do anything and so I've been there and then I've been to where it's like cool let's check oh we have 17 cents in our account check all right well that'll at least my my card will swipe with the gas station with 17 cents in there because they don't know how much you're taking out so I can fill up our vehicle and put the account negative but at least we'll have gas we'll go do I mean that's what we were doing for a while using gift cards to eat for the family going over to Amanda's parents which are a huge blessing you know and them like cooking and letting us eat there with them and then us taking the leftovers home so we can eat them the next day and it's just I've been there you know I've been there and six years ago I was delivering pizzas to help make ends meet and now it's just completely different and I know not everyone's going to have the opportunity that I have and I I know my opportunity is unique and very thankful for it but you don't have to stay where you're at you can put in the work you know and if you're willing to put in the work and that's the thing I've talked to Dr. Laif and I'm always like you know I'm super thankful and Laif and I were just talking this Monday I was down in outside Austin area where he's at and our headquarters is and he goes JP he goes you took the ball and ran with it though he goes you took action he goes nothing was given to you you know we gave him an opportunity but nothing was given to you and he's come on I've talked about this a few times and Jocelyn has as well and so I mean that's the other thing is like if you have opportunities in front of you go if you don't go find them go make them go develop because they're they're out there 100% and I know you've seen this in your business and everything that you do I mean nothing's coming to you you've got to go out there and work for it you got to create it you got to develop it you have to maintain it you have to duplicate it you have to do all these things and it's hard but that's such a good point like to really hone in on like most things aren't just going to show up for you right I mean you might get that chance every once in a while right where something you just kind of naturally fall into it or whatever it might be but yeah it's even like going to things right oh my god that's so that's so cool you got to go there and it's like I paid to be there I flew there I sacrificed my time you know like like it wasn't like I said no to certain things so I could say yes to this and I went out there and I did this and it can be as small as like even like your daily interaction I think a lot of times we think it has to be these like huge robust things like I'm going to take out a loan go back to school which if you want to do that like absolutely like I'm I'm 1000% for that but it can make sure make sure it's for something that you can use though like my sister become a doctor that that was a good investment right that made sense but like even in small interactions like on a day-to-day basis like you can get more out of everything that you're doing by interacting with people having good conversation reflecting on things learning good things and bad things like you were talking about that job in Memphis like there was a lot of good things you took from that but you also took a lot of bad things and that's such a huge thing like a lot of times we only look at these negative scenarios or situations as this was just a negative but what did I learn from this I didn't like how this person said that I didn't like how this operate I don't like this body language like there are so many things that we can take just on a daily basis and like those things are not going to come to you like you have to be the person who goes after them you have to be the person who sits and reflects and thinks on things and it is so crucial doesn't matter who you are you know and like you said there's going to be different opportunities presented to people but you're going to have to honestly make most of them reach out to that person go to that event talk to that stranger like take five minutes to reflect on something that was like a bad conversation like I mean I'm so guilty of this for so much money on whatever you shove it you just shove it down forever then you're like I won't be able to and then it's like who blows up and you're like all right well probably should have I could have avoided this by simply taking 10 minutes to reflect on that you know and those are you know a lot of those things you make yeah and you know from the training that you've been a part of and like what we do at the FTX is is that's a debrief right and so you need to do these like internal debriefs for yourself each day of like okay hey what was good what was bad what lessons did I learn from that and you need to be doing them with your team as well and what you're talking about is doing a debrief you're doing an assessment of the situation that you're in because just because I was given that opportunity with jocke-laif didn't mean I was going to be able to get to where I'm at right now I actually had to put in the work I had to take those opportunities like you were just saying I had to have the conversations I had to do all those things that you were just saying and one of the things that I I guess I just naturally do because of what we did the SEAL teams is I'm constantly excuse me assessing and evaluating okay how was that conversation how was that meeting how was this training you know always debriefing debriefing debriefing so that we can pull the good pull the bad one of the major lessons learned what do we need to tweak and you know you just go from there yeah and I think that that's one of the big misconceptions too about leadership in general right people hear leadership or even make here maybe the echelon front message or they listen to some of jocke-laif's podcasts whatever it might be and they think oh that's really cool but like I'm not in the military you know or that's not me I'm not a CEO you know like this doesn't matter to me this doesn't affect me but it's like no all of these things like leadership is the absolute crux even if it's just for you yep like and that's why it is one of the absolute hardest things like it is not something I mean some people you know would be more natural born leaders in some instances but I would even say people who maybe have some of those proclivities to be a leader there is still so much reflection and work that needs to go into just leadership in general and even if it is just leading yourself but you're leading yourself you're if you are leading a team at work you know what I mean if you are leading your family your community like just how like everything is about leadership but even if you only want to think about it in terms of yourself that is still a really crucial part because if you don't have that like internal dialogue and not like a sense of direction you know how easy it is to just kind of fall off the proverbial cliff of like yep I'm I'm not doing anything I'm doing bad things nothing just nothing I'm doing bad stuff yeah that's one of the yeah geez that's one of the barriers to extreme ownership is this isn't for me my problems are unique I wasn't in combat I didn't the principles of leadership are universal extreme ownership is universal extreme ownership is it's just doing the right thing and and that's the the problem that a lot of people have is their ego right their ego gets in the way and they play the victim card and it's just it's unfortunate but it's um it it's one of the things where if if you're not willing to humble yourself and look at the stuff with an with an open mind you're not going to have any progression anyways it doesn't matter who you are what you do if you can't humble yourself if you're not willing to look at stuff with an open mind you will not progress in life you're not going to and you know people have to be willing to do the hard things and do the things that make them uncomfortable and and be willing to like look at themselves and do it like you're saying those honest self assessments and be like okay I'm not doing well here I'm not doing well here I'm doing good here and then figure out what you need to do moving forward but it is it is comical that the amount of people that have some resistance to what we do at national in front because we're just like oh it's just they're military they're all a bunch of robots they just you know blah blah blah blah you're like uh no one have you have you never met anybody in the military because like this is not even close like even like the high level performance guys they're not robots they're they're just disciplined and you look at people that are successful high level CEOs all the way down to low level employees that are very good at what they do it's discipline discipline is what is that that trait that makes people successful and doing and have the ability to bring things to that next level and I just it's it's frustrating that we still are trying to figure out how to like break down that barrier barrier of that misconception um because I hate that it holds people back from um actually listening to the principles and applying the principles that you and I both know firsthand like if you apply these principles they're going to change your life for the better yeah it's just going to make and they're not it's not and these aren't principles that we made up it's not like we invented these things these have been around since the read the bible they're in there right it's like in the beginning of time they're in there uh read any you know uh anything from in history it's there it's just framed a little bit different because we had a different outlook and here's the thing that we try to reiterate if we could use these principles in the most chaotic place of the world the most dangerous city in the world where people are saying it's unwinnable if we could apply these principles and when I say we not tasking a bruiser but we as Americans right it's what the soldiers and Marines and seals we're doing together if we can do that why can't you do it in your job why can't you do it in your business that you're trying to start why can't you do it in your marriage or your family oh it's because you're lazy and you're lacking discipline that's all it is and it's just these things will give you that freedom yeah and so if you were to say when someone needs to maybe implement something like okay let's break this down okay I understand now I need some more leadership in my life like where would be a place that someone could start I guess presuming we're just going to focus on them as the individuals first of all yeah so I mean for me for what I do and who I'm working with I would say go read extreme ownership you know go buy extreme ownership you can't afford to buy extreme ownership download jocos podcast and start listening to jocos podcast it's free um if you really want to figure in maybe like all those podcasts are really long I agree they are um I'm still getting caught up on some full disclosure sorry jocos um they're long as hell but we love them yeah they are but they're really good and if you listen to them at one and a half to double speed it's good to go you're get used to it my brain cannot I don't not know how people do that oh my god that bothers me uh you're you're actually your brain is able to reprogram itself I promise I listen to podcasts at one and a half speed it sounds normal but it's only podcast and it knows the difference between podcasts and music yeah music is normal podcast boom if if I if let's say let's say you and I are driving the car together and you're like whoa this is way too fast I bring it down to regular speed I'm like oh my god jocos had a stroke what's wrong with him because like my brain is used to him and everybody else speaking at one and a half speed so the way I listen to it it sounds like he's talking like this I remember the first time I remember the first time it was a new podcast that he had it was at regular speed and when it started off I got really concerned I'm like did he have a stroke like what's wrong with him like I thought something yeah I'm like oh my god the godfather's going down and so I uh no I just but podcast needs to it and then I can listen to him at double speed and it's now good to go but anyways yeah if you can't cool you can your brain gets used to I promise just start at one in a quarter and then one and a half and you'll be good but so to answer your question jocos podcast it's free if you want to find if you want to find some in there that are like specific for business within the jocco podcast platform there's podcasts that he does with Dave called the debrief and those are specific to business so it's Dave Burke and jocco willing talking about companies that we've worked with now we redact names we change the we change it to where you literally have no idea who we're talking about but we keep the principles and the solutions pure and those are about 45 minutes they're amazing I tell every like newer person that's working with us hey you start listening to the debrief podcast those are the ones you have to listen to I mean they're absolutely amazing so start there start listening more joccos podcast you know maybe for once a week you don't go buy a cup of coffee and you save that money and six weeks you can buy a cheap ownership I mean I'm not being a smart ass I'm just saying like if you can't afford it maybe you just change something small maybe it's christmas coming up so you ask hey could you buy me extreme ownership dichotomy of leadership and leadership strategy and tactics if you have those three books and I have them right here and you can I mean you can see how worn out they are I mean I use this is it's this book is incredible I mean and then you know extreme ownership and dichotomy of leadership I mean books are they're very valuable I mean minor filled with underlines and highlights and yeah everything else like this but I mean these books are incredible I mean you just look at like the contents and you know like they have like foundations of where he got all this stuff core tenants you know one like being capable to and ask for help that's hard for a lot of people right trust in relationship I feel attacked you're like you looked away I was like Lauren I'm not attacking you right now you're gonna be okay I feel attacked building trust in relationships up up the chain of command down the chain of command trust and decentralized command earning influence and respect taking extreme ownership of everything like taking preemptive ownership of what that means taking ownership when you're being blamed you know leading from the rear don't overreact I don't care everyone is the same but everyone is different let nature work isolation as a leader I mean that's just literally half a page of all these things that he has in here and it's just maneuvers using leadership to teach and build fixing a negative attitude teaching humility building or rebuilding confidence building high level team players stress relief when the boss wants all the credit what do you do how do you implement punishment I mean it's just anything you know if anybody can just pick up one have it like please go buy a few books that's extremely much just start reading extreme ownership is probably one of my top like three recommended books people like they know hey what book everybody already knows that's going to be on there and it's because of how impactful it is and there is the story and then the practicality and it's really easy to understand you know it's not written in a way that is over your head for any reason you know it's not really you know and it's you can apply these things immediately and it's been really fun but like you know I work with clients and a lot of my clients have other positions that are you know whether they are in school like my one client who read the book she's like hey you recommended to me and I she's she's doing her MD and PhD at the same time and and she also runs the research lab so she basically was like I use the principles of this book to help coordinate like the lab and it's like that's just so like hearing that kind of feedback it's just so that's everything you know what I mean I mean it's like okay that one person can then impact other people so like being able to read just anything and again when you take when you read books kind of like taking stuff you you take good things you take things that are like it's whatever you know and then oh I really love this part but that allows you to reflect and then dive more into other books and other theories and if you can do that and then take some type of time to debrief right yourself that's why I've been so big on journaling this year like journaling is one of the biggest things that I've added for myself this year and it is absolutely like so critical and I don't get it done every day you know but there are certain days where I do it you know more than others or certain weeks rather than I do it more than others and just having it has been one of the best things especially for people like us who have so much like I have 8,000 things in my head at all times that are all competing a lot of times it's just crazy shit going on in there but like you know it is just so so useful to get that out and I feel like I'm I'm getting better at communicating also just because of writing thoughts more and becoming more articulate in that way yes that's actually one of the things Jaco was saying because I was I was talking with him about I don't remember the specific conversation that prompted it but somehow we got down the road to like just being a better speaker and being more articulate and he said start writing every day I was like okay yeah but yeah I don't journal like you're talking about I need to but I type like I just I write I type I just been capturing stories that I remember from my time in the military and people are you writing a book like no I'm not writing a book just stop asking that stupid question but it helps me just oh I have a thought come in I just start typing yeah I'll do it on flights well because one of the guys was sitting next to me and I was on a flight and I was just typing and I'm not trying to hide my screen it looks over he's like bro you you write your book and I'm like I am not writing a book you got all fired up like I was I know I was like bro dude I'm not like nobody wants that book I'm not writing it I think it'd be a great book but we just write like a fever dream book of like random thoughts and like sprinkle in some leadership Jaco's like we are specifically not publishing this book because these people are after these two are not allowed to have a book in our publishing company oh that would be that'd be crazy but no writing yeah I would say that you know creating discipline is going to come from habit but there has to be certain behaviors in place it's not enough to say I want to have more discipline you know like everybody wants to have like nobody's like I want to have less ownership and less discipline of my life I mean some people say that but most people want more of that but it's like how do they actually accomplish that and the behaviors that we have every single day are what create our habits so reading writing are absolutely essential what are and this is another I think misconception of people who you know see maybe your eyes as a message or just you in particular you know oh yeah you know I used to be in the military or whatever like oh you're a robot you're just machine like everything's easy for you because you know you were so dialed in and it's like that's very incorrect also the reason that you're operating this way is because of those habits that have turned into behaviors so what are some of the things outside of you know obviously reading and writing that really ground you whether it's physical mental failing like whatever it is like what are some things that just kind of keep you in check because there's always that line of like okay like it's not just like we said it's not just like okay I'm not doing good things right now it's like I could be doing fast oh for sure whereas what are those things that keep you in check you know I would say like current day my faith has been big like just really trying to get that squared away and just just more just dialed in with my focus with my relationship with God you know because I grew up in church like I told you like and it was good and you know and I know some people that grew up in church have church hurt like that's a real thing right just where like you know the like the spirit of religion is a bad it's a bad thing it's like a lot of people have these bad you know experiences or just you know the church is not a relationship with God let's be clear on that right now and and so I'm thankful that I I never experienced that there was never any issues with the church growing up I never saw like anything that I was like oh that's really what you know it was never like that it was always a really good environment so I had a good basin foundation but like as an adult like I'm gonna be I'm 39 I'll be 40 in March you know married three kids and just trying to like focus on like what my priorities need to be and for me as a man it's you know being being a good Christian man is having that good relationship with God my wife and my kids and you know understanding where my priorities are and here's the thing I struggle with this every single day I struggle with every single day there's temptations that come in there's thoughts that come in there's frustrations that come in there's all these things that are like literally constantly like knocking out the door knocking out the door I gotta be careful that I just don't open up the door because if I open up that door oh yeah I mean yeah this is no I didn't want this party you know like stop you know everybody get out and so it but you know it's just like you and I we've known each other for a while and we've actually had some like pretty close like conversations on just frustrations and struggles that I've had you know just with just just staying on the path right and just like getting on that path and it comes it comes a discipline you know it's just understanding what you really want if it's if it's important you'll make it a priority you know and you know one of the things I say is you're not allowed to say I don't have time you have to say it's not a priority you know like last night I you know early morning the last couple days FTX you know up at 415 in the morning full day and like Tuesday night I didn't want to honestly I I didn't want to work out I was smoked right I I even try to justify not working out because I was looking at my watch and my dude my total calories burned for the day are 3900 I think I'm good you know what I mean and it's easy for you to believe that because I'm definitely at a deficit you know I didn't eat 4 000 calories today like I had only eaten lunch and then we went about dinner there's no there's no way you know I wasn't drinking queso like it ain't gonna happen and I mean I'd love to drink queso but you know that's why I'm in this situation I'm just kidding I uh and so but it comes down it comes down to discipline and if it's important you'll make the time and so Tuesday night get done with dinner go back to the hotel room and I have some work out to knock out and I'm like okay I knocked out some work I called Amanda and you know we're talking I was like yeah I'm gonna go work out she's like really oh my god I was like I gotta get done sure okay I was like I'm gonna take a 30 minute nap because I was smoked I mean I was smoked and I laid down in the hotel room I put my phone on my chest with the alarm on and alarm went off and I went oh I don't want to do this I'm like but okay and I got up and that was Cody and Joe and I'm glad I went and did it and it comes back to the saying that Jaco told me when I was talking to him back in January 2020 his discipline is rooted in the truth that we tell ourselves and um if it's important you'll make time and it could have been really easy for me to say hey I don't have time to work out tonight like  denomin Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood of time say it's not a priority to work out. It's not a priority to go do this with my kids. It's not a priority to take my wife out on a date. That changes things real quick. And you have to understand that if it's important, you'll make it happen. And so going back to what you said, it's you have to make it a core principle of yours. Because if it's like one of your core principles, you'll do it. It's a non negotiable. You have to figure out what your non negotiables are when I was in the SEAL teams, it was easy. I knew what my non negotiables were. I was preparing for war. I mean, I had and they're great people. I love my wife. I had girlfriends when I was in the SEAL teams that were awesome. They were really cool people, like really cool people. But then the moment they started to think that they were going to be more important than SEAL teams were going to take me away from doing the training and the preparation I needed to make. Bye. Hope you have a great life. You're awesome. Be awesome somewhere else. I'm serious. Like I had some really cool girlfriends that were they're great people. I hope they're still great people. They were. Bye. Like you're not going to take away from what this is. And because that was a non negotiable for me because I was preparing for war and like I could get my guys killed. I can make a mistake where I don't come home or I come home, but I'm in a casket. Like that's not an option. You know, but I think a lot of people will see that and they're like, oh, okay, well, that makes sense because that's intense. And like your life and other people's lives are on the line. How can I do that on a day basis? It's literally it's come. Yeah, it's the same mindset though. It doesn't have to be life and death for it to be important to you is is being healthy important. That should be an absolute yes for everyone. You know, we were doing this workshop yesterday and one of the guys, you know, we're talking like, what are you going to take more ownership over? And he said, my health, I need to take more ownership over my health. He goes, I want to be around to see my grandkids play and he got super emotional. And the dude wasn't like crazy overweight. He was in his late forties. You could tell he's, you know, he's just out of shape. You know, and we talked afterwards and he goes, you know, because I shared with him my struggles of my testosterone levels and my hormone levels and how I have to be on TRT and HRT for the rest of my life, the house self regulated and it's a it's a struggle. And I shared this with the group. And you know, he was talking to me, he's like, man, thank you for sharing that because I realized I had been making excuses for my health. And I want to be around I want to be a healthy dad. I want to set that example to my kids. That's the thing. If you can look at things where it's not about you, about other people, it helps you stay true to those things. My core beliefs for my core principles for what I was like a non negotiable in the SEAL teams. I was at the end of that list. It wasn't about me. It was about my teammates is about the mission about the SEAL teams, my nation. That's what was important. I was literally at the end because I don't care if I die, like I don't I know where I'm going. I'm good to go with it. There's no like, I'm not like worried. And if it's God's time, it's God's time. So when you don't have to worry about dying, it takes a lot of stupid stress off your plate. And so it was always about my teammates, my teammates, my teammates, my teammates. And if you could do that for your business, it's about your company to support your customers, which supports, you know, you take care of your customers, guess what? That means that you have a business to support your people. You support your people, they support their families, you get to support your family. There's all these things you have to find a way to tie it to somebody else. So it's not about you. It's, you know, it's just you can't have that worth all on you type of mentality. I'm sorry, it's not all about you mentality. It is on you, but it's not about you. And I think when you can shift to that type of a focus and a mindset, it really helps you stay true to those things. Because like John said, discipline is rooted in the truth that we tell ourselves. And, you know, if it's important, you'll make time for it. So I think that was the big thing is, you know, just understanding what those are. And they're going to shift and change. They are, you know, and, you know, for me, if I don't work out, dude, my life sucks. Like, I just, so I have to do something because I'm just, I'm not a good person if I'm not active. I'm just not, you know, I would say, I would argue that most people are better versions of themselves. They just maybe haven't done it consistently enough to know that. But I can't really think of any downsides for someone being more physically active. And it doesn't mean like when people hear that they think, Oh, well, I got to, you know, do a jujitsu competition, or I got to do a bodybuilding show. It's like, no, no, this is like, you could go to the gym three times a week, like, you know, and go for a walk every day. Like that's what we're talking about. Like those types of things. And I think that when we're talking about that non-negotiable, or those non-negotiables, I think that a lot of people haven't even taken that time to really sit back and think about that in terms of like, what does that mean to me? What does my life mean to other people? Like all those, like, so having that conversation with yourself about like, what are these actual things that I'm rooting my decisions in like what I'm doing or what I'm not doing? Because if we don't know that, then it's really hard to have footing to make a good decision to move forward. If you're always like, and that's why people who are in athletics usually, they thrive, they thrive, right? Because they are, they have a goal, they know what they're doing. It's usually team, but even if it's an individual, it's still kind of like team related, right? So it's really easy when you have that singular focus, I would say that the military is similar. Like it's like, the focus is already there. Like you don't have to, I mean, you can change how you achieve that result, but the result is there. Like that's what you're aiming at. But I feel like in life, outside of that, outside of very specific goals at high levels, people can struggle, but it's like, you just have to create that. And then once you create that, then you can operate on that framework. But if that's not there, you're just going to kind of feel like you're floating around and you don't really know like how to guide your decisions. And then it's just becomes really easy to slip. Like, because it's not about the like, Oh, I didn't do a workout. It's not even about that or like the calorie burn of the muscle burn or whatever. It's more about like, again, okay, am I somebody who holds these promises to myself? Is this how I view myself? Am I going to hold myself to this standard? And it's so easy. We all go through seasons. Like I'm not, you know, we all go through different seasons of what is important, what we have to make time for, and all that. So it's going to look different for everybody. And it might not be training for you. But just as an example, like being physically active, I think, is a pillar that really makes everyone arguably better. Like, like, there's no, there's no argument. There's no doubt about that. There's no doubt. And that's part of Jaco's thing is being disciplined, right? With your physical health, just doing something. And I hope whoever's listening really heard what you said. I hope they really heard what you said in regards to it's about the commitment, fulfilling that commitment, being disciplined is just doing something. Hey, go, go for an hour walk, right? Like, that's actually like, if for you to commit an hour, that's that's a legitimate commitment to most people's lives. What's crazy is our society has gotten so messed up with physical activity that a 20 minute walk is considered exercise now. That's kind of crazy if you think about it. And so we got to get back on towards like doing stuff that's hard as well. The workouts that we do needs to push you. And I hope what you're hearing, if you're listening to this, or, of course, you're listening to this, but I hope you hear what I'm saying in regards to it just needs to be hard for you. What is your heart? And that's why I signed up for the jujitsu tournament, like three weeks ago, and I did it this last weekend. I wasn't in the ideal situation to compete. I had two broken ribs, I had, you know, a broken finger. I trained three to four days a month in jujitsu because that's how busy I am on the road constantly. So signing up for an IBJJF open tournament where these guys are training legitimately for these was not ideal. What is about making the commitment and being there because my coach said, Hey, we need people to sign up and I'm like, cool. And when I signed up, he goes, Mike, all the black girls are like, Oh, really? They didn't expect me to do it because they know all the stuff I have going on in my life. And it would have been easy for me just to make those excuses. And that's, we just, we can't do that. So you have to do things that are hard for you. What then, and here's the deal, take what I said, if legitimately, if a 20 minute walk is actually hard for you, then start there. Start there. But, you know, I think the physical, physical aspects like physical fitness, that's, it has to be, it has to be a pillar in my life. So I have my faith, physical fitness. And then for me, one thing I have to get better at is just being consistent with, with my reading, right? I do read, but it's not as much as I should be. And I know that. And, you know, because I know when I'm reading, it's forcing me to detach from all the noise that's going on in the world. And it allows me to actually be a little more refreshed. That's why I love jujitsu because you can't get sucked into anything. You just, you can't, right? You go to the gym, you can get sucked into your phone. I mean, I was working out last night in our garage and I just like boom, right? My phone's going off and I'm like reading a text message and I'm trying to reply real quick before my next rep. I go to the gym, I set my phone down in my bag. I don't look at it until I'm done. It's a forced detachment. And so I think if you can force yourself to detach, it just, it just helps you as a, as a human. Absolutely. And that's why doing the things like we said, that's hard is so important. Whether it's, you know, for me, and I know, like, and we're very similar, like mentally, just always going, go, go, go, go. So like for me, this year was a lot about attaching in different ways, like doing things that were hard, but hard, more like mentally. So like doing meditation classes, doing float therapy, like journaling in the sauna. Like that is not as taxing maybe. I mean, I guess the sauna is kind of hard, but like that's not as physically demanding, right? But like cognitively that's forcing me to do things that are, it's more comfortable for me to work out for two hours than it is to sit with my thoughts for an hour and a float deprivation thing. You know what I mean? So it was like this year, a lot of time. It's amazing. We'll talk about that out there. You need to do it. I did it once. I did it once. I did it more than once to get to really get in there. But, but like that kind of stuff, like that was such a challenge, you know, for me. So it was like this year, I was like, I'm going to challenge myself like to do those types of things that are much harder, like physically, it's certainly not hard. But allowing myself to get to that place mentally is going to allow all these other things to like be in line and then using physical fitness just in different ways. Yeah. Because again, I was so used to training as an athlete, you know, you're just, oh, I have one singular goal. Whereas now it's like, no, I'm trying to use this to be like a more like focused and like optimal functioning person. So a little bit different. Well, you have to understand when it's time to elevate your game as an individual, you know, and as you're growing as an individual, as a leader, as a business owner, you've got to just change the way you do things. It's just part of it. Yeah. And that was that's one of the things that kind of tie this all up. That's one of my favorite things about the muster, which again, we've talked about this a million times with people, but it's a two day leadership conference with JP, Jaco, Leith, all the all the instructors, it's phenomenal. It's the best run event that I've ever been to, which is why I've gone multiple years in a row, because of that. But what I love about it is not only is it, you know, it's exceptionally well run. It's very professional. The information is amazing. But there is a all the other components are tied in, you know, so like we do the PT in the morning, it's optional, but you know, you should probably go PT in the morning, right? Then we have the lectures, then there's like quality food, then there's interactions, then there's jujitsu, like all of these things together. So it's not just like, Hey, we talk about this stuff, and we don't actually do it. It's like it's an integration of all of the pillars of leadership put together. And it's like, that is all very intentional. Like it's intentional that there's the workouts and that there's quality food and that there's social interaction, and there's time for that. Like all of those things are making people better leaders. And that is why I think I think that's how it stands out so well too, is because of that. So yeah, I know one more time, we're going to plug the muster definitely save save up and do it. I think it's worth it. It's worth it. I mean, the event's incredible. You know, I've I went to the first one and I've spoken at every single one since then. And I still have I still take pages of notes every single muster, you know, just listening, you know, because you hear something different, and like you and I were talking about it, you're like, Hey, I'm in a different place in my life every time I go. And you know, and that's the same thing for our individual FTX is that people can sign up for and the individual FTX is are similar to muster is two full days of running these scenarios. And I mean, it's just incredible. And we have people that have been to multiple individual FTX is because they're like, I get something new, I implement those things, and it brings my business to the next level. We had a guy who he came to FTX 002 in San Diego. And he sent me a message, you know, we stayed in contact over social media, and he sent me a message nine months later, because I can't just want to give you some feedback from, you know, what I what I took away from the muster, what I've been implanted, I'm sorry, what I took away from the individual FTX, what I've been implementing into my business and my personal life, he goes, my business is up $6 million. He goes, so the return on the investment was incredible. I'm like, I would say so. Yeah, I would definitely say. But you know, and the guy was being super humble, you know, he's just like, he's like, these are the things that I implemented. This is what it did from this aspect of the business. He goes, I just want to give you this feedback so that you can pass this on to other people that are wondering like, hey, should I do this? And he goes, I could have gone and not done anything with what I learned. And I'd still be in the same spot. He goes, I wouldn't be hurting, but my business wouldn't be up $6 million. He goes, I'm able to be a better husband, a better father, I'm able to give more to my church and bless other people. He goes, I just want to say thank you for the lessons that you guys passed on and the tools that you gave us. And I was like, man, that's amazing. Like to hear that testimony is incredible. And then we have other ones where we had a couple come to the individual FTX and at the end of the FTX, the husband, and if you look at the husband, you're like, dude, this, he's a, I don't want to give up too much of his personal information. I mean, he's just a big, he's a big burly man, right? And he's just, he's just a big dude. And you just look at him and you're like, dude, that could do is a bad ass, right? He has like just bare paw hands. Like, I don't have small hands. When I shook his hands, I'm like, Oh, I have tiny baby hands right now. You know, my hands aren't like small, right? Like, and I shake his hand and I'm like, Oh, little baby hands right now. Oh, yeah. I mean, it was, it was crazy. And I'm like, don't squeeze because you'll break my hand. And, you know, and so him and his wife came through the FTX and at the end of the FTX, he's given his, his key takeaway. And he just starts crying. And he goes, I realized that every single problem that I've had in my personal life, my business, and he looks at his wife and he just starts crying again. He goes, and our marriage is 100% my fault. He goes, and I've never seen that before. He goes, and these last two days showed me that everything has been my fault, but I also have the power to fix everything in my, and I was just like, and like, Jaco and I, like, everyone's like super emotional and Jaco and I go to look at each other and we can't make eye contact because if I see him looking somewhat emotional, I'm going to lose it. Right? I can't do this. And it was just incredible. And she stands up. She's like, no, honey. She's like, this is my fault. And like, they're like, I'm like, this is awesome. Right? Like now they're arguing over, you know, over taking ownership, right? Instead of bleeding everything. And they're business is still doing good and their marriage is great. And, you know, it's just really cool to like, see those things and hear those things. And, you know, it comes, it comes down to like, you can have all the tools, you can have all the knowledge, you can have all the resources in front of you. But if you don't implement any of that, nothing's going to change. Knowledge isn't power. And I know you've heard this knowledge, you know, people are like, Oh, knowledge is power. Nope, it's not. It's the application of knowledge that makes you powerful. If you decide to put the knowledge that you have to use, that's why you should be reading because it gives you more knowledge. That's why you should be putting yourself in vulnerable positions to challenge yourself so that you can learn. Right? I did that jujitsu tournament. I lost my first match in the absolute open. So pissed off. So mad. I sat on a chair for 10 minutes, just furious with my performance, because I don't like letting people down. And I had all my teammates there and my coaches there. And I don't like letting people down. And afterwards, I know like none of them were like, everyone was like, Hey, man, that was awesome. I'm like, what losing? Because losing is not awesome. No, I know, you just being out there doing it, right? And I'm like, Che, yeah, thank you. Appreciate it. You know, like on the inside, I'm like, I don't want to hear this right now. But they're so nice and kind, right? Like my teammates are, I love every single one of them. So, you know, just, but had I not done that tournament, I wouldn't have that experience. And now I get to take the experience of what I learned from that tournament and implement it into my training, into my regiment. And I can tell you my workouts since then have been fueled by the fact that my hand was not raised. And the times like last night, I didn't want to work out, like getting back at nine o'clock doing everything with, you know, the kids and the dogs and unpacking and all this stuff. Like, do you think I wanted to work out last night? No. But I remembered what it felt like not having my hand raised. And I remember what it felt like not being able to perform a certain move in that tournament because I wasn't physically able to. And that came down to me not being physically prepared. Ooh, that shit makes me mad right now thinking about it. But you know, like, you guess what? So I went and worked out last night and it was a great workout that I had. And so you just, you have to take what life presents you and use it. Life gives you the opportunity to train every single day. Every single day we can train. It just depends if you want to find those ways. And that's the perfect way to end this. This was so great. We could go on forever and ever. Probably have to do a part two because there was a lot of things that if the one you say, let's let's for sure do a part two. Let's go to a part two because there are so many other great things. But before we sign off, where can everybody find you? You know, when's your book going to come? When's your book coming out? In the link, link and bio. What is that what they said? Yeah, so on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter, it's all JP Dennell. So at JP DI N N E L L. It's just like dinner, but with two L's at the end. So easy for people to remember. I'm definitely going to change your name. I'm changing yours back then. Perfect. All right. We, so yeah, JP Dennell, mostly active on, on Instagram, just because it's just easier. I use it. It seems like it's for what I do. It's better. LinkedIn, I think it's just Jeremiah Dennell on LinkedIn. And then I mean, big thing is I would be following Eshalon Front for sure to see what we do. We have an online leadership training academy, extreme ownership academy. So if you go to extreme ownership.com, it should bring you to that, I believe. And we just have everything, you know, we have a lot of different things linked out there. So if you go to extreme ownership.com, it'll bring you to all the stuff that we have. But yeah, the, and that was one of the things I was going to say earlier and I'm glad we're talking about now is, Hey, as you're looking for an escalation, I mean, extreme ownership academy, you know, we have live trainings throughout the week, you know, right now during this time of year, we just have one, I think we're going to increase it back up to two again. But you have access to all of our live trainings are all in the is that you can rewatch. We have videos that you can watch, take tests, progress along with these different courses that we're working on, getting the courses like accredited and all this other stuff. So it's pretty legitimate. And so as an individual, that's an amazing tool. And we have companies that actually buy those seats for their employees. It's like, cool. Hey, part of your work days, you join this live training. And like, so this Monday, I'm doing a live, it's jocco and I doing the training. So this next coming Monday, jocco and I are doing the live training. And let's say if you're on there, you could type in a question in the chat box. And, you know, I read it to jocco and he's like, All right, Lauren, where you at? Go and come off mute. Let's talk about this. And so tab access to jocco, laith, Dave Burke, Jamie, all of our instructors is pretty incredible. I, we've had multiple people be like, Hey, you guys really need to raise the prices on what you guys offer. But they want it to be accessible multiple people. Because at the end of the day, our mission is to share the lessons that we learned in combat so that everybody across the world can implement them into their personal professional lives. And that's what we want to do. So that's another thing that you can check out. But I appreciate the opportunity to be on your podcast. You're a badass. You know, I love you, girl. You're a good friend. And I'm proud of the work that you're doing, the lives that you impact and change and what you will continue to do as you build out your business. And I'm excited to watch you grow. And it's cool to be a part of this podcast. So thank you. Oh, well, that was so touching. Okay, now I'm going to get emotional. All right, well, we will come back for part two at some point in the future. And for more information, you guys know for coaching and services, you can visit team local fit.com. You can also check out our app at redefinehealthy.com as well. All information on that. So thank you guys so much for listening. And we will talk to you next week.

=== FILE: Episode 263： Managing conflict in relationships [_RYYeZWtYYQ].txt ===

 welcome back to another episode of the Locofit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlin, and this week, I'm joined by Rick, our team mental health consultant, and we're gonna talk about managing conflict and arguing within relationships. This is gonna be so great, because all we do is argue, just kidding, kind of not kidding, we were literally arguing about something as we were going through the managing conflict notes. Anyways, this is something you brought up because... Clearly we worked it out though. Yeah, we really subtleed it. I'm so past it. No, but this is a really, really important topic. And just so you guys know, when we are coming up with podcast topics, it's kind of like, hey, what's been coming up? What's the theme? And this is something that you brought up and said, hey, this has kind of been a recurring theme. I don't know if it's like the time of year, or people just, whatever it is, conflict though, it's so frustrating because I think a lot of people come at it with different lenses, right? Like there's some people who are very non-confrontational, like they don't want any kind of confrontation, they shut down, and then there's some people who's like, they think, oh, I don't like conflict, right? Like I would say, oh, I don't like conflict, but then my threshold is so much higher than other people that like minimal kind of things that I don't think are conflict, I think are just enjoying disagreements that some people are like, why are we arguing right now? I'm like, this isn't an argument. Really? I'm like, oh, maybe this is an argument. So I think every part of what's challenging about conflict, obviously there are certain things that are gonna be pretty black and white, but there are other things that it's like that gray area because everybody's like threshold is different, right? Which is obviously part of learning your partner and knowing all that, but anyways, let's get into it. Yeah, so to just piggyback a little bit off of what you said, for the context of this, I want everybody to assume that they already know when the person is in a conflict with them, right? Because I think as you start dating, you gradually learn where the boundaries are, where the limits of the relationship exist, what's going to piss the person off, what's gonna create arguments, where the sensitive and vulnerable areas are within the relationship. I mean, that's what dating is, you're learning to integrate two lives together. So for all intents and purposes, we're going to assume you already know where that argument line is. We might wanna do, if I guess, on the front end of that though, just because a lot of people I don't think, especially in the beginning, right? Because it is like, you know, you don't wanna be like, oh, that really hurt my feelings because you're like, I don't wanna be like wimpy or whatever. But then, I'm just saying, like there are certain times where somebody will say something, and you're like, I'll just let that slide, but like, oh my God. And then a few things happen, and then you're like, oh, why the fuck? And they're like, holy shit, wait. And it's just like this. Cascades down, yeah. Yeah, and so, and I figure you bring up a really good point. In the beginning of a relationship, most people are trying to avoid conflict. And there's a lot of reasons for that, people. Enter into a relationship, and when you first start dating someone, it's oftentimes referred to as the honeymoon phase, right? And you've got these huge flood of dopamine and serotonin or epinephrine, and all these feel-good neurochemicals in your brain that are telling you, oh my God, this person's amazing. And you see no fault with what they do. And then eventually, as the relationship progresses and la-la land begins to fade, reality begins to set in. And when reality sets in, all of those feel-good neurochemicals are gone, so you're left with the reality of this person. And so now you're trying to decide is can this person actually love me? Do we get along? Do we have a real connection? Not just I was interested in them, I was infatuated with them, and once that infatuation kind of fades, now we're getting into the nitty-gritty. And so, you learn a lot about a person within that space. And once the euphoric phase is gone, this is when conflict management really becomes a critical component in a relationship. And I don't think it has anything to do with the time of the year. I don't think it has everything to do with the individuals in the relationship because it's going to happen. And I think if I'm going to start this podcast on a note, it would be that conflict is inevitable. It is going to happen. There is no such thing as a conflict-free relationship. It just, it simply doesn't exist. And I think if you can get rid of the myth that all good relationships don't have conflict, you're gonna be better off. And in fact, you can prepare yourself once you recognize that conflict is inevitable. And it's actually a sign of a healthy relationship and people can grow and prosper. And there's good things that come out of conflict. I think all too often, the perception that people have is, oh, we're arguing, we're fighting a lot. So the relationship must be bad. And it's like, actually, no. If you can reframe that and understand that this conflict is actually an opportunity for you guys to grow together and to resolve some things and to work as a team and compromise, you're gonna be better off. And so if you recognize, number one, conflict is inevitable in all good relationships. Okay, so when it happens, I don't have to be taken back by it. I don't have to think, oh my God. And second, guess the relationship and wonder, am I making the right choices? Is this the right person for me and take it down this catastrophic hole? Relax, pump the brakes. You're two individuals working to combine your lives. So recognize that conflict is in fact going to happen. And there's nothing you can do to escape it. The best thing you can do is develop the skill set to deal with it and manage it with your partner. I think when people hear the word conflict in a relationship, they're automatically thinking of an all out brawl where the couple is yelling and saying derogatory things. And that's an end phase that maybe you'd recommend not getting to. But that's not necessarily conflict, right? That is a type of conflict. But that's not what we're discussing here. You know what I mean? This isn't immediately something that's awful. Code red, everything is falling apart. People are losing their minds, slamming doors. That's not usually how things start. And I would say that you're going to have conflict and that probably means that you're actually discussing things in a better way. Maybe I'm wrong, but I feel like if people don't have any kind of conflict, they maybe aren't communicating because usually one person's gonna be like, oh, okay, mm-hmm, yeah. And then it's like the chances of two people not having anything that there's gonna be conflict over is probably slim to fucking zero. Like even if you're the most compatible people. So usually in my interpretation, that would probably mean that somebody is just not being, like not bringing up what maybe they're upset about or what. And then that's gonna be a very like avoidant type behavior. And then you're like, yeah, that's fine. That's fine. And then eventually that's when it is that blow up. Like, well, you said these three things and it really bothered me. It's like, well, we would have just addressed this earlier. And therein lies some of the problem. If you're not expressing things as they're developing or evolving within the relationship and you're letting it stockpile. And so you're essentially like getting to this overflow point. And then once you hit the overflow point, everything starts coming down. Well, part of conflict management means addressing those things before they get to that level. And the other thing I wanna comment on is if the only way for you to express conflict or arguments within the relationship is for you guys to lose your shit and scream and yell and throw things and call each other names. This isn't even about conflict management. Like this is taking to a whole nother level of we need to work on how you guys actually communicate your needs and wants and frustrations with each other. It's totally unhealthy and inappropriate to express your emotions that way, to scream at somebody, to lose your temper with them. Don't get me wrong, we all get angry and there's always moments and times in people's lives where they say things they wish they could take back and regret. I'm not talking about that. We can all forgive somebody for certain things, but there are dynamics that play out when you're arguing with somebody that if those types of dynamics exist, your relationship is going to suffer immensely as a result and all of your relationships in your life are going to suffer. Yeah, that's no longer, is there like a different name for that? Cause like I don't want people to misinterpret like conflict for like that. Cause yeah, some of that borderline is on like verbal abuse. Yeah, exactly. So it's like that's not what we're talking about. Like I don't want people to hear this and be like, yeah, like conflict's normal. Like we're not trying to normalize that conversation. Certainly that is a type of conflict, but that would be like that's so far past what we're discussing. Yeah. Just want to make that clear. Yes. In case anybody was like. We're not talking about violence. We're not talking about abuse. There's clear boundaries around that. And that's the exception, you know, for those rules. It's like. Or even just really like hard fighting, you know, like slamming doors, screaming. Like that's not like, you know, there are places that you, like you don't have to get there. Correct. Like there's a lot of steps before that. Like nobody just walks in the door, yells in your face and then slams it. Like there's going to be like 12 steps before that. So that's what we're talking about. Let's manage those things before it gets to that point. Yeah. So, so the first thing I would say to people is in terms of managing the conflict is what's the quality and the status of the relationship before the argument. And by the way, I want to do, I wanted to reference where I'm going to get a lot of this material from for this podcast. I actually want to start doing that more as kind of giving people more of the references, some of the materials that I use, people that I quote or cite. But a lot of this is coming from the Gottman Institute. John and Julie Gottman are two of the most prolific relationship counselors and they've produced so much material on relationships in general. I highly recommend if there's any couples out there, they have oftentimes they have couples seminars two or three day weekend retreats. Really great strength based building stuff to explore your relationship with and develop healthier habits. So a lot of this material is coming from their work, their guidance, but key fundamentals is think of it like this. If the quality of my relationship on a scale of one to 10, one being everything is perfect, harmonious balanced. 10 being like destruction, like relationship is ending. If the relationship is always teetering on the high end of that scale, right? If you're always walking around at like a seven or an eight with your partner, when any one small conflict happens, it becomes amplified, right? And there's no room, there's no where to go except to like dangerous explosion. And so to me, it's like, it's not the argument or the conflict that's really the problem in that relationship. The relationship problem is really where are you guys missing each other? Where's the lack of connection? Where's the friendship? Where's the intimacy in the building and the growing as a couple? How are you guys connecting in all these other areas before this one little conflict occurs, right? Cause conflict isn't a constant and it more than likely isn't a constant in most relationships cause we need to reprieve from it. But if the major majority of the relationship consists of just conflict, we would really like to evaluate that relationship and really understand what it is the two of you are getting out of it if there's very little friendship building, right? There's no real connection and I don't know, just development of intimacy and closeness within the relationship of shared experiences in life if you're just arguing all the time. And so part of it is like, okay, sometimes we need to halt arguing and figure out like, we don't even need to deal with the conflict, we just need to go back in time and kind of like rework our relationship here. Let's get on the same page. Cause if you're not on the same page, then finding a common ground for conflict is gonna be really difficult. Does that make sense? Oh, absolutely. The other thing I wanna say is one of the goals is to make conflict and arguing constructive, right? And what I mean by that is, don't think of arguing as an opportunity for you to tear each other down, but rather it's an opportunity and a guide to better understanding your partner, right? Cause when there's a source of pain, it's gonna open up avenues for you to understand them in ways that you didn't know before. And this is what it means to love somebody. This is where compromise and understanding start to play a significant role in the relationship. And arguing oftentimes is a very selfish endeavor and a very righteous endeavor. Everybody always thinks that when they're arguing, I'm right and that's the selfishness that comes with it. It's this egocentric thinking that really comes along with, well, I'm right, you're wrong. You're not understanding me, right? And so we start to dig in. You don't understand where I'm coming from. That's great. It's your fault, not mine. Said that way too many times. Because it feels like when you're in a conflict, you know what I mean? You're like, oh, maybe I'm not getting my point across. Somebody must not understand what I'm saying. So it must be because of that and not anything else, but it's certainly one of those things that obviously everything comes back to communication in a relationship, like literally everything. But I really like the point about it being constructive. And I think that this can be constructive. It doesn't always have to be this, like I said, in the beginning, like everybody has this view of it as like it's always this really negative drawn out like blown up thing. And it's like, no, it could be a constructive thing that you guys are having. But what do you think though about what I was trying to get at? There's a term for that, but like how people have different levels of all that, you know what I mean? Like different levels of what they view as a conflict. Like how would somebody be able to get around that? Because I think that that's, that can also be a really tough thing because somebody could be saying like, no, I wasn't upset or anything. Like I wasn't trying to be confrontational. This is just, this is kind of where I'm at, you know? But the other person might take it like, right? And. Well, and even this is, if you're arguing about what an argument was about, or are we arguing or arguing. Are we arguing? I don't know. No, not you and I. Is my radar that broken? Are we arguing about whether or not that was an argument? Oh, yeah. Well, we'll get into some of the steps, but I think the most, yeah, I want to give actionable steps at the end of this to help people manage these situations. And the first thing I would tell you is what you're going to need to listen. Listening is the first and most fundamental aspect of being able to understand something is being able to listen to it. So instead of viewing negative emotions in a relationship as unwelcome, as unwanted, as detrimental, start to recognize that this is an opportunity for you to explore a sense of longing and positive need within the relationship by understanding somebody else's emotions, their negative emotions. It's an opportunity to better understand your partner. Instead, so you're arguing with somebody, I'm arguing with you, or I'm voicing my opinion about something, and I can see that it's making you angry. Most people will turn around and they're going to dig in and they're going to voice their opinion back, and I'm going to dig in a little bit more, and I'm going to voice my opinion back. Well, neither one of us is really listening to each other. What we're trying to do is convince the other person that I'm right. And so what I'm missing is, I said something that made Lauren upset. What made her angry? I'm curious. I said that, X, Y, and Z. Like, it clearly offended you or bothered you. Tell me what it is about that statement that actually bothered you and made you so upset or angry. Like, now what am I doing? I'm actually looking to listen, to gain information and insight into what it is that bothers you. And now, maybe we're getting into fundamental differences as people, and we're learning that maybe this isn't the right person, or maybe there's things about my life or my personality, or my views or my religious beliefs or political affiliations that might conflict with this person, and how do I start to tamper that so that it doesn't create this conflict within the relationship? But I don't get any of that. I get none of that. If all I'm worrying about is proving my point. And if this whole, like, what are the facts? Like, fuck your facts. This isn't about winning an argument. This isn't a debate. And this is the problem. This is where men struggle. Is we're always looking for proof. I want the data. I want the fact. Like, rip this down the line for me, okay? And if your facts don't equal my facts, then clearly you're wrong. I'm right. You should yield and move on and realize you're stupid and right and all that other kind of stuff. And I'm the powerful one, or I'm the grand one. Like, no. This is the relationship. This isn't about right and wrong. This is about a better understanding of one another. And so I think if you want a healthier relationship where you can manage and argue in more productive ways, recognizing that their negative emotions present an opportunity for you to better understand them if you're willing to explore it. But you have to back off your ego and recognize that it's better to be in a relationship that works than it's better to be alone and right. Or feel right at least. Yeah, and that doesn't mean that you necessarily have to agree. I think, I mean, obviously there might be some fundamental things that are maybe, you know, what you would call deal breakers in a relationship potentially. But like aside from those types of things, like this doesn't necessarily mean that like either of you have to change your opinion or what you believe, but it's more about like you said, hearing that other person and like, okay, you know, I feel this way. You feel that way. Where's there some common ground? Where do we disagree? Let's like agree to disagree on this. If it's not that big of a deal to either of us. And for some people might be like, nope, this is like that's a deal breaker. And then, okay, like then you have to decide. If I want to either believe or do or not do XYZ, then you kind of move forward. But I do think that there is a point of arguing that like you can also just be like, all right, like each person is understood. This is where I was coming from. This is where you're coming from. Maybe we still don't agree on this. I wouldn't have said that. I wouldn't have responded this way. But now let's move forward. Because sometimes like people say things and you don't necessarily like, you know, you might take that really personally or be offended by it. And then, you know, you bring it up and the other person's like, oh, what do you, like I just meant this by it. And then you're like, oh, okay, well, hey, could you maybe not say it that way next time? And then if they're actually listening and understanding that they might not fix it the next time. You know what I mean? But like, are they trying? Are they trying? Is there progress? You know what I mean? Is there awareness that they are actually listening? Or is it just like, no, then that'll be another flag for you to be like, all right. And I've said to people before that the words I'm sorry without any behavior change is nothing more than manipulation. I can't slap you in the face and say, oh my God, I'm so sorry. I didn't mean to do that. You forgive me. And then the next day slap you in the face again and say, oh my God, I'm so sorry. I didn't mean that. And then slap you in the face again, right? And keep repeating the same behavior and then expect my apology to mean anything. I'm only apologizing as a way to like, mute the situation and just not deal with it. But if there's no behavior change, then all you're doing is attempting to manipulate the person through, I'm sorry. The other thing that I want people to recognize, and this is something that helped me or has helped me tremendously in conceptualizing some of this. Every argument that you're having with your spouse or boyfriend or girlfriend is nothing more than a conversation you guys should be having at another point in time. So every argument is an indication of every conversation you weren't having or need to have as a couple. And so what does that mean? It means if I'm pissed and you're pissed and we're both stuck in our feelings right now, maybe we need to call a timeout. Maybe we need to put the brakes on this. And be like, okay, we're gonna wait until our tempers have calmed where we can actually have a conversation about it. And sometimes you can catch this earlier on in the relationship, you know? And sometimes people have used this as a tool to be like, we're arguing about this. We need to have a conversation about it later. So we're gonna go to our separate spots, we're gonna tone it down, we're gonna watch a movie. We're gonna agree that we're gonna do something as a couple and not deal with this. Even if you're sitting on the couch, still kind of angry with each other or whatever. Like give yourself the time and the space and recognize that this argument is an indication of a conversation we want to have. It's like, you know, people always talk about you don't make good decisions when you're overly emotional. Rarely does anybody do that. It doesn't mean you have to take emotion out of decisions, but being overly emotional and overcome by negative emotions is not gonna be like your best look. It's not gonna be your best disagreement, right? And again, if the whole point of this is to potentially hear the other person and get your points across, right? Like, hey, this is how I felt, this is how I feel, this is what you said, this is what I interpreted. Like all of those things are important, but you're not gonna be able to articulate that very well if you're at level fucking 19 out of 10, right? Like you're just not going to, I don't care who you are, how high your throttle is, like nobody is being articulate in that sense, you know what I mean? Or in that situation. You're not listening. No, and you're not listening. You're not articulate, and you're certainly not listening. You're just like, I have to win. And then that's where it can just, like you said, these are conversations that do need to be had. It's, you know, and it could be something silly, right? Like so maybe it's not always, maybe the conversation is, hey, maybe we argue too much over these silly things. It's not necessarily like you need to have a, like end all discussion over this, like, you know, what movie did you, why did you like this movie? Like, you know, like that's not necessarily warranted for another discussion potentially, but hey, why did this get us so upset? Oh, it was because this and this happened earlier today. I felt like I wasn't being listened. You know, you didn't, you know, whatever it is. Like I wasn't being heard earlier. And then it escalated into this. It had nothing to do with the movie. It had nothing to do with the movie. Go back to the six categories that we've talked about in other podcasts, right? Power and control, respect and recognition, care and closeness, which categories did that actually find it? Well, I didn't feel like you were listening to me. So I didn't necessarily feel cared about, whatever. It's like, okay. Okay, that makes a lot more sense than you didn't like the reboot of this movie. Okay, like, nobody else did either, but we didn't have to almost break up over it. And I was like, I'm making life with this, but like I will take shit there sometimes too, because you're like, all right. You will really, Laura. Because I'm so docile and not argumentative at all. But it's funny because there are some people who, in my life, who would be like, oh yeah, Lauren is always like what I like to call verbal sparring. Me and Danielle are like always, always doing that. You know what I mean? Like it's just fun to us. Like we're not arguing really. We just kind of like, we just do that. And it's just like, it's kind of fun. And like that's just normal for us. But then like Sam would be like, guys stop arguing. Like, you don't need to, we're like, we're not arguing. So, but like, you know, in other situations, if you're around someone who is like way higher than that, or they, everybody has things that set them off. You know, and that is to your point, part of like dating and being in a long-term relationship and seeing those things about people. Because there are some things that people could say that would literally not bother me at all. And be like, okay, whatever. And then there's other things that are seemingly much smaller that might set me off for a whole variety of other reasons. And the whole point is to figure out, okay, well, why was that so hurtful? Why did that make me upset? Yeah. And the idea is to not judge it or compare it to what other people view. If I'm dating this person, I need to understand. I want to understand this person, not the rest of the world. I just need to understand this individual. And when it comes to arguing, you know, one of the things that I hear a lot is everybody's, you've heard a version of this, right? Well, there's your side, my side, and then there's the truth, right? And so what I try and tell people is there is no absolute truth. There's two sides to every argument, and they're both right. So stop assuming that there's like this absolute truth that you're gonna work your way into. There's not. It's just the two of you. And really when you say that, when you say there's an absolute truth, you're still trying to hint at the fact that you think you're right, okay? That's the underlying message, right? It might be 70, 30, 60, 40, 51, 49, but I'm still 51, right? I'm a little bit more right than this person. And so get rid of the idea, because they're both right. There's an old, oh God, what is it? Like an old story or an old joke? There's a therapist. You can like me now, yeah. There's a therapist. He's- Old adage? Yes, an old adage. He's bringing in a couple, and he brings the husband in first, and he listens to the husband, and the husband talks about his wife very bitterly for the next 20 minutes. And the therapist says like, wow, I've heard everything that you said, and I completely agree with you. I'm amazed that you still commit to your family, your wife, all these things. He says great, and so he leaves the room, and then the wife comes in. She sits down, and she complains about her husband for the next 20 or 30 minutes, and he stops her, and he says, I've heard everything that you said. You're so right. Everything that you said is accurate, but I still admit I admire you first. I'm committed to your family, to your friends, and everything. The idea of it is they're both right, and the therapist understands that. The therapist isn't trying to pick sides, and essentially what you guys wanna become is your own therapist within your own relationship, and to recognize that this person's perception of the problem is just as valid and real as my perception of the problem. And so there is no absolute truth. There's two truths, and they both exist on equal planes. It doesn't matter if you think the person's being irrational or demanding or ridiculous. Again, let's go back to a conversation and try and understand where this is coming from. Is this a trigger from something in the past? Is this underlying trauma? Is this they hate you and they're picking a fight so that they can end the relationship? Like, try and get to it. The only way to understand those things, though, is to have conversations where you're not heightened about it, because both points of view are valid. And what I want you to also recognize is your thoughts aren't always true. And if you can recognize that just because you think something, it doesn't make it true, it doesn't make it right. That's kind of something that, depending on the context that you're thinking about it, can have multiple applications. And so just because you interpret a situation one way doesn't necessarily make it what the person's intentions were. And so recognizing that two truths exist at the same time will help you and stop searching for this end-all-be-all truth to justify what you think. And that's why addressing it earlier or just sooner rather than later. Like we said, maybe not at that exact second, but sooner rather than later instead of things piling on, because then it does become, oh, okay, it was just this one small thing. And then they did it again, or they said that again, or they said it that way again. And then you're internalizing it, like, oh my gosh, this person is such a monster in this area where they're acting out this certain way, it's so wrong, or whatever it might be. You've created something so much larger instead of being like, hey, you said this, this is how I responded. And then being able to figure out immediately, because like you said, there is no really right answer here because how they're responding or what they're saying is coming from their background and their past experiences. And that doesn't mean you have to like it, you know what I mean? Like they probably don't like how you say things either. So that's part of that trying to address that earlier to be like, hey, this bothered me. Where are you coming from with this? Instead of, when you bring it up in that way, it's a lot more, like it's not as like disarming, oh my gosh, like now we're in this huge fight. It could just be like, hey, like when this came up, like what did you really mean by that? And this is something that I think, people who struggle with those kind of conversations, it's so hard because you just don't, you just don't, I'll just, I'll let it slide, it's fine. They didn't really mean it or whatever, right? I've always just like, no, I'll just push it away, push it away, it's fine. And then eventually it just like blows up because it's all these small things aren't addressed and they were small, but then they became really large. And then if it, again, if you are able to address something quickly and then you can see is that person actually attempting to try and make changes, the other person and you too, like the other person is probably gonna like say things to you. Like, I don't like how you say these things and you have to be willing to listen to that as well because you often don't realize your tone or how you say things, you know? And again, we're all guilty of that. We in our heads, like we're not trying to be like malicious most of the time, I guess most people, anybody listening to this podcast most likely is not doing that, you know? But it still can come across that way to the other person, especially if they have been in a situation where they haven't addressed things, haven't brought it up. So, I don't know, I feel like the earlier to, like one of the keys here would probably be addressing it as early as possible, within reason, not in the midst of, you know, chaos maybe. One comment that I would have on that is, are you brushing it under the rug to avoid the conflict or are you brushing it under the rug and telling yourself it doesn't matter, because it actually doesn't matter? If it doesn't matter, then it doesn't become anything. But what you're really saying is it matters to me, I just don't know how to express it yet. And they don't feel comfortable expressing it yet. And so what we wanna work on is, where are the, what safety patterns, what boundaries do we need to start to put in place where you feel safe enough to express those things to your partner or the person that you're with? Because I can't change if I don't know what's happening inside you. And, you know, when you finally reach that tipping point, you're like, I can't believe you said this. And another thing, about your mother-in-law, I'm not dealing with that shit either. And all of a sudden, you know, like, you're dealing with like four, five, six different things that have been happening over the last three, four, six months, whatever it is. Like, whoa, now I'm feeling attacked, right? And no one is gonna listen to that. If we go back to the four horsemen of the apocalypse too, right, and what we're talking about is that first horseman's coming in, which is criticism. And now I'm being judged. And what happens after you get judged is you get defensive, you know, and you're not listening to each other. Now you're digging in. And so these little things aren't really little. They're significant to you. And when you minimize them, you minimize them, and don't express them to me, I can't change or adjust. And in fact, I'm going to continue to do this small shit that pissed you off. So I'm not like, you serve no one, including yourself, by doing this.  aminimizing it and being like, I'll just deal with it later, or it's no big deal. If it's no big deal, fine. Or is it no big deal because you just don't want to create conflict. And that's a slightly different problem, right? Okay. Obviously I let... Yeah. A good way to help people understand, there's two basic types of problems that exist in a relationship and you can decipher between them. So the first one is a solvable problem. So what is a solvable problem? Chocolate vs. vanilla, Lauren. Solvable problems are problems that are mostly situational and that can be resolved pretty quickly. There's your house cleaning, duties and chores, how we're going to discipline the kids, where they're going to go to school, sex, in-laws, situations like that. It's all kind of situational. Whereas you might feel one way, I feel another way, but we can reach a common ground and then there's a solution and we move on. It's not anything that's going to rip us apart. It's nothing that we can't find a solution for. The second type of problem is what they call a perceptual problem. And these are, again, Gottman terms. Perceptual problems are basically problems that keep coming back. And so we've seen this in relationships a lot. Like how many times have you heard, well, we keep arguing about the same thing over and over again. Like, okay, well, that's an indication that you're dealing with a perceptual problem, right? It keeps... Or I'm sorry, not perceptual, perpetual problem. I was like perceptual problem. No, perpetual, sorry. A perpetual problem is a problem that keeps coming back over and over again. And so these are more about fundamental differences between your two personalities and differences in lifestyle, right? So these are slightly more important. These are rooted in what I call more like a belief system and more ingrained aspects of who you are as an individual, which is going to be more difficult to change, right? When I was making the argument about chocolate or vanilla, like, it's like, okay, I can see your point of view. I can see my no big deal and we move on, right? When I go to the ice cream shop, I get you a scoop of chocolate and I get my scoop of vanilla, like who gives a shit? That's a small problem. But like if we're trying to decide what religion to raise our child, slightly different problem. If I disagree with the way you express your opinions and your lack of empathy and a relationship, you know what I mean? These are bigger problems. And so they're more perpetual in nature because they keep resurfacing and they keep coming back because we haven't been able to find common ground to stand on. So usually the result of perpetual problems is it creates gridlock. And gridlock essentially is when both people feel criticized, both people feel rejected and both people feel unaccepted by their partner. You're in your spot, I'm in mine. That's it. And you're wrong. I'm right. You feel you're right or I'm wrong. And so I'm not hearing you. You're not listening to me. I feel no connection to you. I feel rejected. I feel criticized and we're just stuck in gridlock. We can't move. We can't move forward. And we don't know what to do. Yeah. And that's, I mean, how would you suggest starting to get out of that? I mean, is that the next point? But I, oh my God. But yeah, I mean, that's, I would say that that's really the crux of everything. Like of course you're going to have those smaller kind of conversations and arguments. But like those are the perpetual problems. Like how you, like the tone that you use or like how you display affection or don't or how you talk to other people or share these types of opinions. Those are the really tough things. Like you said, like belief system, like how are we operating as like people? And I do think that people who are very different can live together and do well together. But you have to be able to be really open, be able to really listen. And that can feel hard if somebody always feels criticized or judged because then you're just going to shut down. So I think that it can work, but you have to have all these other things online. Which I think is probably why there's not as many people who do that, right? Because like most people would probably feel pretty shut down in that setting if there wasn't like a lot of that communication. But yeah, if somebody, so when clients come to you with these problems, right? And these, you know, kind of more perpetual issues, where would be the first place to start? And stop taking or start taking your ego out of the equation and stop thinking about it in terms of I'm right and she's wrong or he's right and I'm wrong or whatever the scenario plays out and look to listen. And the only way to listen is the solution for gridlock is to have open dialogue. And so here's the other part that I want people to recognize is how many of you or how many people think that they're capable of change if they feel criticized and judged. So if you want to move your relationship out of gridlock, learning to accept the other individual for who they are and what they are or whatever their position is, is fundamentally important to break in gridlock. You cannot change on any level if you feel criticized and judged. So you need to adopt, you want to adopt a philosophy of total acceptance. That doesn't mean you have to agree with it. It just means I'm working to understand from your perspective what you're feeling, what you're thinking, what is happening and why this is so important to you. I can't ask you to change. I can't expect change if I'm not willing to give you that. Why would you? All you're going to be is attacked. And that's not going to change. Now I'm either trying to be malicious in my intent and hurt you or I have no concern about fixing this argument and that's a sign of gridlock. You have the same argument over and over again or things get worse over time. You stay stuck in this pattern. It keeps coming up and it continues to get worse and there's no solution to it and we never do anything different. Well, you're both stuck in gridlock because you're not listening to each other. You're not having conversation about it and you're not attempting to understand the person and you're being judgmental. You're not accepting them. So that's really the work, acceptance is key for change. No one will change unless they feel accepted. That opens up the door to then be like, hey, how are you feeling about this? Here's where I'm coming from. This is what I meant. How did you take this? What did you mean? Yes. But all of that literally does not matter unless you are willing to be open and actually listen. And I think that that is just... Would you say that it's probably harder as you've been in a relationship with someone for longer or do you think that it's more just kind of like where the individual... As a couple, do you think it's more challenging the longer the two have been together or just in general kind of where each individual person lies in terms of openness and willingness to listen and all that? Where the person lies with their ability to... You don't really see differences with length of relationship. It's more like the individuals. Sure. You could pump out some statistics that say within one to two years there's certain amount of arguments or this is pretty common. I don't know. What do you normally see? Yeah. I mean, I think it depends on the person's ability to sit in that and their ability to adopt those principles. I think it has less to do with time. I think obviously when you get to a significant period in time, like when we're talking like 10 plus years, you have a really good understanding who this person is at that point. And so it really comes down to behavior change. And can I accept this? It's not going to be even harder though when you are with someone for a long time. It can be. And your phase in life really determines a lot of this too. You take two people who have been together for 10 or 15 years and they're in their like 40s, 50s or 60s. Very different couple than 10 to 15 years of 20s and 30s. You change so much in your 20s, your opinions, your views. They shift again in their 30s. And then they shift even again, usually moving into your 40s because what you believed as a 20 year old or how you acted and your views on the world. So many things. So much life happens between 20 and 35. So much life. That the decisions that you've made, the experiences that you've had, those all shaped you. And so it's normal for a person to change and that's the problem. I fell in love with version A of you, this person who was you know, whatever, right? They had these qualities. Well, your life experiences maybe now have shaped and you've taken new roles and perceptions and things have been different. A death occurred, a loss occurred, we've moved, we've had kids. There's all kinds of things that happen and now you have a different set of values. And so my willingness to adopt and grow with you is going to be the best indication as to whether or not this relationship is going to last. And how we manage conflict is a small part of that because how we connect and become friends and stay friends is more relevant to me than how we actually deal with conflict. So am I growing with you? Do we still have the friendship? Do we still have the camaraderie and the companionship that comes with it? Can we laugh? Can we have fun together? Can we do things? Because if all we're doing is just managing conflict and there's none of that, like, whoa, this is a rough relationship. Yeah. I would say that that probably does get harder as you've been with someone for a long time and you're also older, right? Because things become a little bit more fixed, you know, things become a little bit, I would say hectic in certain areas, but less hectic in others. You know what I mean? So it's just like a different dynamic, like as, as you're older. I mean, presuming that you've been together for a while, not talking about people who are newly married when they're older, which also could be different too, because now you're just a little bit more of like a fixed kind of person. At that point, you probably know a little bit more kind of about yourself. Like, this is what I'm into. I'm probably going to be into this for most of the rest of my life, you know what I mean? Which would be obviously very different, you know, 30 years before that. Maybe not. I don't know. I haven't really met anybody who's like, I'm the same person as I was when I was 20, I was like, I'm 60, like I haven't met anybody like that, but I'm sure they exist. So maybe I just haven't met them. That's common. I hear that in, in, you know, in couples counseling, you know, somebody would be like, well, this is who I was when they married me. It's like, yeah. And that's who they were when they married you too. But that doesn't mean that they don't have the right to change. They don't have the right to grow. They probably should, hopefully. Well, and so it's like, you know, in certain areas. Yeah. And so the expectation is like, okay, you may have stayed the same. I mean, if you're the exact same person, good for you, but this person has changed. And so you have a choice. You can stay firm in this belief, like, well, this is who I am and they need to conform. Well, now we're not really listening. Are we? We're not working for a common ground. You're right. And you just want to be right. And it doesn't matter. And if you're okay with that person walking out or leaving you, then be right. Um, but if you're looking to make the relationship change, regardless of your inability or lack of desire or innate experiences that didn't change you, this other person has. And so you can make the choice at that point to start to understand this person and develop that connection with them. Um, and so as we kind of move into some of the more actionable steps, I just kind of want to review when we're talking about an argument, right? What are the goals that we're trying to keep in mind here? So number one, we're trying to develop a better understanding of our partner, not necessarily determine who's right and who's wrong. Um, we're working to assume that both realities are equally valid. You're right. Your perception and my perception. Same. Um, and we want to pay attention to what are some of the communication barriers that may exist that are preventing us from seeing these things. So let's kind of get into some of the step by step stuff that we can do. Number one, first and foremost, you need to listen, right? Um, and so part of this means your ability to start to express how you're feeling and to say those things out loud. Um, I felt defensive. I felt stupid. I felt unattractive. I felt disliked. I felt afraid. I felt unsafe. I felt is letting me know exactly what you're feeling, what's happening inside you so that I can understand it. If I don't know what you're feeling, you're leaving it up to me to guess. So I want you to help me with this. I'm not a mind reader and I want everybody to get rid of this. Like people are, I hear this all the time too. I hear like, well, I just wish he would know. He doesn't. He's not intuitive that way. He doesn't know. Maybe he doesn't give a shit. Maybe he doesn't know, whatever taught him, no one ever cared about this before. He doesn't know. So stop assuming that he does and I want you to be very direct in telling him what you want, what your needs are, what you're feeling. Tell him what you want. And I say him because I'm a guy and this is primarily a complaint that I hear mostly from the women in the relationship. Like I wish he would know to do this. Why do I have to tell him to do this? I hear these things over and over again. It's like, stop assuming that he's going to know he's not a mind reader. Treat him like an idiot. Okay. Assume he knows nothing and tell him everything he needs to know and do. Then you know 100% you've already explained it and there's nothing left for doubt or assumption. So I felt and expressing your feelings is truly important for the other person to understand you. That make sense? Yeah. Step two would be understanding that each reality is equally valid. Okay. So step one is identifying what your feelings are. Step two is identifying that each reality is valid. Describing take turns describing your perceptions, your own reality. What happened to you within this particular argument or incident that occurred? The other person can work to summarize the other person by kind of making sure summaries are really important sometimes because they help you understand whether or not you understand them and that you've got it right. Okay. So if you're explaining something to me and I say, all right, what I'm hearing you say is this and this. I'm allowing you to say like, yes, you got it or no, this like, okay, fine. I'm not going to take that personal and do your best to control your attitude in these moments, right? Cause I'm trying to be understanding and it's not going to help my case. If you're like, no, that's not what I said. And I'm going to be like, okay, like now I'm starting to get angry because I'm feeling disrespected. Oh, there it comes. I feel great. And what was one of those categories feeling disrespected, right? So you start to see where this goes. It's kind of, it's less art and more science at this point. If you can apply the principles, right? You don't have to feel your way through all of this. There's some steps here that you can take and kind of start to become transparent. Yeah. And also starting to know, okay, like once you get better at this, you'll be able to recognize it right now. I'm kind of past a point where maybe we're going to have a constructive argument, right? Like now for whatever reason, something set me off so much that like this is probably done for today, tonight, the next hour, whatever it is. But like, like you said, like, okay, now I'm getting kind of upset, right? And then like people also have to be like, that's the listening part too. Like if you were like, listen, I'm not going to be able to answer this right now. Right. I think that's another thing. A lot of people, some people process things really quickly. They want to answer right now. They want to do it. And then other people take a lot longer or they're slower. Like, okay, I need to gather all this information. I need to sit with how I'm feeling about this and then process it and move forward, which can also be like a point of contention for an argument. Like, I need to know this now. Why can't you answer this now? And I think a lot of times like that could be a source of just conflict in general, like people processing things differently. So I think recognizing that within yourself and being like, hey, listen, like I wasn't trying to not answer that earlier, but like, this is going to take me some time to like sit and think on it. And then we can address it. And okay, I understand where you're at. Here's where I'm at. Okay. Now we'll move forward at a later date. And that's part of understanding that other person. And like, maybe that'll change over time. You know, they could be a slow processor for a number of reasons. And then once they get more comfortable, okay, now I can kind of pick up the pace. Right. So there's just so many reasons. Like I'm just thinking of so many different kind of arguments, right? Where someone will take it personally. And then like, when you actually ask about it, the other person's like, no, this is what I meant. And you're like, well, then why the fuck would you say it that way? Like this was a horrible way to bring that up. And they're like, oh, sorry. And then, but you can genuinely tell like this was a genuine response. Like you're really not like, you really didn't mean it that way. But like the way you said this was just, that was just not appropriate. And that's learning. Oh, sorry. Like my bad. That's how I've always said things before. I didn't mean it that way or. Right. And so that was an opportunity for you to start to use more empathic statements. Like, okay, I hear what you were saying and I can, I understand why now that that would make you feel that way. Like I get it. You felt judged. You felt not heard. You felt criticized, whatever it is. Like I could see why that made you upset. Now I'm understanding you. I'm actually displaying empathy in the relationship. You know, in the third category to this is just kind of like, if you both understand, like, do you understand, do I understand? Great. We can move on. If you don't understand or I don't stay right here. This is where the work needs to be done to be able to understand each other. So until the both of you understand, stay in that space. Don't move on. Don't brush it under the rug and tell it's not important. I just want to stop arguing. Right. Okay. Well, first of all, maybe we don't need to argue over this. Maybe we just need to pause and so we can have a conversation about it later. Yeah. Right. And talk about this like adults. Would you say that like, so say somebody comes to you, obviously they're, you know, typically engaging in these kinds of arguments or they would be self described having a lot of arguments in their relationship, especially these kind of perpetual ones. Would you say that it's better to do couples therapy or do separate therapy or both, right? Like obviously that's, I know it's going to depend on the individual and like the couple. But do you think that it's like this type of stuff always needs to be dealt with together, like in a, um, you know, couples therapy type setting, or have you worked with people individually and then that is just kind of sufficient. I've worked with people individually and they bring this back to their couple, uh, their relationship and they work on it. I've also worked on it with couples in the room. I think that it's important for each person to understand these steps and to do the work for themselves. And if you're agreeing as a couple to come to couples counseling, then work on it as a couple. I don't necessarily like the whole, well, we're coming to you for couples counseling, but I'm going to, you know, do one session with her, one session with him and then see you guys as a couple. Like no, I had one experience where I had a couple, um, who they both started with me as individuals. Like one person came to me, had a session. They're like, Oh, I really liked the therapist. And then the other person started to come. And so I was seeing them both as individuals. And then they both decided collectively that like, Oh, we would, we think we would benefit now. Like our individual work is done. We want to work on a couple. And so then they started coming to couples counseling. So slightly different dynamic, but they both had the same therapist from the very beginning. So they, you both need to be, you need to be doing the work and it can be done individually and you can bring it into the relationship. Okay. Yeah. I was just curious if you had seen like patterns, cause I could have, and it's of course going to be a client, like an individual difference, you know, like some people maybe aren't ready for couples counseling, you know what I mean? And then it might actually be more valid for just one person to kind of slowly start to work on these things versus being like, yep, I'm here. The only problem is great, you know, like there's always going to be that, like, there can be that couple like, I'm just here cause I have to be, you know, like sick. This is going to be an awesome session. You sound really open to talk. The only, the only, one of the hurdles to when it's just the individual and not the couple is if you're coming to therapy and you're getting therapy from your therapist and they're giving you these tools, the other person doesn't know this stuff. So it's incumbent upon you to relate it back and for them to buy into it as well, even if they're not in session. Right. Yeah, I can see how that would be. Yeah. Like you're working on this shit with your therapist and I got a fucking change. Yeah. Perfect. Or nailed it. You could be like describing, you know, kind of how you see things and then like have that story, that adage that you shared, like, you know, two people are sharing things, but like if the couple, if the therapist can't see that, it can also be like, you know, the therapist is always hearing the one person's receptive, right? And then they're like, okay, well, I'm trying to help you here, but then, you know, they maybe see the couple together and they're like, Oh, well, this is a totally different landscape. You know what I mean? Like how you're viewing things like both things are right. Certainly. Like you both have your reasons for believing this, but like this dynamic is very different now that I'm seeing it play out like together. Right. Like I would imagine as a therapist, it would be very beneficial to kind of start to see maybe some of that bickering or some of that back and forth. Cause then you could be like, Oh, okay. Now I see what, like I see, you know, when he does this, this happens or when she does that, then this happens. And I could imagine that scene that kind of in real time. Yeah, I can because you, you have the ability to start pointing things out that maybe they're, they're not seeing. They're not seeing. Cause you're shut down. You can be like, Oh, hey, look at your wife. Look at her posture right now. What is that telling you? So you're drawing attention to their nonverbal cues. The nonverbal communication that they're expressing, like, you know, or Cynthia, your husband just said this, like, tell me what you think he's feeling right now. Tell me what's behind that. So you're getting her to be a little bit more empathetic by understanding what he's saying and what he's feeling. And so yes, those arguments in the moment can have benefit to, to be like, okay, I can start to draw awareness to these things and help guide to create the healthier habits that you guys can use at home. Cause there's like one hour a week, mostly for most people. And then, you know, the idea is to develop the skills to use them in the relationship. And I think one of the other problems, and I hear this a lot and I get this a lot, especially from guys, is everybody thinks that because they've been talking their whole life, that they know how to communicate. And me and my wife have been together for 10 years or 15 years or 20 years. I don't need to stare at this shit. Why, why, why do I got to change the way you want to change? Because clearly it's not working. You've been together for 20 years. And even if you're going to stay together for the rest of your life, do you want your other partner to be miserable? Because that's what they're telling you is happening. And if that doesn't matter to you, then it doesn't matter. And so go ahead, think that you know everything, assume that you're right and move on with your life and just whatever happens, happens. But I, I think the idea of it is, is to recognize that just because you've been talking your whole life, doesn't actually mean you know how to communicate with somebody. And there's a, there's things that we don't want to do that are required in these patterns in order to understand the person and actually resolve conflict. Or manage the conflict. Step three would be understanding triggers, right? Share what escalated the interaction between the two of you. Right. Um, this is kind of like, I felt judged, I felt criticized. Um, I felt ashamed. I felt lonely. You know, you said this or this happened and this is kind of how it started to escalate or I didn't like being in this place with these people in this situation. And it starts to help you get a better understanding of like this again is like, I can catch it before it becomes. The problem rather than waiting. And so if you can understand the more awareness you have into something, the more conscious you are of it, the more likely you are to catch it and interact it with it in the moment, rather than it being like something that you're totally absent minded about, feels like it's coming out of left field. So you really want to work to avoid that and validating your partner's triggers. Um, is really important. Stop, don't minimize it. Don't criticize it. Yeah. And that can be hard also in the moment of that argument too, you know, because that's like an easy thing to like throw in someone's face, you know, and then that's one of those things you're like, damn, I should not have said that. Yes. I'm a terrible, I'm a monster. But, and then apologizing. I don't know if that's a step or not, but, um, feel like that's, that's a whole different podcast. It can be. We've already done apologizing. Have we done a podcast? I don't think so. Oh, okay. Well, step four, that is, that is an actual thing too, because I, a lot of people don't know how to communicate and a lot of people do not know how to apologize. It's like, yeah, I didn't mean that. You're like, oh, that was fucking really convincing. You should have asked for that. Yes. There's sincere apologies and then there's fuck off placating apologies. Do you know liver king is definitely not. Yes. Oh, how do I not know who the liver king is? Oh, sorry. I've literally seen his page once. So I didn't even really know who this was. He's just all over. Like if you listen to the Rogan podcast, he stopped talking about the guy. I honestly stumbled upon him one time because everybody was talking about this was maybe months ago. I don't know. But that whole apology came out. He was like, I take extreme ownership of my actions. And I'm like, dude, do you even know what extreme ownership means? Anyways, that was the title on Jaco's book. And yeah, he was like, this, this looks good. Listen, for the record, I don't give two fucks if this person takes it. It's it's pretty obvious. It's just the real question is, do you think his abs are implants? No, I don't know. They don't move. He's the only guy I know that like can sit down and slouch and has like rock hard, perfect abs. And I'm like, maybe there's something to that. Step four. If you saw this person in like in real life, he'd be like, he would look a lot different. That's what I'm going to say. Okay. Take responsibility. This is a really big fundamental step in any relationship. But when it comes from an authentic place, yes, it's the real kind, not the liver king kind. Yes. Understanding what your role was, what the, what you did, how it affected the other person. These are really important things. So kind of like what set me up was I had been very stressed and irritable. I didn't express how much I appreciated towards you. I'd been turning away more. Right. I've been getting easily upset. I've been depressed. I statements are taking responsibility. Right. I haven't been as affectionate. I haven't been as warm. I haven't been as welcoming. I haven't been making the effort. I haven't worked in our relationship. I've taken it for granted. Right. This is what responsibility sounds like. And if you're saying it, just to shine the other person on and the relationship, we'll guess what's going to happen. We're going to know because this is going to turn into a perpetual problem that we're going to continue to argue about over and over again. And then you guys are going to end up breaking up or going to couples counseling. You know what I mean? And so taking responsibility is fundamentally one of the first things you can do to the other person to help eliminate the responsibility and the burden they feel for themselves too. It's the first thing you can do for somebody else, believe it or not. This is a huge part of almost every level of treatment and therapy is taking responsibility and you know, stating specifically to what you regret and what you're sorry for saying the words. I'm sorry. Just really doesn't do much. It's a vague blanket statement. I'm sorry for disrespecting you. Disrespecting you. I'm sorry for being overly critical. I'm sorry for whatever I attacked you when I did this. I didn't listen to you when I said this. I'm sorry for not listening to you, whatever it is, specifically state what you're sorry for, understand how you can change that behavior moving forward. Does that make sense? Okay. And then if you accept your partner's apology, then say so and let it be done. If you don't then say that and figure out what needs to be done to get to that space. Well, that's a good point because I think a lot of people maybe would just kind of keep like bringing it. Like if it's, if it's done, then it's done, then you got to move forward from it. You know, you don't want to like always be bringing that up over that one time. It's like, well, didn't we address this? You know, like we, we had this discussion. We came to a somewhat of a conclusion, whatever that is, that conclusion might not be a green, but we came to a conclusion. We took responsibility and now we have to kind of close that book and move forward. Um, because you can always find something to like, you know, nitpick and someone, but then that's, that's no way to like, that's going to start another argument. Like you're always nitpicking me. You're always doing this. Like you have to sometimes be like, all right, and that's maybe putting that ego and that like pride aside, because maybe you didn't like win your quotes, the argument. You have to be like, all right, here's your side. Here's my side. We took ownership here. Let's close it and move forward. Yeah. And that kind of moves into the final step of, you know, step five would be making constructive plans. How do we create a strategy? What can we do differently to avoid this conflict next time? Um, share one thing that you can do to make the discussion better, et cetera. So make that plan. Um, and share when it's your turn work to make things better than next time. Be as agreeable as you can with your partner in that space because you guys are working to compromise at this point in time and you're working to understand each other and move on, you know, and, you know, one thing that I do want to say, kind of bordering on that comment before we wrap up here is you hear that a lot like we can't keep bringing up the past, but sometimes the past isn't the past. Even though something happened a year ago, five years ago, 10 years ago for that person, for whatever reason, it's still very much alive in their mind. It's still as present today as it was 10 years ago. And so if it doesn't get dealt with, if it doesn't, if you can't figure out ways to continue to bring it up in, in, in healthy spaces, you know, like, uh, I heard Esther Perrell once talk about holding vigil for the relationship, right? If I've wronged you, it's almost my responsibility now to bring up what it is that I did, like if I cheated, it's my responsibility to bring it up. Hey, how are you feeling about this? How are you feeling about my, you know, this relationship or my coworkers or these things? I realized I broke that trust. So now I'm taking the responsibility off of you and I'm taking ownership for it. And I'm bringing what is this painful thing from our past, but I'm owning it. I'm keeping it present. I'm holding vigil for the relationship. I'm doing the work so that you don't always have to, so that I can acknowledge that space for you. Because for that person, even though it happened a long time ago and you're like, it's in the past. Sometimes it's not. Sometimes it is very much a part of that person's present space. And if you don't recognize that, and if you can't see that and you can't protect the relationship, where are you going with this? And so this is a stumbling block that a lot of people fall into. It's like, well, we can't bring up the past. And you're right. You don't want to keep bringing it up. I didn't mean for big things like that.  Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Let's go be friends, let's go do something, let's enjoy our relationship because remember the argument isn't supposed to be the most dominating thing in the relationship. We want the friendship, we want the relationship, the companionship, that to come forward. And don't lose sight of that. And I think one of the things that couples, counselors do too much is they focus too much on this. And like when I say this, I mean conflict management and their arguments and their bitterness rather than being like, tell me what the other person does that's really great. And what are you guys doing to celebrate those things? And if you highlight the strength base from that person, it comes from a different approach and it's kind of like, okay, this argument doesn't as big or as important as weighing the balance of the relationship. All right, so final thoughts on conflict management. There is one key takeaway. I have my key takeaway from the podcast. So what do you go first? Arguments are nothing more than discussions you guys can be having later. Both sides are equal and valid. There is no absolute truth. So sit down and listen to each other and put your feelings aside. Yeah, I would say the listening is really the biggest component here that I've, you know, taken away from this. Every time we do these podcasts, I'm like, oh my gosh, I feel like so many people don't like just get into relationships and do not think about these things at all. And maybe like, maybe now that I'm getting older, I'm thinking about these things more. I don't know. I just, I don't think a lot of people go through these types of things like early on. And then what ends up happening is like later, they have all these issues like down the line. And they're like, I really don't know how to argue. I really don't know how to communicate here. And it's like, because when you first dated someone, you're not like, hey, so how do you want to argue about this? Like, they're just like, I swiped right on this person. I wonder how they deal with conflict. Yeah. No, you're just like, oh, they're hot. You know, so yeah, you're not thinking in those terms, but you are because you're again, your life experiences have happened. It's a new perspective, new ideas. I'm literally like, okay, so maybe, and just, maybe I shouldn't have done that. Anyways, the more that we do these, the more that I'm like, man, we just need to continue to do like some of like the relationship style podcast because I know that there are so many people, I mean, my clients talk about this kind of stuff with me, obviously in a much different level. But this and you know, friends do like everybody has these kind of conflicts with relationship, you know, struggle. So anyways, we're going to keep making this more of a part of the show because it really is so important. We get so many questions about this and just kind of scenarios. So to wrap this up, if you guys have any questions for us specifically for this or really anything else, we will drop the link below and the show notes will submit your question there. It can be a topic or a specific scenario, put rick's contact information in the show notes as well. Just say your email out loud though. You're going to remember this then. Full circle therapy, FL at Tmilkofit.com. Remember that one time I asked you in your other voice, what's my email? Okay. And you can also check out any of our coaching services at tmilkofit.com or you can sign up for our app at redefinehealthyapp.com. So thank you guys so much for listening as always. If you enjoyed the show, please share it and we will talk to you next week.

=== FILE: Episode 264： Goal setting for the new year [U-3TLvZ-BiQ].txt ===

 welcome back to another episode of The Loco Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and today I'm joined by Coach Carina, filled with the giggles. We were just having a whole debate about where do red cherries come from, well first of all, where do maraschino cherries come from? Because you distinguished them as, I like white cherries and dark cherry, and I was like, what's a dark cherry? But where does the maraschino cherry come from? They're not red one. They're like hot... not red. They're like hot red. I'm sorry, I don't know why that's so funny, and I totally ruined the intro. No, you didn't. It's fine. We make it funny because we're funny. And actually, so everybody's gonna be listening to this, the week between Christmas and New Year's, which is kind of just like a weird, kind of a weird week anyway, right? It's always like this, like... No one knows what day it is. And there's so much that's happening with the holiday season, and then wrapping everything up, and then it's like goal setting and all these different things, but that's actually what we wanted to talk about today, which is goal setting for the New Year, and there are so many different ways to approach this, right? Like there's a million different podcasts you could listen to, books you could read, so we're gonna really interject a lot of kind of coaching, anecdotes, and personal stories to make it a little bit more relatable, and I guess you could say fun, and maybe some giggles, because we're just in a giggly mood. I mean, we're normally giggly. Because every time I record a podcast, I'm delusional because I haven't slept. Bro, I think... It's literally every time we have a podcast scheduled, I just don't sleep. We had this scheduled for like weeks too. It's not like we like, like, sprang this last minute. It's just like your body, like your internal clock is like, Oh, you're gonna be on a podcast? Oh, girl. Yeah, my Oro Ring score was like 42 this morning. Has your Oro Ring been like, not staying charged as long? Yes, but there is like, Ring firmware update. I haven't done it yet, but no, there's not... Are y'all taking a note from Apple or some shit? That was really in my head when I thought like, it was just some conspiracy, like I gotta get a new ring or something? No, like you just have to update the software, which I haven't done yet, because I literally just saw it today when I... It's a new off-hat. ...when I saw that I had to score a 42 and slept for two hours and 43 minutes. Excellent. Anyways, watch me do so well on this podcast on NoSleep. No, we're gonna kill it. Goal setting in the new year. First and foremost, I want to open this up and say... Open this up. Like, what am I... Open it up. Open this up. Open mic. Oh my God, that would be horrifying. Anyways, okay. Giving yourself time and space to reflect on the year. And like, this is going to be absolutely essential, no matter what goal you're trying to set, what you're trying to work towards, or what you're gonna try to avoid. If you don't do this, it is just so easy to fall into those same behaviors. So really creating that time to say, okay, what worked? What didn't? Do I need to hold myself to a higher standard? What am I actively pursuing? What am I avoiding? All of those things, taking an hour to do that is so powerful. And I think that a lot of times, we have this idea of what we're doing right or what we're doing wrong, but we often will snowball it into making it either a lot worse or even sometimes a lot better. No, no, I got this. And then when you really take five minutes to examine your behaviors, you're like, girl, what are you doing? We need to work on this. So a big thing is just giving yourself that actual time to do it and literally carving that out. Yeah, I think hindsight is 20-20, right? So use that advantage of looking back and understanding, okay, what worked, what didn't. And then using the mistakes and things you've learned to create a new trajectory, to create a better aim for the following year. Yeah, because without that, everything, like I said, just kind of feels like scattered, you know, and you really want to have an aim for your goals, regardless of what they are. But that aim is not just the positive stuff that you're working towards. It also is the maybe patterns or behaviors or things that you're trying to avoid. And at least for me, like that's sometimes even more powerful than like the thing that I'm working towards. It's like, what do I need to like take away or maybe just not have right now that is going to be a hindrance for me. Yeah, because I think a lot of us go into like a mode of autopilot where it's very easy and comfortable to fall into a lot of habits that we're not serving us. So it actually takes a lot of hard work, effort and mindfulness of maybe I should be off my phone by 8 p.m. Maybe I should make sure I don't have certain things in the house when I know. It makes it really hard for me to stick to a certain dietary goal. Absolutely. So first and foremost, we're going to cover three things for goal setting. And like we said, this is not an exhaustive list. There's a million different ways that you can, you know, set goals and work towards them. But these are really, really practical things that have helped us and our clients. So first, you want to pick a big and large and looming goal, but you're going to need to break this down into steps. And this is really where I think people either they either set a goal that's too big and they don't really have those other smaller steps in place. So then they feel so far away from it or they pick a goal that's so easy that like it's not even really challenging, you know, and you're kind of like, oh, yeah, yeah. Of course I can do that. I'll do it by the end of the week. Well, that's not going to help. Yeah, and then they never do it. Yeah. Absolutely. I think I've seen a lot of clients struggle with the former example you set. So having a goal that's so large and lofty that they're like overwhelmed by all the work that they have to do. And they go, well, I'm just, I'm never going to lose the weight I want to lose or I'm never going to be able to build that much muscle or I'm never going to be able to acquire that skill and whatever left I'm trying to do and cross-flipped, paralypting, etc. But it's like, yeah, if you think of it as the entire marathon, your entire fitness journey is just going to continue to go on forever and it should be big and looming like that is what causes you to grow. It's good to have lofty goals like that, but it, I feel like is unwise to not break it down into chunks that you are able to eat one at a time. And also then it allows you to break things into seasons, right? So it can be like, you know, okay, like say my goal is, you know, to deadlift 300 pounds, right? Like, whoa, we got a while, but I've done it once, one time it was, that was a lot. But like, right, so that's the goal, like I'm not going to get there in maybe even one training block at this point. It could be several training blocks that it's going to take for me to get there. And then same if you have like a large fat loss goal, right? You're not going to probably do that in one diet cycle. Right? Yeah. Say comfortably speaking, like you need to lose like 40 pounds. And of course there could be, you know, that's just a trajectory. There could be some body recomb, there could be all these things. But let's just say you need to lose 40 pounds. Yeah, we could probably diet 40 pounds off of somebody in one like fail swoop because we have, but that's really going to be determined, determined on, you know, is someone starting at a really high place? Right? That's going to obviously be different. But even, even if not like 40 pounds is a lot to lose, even if you are a larger person. So we really need to think about, okay, we could do this in one time, but wouldn't it maybe be more wise to your point to break this up into two different cycles? Yeah. Okay, we're going to, you know, get to an actual maintenance place, be really consistent, focus on these habits. Then now we're ready to diet. We go through, we lose maybe 25 pounds. Yeah. Then we reverse again. And now we're going to gain some weight back, which is understandable. But now we're starting the next diet cycle much lower. And then we're actually going to be able to go down and down. And then that's how you're able to actually attack those goals because losing 40 pounds once means literally nothing. Like do we actually want to lose the 40 pounds? Yes. Then we could say, okay, now that's going to take us a few years. But if you say that like, oh, it's going to take me a few years, then there's no sense of urgency. Right. It's like, oh, well, I'll get there in a few years. Right. And then, but that's where like breaking it down can create urgency for goals that are more so realistic. And so I think too, like just the sustainability of breaking it down into chunks like that. Right. Because you have that reward, that like dopamine hit of, okay, like I've gotten this far. I can continue to keep going. And over time, like I will be able to complete the lofty goal. But that's such an important strategy is if you have a large goal, weight loss, building muscle, building strength, et cetera, breaking it down into chunks and seasons and chapters is going to be I think super wise on both like the coach and athlete aspects. Yeah. And this goes forever. I mean, this goes for personal development. This goes for, you know, studying for a certification, you know, like there's a certification that I'm probably going to start doing and I'm looking at it. I'm like, all right, there's all these chapters. I'm like, okay, no, let's break this down. Am I going to do this? And how many am I going to tackle, you know, in a month? And then all these things, because if I said, oh, let me just cram for it, well, I'm not really learning anything. But if I just say, hey, I'm going to take it by this dead, this deadline, no matter what, and then that deadline gets there. And then I'm having to like scramble and like push everything together. Yeah. It's also not helping. So setting up a game plan for really all things, fat loss, muscle building, health related, especially things that are going to take a long time. This is so, so key. So the second point is going to be discerning between when you need redirection of your goals and then also when you maybe need to be held accountable to your goals. Yeah. And these two things can feel, they can actually present very similarly. So there's like this very tight line of like, where do we like make that turn? But both of those are incredibly important because we can set a goal, right? Let's say it is the beginning of the year for, you know, all intense purposes. Hey, January 1st, I'm going to, here's my large looming goal. Here's how I'm going to break it down. I'm working towards it. And then I don't know, it's May. And now you've hit this crossroads, right? And it's either like, okay, do I need to redirect? Is this goal no longer serving me? Is the way that I'm achieving these goals no longer serving me? Do I need to redirect my focus to other goals and other areas that are more pertinent? Or am I convincing myself that because I'm really like not interested anymore in doing this kind of work towards this goal? And I'm just kind of slacking. So I'm not getting the rewards that I want to because of my lack of focus, which then maybe, okay, now I need to be held accountable. But those two things look and feel very similar. And that will often sound like clients saying, well, like, I just feel like my heart's not in it anymore. And well, that's why like the heart is deceitful. And that's why we don't rely on our feelings. Yeah. Somewhere in the Bible, it says that. Um, I'm bad. Like, I can't remember the verse, but anyways. Um, yeah, that's why, like we tell our clients all the time, emotions are fleeting. That's why we do have to rely on our discipline now. Um, de, we definitely want a client to enjoy the process. So if they do get to a point where like, I am just miserable, then that's a case by case basis. But most of the time when someone says like, ah, my heart's just not in it because there's this one weekend, I really want to go and party on a boat all day and drink all day, even though I'm like 12 weeks out from a show. Like, no. Yeah. We just need to like put that aside for one day. We can get on that boat once your show is over. Um, situations like that. Yeah. Being able to distinguish, okay, do we need to kind of push through this temporary feeling or, um, you know, are we just really needing to be held accountable? And I think that you made a really great point there. Like for that example, right? Like something fun came up and I want to do this. This is maybe going to be ear me off. Well, is this something that is like one time or is this something that has happened, you know, maybe even just a few times? Or is this something that's like nagging and persistent every day you feel this like heaviness and like this just like not an alignment kind of feeling. That's very different than saying I would like to go enjoy this one thing, but to your point, you could probably go do any other time. Right. Um, or I mean, to be honest, you could still go on the boat and just not drink, but that's a whole different. And that's coming from me. So that's like a whole different. If you got a boat, you went Tampa with a boat. We'll bring you energy drinks. Boat plug. Yeah. Free coaching. No, I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. We're really trying to get on this boat. I did not sign up on this. Not Coastal. That's a lot of good. Just kidding. But really, if you have a nice one. Anyways, back on it. It's all gel. It's a weird week. It's not even the week that we're recording this, but we're just in a funny mood. No. A lot of times those are singular events or let's say you had like a crazy week or even a crazy two weeks. And then the client will be like, this maybe just doesn't feel right. It's like nothing would be feeling right at this point. Especially in like philosophies and contest prep. There are times where, and that's where it's so helpful to have like an objective point of view or wise counsel to be like, Hey, I'm here to just like, I know everything sucks, but I'm going to like push you through. That's so important. Oh my God. Yes. Especially when we're talking about contest prep, like that's a whole different beast. You know what I mean? Because literally there are so, there are so many days, especially towards the end, that are so brutal, just given like the low body fat. And there is no logic there. Like there's no logical thinking. It's all emotional at that point, which is why you really have to say, okay, there's a singular goal. Let me focus on this. Let me continue to execute. But on a less extreme example, again, there's weeks, you know, you had a really stressful week at work. You had to travel. You had some family drama. You and your partner had an argument. You got your period, whatever. All these things might happen in one fucking week. And then you're like, no, this fat loss phase isn't working. And it's like, well, maybe this week wasn't the best determining factor, right? Right. Now a month in a row of things happening and then, okay, hey, maybe let's, maybe let's have a diet break. Yeah. We don't need to scratch the whole thing, but maybe, maybe let's adjust our method. And then after a few weeks of adjusting a method, well, let's see. And I do that a lot with clients. Like when we're kind of in this weird phase of like, yeah, do we want to keep pushing? Do we not? Yeah. And then it's like, all right, well, let's at least maybe take a diet break for a few weeks. We'll have a few meals, you know, that are kind of untracked. And then let's regroup or let's go to habits for the next four weeks and work on these other goals that you have. And then, okay, let's revisit it now. Where do we want to start? And that's really where the beauty of obviously coaching is going to come in is because we can be that person who is discerning from a, you know, detached perspective. That discernment is so hard when you're in the middle of it. And it's totally possible to achieve it, but it does take a lot of reflection. So yeah, I would say that there's sometimes it's not just like the goal that needs to be scrapped. Maybe it's like the method of achieving that goal can be adjusted and altered. And sometimes it's just like a tiny, small thing and then everything feels so much better. Yeah. I mean, like, effort fatigue is real. So like just when you've been grinding for so long and then you're like, I feel like either I'm not getting anywhere or I just need a break or a redirection. Like you mentioned diet breaks are super helpful. Deload weeks when it comes to training. And sometimes I'll have people like, de-load for two to four weeks because they're just feeling so run down or just be like, hey, like take a week out of the gym in general, because they're just feeling like this and getting to a point of burnout. And that's not what we want either. Like I want all my clients to look forward to go to train and like I want our plan to make their lives better and not feel like it's adding more stress or it's making them feel worse. Obviously, like there has to be some discipline. There has to be some like self denial in the sense like you're going to have to sacrifice something for a goal that you want. But it's being able to be honest with yourself and know like, am I just a little tired from pushing or do I really need to change directions because like this is no longer the goal I want to pursue. Yeah. And then after that, it's okay. Let's take a few weeks to maybe just reflect on some of the changes that have been happening in your life and your environment and those kind of stressors. And then after that, and when things have maybe calmed down or gotten more normal, all right, let's maybe potentially change our method. And then if after that point, it's not working, then we can maybe redirect. But it is something where we don't want to make these rash changes, especially when there's a lot of things going on in someone's life. I'm not going to be like, Hey, let's just pull the plug on this goal completely redirect because then it's like, that's a whole nother energy source. You know what I mean? But they have to to abide by sometimes, yeah, small changes. Hey, let's, you know, not track dinner or hey, let's get back into tracking because sometimes as much as we obviously advocate for being intuitive and tracking habits, we very much advocate for tracking macros and that making people's lives a lot easier as well. So sometimes it's about adding that back in or you know what, like work is really crazy this time of year, your training is programmed for four days, but three days is more is going to be better for the next month. Well, that's one small tweak that instead someone might have looked at their four week four day program and said, I can't do this. And now they train no days, right? But instead now we're training just three days and now they're hitting all of their sessions. Yeah. So a lot of times we could testify things, be all guilty of this, like I'm just as guilty as everybody listening, you know what I mean? So it's like, it's one of those things like, Oh, well, the week already started getting away. Why is it getting away? Why? What can I change right now that will make things a little bit easier? And I, you know, you still have to make sacrifices. Like this is not to say that every day is going to feel great. It's going to feel like rainbows and sunshine and the fucking gym or you're going to want to eat your stupid meals sometimes. But like you just, that's anything in life. You know, like that's not, that doesn't mean that we need to change your goal because you're like, I'm really tired of chicken. Well, join the club. You know, because like, Oh, we want you to like punish you and make you feel bad. It's like, sometimes we have to do things. It's like, you know, maybe I don't want this right now, but it's what I prepped. It's what I have. I don't have time to do something else and that is going to take me off of this. So I'm going to be here. I think so many people who step into like this world of health and fitness, like for the most part have this mentality of like all or nothing, like I'm doing things a hundred percent or I'm just not going to train at all and feel guilty that they have to go from four to three training days a week. And like, no, like that is way better than you not training at all. It's way better that you maybe track some habits and not track your food at all. And you'd like an idiot. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah, let's not, let's not do that. And that is, of course, that's like the crux of everything that we do is trying to find that, you know, balance. I've always wanted to find a different word besides balance because I really feel like that's not the word, you know what I mean? Because it's not, maybe you still say it structured flexibility. Yeah, structured flexibility. I think is the epitome of all of this, you know what I mean? Like there is some structure and there is some flexibility and we can't have, it's just like flexible restraint. Like you can't have one without the other if we're talking about both. If we're trying to achieve all of these things, we have to have both of them. And I think it's really good to think about it like as a spectrum of like being super flexible and being super strict. We want to be somewhere in the middle. Sometimes you have to like teeter a bit more on the strict side, depending on your goals. Sometimes you have to teeter a bit more on the flexible side, depending on your circumstances. Yeah. And that was actually one of the main things that I actually took away from Andrew Huberman's lecture was, and we talked about a lot of things obviously, it's like a whole hour long lecture, but he rooted a lot of things in a continuum, right? And he talked about sliding up and down the continuum for different effects. So I think that's a really nice way of framing things because it's like, okay, that is now we're no longer like a balance. That means, okay, well, you know, we're never going to achieve perfect balance. So then I guess we'll just be, we're either always trying to achieve that and then we never feel like we are. Like we always feel like, oh, I'm not balanced. Or we're like, well, fuck it, balance doesn't exist. So I must be one or the other here. And then that leads us to feeling not so great either. So the idea of kind of that spectrum of that continuum and like you're, you are choosing how to slide up and down it. And we're talking about, you know, flexibility and restraint. Obviously there's going to be two different areas. But just in general, like your goals, like all of these things, like you can pretty much look at almost anything in that lens. And sure, like being in the middle might be the best thing, but also it might not be. Like sometimes you have to be on either end of that. And that's also okay. But that's where that discernment comes in. And then lastly, for goals, which ties very nicely into this, it's just having support and accountability. And this is so important. You know, no one is going to wake up and change, you know, a habit or a behavior or their life. That's why me and Lauren text each other every morning. Are you up? Are you up? No, we, well, we were supposed to do that last week. We both like effectively were like, she's like, Hey, I need to be held accountable for content. And I'm like, same. Okay, let's do that. We'll, we'll set up a text. I was like, and also can we do like a morning text because, and I need an evening text, like my life is just like, crazy right now. We just need like an automated text service. Are you in bed? Go to sleep, bitch. Yeah. Literally, it was just like yelling at us. It's like Gordon Ramsay's voice over. Oh my God, that would be hilarious. But yes, you're not going to change any habit, whether it's something silly. Well, it's not silly what time you wake up, but like that's a, what seems to be a really small habit, but like something like that, like, Hey, we need to hold each other accountable here. Because that's really going to help us. Like we both obviously are capable of waking up at a certain time, like no shit. But sometimes external circumstances pull you out of that and you just need a little bit of help. So having support is so important. That's of course why coaching is so vital and so life changing for people is because now you are being held accountable in a different way. Right. There's just no two ways around it, but whether it's a coach, whether it's a friend or a partner or, you know, coworkers, whoever it is, doesn't matter who your accountability and your support system is. You are ultimately the one that has to do the work. And, you know, people can sign up for coaching and knock it a lot out of it because they don't want to share enough and they don't want to put in the work to make those changes. And you, we could create the best, what we think plan, ask the right questions, but someone still has to be willing to share and be vulnerable and be open so that we can reciprocate and then they have to make those changes. Same thing as therapy. Like you, I went, one of my first therapy sessions, um, you know, as an adult, I went in and pretty much I talked my way around everything because that's how I know how to do things. And I literally left there kind of feeling like he was like, why are you here? You know, because I was like, and that's how I felt like, Oh, well, I'm fine. I was like, well, I just wasted my time. Like he didn't say anything. And then I was like, well, no, because you wasted his time because you weren't willing to be vulnerable and actually share things that were fucking useful. You talked and danced your way around things. So like you can say, I'm going to therapy or like, I'm on a new training program, but like, are you going into the gym with intention? Are you trying to actually make these changes? So everything that you do is going to come down to that. Um, and you are responsible for doing that work. And that all stems from our daily habits and our behaviors and our mindset. So like, what are some of the behaviors that you find that when you're doing them, you feel better? Like, like it makes everything better. Oh, one thing that like truly is has such a domino effect on every aspect of my life is being very strict about my screen time in the evening and going to bed on time, because that is just one thing that like, if I slip in the wrong direction, I will either be in like a rabbit hole of working on my computer, like in my bed till 11 or midnight or just scrolling because I just don't, don't want to do something that's better for me or more productive, like actually read a book or try to like do some breath work or meditate. Like I just kind of want to like let my brain go on autopilot when it feels good in that moment, but it feels terrible the next day and the following day. It feels so bad the next day. Yeah. I definitely have something to do with the light and the screen because it's not just the, I don't know, there's just something about it. Like literally, I feel like my eyes literally hurt. I think it's just like the, yeah, the shortest, but I mean, besides like the melatonin suppression and dopamine suppression for the following day. But yeah, like you were mentioning, I feel like having an objective point of view, that accountability coach friend or whatever, at least for me has always helped me rationalize decisions that I want to make based on emotion. Because if you have someone who is not emotional and can help you see logic when you are feeling emotional, because it really is hard to make logical decisions and wise decisions when you are feeling emotional, tired, stressed, et cetera, having that person to tell you like it's, it's not that terrible. Let's walk it down. Like you don't have to catastrophize is so helpful. And to piggyback off the last thing you said, man, like I, and I feel like everyone can relate to this in some way, shape or form, like be there, had a friend or family member, like we tried so hard to help. You can bring a horse to water, but you can't make a drink. And so that's the touch on the aspect of we, you can pay for the most expensive coaching, you can have like the best gym equipment in your house. You can have an ordering, an Apple watch, all of the supplies, but if like your intention is not there, if you're not willing to do that work, hiring a coach will not automatically help you achieve your goals. You have to be honest with yourself and ask yourself, like, is this the work I want to do? Hopefully the answer is yes, because we would love to help you get there. But it's also being honest with your thought, honest with yourself in that sense of like, okay, I'm signing up for this. And just having the realization that like there's a lot of work that I have to put in, even though I'm hiring someone to help me, because yes, we do a lot of the work, but like you have to meet us halfway. Oh, absolutely. Like it's not like you're outsourcing someone to wash your car. You know, like, hey, I want this done and I don't have time to do it. Someone else is going to do it for me. Right. Oh, I need to get my house painted. I'm going to pay someone to do that. Like those are transactional things. When we're talking about making internal changes, that is going to be something that can be led and guided and supported, but it has to be intrinsically motivated. And you have to be the one who are doing those things. And I just found that for me, like the, there are certain habits and behaviors that really, really help me. And then certain things that really, really hurt me and like pull me off the the screen time at night is certainly one of them just because like, again, it's, it is so, it's so much easier. I mean, at least reading is not passive to me, like at all. Like if I'm tired, like I'm, I mean, my brain is trying because I don't read. Maybe if I read like fiction books, it would be different. You know what I mean? But I don't, I don't read any fiction books. So everything that I'm reading, like I am trying to be intentional about it. And that's why I've actually started. I've always kind of done this a little bit like underline or highlight, but I, now pretty much will not let myself read unless I can do that because for how my brain works, actively doing something keeps me, even if I don't go back and read that necessarily, just retain it a bit more somehow. Yeah. I retain it. And I'm just taking that effort, that bout of effort more seriously. If I'm underlining it or, you know, doing something, not just like, Oh yeah, that was a cool page. You know, like I'm actually doing that. It's keeping me more active. So like at the end of the night, if you are tired, like, yeah, it is hard because reading actually is intentional. Breathwork and meditating is very intentional and tiresome. I remember I was in the middle of a meditation class like a few weeks ago and I literally was like really trying to obviously channel everything and do all that. And I was like, Oh my God, I am so tired. Like it's, it seems so like ridiculous. But it was like, I was just tired. I don't have a channel that you know what I mean? Because it was like, this is a lot of effort. Yeah. You're not just sitting there. No. You know, like it is very intentional. So to your point, yeah, like scrolling is easy because there was no effort involved in watching something. Yeah. But then that is going to like what is going to affect you in the long term. So screen time at night is a huge, huge one. And the part of it too is like it is comforting in a weird way. Yeah. Like if you're by yourself, it is comforting. Yeah. It sounds like a strange thing. Yeah. Yeah. Like, comforting is the only word I could think of. Yeah. Like comforting, you just like don't feel as lonely like because there are some videos on TikTok that you're like, oh my gosh, this is so funny. I relate to this. Yeah. Yeah. And it's even, it's even different than like watching a show. Yeah. Cause I feel like a watching a show, you're still like observing, but I feel like obviously with social media, you kind of feel like you're in it a little more. Yeah. Especially with the way that people film. Shit. Now like you just feel so like immersive and that's like a little fucking screen. It's crazy. Well, yeah, because like social, like that is the, I think genius, like behind social media, it's like creating content that resonates with you so that you hit that like button so that you share it with someone. And so yeah. I do want to talk about one thing that just popped up because I feel like for whatever reason I work with clients who really struggle with this a lot, but I do know that there are a lot of people who are probably listening to this podcast who've never stepped inside a gym before. And I think that the like anxiety around like going to the gym and like starting that as well. I've just have a few people in mind who I'm thinking about, like just being in their heads and thinking about all the things they tell themselves when they're getting ready to go to the gym, they're like getting dressed and they're like, like I can't do it. And it's, and there are so many strategies and habits that I've helped those people come up with to help keep them accountable. And so I think it's super important for us to create a plan for those people as well. So if you've never been into the gym. And like it's, it is gym intimidation, a little bit intimidating. One thing that has always helped me, even though I've been training for like 10 plus years now, there are still times where I really don't feel like going to work out. Some things that really helped me personally, especially like being in CrossFit is just the community aspect. And one thing, the first thing that I will try to recommend to most people because like, I feel like we do need community. We are like tribal beings is if you're a little bit nervous to go in by yourself and you've never been, try to have a friend.  go with you or schedule a time with someone or like, like scheduling an appointment or a date, like, we are going to me at the gym at this time. Has been super helpful for me, has been super helpful for clients that I've worked with, but what are some recommendations that you would make for someone who's never stepped inside a gym before, who might have a little bit of like anxiety around starting it for the first time, etc. I would definitely say to maybe consider either hiring an in-person trainer or even starting with a group-based gym. So there's some that, you know, if CrossFit, you know, obviously CrossFit is a lot, that's not something that we would probably recommend for somebody who's just starting out, starting working out. I mean, there's obviously modifications, but you know, even like a kind of a bootcamp class style, that works so great for a lot of people when they're first starting because it's going to be high energy, you know exactly how long you're dedicating towards it and it's, you know, Yeah, you're being told what to do and there's a lot of other people there. So I would say that either getting a trainer or going to one of these classes could be really, really useful just because this is now and it also, you know, maybe the one-on-one situation could be a little overwhelming for some people, but now if we're in a group, say it's, you know, like a bootcamp class of 10 people, you know, not all eyes are on you, right, but there's still enough people, but you're still having the guidance and it's still high energy. Yeah, it's kind of like or even like a spin class, right? Like something like that is going to be, you know, like pretty dark, you know, nobody's really going to be, you know, noticing stuff. So you won't have to feel as intimidated there. And then from there, I would say it's really important to continuously push yourself there and say, okay, I tried this, I did this, how am I going to keep going, how am I going to keep growing from here? Okay, now, maybe I did hire a trainer or maybe I'm at these bootcamp classes, maybe I also get a gym membership and go once a week or twice a week on my own or maybe now I step foot, you know, and do this on, you know, alone or I do get a personal trainer or whatever it might be. I think that it is important to, to stick with something that says, okay, I'm going to do this and, you know, make sure that I'm kind of leveling up constantly because it is really easy to fall into that. But dude, even I feel like that sometimes going to the gym, I mean, literally it's been like 15 years of lifting. Like I know what I'm doing. I felt a lot of this, a lot more kind of when I was in that between stage of not really competing anymore, people still knew that. Like I always, I kind of started going in and feeling like, well, people are going to look at me because I'm obviously like, don't look like I'm competing. And it's like, well, it's kind of like that like embarrassment thing, almost, you know what I mean? So that, that's certainly something like, I know a lot of people will struggle with, you know, maybe they had, you know, lost a lot of weight before, then they gained it back and then they don't want to, you know, I've worked with many clients like that, you know, for whatever reason, you know, they come to me, hey, you know, I was at this body cop before this happened. Now I'm here and now I don't know what to do. You know, so I would say that, you know, there might be people who make comments and whatever, but for the most part, nobody's really tell me who it is. Because I will go beat them up. I'm just kidding. Oh yeah, I'm going to do some damage. Cheat them up. Just kidding. Just kidding. Please don't come for me. She like swings from like the CrossFit rope and just like kicks me. Yeah. You just little like, don't do that. I just get so frustrated with people who are like mean and disrespectful. You know, but you know, most people, Protective Karina side. Yeah, whoa. But no, most people are not going to be saying anything, you know. Yeah. Most people, honestly, most people are going to notice it's, it's all internally. I don't really notice anyone because I'm just so focused on myself. I am not thinking about you. I'm like, how do these boots look? Yeah, it lets me honest. Most people are there in their own, they're in their own head, but I get it, you know. So maybe, maybe you have to go to a new gym, you know, maybe if you're like, this is too, like this brings up too many memories, too many past things. So that's like holding you, every time you walk into a facility and all you think about is your old self and now you just have these negative thoughts, get the fuck out of there. Yeah, I don't care. I don't care how fucking good the gym is. I mean, there's a handful of gyms that I would say, okay, that gym's worth it because it's a good gym. But generally speaking, most people are going to normal ass gyms. So if that's you, I would definitely consider moving your environment because if you're putting yourself in a situation where you feel awful every time you go somewhere, you're now going to continue to view yourself in that lens. So it's probably a better idea to maybe switch facilities until, you know, maybe, it's like you would talk about like, looping it back to the beginning, like, sometimes having, you maybe need to have certain things out of the house right now. And some people might say, oh, that means you don't have a good relationship with food. That's too much. That's, no, it's not. That's knowing yourself and having an understanding of what may be challenging you. Yeah. You wouldn't tell an alcoholic or somebody who, Yeah. Or somebody who struggled with alcohol before. Oh, just keep this in your house. It'll be fine. You're not fine. You're not drinking it right now. No. I mean, that's such like a, I understand what people are saying, you know, to some degree. Yeah. I understand the concept and the framework. But at the same time, it's not always a solution. Right. Now, does your house need to be literally just, you know, tilapia and salmon filets? I mean, no. No. Right? Like that's not like, hold up. No, let's not do that. Here we go. I'm in some issues, but let's get some steak in there. Yeah. He's getting, but like, that is not, you know, that's not, we're not trying to say you need to have this like absolutely perfect, you know, environment, but you do want to set your environment up for success. Like that is absolutely critical. Like nobody makes good choices when they have a bad environment. And, and even if you did, why the fuck would you do that? Like why are you making it harder on yourself? Why not make something? You're already doing something hard. Yeah. Make this hard thing easier on yourself. Yeah. It doesn't mean that it's easy. It just means that you're making it easier for yourself. Instead of harder. Yeah. Like you're purposefully making it harder and like the more that you do that, the more barriers you're putting up for yourself. And then maybe, maybe you really need to reflect and say, okay, is this because I'm really too scared to make this change? Because every time you look back and you continuously self-sabotage on something, it's because you don't think that you can actually rise to that level and like make those behavior changes. Yeah. Absolutely. And I did want to like, we've got back to our beginners too. I think that's what I love so much about our app as well. Sometimes personal trainers can be quite pricey, but we provide so many options for training programs. We have video tutorials for every single movement and just everything's very well progressed. And so if you're someone who is stepping into this world for the first time and maybe even a personal trainer is a little bit too nerve-wracking, would absolutely recommend the Redefine Healthy app. Yeah. And we have at home, there is a few different options. So you can choose three or four days of lifting, build muscle or lose fat at home or gym. And 45 or 75 minute duration. So there's a lot of different options that you can choose. And there's a ton of exercise adjustments in there. Like you can make adjustments on the fly if you need to and swap things out. And like you said, the videos, like that was a big reason why I wanted to use that platform because of the videos. And it's been really helpful. So many of my clients who are using it are like, oh, thank you so much. Like I like don't have to like screenshot things anymore or like, you know, like maybe you know most things, but there's like two things on there that you're like, wait, how do I do that again? Yeah. So yeah, we have a lot of really great options on there as well as the meal options as well too. So definitely there's so many ways that you can reach your goals. Like I mentioned, this is not going to be like the only podcast on goal setting, right? Yeah. There's a lot of different ways, but I wanted to, you know, we wanted to break down this framework of kind of how to look at your goals. And first I would really say sit down and give yourself an hour, you know, to really reflect on what were some of the things that worked this year, what did it, where do I want to change, where do I want to like put my focus and my energy this year and then go from there. Yeah. For me too, something that I always do. I mean, at least it helps me. It's like trying to envision where my or what my life will look like if I attain that goal. And if I follow all these steps to attain that goal and what my life will look like, if I don't, and if I do the total opposite, you have something to run toward and something to run from too, which is super helpful. Absolutely. And I think that that's a really critical piece that a lot of people forget about. Yeah. They just see what they're working towards, but then because that's, What are the consequences? Yeah, because that's still out of like sight and out of mind, essentially out of the picture. When we don't achieve it, we're like, oh, okay, whatever, but we don't really realize that we're slipping back into these other things that are actually like taking us 10 steps backwards. And then that's when you kind of look up and you're like, wait, where am I? Like, who am I? That's where those kinds of things. Or it's been three years and I'm still in the same spot. And that's like where it's really insidious. Like it's not this like big thing that happened. It's like these small, tiny steps. Sneaky. Backward. Sneaky, sneaky. All right. So if you guys are interested in the app, like Karina mentioned, you can go to redefinehealthyapp.com, check out that for coaching and more information on that. You can visit teamlocofit.com. We hope you guys have an amazing New Year's, New Year's Eve, whatever you celebrate. We have to go somewhere because I got a cute Ash shirt. So it's a very holiday shirt. The edition. I'm sure it's going to be popping. Yes. Okay, let's do it. Hope you guys have a great holiday and we'll talk to you next year. Bye. So cheesy.

=== FILE: Episode 265： Finding the ideal partner [1HQ1zGYkZEk].txt ===

 welcome back to another episode of the Local Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and this week I'm joined by our team, Mental Health Counselor, Rick, and we're gonna be talking about how to find the right partner. Happy New Year, everybody. This is the first podcast that has been coming out in the New Year. Yeah, hope you guys had a great holiday season. Hope everybody enjoyed their New Year, whatever they did. And yeah, let's get into this. So this is kind of a, there's no one perfect answer here, right? And this is gonna be more of like a discussion. No, there is. I'm gonna give you guys the secret. Oh, the secret. Okay, we're starting off the year with, we're not gonna be like nuanced anymore, guys. We're changing the podcast. Fuck it, we're just bro science all day. I'm just gonna slowly draw it out over the entire course of the podcast. The heck? No, of course not. I don't know. The relationship hacks? Does that our next podcast, relationship hacks? It should be actually like taking all of the like horrible advice that people get online. That would be really good. If you guys have anything that is maybe, maybe you don't know if it's horrible, right? Maybe it could be just questionable, like is this legit? So finding the right partner. Like there are so many people who are like, well, I can't find anybody. I can't meet anybody. So we just wanted to talk through that. This is a fairly common question and one that oftentimes people will struggle with, especially after getting out of a relationship. Usually the end of a relationship, people, not that they necessarily will start therapy, but oftentimes breakups, bad relationships, bring people to a point of pain. And so they're looking for answers and they're searching. And for this, it's a difficult question to answer because it's kind of like, where do you start? How do you find the right one? And first and foremost, and I'm gonna quote a variety of different therapists and psychologists throughout this podcast today. And I guess I would say the first place to really start would be shared values, shared interests. Like, have an understanding of what those things are to you and what you're looking for. What are your values? What are your shared interests with somebody? And I think the other way to really go about this too is to stop focusing on other people and to really focus on yourself. Like I've heard Jordan Peterson give variations of this. Are you the kind of partner that you're looking for? Are you the mate in somebody else that you're wanting in them? Are you that version of them? Are you clean? Are you safe? Are you stable? Are you happy? Are you ambitious? Are you sound? There's a lot of different things, but I think the focus of it is until you can become the person you're looking for, then the work to be done to find that person is within yourself. Does that make sense? Absolutely, and that's where I wanted to start this because I think that that really is the root of everything because if you're in a place where maybe you're not gonna be able to be a good partner or not really sure what you're looking for in a partner, you would probably agree that you're going to attract maybe either the wrong person or the wrong type of people that you've been attracting for a while. Like if you've been dating people who are like have narcissist tendencies and all these things and you're typically drawn towards that or you're really drawn towards people who are broken or avoidant or whatever it might be, right? Like put whatever label on it. If you haven't done that work on yourself to avoid those people and patterns and behaviors, you're probably gonna continue to fall into that, right? Like you would say that you would see that over and over and like why am I dating the same person? Like for the fifth time and it's like you're attracting that because you are either trying to change something within them or you haven't worked on what would you say, maybe like your self-perception of you not deserving that, right? So are you talking about like maybe settling? And there's a, because there are power dynamics. It's not just with people who are narcissists. No, no, no, obviously. That's everybody. I think with obviously, and I'll make a comment on it and then I kind of want to move it aside because I don't want to focus too much on personality disorders, personality disorders in general, like narcissism. If you find yourself where you've dated multiple narcissists, definitely I would want you to start doing some self-exploratory work and saying like what is it why am I finding myself attracted to this type of person, this type of person who's prone to use me, who lacks empathy, who is designed to basically look at me as like I'm here to service you and only exist in the realm of what can you do for me? In those relationships can leave somebody feeling very empty, very used, hurt and abandoned because there's no real emotional connection. And so to me, the work to be done to be, what is it inside you, what's been happening in your life, what dynamics, what things, what are you searching for that's initially attracting you to these people? And don't get me wrong, for those of you who have been in narcissistic relationships, they're very charming initially. And it's very easy, anybody can be susceptible to a narcissist charm because they're really good at reading the room, they're really good at picking up signals and they've been generally created to do this, throughout their life experiences. And so it's just kind of like learning to pick apart, not necessarily what they're saying, but to start giving yourself time. And what I mean by that is, one of the great indicators of when you're finding somebody who is a right match for you is when a person's behaviors start to align with what they're actually saying. And so I try and encourage people when you're dating to ignore what the person is saying because it's so easy for them to tell you what you want to hear, to present the case that you want to hear, to be the person that they think that you want them to be. And in our minds, we do this wonderful, shitty thing where we make the person out to be who we want them to be rather than listening to who they're really saying that they are. And the only way to truly get an idea of who the authentic person is, is to take a step back sometimes, give it enough space to say like, okay, what are their behaviors telling me? If I stopped and I silenced this and I would just to evaluate their responsiveness, their communication patterns, their tendencies to be present in the relationship, what is that telling you? Are they taking the initiative to plan dates? Are they listening to you? Are they asking questions and feeding back? Are they doing things that you want to do? And not just initially, not just within the first like week or two or three or four, but I mean over a significant period of time, I really want people to start evaluating and judging people based off of their actions and not their words because to me, love is best defined through actions and decisions, not as an emotion. I guess it's hard because I think sometimes people want to make sure that like they're doing like the right thing, so it's like, oh, I should be communicating more or I should be trying to plan or I should be trying to be like that forward person. But then to your point, that can sometimes cloud the vision of everything because then you're like, oh, well, like I'm saying all these things and they're agreeing, but is that really what they want to do? Right? Or is that really just kind of masking that they're not, they don't have high motivations to go after this, but it's like this balancing act of like, if you're both just kind of avoid it, like, oh, I'll just wait to see if someone plans this. I'm waiting to see if they're gonna reach out, right? Like that's, I think this really tough dynamic that a lot of people find themselves in now, especially, at least from what I've heard in the dating world and seeing and all that. Nobody kind of really knows where people's intentions lie. So then it's like, well, if you're super standoffish because you're not standoffish, but you're, okay, I'm just gonna observe, but then if that person doesn't say anything, maybe they're waiting for you to say, right? Like it's like how it's like one of those hard things to balance and of course that's gonna come down to communication, but it's really hard to do that when you're first meeting someone. Like it's not, this is not like, oh, I've known someone for months now and we kind of generally understand where each other's at. In that getting to know people's stages, I think sometimes people can struggle with like, well, how much do I say or not say because then I'm waiting to see what their response is, but then if they're thinking the exact same thing, then it's like. Well, and right there to me is it's like, okay, you're somehow filtering your authentic version of yourself and I would rather you not do that. I would rather you be you initially from the get go rather than trying to conform to what the person thinks that they want. And we all do this, right? And I mean, we're trying to get this person to like us. And so, especially if you're attracted to them initially, you're going to naturally sometimes silence yourself. Like they might say something and you might not disagree with it or, yeah, that's fine. Like I love hiking and it's like you've even hiked in like ever. Now all the person's like, let's go to. Google's hiking. Let's go to Tennessee and go for a few hikes. Let's get a weekend and do that here. And I was like, you know, about that hiking thing. Yeah, I lied, you know, and I don't want to hike. And so now you're starting to eventually that dopamine phase wears off that initial honeymoon phase of I like them. They like me. Everything they do is really cute. Even the things that are different from, you know, my personality or my lifestyle, all that is cute. Well, that eventually fades. And when that fades, you're left with the reality of that person. And I always would say to people, the sooner that reality comes full circle, the better off you're going to be because I don't want you being on a date and silencing yourself. I don't want you thinking, well, I can't share this or shouldn't share this. Now by all means, there is too much too soon, right? I don't want to create that environment, but I don't want you to not be your authentic self. I guess I'm also met in the terms of like, okay, watching their actions instead of just hearing what their words are saying. But at what point like someone has to take the initiative. Who is someone always taking the initiative and then someone is always waiting? Or is it like both people are like, well, I'm going to wait for that person to take the initiative because I'm going to wait and watch their actions. You see what I'm saying? Like you could both end up in that situation. So then it's like, how do people navigate that? Because then it's like, well, I don't know what so and so thinks and I don't know what this. So I'm just going to wait. And then they're having that same conversation potentially. Or maybe they just don't like you, which is also could be a thing. And this is exactly where the crux of communication starts to come in. If you're starting to date somebody, if we were dating and I met you wherever at a party or at a club or your friend introduced us, okay. And I get your number and work texting. And I find myself starting or initiating the majority of the conversations in the morning with you. Like I wake up, there's no text messages from you, but so I start the conversations, right. And then you interact with me and you feed back into it. And we have great banter all day or whatever it is. Well, maybe after that first week, I might confront you on that. And I might say, hey, Lauren, it's been really great getting to know you, I've really enjoyed this. But I kind of find myself in this slightly weird position where every morning I'm the one reaching out to you. And I just would like to know if this is something that, do you like where this is going? And so it's kind of important for me to know that you take an interest in me once in a while. And I would really like to hear from you in the morning on occasion. At which point the person might be like, yeah, maybe I've been a little bit more reserved. I just didn't know how to approach this. But yeah, now that I know, great, no problem. And so is that an awkward conversation maybe to have within a first week? Sure. But it's a real conversation. It's a real conversation to say, look, I like you. I'm not just wasting time. I would like to know if you like me too. And one of the ways that you can demonstrate that you like me is by putting effort into the relationship. I don't want to be the only one doing this. And so after that first week, if you're not doing that anymore, now your actions are starting to tell me something, right? It's not just she's new, she's shy, she doesn't know. We had communication. We started to talk about this. Is this an indication that she doesn't like me? Is this just a value of who she is? She doesn't like to be on the phone and maybe I should temper my expectations with that. That's where you start to explore it. But if you don't have that conversation, and this is the part where it's like, I think sometimes people are worried about, I don't want to necessarily say coming on too strong, but they're all worried about like these kind of categories. Like, oh, this is going to be too strong or I'm going to be too awkward. He's going to think I'm a stage five clinger or whatever, right? And so we don't want to be this psycho person who's like, oh my God, I like you. Why aren't you texting this morning? Yeah, like staring at your phone all day is not helping. And so that also, I would ask you to check this against, is this coming from an anxious space or are you generally wanting this other person to engage with you because you're having a difficult time gauging their interest? No, that answered it completely. And I think that that is, that's really tough for a lot of people. And that's what I wanted to get this answer out of this question because I feel like there is this weird space for a lot of people. And then what ends up happening is like, you kind of end up a few weeks in or a few months in and you're still kind of like, oh, I'm kind of casually dating, you know, but then it's like, what, what is this? Right? Or like, where, not even what is this? Like, okay, are we official or not? But it's more so like, where are these intentions? Right? Because for a lot of people, they may be dating multiple people. They may be, you know, talking to multiple people, whatever it might be. So it's kind of one of those things that I think having that conversation upfront, like you said, there a lot of times are this like fear of like this label, but I think it can be approached in the right way. Not like, hey, I'm texting every morning, like do you not like me? It's like, okay, like that wouldn't be, it would be more so like, like you said, I'm enjoying this, like this and that, is this something that like, you know, you want to reciprocate? Like, you know, whatever, like express whatever it is. And then the person could be like, oh, hey, like, you know what, I really like when you text me first. And then you could be like, okay, well noted, now I know that. Like then you have the decision to make, do I want that or do I not? But I think it really is about laying that out. And it's just hard because like I said, there's so many, there is that fear of that label of either, you know, you're too detached or you're like too interested, or, you know, is this person seeing other people and then you don't want to be like asking that right away. But then, you know, there's just a lot to balance. So I think a lot of people find themselves in this like awkward situation of like wanting to know, but then it's like gone too long before they can really, like, well, it's already been so long. I'm not going to bring it up now. And I would tell you bring it up now rather than wait even longer before it becomes this like systemic issue. Logically, that makes sense. But emotionally, you're like, well, already here, you know, and but this is where, this is why we're doing this podcast because I think it's so important just talking with friends and just, you know, clients and just knowing like, this is something that a lot of people struggle with. And this is men and women. It doesn't really matter who the individual is, you know, and I think that people being upfront and honest about like their intentions as soon as possible is nice. Even though it's harsh, like nobody likes to hear like, hey, this is where I'm at or like, no, I can't do this. Or like, but it's better to know that than like again, a few months go by. And then you're like, oh, well, this is even harder. And sometimes, and I think this is an important quality and aspect to really understand within yourself as well. There are power dynamics that exist in relationships. There are some people who are more natural leaders who kind of assume more of the, I don't want to call it dominant role. Let's just call it the leadership role, more assertive. And there's people who generally like to, I don't want to necessarily call it submissive, but like they let the other person kind of just take the lead on things. And so if you're that type of person, fine. And maybe you find, you know, slightly more assertive people and in charge people a little bit more attractive and that's okay. And so that dynamic can kind of play out. There's nothing. Share that early on, like, or, you know, let that just unfold. Some people would say, oh, you should bring that up and say like, this is kind of what I'm looking for. Or some people would say, no, just watch their actions. And then if their actions are in line with what you're interested in, then you move forward. And if they're not, then that person isn't for you. I tell people all the time, I'm not a mind reader and neither is the person that you're with. So the more descriptive, the more communicative you can be, the more expressive you can be in telling me what your needs and wants and desires are, the more I can react and give you what you want. Don't assume that I know, tell me. Tell me everything that I need to know so that I know whether or not this is either one, the right relationship for me or two, give me the cheat sheet. Give me the code to you. I wanna know what it means to love you, to be in a relationship with you, to understand you. I can't, I can figure those things out over time. Or you can tell me. And I can take the guesswork out of it and learn to meet your needs the way that you want them. And I'm not saying that any person's gonna meet your needs 100% of the time, because that's ridiculous. If you're thinking that, here's your reality call. And it's time to wake up and stop being naive in that sense. But I- As you were asking, I feel like there's two competing, I guess, thought patterns as to what to do. And again, I think it can be tough because early on, I'm not talking about someone who's been dating, talking about early on, like it's hard to know, to like, don't wanna come across a certain way or say a certain thing. But at the same time, to your point, it's like people aren't mind readers. So if you're like, no, I want someone to be assertive and dominant and I want them to text me first and plan things and do this and do that. But like, some people would say, well, they're gonna do it if they're the right person for you. And then other people would say, no, you need to communicate that and then let their actions. So would you say, would that be like a summary of that? Like kind of early on and be like, listen, like this is what I'm looking for. Look, and I think some of this relies on honesty, right? So if you're telling me, Rick, I like somebody who's assertive, who's in charge, who texts me, who makes plans. If I'm a person who isn't that way, am I listening to that going, hmm, well, I really like her and I really would love to see where this goes. So I'm gonna now do those things without that being an authentic part of who I really am. So part of this relies on two people being honest, which unfortunately isn't there. So I think some of it is a little bit of a game, sometimes in the beginning where you're like, okay, I'm going to tell you some of the things that I want and let's see how you respond. And again, I think sometimes in the very beginning of a relationship within the first week or two, you are feeling each other out, you're learning. And so I think the more open you are and understanding to those things, like yeah, you're gonna tell them certain things that you want and let's see how they respond. And then you're going to continue to see whether or not this is a facade that they put up just to impress me because now that we're dating, is it still continuing? Or is it starting to drop off? And if it is dropping off, how are you communicating what your needs are at that point? You know, and so it's a little bit of a give and take at that point, but I still would prefer people to be open and honest and understand that yes, there are people who are going to use that against you. There are people who are going to hurt you. There are people who aren't going to be authentic and honest and real. That's life. There's no psychologist or therapist who can guard you against the dangers of the world. That's just you're dating, love is a risk. And I think everybody understands that. Most mature people understand that. And so you are taking a risk. You're giving somebody access to you in a vulnerable space. And you know, you can get hurt in that space. It doesn't necessarily mean that the person who hurt you is a bad person. And it doesn't make you a bad person, but sometimes like this is how you find out whether or not two people are really right for one another. And so it's just that learning space and being understanding in there. I will say too, because sometimes people are talking about, you know, when we're talking about being assertive or a little bit more passive, and we've talked about attachment styles in the past. And so one of the things that relates to or helps people understand this is when we're talking about anxious and avoidant, which is the two most common, you know, and then they're secure. There's also the fourth one, which is anxious and avoidant. But think of it like this. I think sometimes most people are coming from a space of, am I coming to this from like my childhood experiences and who I've been for the majority of my life? I'm more of a person that has a fear of abandonment. Or am I a person that is coming from a space of relationships scare me because I feel trapped. Because they might suffocate me. Because I don't have the ability to feel free, right? And so if you're worrying about the relationship that you're developing as a sense of like, this is kind of trapping me, you might be more avoidant. Where you're looking to create emotional distance and you're much more reserved in the beginning of the relationship because you want to maintain that freedom and that autonomy, right? If a relationship to you is an indication of I'm losing my independence, understand that this is where the work is because the relationship is combining two people, right? And if you're coming from a space of like that abandonment posture, right? Where I'm afraid that this person's going to leave me and I'm going to lose them and what are they doing? And so you're constantly consumed with the individual. You're coming from a more anxious attachment style. And so understanding those dynamics in the beginning of a relationship and what you're looking for and how the person can meet their needs. This is what goes back to you doing your work. Are you meeting your own needs, right? Like here's a great way to put it. Like if you were listening to Andrew Huberman, right? You love him. So I'll put it in his terms. He would call it autonomic self-regulation or autonomic self-soothing, okay? Now what does that actually mean? He's talking about the ability for a person to learn to self-soothe, to calm themselves down, to not look for external factors to create a sense of peace or calmness or rationality within the relationship. Can you provide that for yourself? So if you're an overly anxious person, but I'm looking for my partner to provide validation and acknowledgement and safety, I would say you're entering this relationship in a space that is unhealthy and likely to create higher likelihood of creating more problems. Why? Can't you learn to validate yourself? Can you learn to acknowledge your accomplishments and recognize who you've been? Can you learn the tools to calm your nerves, to use rationality, to make your way through life? You don't need another person to do those things, but if you're not addressing that, but you're bringing that into the relationship, you're not learning to calm yourself, you're not learning to regulate yourself, you're not looking for your internal cues, you're looking for everybody else in the rest of the world to provide that for you. And who better than the most significant relationship of your life, your partner, your boyfriend, your girlfriend, your husband, your wife? Well, that's a lot of pressure to put on somebody. And how are they supposed to be responsible for controlling your emotional state? And not just your emotional state, but how you make your way through the world. And so this is where, when Jordan Peterson is talking about, are you the ideal partner? Are you the person that they're looking for? Because everybody will give you a list of adjectives they're looking for in a partner. And that list is endless. Tall, dark, and handsome, I want them to make money, I want them to be successful, I want them to be in charge, I want them to be spontaneous and creative and yada yada, and a great parent, right? And then you'll hear the same thing on the other side of the coin for women. I want a woman who is respectful and loyal and committed and beautiful and has a great career and understands how to meet a man's needs and give him time and space and all this kind of stuff. What's like, are you that person? If you're not, where's the expectation is that you're gonna find that in somebody else but not provide it for them. And you're gonna fall short. And no one is gonna live up to those expectations. Does that make sense? It really does start with you understanding yourself, having a deeper sense of yourself, who you are, what you want, and then what you're looking for in a partner from that. And I don't think that, I think at least when people are younger, they don't really think about that when they're dating. At least I didn't, I don't think, I know a lot of people who I'm friends with didn't either. I don't know, things are just a little bit easier. I don't, it's just different, especially like in college and things like that. Like there's just so many people all the time everywhere and just different dynamics. But I think as you get older and you develop that sense of like yourself, and then you're like, all right, wait, maybe I really need to sit down and think about these things. Because otherwise, I may be just attracting the wrong people or I may be just falling into these old patterns. And then you know, you continue to ask yourself, oh, well why am I always choosing really chaotic people? Why am I always choosing really huge crazy personalities? What am I going after here? Is that something that I need to observe in myself? Do I really actually enjoy that? Do I like that? Where is this balance? But you have to know your own center and really like what you are seeking. Because if you don't, and if you're not working on that for yourself to that point, you can't ask for that from someone else. You know what I mean? Like, oh, I want you to do all of this, but I'm not gonna bring anything here. Like it should be this mutual, like you're bringing different things, but you're both able to help each other because that is a relationship. And it's not this like one sided thing. That seems to be a weird kind of conversation in the world now. It's like one person isn't going, like you aren't just this perfect person who doesn't get to do anything in the relationship. And then someone is just like going to shower you with every single thing that you've ever wanted. And you're not doing anything to reciprocate. I don't know why that is even a conversation. And I think it also comes to a space of understanding what expectations are, entering a relationship with somebody. Like Esther Perrell calls it romantic idealism. And she's talked about this in a number of her talks and lectures. Romantic idealism is this expectation of this concept that the one person that I'm with, this is the person who is like my everything, right? This is the, my best friend, my greatest lover, my financial equal, my emotional support, the father of my children, you know, or the wife of my children, mother of my children, whatever it is, wife of my children, mother, you know, and so my soulmate, my companion, instead of the list goes on and on and it's kind of like, well, who meets that standard? And so what ends up happening is, and this is the part where it's, I wanna create a little bit more of a picture. People have said over time, many relationship counselors have said, and psychologists have told you that, the quality of your life is defined by the quality of your relationships. And so the first thing I would start to ask those people is put aside the romantic idealism for a second. Let's look at the rest of your life. What's the community that you've created within your life? And what are the quality of the relationships within your life? Okay, who are your friends, your colleagues, your work, your physical space, all that. Because the reality is what has happened over time is, we've taken what the community used to serve as a whole and we've placed all that responsibility on one person. And that one person is now responsible for meeting the needs that an entire community used to be able to meet. And community is more prevalent in children than it is in adults. I have a seven-year-old son and I start, just like for Christmas, his gymnastics coach, which he wasn't in gymnastics for that long. His gymnastics coach gave him a present and he has a teacher at school who is doing fun things with him. And he has his sister's friends who kind of come over for his birthday party. And so you start to look at just my son and you look at the community that he has between teachers and parents and friends and coaches. And it's like, okay, there's an entire community that are actually servicing him as an individual that are bringing him full speed and full circle in life. They're teaching him about right and wrong. There's all these people. Well, as we get older, that community actually shrinks. We don't turn to people as much for support. We isolate ourselves. We're adults now. We're supposed to be able to do things independently. We're not supposed to look for help or ask for help or get assistance. But so then the thing comes around where we're like, well, I'm looking for a relationship. Well, now this is the one person I'm gonna share everything with, but I have no community anymore. And so I'll ask people, like, let's take a look at the rest of your life and what's the quality of those relationships? And are those relationships healthy and good? Because you'll look at people sometimes and all they have is like, well, I have like four or five friends. And so you think, okay, well, that's cool. They've got friends. They've got a little circle. But they have bitterness or anger or these challenges with each one of their friends. And it's like the quality. And so friends are like in their own poor behaviors. You know what I mean? Like, oh, well, so-and-so is really fun, but they drink every night and probably have a gambling issue and they don't know how to save money. And then, oh, this friend used to do this, but they don't train anymore. And they don't, like, you know, having people who are doing these things that are gonna elevate you in a way that, like, again, are you living up to that ideal standard of a person? And I think all of this kind of comes back to, like, if you want to meet someone who's going to be at that level, like you have to be at that level as well. And that means investing in yourself, like, physically, emotionally, like, meant all of these things, you know what I mean? Like, you can't expect to be this kind of, like, not have these goals for yourself, not pursue, like, this high level of whatever excellence looks like for you, and then be able to attract that. Right? Because, like, that's not going to be, and nothing's equal, I hate to say, like, equal, but that's not gonna be, like, you're not coming into this in an equal position, right? And maybe that's the wrong terminology. I'm not sure. Nobody canceled me. But, you know, I think that the idea of, like, you have to be holding yourself to that high standard, if that's what you truly are seeking, then that's how you're gonna be able to attract that. And, like you said, your other relationships in your life are also indicative of that, you know?  obviously, you can't choose your family, that kind of a thing, but the other people that you choose to have in your life, and you can choose to have a distance between some people in your family if they really are obviously causing these hindrances, that's a different conversation, but the direct people who are in your life that you are choosing to seek out for either advice or to do things and to grow and to have fun, whatever it is, what are those people doing as well? And we all have, everybody has crazy group of friends but it's also knowing, okay, I'm gonna maybe see them every once in a while, I'll do something with them every once in a while, but the people that I really go to for advice who are really sound here, I'm gonna go do this and spend the majority of my time with people who are trying to elevate their life or go at least in this similar-ish direction, and I'm going to spend my time there. And that's how you can find people, which I know is kind of how we opened this, I don't know if we really did, see if you're great at tying that all together, but finding people, right? How are you going to, and this I guess doesn't just have to be with relationships, this could also just be friendships and things like that, but I think a lot of people struggle, like, well, where do I find someone? And it's never gonna be something like, all right, we're gonna go out tonight and we're gonna find all these girls or guys or whatever. I mean, you might have that intention, it's kind of like, oh, we look cute, we're gonna go out, but generally speaking, it never really happens, like that's not like a movie, where you see someone across the bar and you're like, oh my God, that's the one, I mean, you might, but generally, you might. You can, and that's how people used to meet though. I know, but, and it's not necessarily that that's the bad thing either, but if you have, maybe let's say you've gone out a few times and you're like, well, this isn't working, maybe finding places, you know, again, those shared common values, like, are you, would you recommend when people are like, well, where should I find someone like seeking out those, like people in those circles, like, where, I don't know, where would you recommend if somebody's coming to you and like, Rick, I just can't seem to find anybody to date, like, I don't know, you know, I'm not, maybe I go in the apps, maybe I don't, I wanna do stuff in person. Like. Yeah, okay, so here's the deal. We as a society and a civilization existed before dating apps. Yeah. You can meet people without fucking dating apps, okay? They are certainly a much more convenient way, but there's a danger that comes with dating apps in the sense that dating apps, the biggest issue with dating apps is it creates this idea that there's so many more options available to you and what we know is if you have too many options, too many choices, then you become overwhelmed and in the past it was like you had one or two choices, right, you would date somebody or you would meet one or two people and you can make an educated decision off of those two people. And so I would tell you, like, tell your friends, you guys have any single friends, you know, what are you doing in your life that you can possibly meet somebody? If you're not the type of person who's going out to bars all the time, that's fine. You know, can you meet people at the gym? Can you, are you meeting people at work? That's where people used to meet. Friends would introduce them, they would meet at work, they would meet at the gym, they would meet within some proximity of their life. They would meet on a trip, they would take a seminar somewhere, they would meet someone and that was it. And see, and here's the thing, they didn't think that there was some dating app of like available singles everywhere. They looked within their community. They looked within the people that were around them and they said, okay, this is who I'm going to date. Nowadays, you can get on, you know, a dating app and you can start talking to women in Seattle and you're like, well, what good does that do? Well, it's available options and it gives you this sense that you're not alone. And it's like, well, there's women out there and so you're gonna start a relationship from a long distance perspective, like good luck. Instead of putting down the phone for a minute and saying like, okay, reach out to some of your friends and say, hey, I'm single. If you guys have any good friends or good people or whatever, who are the available people that you work with? I'm not saying start a workplace romance, right? Because there's certainly challenges with that as well. But that's how people generally meet. Now, do dating apps provide valid relationships? Yes, I know plenty of people who have met not a dating app who have gotten married and have children and have the life that they want. So it's not all bad. Statistically speaking, obviously it's probably it's probably that it can happen. But maybe we're just so old school. But like I just, there's two things. One, I think the unlimited amount of choices can be very overwhelming for people and maybe create just kind of like a false reality, like good or bad, right? But also again, this is always for me, and this maybe goes back to the actions thing. Getting to know someone via texting or messaging is, I mean, I personally as an individual cannot think of something worse, like me. I'm not speaking for everybody, I'm speaking for me. And I would say that a lot of people would probably feel the same, maybe not. I just, that to me, within an hour of being with someone in person, I can tell so much more about them than three months of texting them. Like literally. And I'm not saying that people are on dating apps for three months, like clearly the whole point is to meet people and then get someone's number to meet up with them, presumably. But the just kind of notion of talking to people in that capacity and not saying that you can't get to know someone that way. But it's like, if that's, I feel like that can throw off a lot of people's perception of things because that's just words and that's maybe not actions. And that's kind of going back to what you said in the beginning, like really observe people's actions and not saying that words aren't actions because they are. But you know what I mean? Like I think that the idea that like it should just be through there can be really hard for people because they can't pick up on these things. And especially if it is someone who's maybe like very charming with the way that they text and they're really thinking about their responses and all this. And then you get to meet in person and it's completely different. Whereas if you would have met in person, you would be able to. And this is not saying that everybody who, like, obviously people can be a little awkward at first when you're getting to know them. Like that's totally normal. People are gonna be awkward when you're first meeting them. I'm not saying you have to meet someone and they're like this perfect person. But the idea of being on an app and like just being so, one, the whole idea is just so superficial to me which is also repulsive, but that's a different discussion. Like you're- Don't judge it too harshly. I'm sorry. Again, I don't know. That's just my own personal thing. That's fine. And there's nothing wrong with that, but I agree with what you're saying. Yeah, the idea that like if, what we're saying here is if you're trying to look for people, like there is so much like in-person interactions and like in community interactions that you can be having. And it doesn't just mean that you need to go to a bar. You know, like that's not like some people, especially like, you know, if we're talking about like a club or whatever, like most people are going there. Like they're not like, I'm gonna find my future husband or wife, you know what I mean? Like generally speaking, and you might not say and you can't, you know? But- Every time when somebody tells me a bar story about meeting somebody, I always think- Bars are different than clubs. I always think of my friend V. She's like this really sweet, very pretty friend of mine, old colleague that I used to have. She totally saw a guy in a bar and she was like, this is how her and her husband met. She's like, I like him and she was wasted. And she just like went up to him out of the clear blue sky and was like, you're buying me a drink. Oh my God. Like just sat down next to him, totally picked him up. And then like years later, they have like two or three kids. You know, they're a really great couple. And I was, I always tell her, I'm like, God, your husband's beautiful. Like how did you do that? How did you do that? I'm like, he's stunning. He's so handsome. He's like, I don't really have a choice. Like this girl said I have to buy her a drink. Pretty much. And I'm not like, clubs are very different than bars. Yeah. And you know that. There are, I'm not saying like go to a club, like, you know, understand your environment. But what I am saying is put yourself in a space to meet new people, to do things, look within the community. That's what we're trying to get at. Your entire community, not just, you know, bars, but like where are you going? What are you doing? Who are you interacting with? And this again speaks to the quality of the relationships that exist in your life. And you know, obviously one of the things that could happen in a relationship is you start getting into a relationship and what you see is the person's community start to shrink because then they become more reliant on the relationship and what I would want. The ideal thing is to keep your community alive, to keep those other relationships and those aspects alive. Because then, you know, sometimes one of the issues that develop is one person's got a strong community and the other person's community is kind of shrink. And so one person's like, oh, hey, I want to go out with these friends this night and the other person starts to get lonely or anxious or has problems with it because they don't have those outlets and those friendships and those connections. And so here's another piece that I really want to bring into this conversation. And this is something that has become much more relevant later in life. And I don't think it's a message that many young kids, teenagers get is that relationships to me, the best relationships are ones where they are designed and your role is to serve. Your job in a relationship is to serve the other person. And I think all too often, especially in today's society, we look at it from this individualistic perspective. What is this person going to do for me? I'm looking for these qualities, why? Because they're going to enhance my life rather than recognizing the role that a person has in a relationship is to actually serve the other person. And if I have two people who come to the relationship with like, it's my job to serve them and their job and that person's thinking it's my job to serve them. Well, now I have two ends working to meet in the middle and I don't have individual A and individual B. I just have couple C. And so it's a huge shift in your mindset to say like, okay, what's good for me as an individual might not be what's good for the couple. And if it's not good for the couple, I don't do it, right? And this is the concept in the mindset of putting the other person first. My job, your role in a relationship is really to service that other person to be of service to them. And I don't know if that's a message that younger generations are getting. I think it's very, it comes from this like really selfish space. And I'm thinking to myself like, well, that's a really contradictory message to bring into a relationship. And now I'm not saying don't take this too extreme and become codependent where we're only thinking about the other person and like they only exist and like we're obsessing over that. And I'm not talking about that extreme, but I am talking about there is a very big difference between saying what's good for me as an individual versus what's good for the relationship. And if I'm acting from a space of what's good for me more often than I am in the relationship, you're gonna find more arguments and fights. And then you're gonna wanna tune into our old podcast about arguments and fights. But, shameless plug. Shameless plug for this episode. But I want people to recognize that role. And maybe it's a little bit, as you get older and you've been through a series of relationships perhaps in your life, and you start to recognize, you've changed as a person, right? Maybe your career is established finally and you're in a good space or you're in a different space. And so the healthier relationships, and this is something that on a personal note, this is like, this is one of the things that I've been recognizing and discovering even within myself as I've been looking back and saying like, I was too selfish. I was focused on me, my goals, my priorities, and I wasn't of service to the other person. And I failed the relationship in that aspect. And that's great that you take responsibility for it, but the next step is to make changes. And so I would ask you, you know, when you're thinking about your relationship, how are you really conceptualizing it? Is this within terms of you and yourself and what the other person does for you? Or are you looking at it in terms of like, what is my role and how am I helping my partner become the best version of themselves and achieve and accomplish their things? How am I really investing in us and not just me? And I think that the cultural message now, like you nailed it, is absolutely the opposite of that. Like we are individuals to the highest extent, you know what I mean? Also like this other person should be doing, like the, at least from my perspective, the messaging is like very individualist and it's also like this other person should be doing all these things for me. Well, how does that make sense? Like, you know what I mean? Like how can you expect somebody to do all these things for you and also be an individual, right? Because like, wait, like the math is not math in here. Like that just doesn't add up. And I think that the more kind of traditional relationship or maybe the more, you know, older school message would be that of like service and union and all that. And, you know, thinking to like kind of the current state of where things are at, like it makes sense why there's like, you know, less successful relationships, marriages, all of that, you know? And there's of course a million different reasons as to why those numbers have increased and you know, we're not gonna get into that. But I do think that that is something that a lot of, like the messaging just in general kind of culturally is completely off base with that. And then also I think like you said, it is something that you learn as you age and mature and maybe have gone through things because it's not something that like most people just like wake up and have like in a younger perspective, it might be maybe more codependent thing, you know? But then that's not like that's only one person then kind of serving and the other person isn't. So I think that message is really, really important but it has to be like, all right, this is where like both individuals are at and until you're there, it's kind of like, but that's the tough thing. It's like, okay, so until you're there, does that mean you don't date at all? You know, no. And I know this is a rhetorical question. Right. But you know, but understand that. I think with age and life experience, obviously with life experience comes age too, you know, you become a little bit more aware of the reality rather than the fantasy rather than creating this like strict set of ideals, right? And I don't want to call them, you know, just a fantasy, but it's like, okay, I think you develop a sense of what you think the world is and then there's the reality of what the world actually is. And I think sometimes through those life experiences, you start to recognize this is what it actually is. And it's not what I thought it was. And so you're starting to, what we call come of age, so to speak, you're starting to mature, you're not a naive person anymore. And so I think you can start to grasp that concept a little bit more versus, you know, younger kids who are growing up with just this sense of, I'm an individual and I'm the only person that really matters and this is what's good for me. And this is where, you know, we can get into child development and all that kind of stuff, but, you know, I think children oftentimes are very selfish and self-centered and it isn't until you get a little bit older that you start to recognize and start to feel a little bit more attached to the community and the people that are around you and recognizing what your role and what relationships really are. And so it's just, it's an important aspect. And I don't think it's talked about enough and committed serious relationships. And I don't think it's a message younger generations have gotten. Definitely not. But what would you say when people are interested in dating and they're not maybe sure that they're there quite yet? Right? Like is this something that you believe unfolds in the relationship? Or is this something that you think needs to be like, kind of how we talked about before, like you need to understand like your own values and like who you are and what you're interested in before you date someone, right? Like that should be something that you're working on yourself. Would you say that for people who are, who are maybe single or dating, if they're not in this headspace that maybe they should be forward to someone about this or they should not be dating, right? Like where is that line of like, maybe you have that understanding like, maybe I'm not there quite yet, but I would like to be, or is that just something that you see kind of develops over time? Look, if you're a train wreck. Okay, I'm not talking about a train wreck. But like what you described is like pretty serious, you know what I mean? And not everybody is maybe at that stage quite yet, is what I'm saying. You're gonna date regardless of what my opinion is on this, but I want people to be, you can be aware of something and be working on something and still date. You don't have to be this pristine version of yourself and figure out all these things like no one does. I don't, you know, and every person, combining two people when you meet somebody is an art a lot more than it is a science at times. You know, and so if you're working on yourself and you're aware of these things and you can look at past relationships, all of them, the ones with your mom and your dad and your brothers and your sisters and your friends and the quality of those relationships and what the quality of the relationships are now, you know, you can do work and enter into a relationship and still have it be successful because one of the fundamental factors of successful relationships is your ability to grow together, right? So you could be completely put together in your 20s, right? But we've talked about this. By the time you get into your 30s, you're gonna be a very different person. That doesn't mean you're gonna fall apart, but it can mean your perspectives, your opinions, your views on the world are going to change. And so if your value system has changed, are you and your partner growing together? Are their value systems changing and they're moving in the same direction? Do we have some of the same goals? Do we have common interests and shared interests? And that's another thing. Have a few shared interests with somebody. When somebody is so different from you, where's the commonality and the common ground to stand on? Now I'm not saying you both have to be like bodybuilder competitors, you know what I mean? I'm not saying you both even have to love the gym, you know? But it's like, do they have a passion in their life? Do you have a passion in your life? If you do, great. But what similarities do you have together? What common interests do you have where you guys can share that? You're like, oh, I love country music. You love country music. Great, like there's a commonality. We can go to concerts together, right? Lauren just gagged for those of you who are listening to this. We're all in my head. Sorry. EDM, do you like EDM? I like EDM. Why is that the, why did you change your mind? I don't know. Why are you looking at him like, why did you do that? I don't know. It's about just their beatboxing. Oh my god. Let's stop. Let's know. Let's know. But yes, having common interests, having things that you can do, obviously having a separate life, separate friends, separate things that you do on your own, but having those common interests to be able to like, let's do some of these things together, you know what I mean? And they don't have to be big things. It could be similar kind of music or like movies or like, oh, I love this kind of food or like, I love trying this, like whatever it is, you know, and there, there certainly can be differences because sometimes obviously, you know, you probably argue being too similar could be of a hindrance as well, right? Because then you're only maybe kind of blindsided to certain things. Anyways, there has to be something there. And that's where maybe when you are more secure and you're kind of like beliefs and things that you're interested in and, and what you're working towards, like you will find people who are kind of in those spaces because they have those similar interests as well. If you're going to like business conferences, right? Like you're probably going to find other people there who are probably interested at least in like being an entrepreneur or working harder, you know, whatever. So it's like, okay, like at least we have common ground here. Maybe everything else is completely different, but like, that's going to be like a place to start, like people here are interested in the same kind of thing. You know, obviously the gym is like an easy one, right? Like, okay, you're at the gym. I'm at the gym. We both like gym, like, right? Like, so there's going to be certain things and not saying you need to go to the gym. Be like, so you want to go on a date? Like, maybe not do that. Well, there's a, yeah, approaching somebody the right way. You like start stretching on the next machine. Like, so do you like country music or radium? Your face will tell me how I'm going to proceed. Yeah. Well, okay. That's actually not a horrible pickup line. If it's, if it's used, not a pickup line, but an entry into a conversation. But yeah, so there's going to be, there's so many different aspects to this, which is kind of why we just wanted to have this like open discussion because there's not really one, there's so many ways to approach this kind of common question, you know, but I think it really comes down to like knowing yourself, knowing who you are, knowing who you want to be, what you want out of a partner, what you want out of a relationship. And then you will start to attract those people and then really being like forward and communicative early on, right? And I know that like to try to summarize what you were saying, like, you know, can feel uncomfortable at times, but it's better to feel uncomfortable a week or two in versus three or four months in and you're still kind of unsure. So like what's going on? Because if that person is on that same page with you, they will totally understand, you know, and then if not, then it's like, all right, well, maybe this isn't the right time or the right person or whatever it might be. But I think that a lot of people now, especially really struggle in that initial period because everybody is kind of tiptoeing, like, I don't know if I want to date, if I want to date multiple people, if I'm kind of want to be single, but maybe hook up. Like, like everybody's kind of in this weird space of what's everybody's deal, like what's going on. And so I think that being more communicative early on, and then to really summarize what you said after you have been then observing those actions and behaviors and not just the word that someone is saying. Would you say that that's like a good summary of what you said? Yeah, you know, remind yourself that when you're looking for the right person, look within yourself. It's not about the other person because you can't control who's going to come in and out of your life. You can't control who's going to be at these places, at these destinations, but what you do have control over, you absolutely have control over yourself, your actions. So are you working on yourself? Are you becoming, if you're going to put this in like maybe actionable steps or kind of like a one, two, three, four, first and foremost, recognize, are you the partner you're looking for in someone else? Number two, learn to self-regulate, learn to calm your emotions and learn to acknowledge and validate and recognize and understand that you don't need a partner to provide those things for you. Number three, stop expecting the one person that you're with to be everything in the world to you, that like romantic idealism goes out the window, look to build your community. Stop putting the enormous amounts of pressure on this relationship and this relationship only to meet all of your needs. Be communicative. Communicative. Learn to express your needs and be uncomfortable. It's going to happen. But if this is the person who you're intimate with, then be intimate and express and touch into that vulnerability and create safe spaces for each other to do that, to express your needs, your desires, your interests. And remember that if this is a relationship and you're not just looking to date, which again, if you're dating multiple people, you're not doing yourself any favors here. You know, it's, there's a difference between dating one or two people versus if you're pulling up your app and you're talking to five, six, seven people, you're wasting your time. More than likely, none of those relationships will evolve into anything, but recognize that the role in a relationship is to serve. And if you're looking, if I have two people who are putting each other's needs first, then the relationship is really going to come from a really healthy, productive, fulfilling space. It'll have more meaning, more purpose to it because you won't feel alone. You'll feel like you have a partner and you'll recognize like, I'm putting this person first, they're putting me first, which means the relationship is coming first. You're not coming at it from individual perspectives. You're coming at it as a couple, as a unit, as one rather than each other. And so those are some basic kind of guidelines, you know, and get out. You guys like get into the community, talk to your friends, reach out to people, go places, do things, experience life, challenge yourself, take new experiences and opportunities and do different things. And you'll be surprised who you interact with and who you meet with and who your friends might hook you up with and who might walk into your life that day. And when they do, you'll be ready for it. And if you're working on yourself, that's the best thing you can do for a relationship. That's why I was asking those questions. Like, don't feel like you can't get into something if you are still working on it. Like nobody is perfect. And I think sometimes people can hear stuff like this and they're like, oh my gosh, I have so much to do. Like I can't be dating anybody or I'm not ready for this. And maybe you're not, you know, but the idea is that this is a constant process. So don't feel, don't judge yourself so much if you're like, oh, I need to be working on these things. Like it's okay. Like almost everybody is. But knowing that and actually committing to that work, even if you are starting to date people, of course, is super important. That's not a pass now that you, now that you're dating someone, that you get to stop all of that. But don't use that as a way to, to, I guess, scare yourself out of, you know, looking for something. So yeah, so this was a little all over the place, but I liked it. I'm glad we touched on a bunch of different things. And hopefully we summarize that for you guys pretty well at the end there. So thank you guys for listening as always. So if you are interested in reaching out to Rick for counseling, you can check the email below, but say it full circle therapy, FL at gmail.com. I was like, look, you got it on. Okay. That's the email. If you guys have any questions about coaching or the other content that we put out, you can visit team look at that.com. And if you are interested in signing up for our app, you can visit redefine healthy app.com and we will talk to you guys next Wednesday.

=== FILE: Episode 267： Getting over a breakup [T4YPLl0u96U].txt ===

 recru Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood podcast on breakups. And honestly, I think most people can attest to this being one of the hardest things in terms of like, you know, obviously when you're getting broken up with, you know, like that's generally speaking, there's not a breakup where it's like, Hey, we're just both mutually done with this. Like there, of course, are times where that happens, but I would say, you know, 98% of the time my face is sick, but probably most of the time someone is going to want to initiate it. And the other person is going to be very hurt by it. But there's still of course, the person, even if you are initiating the breakup, you're still going to be hurt. It's just going to be in a different way. So breakups all around are really hard. But of course, sometimes it is for the better for a lot of different reasons that we're probably going to discuss. So I'm interested to get into this from like a psychological perspective and not just like a pop psychology kind of, you know, whatever the hell is rampaging TikTok nowadays with advice. So this will be real actual solid psychological advice from a therapist on breakups. Well, so yeah, this is an unfortunate byproduct of dating and not just dating, but connecting to and attaching your life to another person. Breakups are not specific to any particular age, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, like it crosses every boundary and barrier that we have. And at the end of the day, no matter where you're from or who you are, it hurts. And there's, you know, breaking up is probably one of the most difficult things most people will encounter in their life. And what I've seen from it is that it mimics in many ways the same response that we have when we have a death in our life. Most people are pretty familiar with the Kubla Ross five stages of grief and loss, which those five stages are denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance. And so what is denial look like denial is like this inability to accept the reality that this person no longer wants to be with you or that they've ended the relationship with you. Anger can look like a lot of different things, everything from, you know, slashing tires to, you know, talking about how much they hate the person, you know, to fits of rage, just being even irritable or annoyed or frustrated, you know, their, their tone, their personality can change. Bargaining oftentimes looks like, well, maybe if I do this, and if I change this, or if I was really listening, like maybe I could have done this better, I've done this differently. If I do this, then they'll come back to me. And then, you know, depression is a fairly common one that most people will experience usually, initially. Sometimes denial happens at first and then depression usually is the one that is the most painful for people to work through. And the thing I also want people to understand too about these stages of grief and loss, and stages of breaking up with somebody is that you can go through all these stages with the exception of acceptance really at once, like you can vacillate between them, like you might be angry one day and then the next day be really sad and then find yourself kind of negotiating or bargaining with yourself. And then, you know, go back to angry and then go back to depression. So you can kind of bounce back and forth between these, you might even get to a space where like, some days you're totally okay accepting the relationship and you're like, okay, I'm fine, I'm really great, I'm totally over this. And then see something, hear something, be in a place and then be thrown right back into it. So just understand that this is a process. Unless you totally checked out of the relationship, like months before it ended, you're going to feel a certain way about it because breaking up is really hard. And one thing, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to kick you. One thing that you said that I really appreciate you saying is that even the person who's doing the breaking up, like the person who's saying, hey, I don't want to be in this relationship anymore, they get hurt too. And a lot of times, no one, people don't like to admit to that side of it because when you're the person like when I've been broken up with, it's hard for me to feel like anything other than the person who's been victimized in this particular space or the person who's been hurt. And I'm like, you mean, well, if it, and here's, here's my favorite, well, if it hurt you, and you're really bothered by this, then why did you do it to begin with? Right? And so sometimes it can reopen that negotiation, that bargaining, that kind of comes with it, you know, but sometimes it's not so much about the why a relationship ended is just that it is dealing with the idea that the relationship ended. And I think what makes it difficult for people to want a different level is that even with death, death is kind of a final thing, right? Like it happened, this person's no longer here. I'm really sad. I'm going to grieve this. But then I move on with the relationship. It's relationships have an ending, but there's the knowledge that one day this person's going to find somebody else and move on. And so that can be hard. And we're not just grieving the loss of the relationship, but we're also grieving the loss of that person from our life and from the future that we've created either together or in my mind. And so that hits on a deeper level, which is why when you enter into a relationship with somebody, you know, you really want to make sure that you're, you're doing it from the right spaces because if you don't, I mean, even if every relationship with the exception of the one that you're in for the rest of your life, you know, usually comes to an end and it's always hard. Yeah, it's hard no matter what. But I do think that like when you were talking about those stages of grieving, would you agree? And maybe I'm incorrect here, but that some people can go through that before the relationship is over. And like you said, like, somebody's maybe already checked out because they've already gone through these things. And then when they do break up, like some people be like, Oh my God, how did you move on? Or how did you do this? It's like, Listen, I was already going through all of this before. And then now we're just kind of like finalizing that. So I think that this like the timeframe of this and like you said, you can kind of oscillate between all of these feelings. Like this is all normal for the person who is being broken up with also the person who is initiating that. And this all comes back to and I think that the overarching theme of a lot of the relationship podcast that we have is taking this kind of mature stance on like when you are going into a relationship, of course, like again, sometimes they are going to end no matter how great your intentions are, like that's not, you know, most people's end goal. But I think that there are people who, especially when you are younger, like you get into relationships and maybe you aren't thinking in that capacity. Whereas it like as you as you mature and you get older, it's like, Okay, I need to make sure that I'm in the right place to give a lot because like all the podcasts that we talk about, like these, this is like a lot of work. And I don't say that in a negative connotation at all. Like it's a positive thing because there's a lot of benefits to having a partner. But that doesn't mean that there's not a lot of work and you have to be realistic with yourself and with the other person of like, I am not capable of giving this and a relationship right now. And I know that this, whatever all that is, is what is needed to make this like last. And I think that some people like, take that selfishly, right? Like I've been in both ends of those, you know, saying that or also being on the other end of it. And it's like, it really hurts when you're on the other end of it. But ultimately, if that person isn't in a position, the other person is in a position to actually give enough to the relationship, well, then being honest before things even really escalate to a deeper level, you know, months or maybe even years in like is honestly like the best thing. And obviously that's not even talking about breaking up. That's talking about like the pre, you know, getting together. I didn't want to say that. There was an old saying in Vietnam that it was like, you talked to some of the veterans and they were like, if you were going to die, it was better to die in the beginning of Vietnam than it was at the end of Vietnam, because then you didn't have to suffer as much. So I think sometimes you can start with the best of intentions. And I think most people do. And let me also put a caveat out there. There's a difference in breakups. And what I mean by that is there's a difference between the couple who breaks up because of disagreements or growing apart. Or emotional distance or like a change in values versus relationships that end as a result of affairs and abuse. And so I don't think all breakups are equal because they're not. And, you know, I've seen people break up after just a few months and still be just as devastated as a person who's ending a 20 year relationship. And so sometimes it's not even about the quality of the time that you guys spent together as much as it is, you know, sometimes what you thought or believed the relationship was going to become or would one day be isn't. And so that hurts. And it's not to be taken lightly. And I think sometimes one of the dismissals you'll hear from people is like, well, you just, you know, you were just dating this person for like a couple of weeks or a few months or whatever it was. And it's like, that doesn't mean that they didn't have higher hopes for that particular relationship. And, you know, and so I think sometimes if you can be at least honest enough with yourself to say earlier in the relationship, if I know that this isn't, you know, what is going to become my lifelong relationship to end it then. Sure, I agree, it's better to end something after a few months than to wait like several years and then end it later. But at the same time, don't underestimate the pain that's going to be caused by it. Oh, for sure. Like there's there's always pain. But I guess just like a note that I like a mental note that I've made as we're going through a lot of these podcasts is that like, there is a lot of effort and work involved in relationships. And I think that there are still some people who maybe take the viewpoint that it's not. And that's where a lot of these I think breakups can occur. And there's a lot more pain that happens that maybe is unnecessary. And until people actually realize like, man, am I actually ready for this? Or just being honest with like, this is what I'm ready for. This is the capacity that I have. Are you on board with that? Do you want less? Do you want more? And obviously, that's hard to talk about in the beginning. But I think that it's, again, it's super important to discuss because everybody's going to be in a different place when you meet them. And like, yeah, going on a few dates is great. And like getting to know someone is amazing. But then okay, like now, now what? Right? Like, here's what I can give? Like, what are you ready for right now? What are you interested in? And like, that's always the challenging conversation. But I think that that could save a lot of like this heart ache that we're going to talk about. It's still going to be hard and it's still going to hurt. But I think that just being honest with yourself, that does take a certain level of maturity and understanding, you know, but I do think that that's super important. Yeah. And you know, life circumstances can also start playing a role into what you thought you were ready for and what you weren't. And so like, you might think I'm ready for this, and I can do this. And then you start getting into it. And you can quickly realize like, oh, crap. Right. And this is where, and I'll kind of reference this later, you know, when you go back to when you think about some of the other podcasts we've done on like theories of personality, and like, we're talking about Carl Jung and like the shadow, and kind of the essence of the shadow is learning to for the other person for all of us is learning to accept and see the fallibility in other people, how flawed we are, right? Not just our imperfections and that we don't handle things perfectly, but sometimes we're we do hurt people, we are capable of doing things. It's the idea of understanding that side of this is also recognizing that sometimes relationships aren't ending because the other person's terrible or awful or mean or because they were cruel and insensitive. It just means that I can accept the idea that like, okay, this relationship is ending. And the things that happened in it, I don't necessarily have to hate this other person for what they've done. Like I can see in them and understand and accept how they were fallible, how they mishandled this or mistreated me or did these things that were wrong. And I don't have to spend so much time feeling hurt when I rel when I can recognize that their actions while hurtful are still part of the human spectrum. Right? And so it's a little bit of a like disconnecting emotionally from that person and saying like, okay, because here's here's one of the things that I see. And this is this is where I'm going to spend the majority of it. And I'm going to give you guys some, you know, tips and things to do. But what ends up happening a lot of the time is when a person is going through a breakup. And they're the person being broken up with there is a tendency to vilify the other person, right? And what I mean by that is, I don't just mean like painting the person is evil. But what I mean is they put so much of their time, their energy, their attention into the person that broke up with them, rather than by spending your time and effort and energy on you on healing. And so I think sometimes what gets lost in a breakup is you spend a lot of time focusing on the other person and not enough time on yourself. And I don't mean in yourself in terms of making yourself like a better human being. But I mean like focusing on what I need to do to heal from this relationship instead of staying in this hurtful emotional space. Does that make sense? And would you say that some people probably do that because they're thinking, okay, well, if I change this, or if I focus on that, then maybe we'll be able to get back together. Do you see that as a common thing? Or is that more, is that different? That to me seems a little bit more like bargaining. Okay, right? Like if I'm like, well, if I change this, or if I do this differently, maybe they'll come back to me. And so I'm holding on to the hope that maybe this person's going to come back. And maybe they will. I mean, I don't know, like, I think you really need to dissect the relationship and understand like, what did the person say? How final is this, right? Is this a kind of common trend for them? Are you guys the kind of couple that like break up and get back together? And, you know, in this kind of stuff. So it's difficult. Or is this like, hey, like, this is just not the time and this is, yeah, more final. Yeah, if it's if it's more final, like, and you know, and they know, and it's been said, then the amount of time and effort people put into worrying about the other person is just time that's not spent working on yourself and healing yourself. Because if you focus on, you know, if you focus your time and attention on other people, then you're just staying stuck in the same space. And you're not growing, you're not changing, you're not evolving, you're not getting back to a space where you can fall in love with somebody else because your hurt feelings still exist over the previous relationship. And that's where processing through all of those emotions from the past relationship become, you know, really relevant. And if you're not doing that, and then you're jumping into another relationship, like, you're not giving yourself or that other person a chance for that relationship to be a success. Yeah, that's kind of going back to the first comment I met, like pre-relationship, right? Like, where are you even entering this from? Like, where is the space that you're entering this from? And the way that people define dating now is so different and unique. So, you know, they might not even care, it might just be super casual for them as well. But that's where understanding, okay, like, where am I at? What capacity do I have to like give to someone and just being, you know, pretty honest in terms of that. So, okay, so a lot of times you said people will vilify the other person and spend a lot of their time focusing on them. Which is normal to a certain extent because they think part of that is the anger face, right? Like, and we've got to give that its space. Yeah, even the person, I would imagine who is doing, like, who is breaking up with the other individual, they're also remembering all of that, like, oh, this is why I broke up with them or this or that, you know, like, there's not like they're just like, you know, mostly don't just break up with someone and like wash their hands of it, like they're thinking of those things as well, but in a different kind of light, right? Yeah, I think reasonable people are doing that. Oh, okay. You know, what would be an unreasonable or something? You know, kind of the people who are more pathological. Oh, who just don't give a fuck. Who just don't care or who are being cruel to be cruel or, you know, they're playing games or doing whatever that is. And the lesson that I think one of the things that I would definitely tell people is even if you're the person who broke up with somebody or you're the person who ended the relationship, you have your work to do too. And I think sometimes like it can be if the person's breaking up, sometimes people will have the mindset of well, I'm breaking up with them. So the majority of the things were wrong with them, right? And the other person who's being broken up with might be like, well, I did nothing wrong, everything was this person's fault. Okay. And so for me, because I've been on both sides of this too, you know, if I've ever had to if I've ever ended a relationship with somebody, that to me is more hurtful than actually being broken up with. I because I, me personally, I carry that with me for a really long time. It is not something that's easy for me to get over. It's it's much easier for me. And I don't know why to rationalize somebody else now wanting to be with me, then it is for me to have to reject somebody else in that capacity. Or to just say like, look, this isn't it. And I think part of what what makes it so hard for people on the breakup side of it is you get into a relationship and you want to give the other person the best version of you. And what I've recognized is I didn't give them the best version of me. Like, so, even though you might have, I might have ended the relationship. The hardest part is being honest with yourself later and recognizing like, fuck, like, I didn't go through the pre checklist and do everything that I should have done. I wasn't in the best emotional space. I wasn't as attentive. I didn't give or respond to bids in the right way. I wasn't as great at communicating. It wasn't as open or as intimate as I needed to be. There's a list goes on. And so that part of it for me is worse than somebody being like, yeah, Rick, I don't, you know, this relationship isn't going to work. I don't, you know, I don't like you anymore. Here are some things that's like, okay, I'm going to be hurt and go through those steps. But I rebound much faster from that than I do ending the relationship because it usually means to you that I'm also coming to the realization that this person's not going to be a part of my life anymore. Would you say that in your experience with counseling that it's it is predominantly that way? Or is it the other way around? Usually when people are coming to counseling, it's because they've been broken up with. Okay, so I see that side of it a lot more than I do the person who's coming to me being like, look, I broke up with this person and I'm feeling like shit over it. True, right. So it's kind of hard to say, but I do see that a fair amount in counseling where, you know, in sessions where people are talking about something and they're like, I feel really bad about the way that this relationship went or I feel terrible about how things ended with this person. And to that, I say, like, okay, like, let's, we can talk about that. Like, this is the opportunity for us to grow. You know, and I, and this is the only way I can think to help people understand this. And this is the way I've personally carried it within myself is that if this person meant something to you, right, if this relationship or the value of this other human being meant something to you, then the only way sometimes that you can pay homage to that relationship or show them the value that they have is by doing the work now to not repeat the same mistake later. Right. Because inevitably, if you guys can wrap your head around it, especially the ones who are going through the breakup right now, I know right now that might seem impossible. Right. If you're hurt, if you just ended a relationship with somebody and you're in this, in your in that space where you can't see the future with anybody else, no one else is attractive to you. Like, I get it. Like, in time, in enough time and enough work, you will eventually feel differently. I promise. I know right now, it seems impossible. I've been there. I think everybody has been there at some point in time. But eventually, there will come a point where you've moved through the anger and the depression and the bargaining and you're in acceptance. And what that means is you can wake up and like suddenly, you'll start to see somebody new. You'll start to feel attraction. You'll want to put yourself back out there. You'll open yourself back up for loving it, even though right now it feels impossible. You can do that. But I think for me, the people who have struggled and even in myself is to say, like, okay, where did I go wrong? What did I do? You know, because it's not just like, okay, the relationship didn't work out. What part of me failed that relationship? And that's the, that's like a dagger to my heart when I'm like, fuck, like, how did I fail this other person? Yeah. But like you said, you have to do that in order to not repeat that because you don't want to do that to somebody else and you don't want to feel that way for yourself again, either. So it's beneficial for really everybody involved. It's just really hard, especially kind of in those early stages. But I think that yeah, a lot of times, and again, this maybe is just more of like kind of a mature outlook on things. And this is not just mature in terms of age. I mean, it can be but just in general, like, I don't think a lot of people really go through like, people have an idea of what they're interested in, you know, in terms of like, Oh, you know, I like this about it. But like, okay, what are you actually looking for in a partner? And what, what type of partner do you actually want to be? Because those two things are super important. And I don't know, maybe, maybe everybody else says this kind of missed the boat on that at some point. But like, when I first started like really digging into that, I was like, man, I mean, of course, I've sought of certain things, but never really like sat down and was like, All right, what are these things? Like, what am I looking for? Who do I want to be as the partner? And I think that if people are able to do that, they're going to be able to really be able to go into things. And again, hopefully not break up, but let's keep it okay. I know now we're going on different stuff in terms of finding a partner. So we're not talking about that, we're talking about breakup. So say somebody got broken up with, right? What are some things they can do? Yes. We're like, before you break up, no, okay, so it's already happened. Okay, on whether the circumstances were your fault, their fault, both faults moved apart, whatever it might be. What are some things that you as the individual who has just been broken up with can do? Okay, so first and foremost, there's no real, I think, I haven't read. If I'm wrong, please feel free to send it to me. Any research papers that really identify from an empirical evidence based perspective, like these are the best ways to get over, like go to YouTube, you'll find a thousand videos, right? I'm like, here's how you get over it. And so I think there's some things that generally lend itself toward a healthier perspective and processing through a breakup. And so that's where I'm going to, you know, I'll give you some guidance. One of the things that I like personally and both professionally is for you to journal or write a letter, kind of a final letter. Because I think sometimes, and if you can't have the letter, maybe perhaps you can have a conversation with that person. Because I think there's things that need to be said in order to move on in the relationship, or not in the relationship, but ending the relationship and moving on in your life. This is if you've been broken up with. If you've been broken up with, yes, these are things to do. So write a letter, write a letter. How do you feel everything that you want to say, everything that wasn't said? Are you writing it to them, or you're just writing how you feel? You can. And there's no sense that it's not saying that you have to even send it. No, I know. I just meant the context is you're just writing about it or you're writing what you would say to them. I usually I write it to the person. And I would instruct people to write it to whoever it was that is that you've broken up with. Been broken up. I've been broken up with, excuse me. And so you just start saying what needs to be said, venting your frustrations, your emotions, tying everything, saying everything that you can without a filter. Then it helps to read that letter once or twice or 22 times or whatever it is that you need to do to read it to yourself to make sure that it came out. Because what you're starting to do is you're starting to process all the things that are trapped inside you that you've wanted to say. And if you can't do it in a letter, do it in a phone call with the person. Sometimes you need to take weeks, months, a year, 10 years, whatever it is, and go back and have that conversation. Hopefully it's not 10 years. That's a really long time to be grieving the loss of a relationship. But writing a letter to the person who broke up with you is generally a really healthy way to start the processing of your emotions and to get things out. And what you'll what you recognize is the the act of finally saying everything that you've wanted to say is cathartic in and of itself. Then share it with a friend if you need to or bring it to your therapist or read it out loud 100 times if you need to until you get tired of hearing those things. Because what this does is it avoids you going back and forth into the bargaining phase, right? I'm saying everything that I need to say, and I'm getting it outside of me. Period. And if I can't do it in a letter, I'll do it in a conversation. Like have the conversation, text the person, be like, Hey, I want to talk and say what I need to say, and then say it and then move on. Yeah, I think that's probably one of the hardest parts is that like when you are in that shut out period, when somebody when you feel just like really misunderstood and like, I didn't get my point across. And some people are receptive. Yeah, let's talk and other people are just like, no, no, we're just like left on red. So I think that this is a really good idea to kind of just you're able to get all that out. And, you know, not everybody is going to give you that space to say those things. And even if they did, here's the way that I try to think through this, like, even if they did, they might not even be willing to hear it. So does it really matter if you say it to them or if you just get it out, you know, great point. Are you saying these things to change their mind? Or are you saying these things to process your emotions so you can move on? Very different motives. Very different. And so if you're approaching it has a different like feeling behind it, you know, because like, if you're only saying that, like, well, maybe they'll understand finally, you know, like, that's going to feel very different when they don't reach out or they don't answer versus if you're like, you know what, I just want to get this out. And like it said, and maybe they're just not in the place to hear it. And that's okay. Like those feel very different, like emotionally. Yeah, so completely. So write a letter, have a conversation. Sometimes removing objects from your house can be a really cathartic process that could look like taking down pictures, it could look like perhaps things that the other person bought for you, removing items from the house that might remind you of them. Yeah, trigger memories or going not going places that maybe trigger those memories like, Oh, when we will, we used to go here together or this was like our thing. Well, then the next one I was going to say sometimes you need, or a healthy step is going to those places and saying goodbye to the memories, right? Like, where did you go on your first date, right? And maybe going back there or where you got married at or perhaps your favorite spot where the two of you used to go and having a little ritual there and saying goodbye to that spot ending that relationship, understanding to that. Yes, being back there can be triggering and bring back a flood of emotions. But remind yourself that your motive is not to get the person back. Your motive is to heal. And it's, it's fundamentally important. How do people change that? Because I don't, I think that that's probably where most people struggle is that if they like, well, if I could change someone, or if I could change myself, or I could change the situation, then it'd be different than they totally see that this is going to work. Like, I think that that maybe I'm wrong, but I feel like that's probably where most of the hurt is, is feeling like, well, if I did this, or if they did that, or if they just got it, you know, like this would work. But in reality, it's not, it's never usually that one thing. But like that, I feel like is where a lot of the hurt stems for people. So how do they change that perspective? You're stuck in the bargaining face. That's just negotiating with yourself. You're like, if I could just change this, then they would see. If I didn't say that, then this wouldn't have happened. You're like, if I didn't say that, if I didn't do this, it's like, well, it probably would have at some point. It did. And very well. Yeah. Right. And so that's the part where it's like, am I, am I still working from this to save the relationship?  and and the hard part is, we all want the relationship back, and we don't want to move forward, and so the reluctance is always to figure out ways to go back and fix it, because we're really good at fixing things when they're already broken, rather than fixing them before they got broken. Listen to our podcast, if I said before this, but really, that was a good pre-podcast of this one because that's where like a lot of those like that's where a lot of that contempt and like separation builds is from what we talked about on that episode on like you know the creating the connection and then now you said a lot of people want to fix things afterwards but it's like listen like this has been going on for six months a year or two years like this isn't just like mostly don't just wake up and they're like fuck this bitch you know like you're general I mean some people maybe some you know you're a different person if that's the case yeah then then yeah you maybe have some other issues but most people are not going to be doing that you know right it's gonna be this like long slow process so yeah and catching you know like how do you avoid you know something like how do you avoid a car accident it's like well you don't avoid the car accident when it's inches from hitting you you avoided the car accident by like doing the five or six steps before so that's where you know the other podcast comes in but for now it got to this point and you know and sometimes you know there's there are things that happen in in relationships with people where they just it's just not designed to work and you're fundamentally different people or your or something has occurred where it's like it's not something that you did it's something where I'm at or where you're at that I know isn't going to work and so whenever that realization comes in it comes in and so sometimes there's really nothing that you can do to change the relationship because in doing what you can do to preserve the relationship sometimes means changing too much of who you are as a person and it's like at that point who were they in a relationship with this fake version of you or me so so that like obviously sometimes people grow apart because they haven't been doing those things to stay connected but sometimes people do genuinely change in these ways in the direction at least that they want to go or maybe they finally realize like you know I like this is what I'm actually interested in like I want to do these things and you want to do these things and that's okay that they're different but like these are kind of fundamental things of how we want to live and this isn't like oh I voted this way right like nothing like that like it's like it's just general like life trajectories of like this is where I want to go this is where I want to go and maybe those things were separate and that's kind of that like growing apart thing but yeah I would say probably a lot of people at least in my experience really struggle with breakups emotionally because of it's like well what could I have done or what if this one thing if they just understood and like you said that's kind of that bargaining phase but what if somebody's been in a relationship where maybe someone like not necessarily diagnosed with you know narcissists personality disorder but being with someone who maybe is like more manipulative right in some capacity and they like everybody else can see like oh my gosh we all see that this person is not good for you this relationship is not good but you're so like hooked on them maybe even for like the wrong reasons how does that person get out of that stage because I feel like that's even like it's already hard but then I feel like in that sense it's really really hard because they're so addicted to that like chaos and that like push-pull that it's like that's their norm it's their norm to break up and get back together all the time even when you know that it's like it's not healthy so how would you recommend somebody going about that obviously they have to have the awareness that that's even happening right like you could tell someone until they're like like a million times but they have to obviously recognize it themselves but yeah so when you're dealing with somebody who has a slightly deeper pathology or they're highly manipulative you you kind of need to understand some of the specifics that's happening within the relationship but oftentimes some of the more broad strokes is I referred to the Carpenter trauma triangle in the past which is victim persecutor rescuer I find myself reiterating this a lot with clients and these are three different roles that a person essentially fulfills in a relationship for somebody oftentimes when the relationship is unhealthy and so what happens is is one person assumes the role of the victim right and in being the victim I'm placing my partner as the persecutor the person who's causing me these pains and so what that sometimes does to people is it makes them shift into thinking I can rescue this person and this is where the mindset comes from when you're talking about people who are like if I could just change this if I could just do this they're really coming at it from this rescuer perspective like if I was just different if I said things differently if I acted differently if I did these things then this person wouldn't have walked away and generally speaking if you're a normal relatively normal person you're gonna do and say things that are wrong and and you people are gonna have to forgive each other in order for a relationship to exist but people who are really toxic or unhealthy or highly manipulative they're assuming they're placing you as the persecutor so that you assume the victim role so that you stay trapped in these cycles these unhealthy cycles where you're like it's my fault or I've got to save this person you know and so their instability almost becomes your responsibility and guess what and what you're drawn to sure and those relationships are can be intoxicating because they're they come with such highs and such lows where most relationships kind of keep this you know base baseline level with little peaks here little peaks there you know peaks and valleys here and there but with you know some of these more toxic unhealthy people like it can be like they can love bomb the shit out of you and make you feel like you're the greatest thing in the world and then the next minute be trashing you and that instability is like how do I get back to that goddess level how do I get back to that godlike level how do I maintain and some people have this capacity to think that like I'm the one who it's my job to love them through all of this right I can't tell somebody when or where or how to end the relationship right you will decide when that's enough when enough is enough for you and I've known people who are in relationships for years of their life and they've been through it all abuse physical psychological affairs they've been through horrible situations of mistrust and betrayal still in those relationships and then I've seen people being those relationships for years and finally end them and then find a really great relationship later in life how you decide to get out of that is your is only up to you because some people will really commit themselves to the idea that like oh my god if I love this person it's my responsibility to love them no matter what happens and it's like that's great but at what point do you recognize that a relationship is a two-way street and that person has to start giving back to you because if they're not then you're being this kind of martyr for the cause and I don't know who asked you to do that that's your kind of position yeah and that's really hard because there's like this fine line with everything right but especially with relationships of like alright like there is a give-and-take you know I need to be committed I need to like stand by this person I need to do all these things like those are all like stand-up qualities but it's really hard to see when you're in the midst of that like how toxic that person might the other person might be you know and you think like oh I have to and the name the problem is when like as the outside observer you can see how that person is manipulating you know your friend or whatever and it's so heartbreaking but like you said and that's what I wanted to hear you say like you can't make that person get out of that relationship and like it doesn't matter how much you berate them how much you talk shit about the other person like it doesn't matter like they like and what's really sad though is that in these types of you know really kind of toxic relationships like a lot of times that person will make them like make that person feel so isolated you know what I mean and then like the people the friends are kind of like I can't hear about this one more time you know what I mean like I need a distance for myself so then they do literally become isolated so then then then that toxic person is like see you are the problem and then it kind of feels so it's so hard because it's like you know you want to help that person but it's like can you not see this but you know when you're in the midst of that and especially like that emotional like grip that they have on you it's so hard yeah but you said it like that individual has to be the one to decide that and hopefully you have good people in your life and if you're listening to this and you have a friend or you know family member who's in this being supportive but you know being supportive of them when they're going through those lows but also trying to you know get that person to recognize hey here are some of the things but not say it in this like rude way like yeah he's such a piece of shit or this like every time you do that that person is they're not going right would you would you say this is like backed up psychologically like they are not going to respond that way if you're like oh my god like you know so and so it's so awful I don't even know why you're still dating him like they're not going to be like oh you know what you're right I should break up with him like no they're they're not that's gonna even feel more like they just don't get it like I can change him or her you know but it's like no like if you say the more you say that the more that they're going to like dig their heels and at least that's the experience that I've had yeah generally speaking and then the other back part of that is if they stay with that person now they know how you truly felt about it and so now they're gonna be like well I don't want to go talk to I know Lauren hates this person yeah so that becomes now it's problematic it's like okay I liken it to this this is the best example that I can give you ever try to convince an addict not to use drugs or drink and it's like well how do they decide when they decide when they've had enough experienced enough pain or are sick and tired of being sick and tired whatever kind of cliche thing you want to use that person ultimately makes the decision to commit to sobriety and here's the thing that commitment to sobriety is gonna look different for every single person but until you're ready to walk away from that relationship you're not ready maybe you need to be cheated on 20 more times maybe you need to be here or they find someone else to latch on to you know and then hopefully then they kind of I mean yeah you want to avoid hopefully moving from one abusive relationship to the next no I mean that the the toxic person could maybe also be tired of you and then just move on that's hopefully yeah what could happen and you know when you're dealing with like people who are like slightly more narcissistic what ends up happening is is because the narcissist doesn't necessarily connect emotionally to the relationship it's much easier for them to move on and then here's the best part they move on very quickly while you're still struggling with the emotional turmoil and here it makes it even worse every person who's been in a relationship with a narcissist says the same thing they're like I know if I break up with them my biggest fear is that he's gonna move on to the next relationship and be really great and initially he will be because he's gonna love bomb that person until the relationship evolves long enough where it can't get past the superficiality of it and so all of those things are gonna come full circle and so like your worst nightmare kind of comes true but then that person didn't do anything to really change and so all that's gonna happen is a new relationship with the same dynamics is gonna exist but so tough but when you're in that spot it's really none of that stops you from loving the person no so you know taking these steps if you are in that position is important but what about if you are the person who is like I really like what are some I guess signs and again this is gonna be different for everybody but like what are some signs if you're the person's like man like I don't think this relationship is working anymore and you're the person who's going to pursue ending it like what are some things that maybe are happening that are kind of clear signs if any that like maybe this is no longer the relationship for us this is also done on an individual basis because one person's ceiling is another person's floor what you might want to relationship for might be like it's just a Tuesday for me but like I think if you were if you're don't want to be in the relationship anymore first and foremost if you're starting to envision your future with somebody else or without that person if that person creates kind of a visceral response in you that is uneasy if you feel like you can't trust or be open or vulnerable with this person anymore it might be time for you to really start giving consideration to what this relationship looks like you know I've seen people do this shit where they like do like a pros and cons list like well these are the great qualities these are the good qualities I'm I know I just said in a really judgmental tone so let me back track a little bit fine how you say things is everything yeah yeah it's not the words thank you doctor you're right to say but it doesn't like pros and cons list because I think it just it takes it to this really it takes the emotion out of it and it makes this thing this like it's very cold and calculating and I don't know if relationships are meant to be cold and calculating it's just kind of like anybody can someone can fit all the criteria on your list right but then you don't really feel it so you're like well that's it's the same thing you know it's like and confirmation like a walking list plays a role in that right like I might highlight some of the thing because if I'm wanting to stay in the relationship and the relationship I might focus more on the negatives you know and then what happens what happens when there's an equal amount of positive to negative but being reflective and introspective in some way is probably important so if you haven't done that like if you're just having you know a rough couple weeks maybe don't just be like I'll pull the plug on this but really sitting down and being like what's upsetting me like what reactions am I having is it when they do one specific thing or is it all the time or is it our paths are different like so I do think that maybe not a pro and con list but maybe a introspective list or I guess thoughts to reflect on the relationship and to highlight some of the most important and critical aspects yes and so you know again it's one of those things where for some people and I've seen this for some people they'll come into a session and then be like I know I should end this relationship but I'm not and I'm not going to and they're they're like okay because like they just kind of feel comfortable enough in it and for some people the devil they know is worse than the devil they don't and so the idea of ending a relationship where I know how to navigate it is much more terrifying than the prospect of dating somebody new because in their mind it could be worse it could be a lot better it could be a lot better or it could be a lot worse you're right we won't know that until you you take those risks you know but I think sometimes the reason why the the list thing doesn't always work is because there's an emotional piece to a relationship that can't be summed up and just you know one thing you can talk to people who have literally their spouses have beaten them and they still love them it's like you can't necessarily beat the love out of somebody and so it's like I could tell that person hey you know maybe you should consider leaving you know and obviously when there's cases of physical abuse and harm like it becomes a little bit more of a safety issue but you still don't know and I don't want to get too far down this hole I can't make that decision for somebody because I have no idea how that's going to affect them you know I had a professor once he's like I he was talking about a personal story he advised the woman to leave somebody who was physically abusive to him in the child he said you should absolutely leave and then she showed up at his office and was like I have nowhere to go you know he's like what about money she's like well he has all the money and so it created this like it's not I'm not saying staying in an abusive relationship but I'm also saying there's complexities to things and to why a person should or shouldn't leave a relationship which is why it's really important for you to make that call and I don't know sometimes if there's like if you can look at a list of events that have occurred and say yes or no this person should be in my life or shouldn't be in my life I think it comes to that feeling space where you look at it from a reasoning perspective as well as an emotional perspective and use that wise mind where it's the creation of both to make the decision both emotionally and mentally you know does it make sense for me to leave in my feeling emotionally like this is the right thing for me to do there's a ton of red flags that can be occurring and so evaluating those red flags is really important yeah I guess I guess all that is super useful the only hard thing again is if somebody is in maybe this kind of more toxic situation where they are they think everything is is great except for these these few little things right like and that's where the I guess emotion piece is probably hard because emotionally yeah like they feel okay about it but like well and are those things problems for them or are they problems for you right you're listening to the person's story and if you're like oh my god that's a problem but it's not as big of a problem to them fine but if they're at least that's for argument's sake saying they're voicing this as a problem that's what I mean is it a big enough problem for them to leave yeah you know for them to brave everything else that's gonna come with leaving or is it worth it because sometimes you'll also hear and you've heard me say you've got to choose your heart right being in a relationship is hard making a relationship work is hard ending a relationship is hard breaking up his heart going through a divorce is hard like choose your heart you know and that's an easy phrase to say but a hell of a thing to live through and so it's very difficult but a few other things that I want to get to unless there's something else that you wanted to know and on that obviously go ahead and create your breakup playlist right um no I mean for some people they everybody's everyday they process the most emotion they process emotions through music music is a very emotional thing it can help I think sometimes if you even create a playlist that reminds you of that person and you listen to those songs over and over again usually worse what the fuck advice is this when you start getting when you start listening to the music and you get sick of hearing the damn song you're usually moving through their emotions that shit hurts music hurts right yeah it does here's a spot if I know soon like I'm in a sad mood and it just like picks all the money picking all these songs today they is not the day here's another little tip that you guys can use to get over or help you get over your relationship and it's giving yourself and allowing yourself specific times of the day to grief so when I'm going through a breakup I will encourage people to say like okay it's especially in the beginning also you can give yourself two or three times a day to process your emotions so you're gonna wake up in the morning and you're gonna read the letter whatever it was and you're just gonna feel every emotion and I want you to ball your eyes out I want you to listen to the sad songs and sing and think about the future and all that but you're gonna give yourself a timeline okay I'm gonna do this for a half hour okay and then in a half hour comes when that alarm goes off and it's like okay I'm gonna take a shower I'm gonna get ready for work and I'm gonna go throughout my day and now if you need to do this like maybe you schedule it during your lunch hour and then maybe you schedule something again in the evening but what ends up happening is throughout the day when you find yourself thinking about that person and it's not one of your allotted times you utilize the technique of thought stopping and thought switching I'm thinking about this person I'm thinking about them I'm feeling okay I'm gonna stop that picture the stop sign in your head and start thinking about other things that you can be doing okay and then later that night when it's like seven o'clock and you're home alone and the door is locked like pour your glass of wine get your sad music on that playlist and crank it up again and get in touch with those emotions and what I have found is when people are doing that when they're actively focusing on something during the day and then allowing themselves times at night to process their emotions it gives them more structure and they don't feel overwhelmed by emotions all day yeah I wasn't saying like that time stop is so crucial because I think what happens is you know a lot of us know intuitive like alright I need to go through this kind of emotional release but what ends up happening is that I can just kind of spiral and like stay with you right and then it kind of like colors the rest of the day like let's say it is in the morning you know and then it just kind of like keeps on going so I definitely think that having those designated times and also like the stop times to be like alright we're gonna pack this up for right now and then we can revisit it later but I think that that's so important because otherwise it can just it's just so easy to spiral like alright I was gonna go here and do this and then well I'm gonna keep crying and now I'm driving and oh my god and then you know and then you keep staying so I think that it's that's so critical because I think a lot of people maybe understand that first point but don't understand like how to round that out yeah and you can start to you know reduce the time to like if you're like I'm gonna start with a half hour and then go to 20 minutes and then 10 and then if that sounds like a lot like listen think about how much time you actually waste thinking about the other person in these unproductive patterns it's much more time than that oh yeah if you're like you didn't know me like it's not like oh you need three by 30 crying out or like yeah because if you're not having a handle on it like it's significantly more time than that like and crying by the way is one of the most healthy best ways to get through your emotions like if you've got tears like stop fighting them back like let them out you know the snot bubbles and all the other stuff that come with it like let it out because keeping it trapped inside you is only going to hurt you and perpetuate the pain that you're in and so it's kind of like you have a choice how much you're going to be in pain how long you're in pain is dependent on what you're doing now and then here's one other point that I would really like to to talk about and then you know ask or answer any questions that you may have when you're moving through in your healing yourself and I've said this you know I said focus on healing yourself not necessarily what the other person is doing put your time and energy like don't think about like well we broke up and now I know this person's out doing these things and they're with this person or with these people and they're like you're focusing on them focus on you and so what I mean by that is there's a difference between self-improvement versus distraction okay and so what is self-improvement self-improvement is learning self-improvement is traveling self-improvement is advancing your understanding of yourself it's growing as a person learning a new skill taking a new class it's joining a club or some sort of social event or whatever it is versus distraction which can oftentimes look like getting drunk hooking up submersing yourself into work when you look at those things the difference between distraction and self-improvement is I'm tapping into parts of me that matter I'm learning new things I'm growing as an individual I'm learning about myself so I'm focusing my attention my effort my energy on me versus distracting which is temporarily helps me go numb right but doesn't actually do anything to address those things and if you spend more time in distraction all you're going to wake up with is hangovers more disappointment prolonged pain and you're not actually advancing and learning and bettering yourself and I think sometimes it can be confusing because people are like well isn't joining a new class kind of a form of distraction in a sense it is but you're not distracting yourself from the person and replacing it with something unhealthy you're investing in yourself and who doesn't feel better when they learn something new right like when you develop a new skill or you're taking interest in something that's always been an interest of you or you're traveling like the restorative nature of travel is amazing what you're also doing too is you're creating new experiences that don't involve that other person so there's this new version of you that's being created there's this person that doesn't know what it's like to go here or do these things or this side of you and so there's a big difference between self-improvement versus just distracting and I can tell you like get rid of the old adage like how do you get over somebody you get under somebody else like get rid of that that's only gonna lead to more disappointment and hurt feelings and you know regret later on yeah I was gonna say that's probably like that that's like the feel-good-in-the-moment like added like yeah let's go get drunk and let's go out and hook up and meet these like yeah but how many times you wake up and you're like man totally over my ex not like the chances that happening are no slim to none like maybe in that moment you're not thinking about that but then in a few hours you know when you're home alone again like it doesn't change any of that and hey listen like we're not saying like don't go out and have drinks everyone's like that's not what we're saying of course but there is a huge difference and I'm so glad that you touched on that because distraction is so easy because you're like I want to do anything but think about this person you know what I mean so like let me scroll let me watch something let me go out let me be busy busy and then or work you know that's such an easy one for people to do like I'll just work more I'll just work more but yeah are you doing anything to better yourself and the best point I think out of all that is are you creating these new memories and new experiences like just for yourself you know and maybe with other people too like maybe it's some solo maybe it is with other friends or other people but it's not with that person right so I think that that probably is certainly one of the the best key points out of that is to really not distract yourself during this period I'm gonna really focus on yeah bettering you and also like you know you touched on at some point like you know there it has to be a level of ownership with the relationship right like in terms of like okay like nobody here is perfect you know like person who broke up with you and and you who got broken up with like both of you played a role here obviously sometimes it is much more one person than the other so I'm not gonna say that it's not but there is always a level of like hey what what did I learn from this what could I do better and what do I not want to do like maybe this person brought out some things that I don't want to act like that again you know like maybe I don't want to be like this to present myself this way and so taking that time like for yourself to really invest in yourself and figure out like alright I don't want this to happen again or I don't want to be like this anymore all of that is gonna take time and the next final question and there's obviously no right answer here or not I'm just curious do you see like a trend and I know you're gonna say well it's an individual of course it everything depends I know that every question is it depends but is there generally like a time course that kind of makes the most sense in terms of of dating again or is it really like no it is totally case-by-case dependent there's not really a trend here like obviously wouldn't recommend breaking up with someone and then getting into another relationship in a week or two like clearly that's not gonna happen but do you see anything have you seen any patterns I guess is kind of what I'm asking in therapy or is it really just all over the place in terms of healing and when is best for someone to date again what I can say is you have a much much higher chance of failure if you jump right into another relationship without learning or growing and that can be especially within a few weeks so if you've just broken up with somebody even if it was somebody you were just dating for a few months and now you're already dating somebody in a new relationship and it's just been like a few weeks like good luck you know I'm not saying it's gonna fail but like that has a very high probability of failure because of the fact that and I mean and so there's so many intangibles right like did the last relationship really mean anything to you if you're getting into another relationship checked out you know months before like there I know there's a lot of I just was curious if there was maybe yeah no I mean I've seen some people say like for every year you're in a relationship it takes a month to kind of process through that so like three years three months you know ten years ten months that's still like to each their own I know people who have been in you know five six year relationships and it's taken them like a year or two to really rebound and get back to just an emotionally healthy space for themselves let alone opening themselves up to somebody else so unfortunately no I wish I had a better answer for it but it didn't need to be a better answer I was just curious if there was a like I figured there wasn't but I was just curious for like man I keep I see this over and over again but I figured it was a no because it's so every relationship is so different like we said there were some people who already checked out before they actually break up so you know there's that and then this is a person who is you know totally blindsided and grieving and thought they were going to get married I mean there's so much nuance to like what is a break up but so yeah ultimately I think that's a great response you know you need to invest in yourself you need to really actually heal and not just go and date dating can also be a distraction like right like absolutely so don't think like you know even not even if you're not talking to me even if you're just going on dates like because it's exciting to be texting someone and making plans and all that like if you are putting your focus there you're now probably not going to have the space for that in your personal development and your work and your other relationships like there's only so much time in a fucking day and so much cognitive capacity that you can give so here's here's okay so perhaps this is a better way to think about it not in terms of time but until you've worked through each of the stages until you're truly in acceptance that's the time where it might be okay for you to start to date because the reality is if you're angry at a person and for however long it takes to move through that anger if you're doing things whether it's lashing out at that person trying to hurt them or you know showing them by sleeping with other people or dating other people whatever those those reasons are you  you're coming from this space where all you're really going to do is create regret for yourself. And no one likes to be angry, no one likes to be sad, I don't know many people who enjoy those emotions. Denial is kind of a different thing, most people kind of get through that a little bit and then they start processing through these emotions. So until you're out of those phases, however long that is for you, stay single long enough to get out of that phase and get into acceptance. Because then in acceptance it's like, I don't have to act out of a space to hurt that person, I don't have to act out of a space of hate for that person, I don't have to become a different person or do things that might compromise who I am or where I'm trying to go. So get to the space of acceptance before you're at least open to a new relationship and avoid to the whole friends with benefits thing, like I get it, I know sex is an important part and people want to feel that physical connection, but often times when you break up with somebody what you're really longing for is the emotional connection and the lack of intimacy that has been removed from your life and replacing it with casual sex doesn't necessarily fulfill that. I think too often we tend to look for sex to replace too many aspects of the relationship and intimacy, which intimacy could be a whole other topic, but so yeah maybe that helps, like I guess if it's within a few weeks perhaps we should examine how far out you were removed from that relationship to begin with. I think that's a good framework of looking through, okay maybe I am ready to date again and then you can also change your mind, you can go on a date or two and be like you know what I'm actually not ready and then be open and honest with that other person and again that kind of goes back to that pre even really getting together, like where are you and just being really honest in terms of that. So I think those were really great suggestions, I know this is a kind of a shitty topic, nobody wants to hear about this, but everybody has gone through a breakup and everybody has probably initiated one and felt one, so I think that being able to have some of these tools in this perspective is going to be really useful for people moving forward. So hope you guys enjoyed this episode, as always we really really appreciate if you do share, this is the best way that we can grow the show. If you're interested in reaching out to Rick for counseling, either solo or couples counseling, what is your email? Full Circle Therapy FL at gmail.com. Great and then for information on 101 coaching and the services that we offer, you can visit teamlocofit.com and if you're interested in learning more about our app which has macros, meal plans, grocery lists, training programs, mental health resources, all of the things, it is our next best thing to coaching, you can visit redefinehealthyapp.com and learn more there. So thank you guys so much and we'll talk to you next week.

=== FILE: Episode 268： Turning insecurities into strength ｜ Interview with Coach Hannah Hardy [2MBpbE1-cTU].txt ===

 welcome back to another episode of the Local Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and this week I'm so excited for our coach interview, because this is our newest coach, Hannah Hardy. Welcome. So pumped to have you on the team and just to go through this whole interview, so people can really get to know you and know your story. No, I appreciate it. Seriously, I'm just grateful to be a part of the team and I'm just ready to get people to know me and just, I don't know, just start the adventure. I'm just really excited to be a part. Yes, no, we're so happy to have you. So give us a little bit of background. Where did you even start with fitness? Like you're a very accomplished athlete now, but where did all this start growing up? Yeah, so I pretty much, I was a multi-sport athlete all throughout my life. I started with swimming when I was super young, and then once I hit middle school, high school, that's when I dabbled with pretty much all the ball sports, volleyball and basketball, tennis, softball, you name it. I just, you know, tried and I went to a pretty small school, so it was pretty easy to make a team and they were like, hey, you played this sport, let's go on this team. And they always do that, like, oh, you're good at this, you should try this too. Yeah, that was not the case for softball. That was by far my worst sport. Just the hardball coming super fast at you. I had a lot of junior Olympians on my team, just like all my school team. So I was like, I'm just going to hope that they walk me. That was pretty much my entire experience with softball. Yeah, I can't even like catch a ball. So don't. We had to do, I went to one of the CrossFit classes, you know, two weeks ago, and we had to do, this is super easy, but like, I don't even know what it's called when you squat and then you like throw the ball. Oh, yeah. And then you catch it. Yeah. It's like hitting me and I'm like dropping it. Like, oh my god, this is so interesting. It's okay. I think half the time, I mean, most of the time, it just like hits me in the chin, in the nose, every single rep. And I'm just like, well, at least I caught it with something. Like a three point contact with my hands. But I started getting into general fitness to prepare myself to go to the Naval Academy, actually, or to get a Naval ROTC scholarship. And that happened around my sophomore year. I just incorporated just more running because that's what you really do for PTWISE. And then going to the gym and I pretty much this hit like the typical like bodybuilding splits, because I didn't know anything else. That's what I saw on Pinterest and bodybuilding.com. I had no clue. But I was like, well, this is what this is what I need to do. I actually got pretty fit that way. And then nutrition wise, I after I'd say probably like a half a year of just focusing more so on the fitness side of things, I realized that nutrition is even in bigger part or an equal part, especially for muscle building, recovery, fat loss, because I wasn't like the most like healthy kid growing up. I remember even before a practice or a game, you know, I get like the 10 piece McNugget with a large fry and a large sweet tea, because that's totally what fuels you. But that's what I did, like at least in high school. So I really started to dial in my nutrition. And that, like, in a sense, just kind of like teacher totter out of control. So we can go into that a little bit later. But that's pretty much my experience just with under eating and under fueling really actually sparked my passion to want to coach people because I didn't want anybody to end up in the same boat that I was for so many years. Dude, absolutely. I mean, that's a different story, but similar, right? Like in those areas with our backgrounds, like, you know, growing up, having an eating disorder, and then it kind of spiraling, right? Like it's starting with something that's not so, so bad, and then it can really spiral. But seeing how you can come out on the other side of that certainly is like, okay, wow, I really don't want other people to deal with this. And what you talk about is a very common story, you know, like it is so crazy to think that like, especially and maybe it's different now, I don't know, but like in high school, there is no like even talk of like healthy eating. And like, to be honest, I feel like the athletes eat the worst because they're not really most of them seeing the like physical side effects of eating like that because they're training so much, right? But it's like, it's so common just for athletes to eat, like just trash, you know, and like not really. And now I don't want to say like, oh my gosh, we have to be diligent with nutrition in high school, but there's a level of like quality food. And you know, talking about that. And then yeah, like when you're talking about like Pinterest and stuff, I didn't even know Pinterest had training or nutrition things on there. But I guess they have everything, right? And that was kind of like my experience with the, you know, the magazines and like the the blogs and all that stuff, you know, you see those. And you're like, Oh, well, so and so is doing this, like, let me try that, you know, and I think a lot of people start in that way, which thankfully, there's definitely a plethora of information out there now. So hopefully people are at least finding things, finding the right things. There's also plenty of not great stuff as evidenced by a tip talk. And you know, we'll literally send me stuff and I'll be like, how does this have our many views and saves and like people are thinking that this is a good idea. Right, right. No, I get I get blown away sometimes. And I mean, I already get flack for doing CrossFit, but just like seeing some of the other stuff, I'm like, man, it's like, man, people like that. But or really think like that's like, I mean, not to say it's like, Hey, if that jump starts someone's fitness, by means do it. But at the same time, I'm like, Oh, my gosh, I get so much flack. People think I'm going to injure 24, I'm going to be injured 24 seven. Yet, like, here's like someone doing just like some exercise that I'm like, either is a is dangerous or B, I don't even know what it affects. Yeah, that's a whole different. That's a whole different rabbit hole. But the thing with CrossFit, so let's I want to get into that. So you finishing out high school, what was kind of the next step to know you were really successful athlete and then kind of how did you transition, you know, to the to the next thing? Yeah. So once I started training from the Naval Academy, I definitely had and just ate and under fueled. I had a few stints in the hospital for anorexia. And but when I was really just wanting to get back in the fitness, I dabbled in CrossFit for a little bit of my junior year in high school. One of my family friends did it. I just saw it on ESPN with my dad. And I was like, Oh, my gosh, like this is the coolest thing in the world. And then he just brought up that my family friend did it. I was blown away, of course, CrossFit lifestyles different than the sport. But I mean, we do the same movements, the same workouts, just the intensity and maybe the complexity is a little bit higher at the sport level. But I pretty much switched over to CrossFit during my senior year in high school, instead of playing basketball, because I'm pretty short, I'm five four, it's not the best for basketball player. And I just took off with it. It really helped me just like frame my mindset of, Oh, I need to fuel if I actually want to do this competitively, or even even as a lifestyle, I mean, CrossFit, I love that it's not only to improve one's fitness, but to improve one's health overall. And that's what gave me more body positivity. I loved what I could do in the gym. I wanted to do more just like as a person. I started to realize that looks for one thing, but performance was something completely different. And I was really focused on the performance side. Not to mention, I still had my aspirations to go into the go to the Naval Academy. So a lot of times CrossFit has prepared people to go into the military, the seals, all that. So I thought that was also a really good, you know, fitness program for that, maybe a little bit better than what I was doing. And, you know, now here I am, man, like eight years later, still doing it, still going strong. And I mean, there's been a lot of progress along the way. Yeah, would you say that that was the big catalyst of getting past your eating disorder was focusing, finding something that allowed you to focus solely on performance? Because previously you were an athlete who was focusing on performance, right? Like all the different sports you were playing and training for the Naval Academy, but something seemed to be different about CrossFit. So would you say that it was like that shift from, you know, that shift towards performance? But really, like, what was it? Do you think that kind of helped you get past that? I mean, really, it was when I was training for the Naval Academy, pre-CrossFit, I think just because of maybe either just the blogs I was reading, or I was getting attention at school from the guys, finally, that was super new. Like, I really liked the way I looked. And I think- When you were getting thinner? Yes, when I was getting thinner, when I was losing weight, I was, you know, like, I was getting fitter. Like, I was, you know, consistently running, like, you know, low six miles, which was like, for like three to five miles, I was like, man, I am the best running shape of my life. I don't know about now. Just through that, I was, I think I focused a lot more on just the way I looked. And I was like, hey, if I looked a certain way, I would perform a certain way, and I would be more so accepted by the Naval Academy because I looked apart. And through that, I just had this unhealthy obsession with the way I looked, and I thought just the less I ate, the more I worked out, just the more accepted I would be at, like, either just, like, at school or just career-wise and goal-wise where I wanted to be. And when I switched the CrossFit, yes, like, the, like, people are, I mean, the athletes, like, everyone shredded and jacked, and things like that. But I was just looking at, especially I was, so I was 17 at the time, turning 18, that was the first year of the Teenage Division in the CrossFit games, immediately aged out, of course. But I was looking at people who were just like, you're younger than me, and just like, seeing, like, what they were, like, what they could do. And it was so amazing that people younger than me can clean a drink, 225 pounds, and do 15-plus umberkin ring muscle-ups, things like that. And then just, even the people at my gym, I was blown away with what they could do, and they're winning all the local competitions and going to regionals back in the day. And just seeing that, that's like where I switched of, oh, if I want, if I want to actually be that, I, it doesn't matter how I look, I just need to feel, I need to feel myself properly. And if I feel good, and I'm performing well, like, that's, that's what I want to go after. I want to go after my performance best. And not to say that I still don't, you know, want to like, want to look the part. And sometimes, like, I do like, look around me sometimes with where I'm at Training Think Tank, which is a big coaching organization, and some of the athletes, I'm like, whoa, like, I do not look that, that way whatsoever. And I kind of got a little tease for fun, like, at my old CrossFit gym, because everyone was shredded in Florida, and then there's me, like, coming in. I look fit. But you definitely do. But I totally get it. It's, it's just different, you know. Yeah, it's totally different. And I think, and I really just do think just, like, each year, it's gotten easier and easier to look at, like, look at myself and say, man, like, I think about what I'm capable of doing, rather than be like, oh, man, I have the greatest six pack, or my biceps are looking great, and things like that. And I think it's taken a lot less pressure off of me, too. No, I love that. And I think that there's, you know, part of that is just growth and maturity, right? You know, we realize, okay, we're not just our external attributes. And that doesn't mean that you don't have, you know, physique goals, and it doesn't mean that you don't hold yourself to a certain standard. But there is this different interplay of like, I'm training because like, out of like, love for myself, out of love for competing, out of performance. And, you know, if I want to make some changes to my body comp, I can. But also, the, you know, the number one thing, especially with performance athletes is like, performance is number one, you know, and a lot of people will see, you know, there are those people who are jacked and shredded and super athletic year round, you know them, I know them, right? And it's like, man, like, what, like, what gives, right? But that's just, you know, genetically speaking, there are some people who are going to fit into that category. And that's okay, you know, I'm not saying I'm not taking away their hard work at all. But, you know, there's just some people who are going to be able to have that kind of physique, and still perform at a high level. But everybody has different body types, everybody has different body shapes, you know, I could be like, man, I really wish I had this, but it's like, I got legs that are so long, like the chances of me having like, round, full muscle bellies is like, pretty slim, right? It's not like, oh my gosh, I don't like cry myself to sleep over it. It's just like, okay, this is the reality, I can appreciate that and other people, I can work towards, hey, here's this goal that I have for myself. And I think that you've done that really, really well. And I love that that was what was able to get you out of that headspace, because it can spiral, especially when, you know, that's really where I start to see a lot of the issues, especially with clients, is when people are getting that positive reinforcement from others, like, because people aren't like, oh, I want to feel your eating disorder, they're just being nice, you know, they're like, oh, they're genuinely most of the time complimenting. So it's like, oh, wait, like, do I have to, you know, like, that happens a lot of times with physique competitors that we work with, you know, like people are, you know, you're sharing your process, people are excited about it, they're making comments. But then afterwards, those things stopped, it's like, oh, was it only because of this and whether that's a conscious process or a subconscious process, a lot of us kind of gear towards that, because it's like that external, those external feedback and validation is, it does feel nice, I don't care who you are, I don't like, everybody likes it, you know what I mean? So, but it can spiral really quickly. And it's certainly not something as sustaining as like what you found is more of this kind of internal, like, okay, this is why I'm doing this. And that's what you know, the extrinsic versus intrinsic motivation that, you know, psychologists have talked about for years and years, like, that's really where a lot of this comes from. But I'm so happy that you found this and you are, you know, past, did you need to, and you said you had a few stints in the hospital, did you see a therapist, did you see an RD, like, did somebody kind of help you along that journey, or was it just like all self directed? So, I mean, throughout the process, I did, it's like, I had both, I had a family therapist because I was 17, 16, 17 at the time. So, my mom came to my appointments and we talked things through. And then also, I had an RD while in the hospital. But it was, I was, I think, there, it was, I was so amazed at like, what they were telling me to do. I was, I mean, while in the hospital, I'm, I mean, I pretty much ate the same things all the time, because I, I mean, with me, I had a obsession of focusing on healthy foods, that orthorexia, that I mean, it's not a medical term yet, but it's starting to pop up in different circles. But at the same time, when I knew I needed to gain weight, I mean, my lowest weight was, I think, 94 pounds. And that I was not, it was not good whatsoever. I was willing to eat more, but I wanted to eat it just in a healthy way. Like I wanted to be a healthy weight gain, not be just, you know, eating pizza and chicken nuggets and things like that. And, you know, I was blown away when I remember the RD coming into my room and saying, hey, like you've ordered like the same things all the time, like, you know, the scrambled eggs, which I don't even think they're real eggs. And then just a grilled chicken breast with, I mean, I had like a potato or an vegetable, things like that, PB and J's for snacks. And she was like, why don't you get the, the chicken tenders or the hamburger and or pizza. And I said, well, I want to still try to eat healthy, like throughout this process, I know that I'm at a low weight or like significantly low weight and I need to gain it back. But I still want to be healthy. And she told me that was the eating disorder talking. And that blew my mind. I, I just was like, okay, well, I know that I'm, I'm still somewhat afraid of these unhealthy foods. But it was me reaching out and being like, okay, like I'm eating, I'm eating cereals for the first time. Even though that was like a big step for me. Again, like PB and J's were, I didn't want to eat bread back then. And that was a big step for me. So I thought I was hitting like, you know, I was hitting these goals of like, okay, like I'm getting out of my comfort zone. And, you know, like facing my fears of these unhealthy foods. But when she told me that, oh, my eating disorder is talking just because I wanted the healthy foods, that's what really blew my mind. So I like, once I got to CrossFit, I think when they're like, Hey, you can fuel and we also focus on whole foods. Like that was, I was set. I was like, thank you. Someone like someone is like, telling me that like, I was right the entire time. And not to say I love our medical system, but it was just those things that was blowing my mind of just saying like, okay, like just because like I want to eat healthy, or I remember I asked for 2% milk, because that's the milk I prefer. I full fat milk. I mean, man, I can drink like a sip, but like a whole glass gonna have, I don't have a stomach ache for days. And they're telling me that was like, that was my eating disorder, just telling me to get the 2% because it was lower in fat. And that was blowing my mind. So I mean, that's a long answer of, I really tried to go these different routes. But CrossFit's really what set me on the path of, okay, like, yes, I can gain weight, gain healthy weight, and get back to a normalized weight, but doing it in a healthy manner and not sacrificing that food quality side of things. And then from there, that's when I got my own nutrition coach, and we focus more on macronutrients and, you know, and now I'm still doing that currently to this day. Yeah, absolutely. I love that feedback because it's, it really is what that just says to me is that each person doesn't have enough time with the patient in that situation, right? Because on a surface level, right, if you're like, Hey, I don't want to eat this, like, I can understand that feedback. But at the same time, it's like, you have to understand like the client's motivations and like really where their headspace is at. And if you are making these changes, like, that should be celebrated, right? And those small changes and health should still be there. Like, yeah, sure, you can eat pizza. First of all, who the hell wants to eat a burger at a hospital? I'm just like, I'm like, nauseous thinking about that. And I like burgers, but it's the last thing that I would order. So like, and again, I know that's what they have access to, but it is so interesting how like, and this is just what we see so much in the industry, it's just, it's completely paralleled, like there is just such an extreme view on everything. And it's like, obviously, having a needing disorder is not ideal. Like we need to move past that as soon as possible and work through that. But working through that at the detriment of then the rest of your body and the rest of your systems, and just basically force feeding someone, shit, like, like, what, what is that going to do? Like that's not going to help. That's also not even teaching the patient, like what's going on, you know, and we see this all the time with, you know, like the clean eating to then the IFYM taken out of control. And then it was like, you know, all diets are bad, like just intuitively eat or hey, no, track your, like it's, it's always a six stream thing. It's like, you know, you taking those steps, like I'm going to add in a potato, I'm going to have bread, I'm going to do, like those are all steps. And, you know, you know, obviously, I can't speak to the experience or the RAD, but it just, it probably just was again, somebody who didn't have enough time with each patient to really actually kind of develop those, that like rapport and ask those questions. And that's one of the, just the very unfortunate side effects of a lot of the medical system just currently, you know, it's like, yeah, how's this going? Okay, yeah, like, and you have to make those quick, you know, adjustments and recommendations, unfortunately. So I'm really glad that you're able to find something where you were able to have that positive influence in that community. And yeah, there are certainly things that everybody can dog on CrossFit for, which, you know, like, there are certainly some things that are not ideal. But I would say that for, you know, a lot of, you know, a lot of the positives in terms of the community is that like we're basing this on performance, we're basing this off of like quality food and fueling yourself. So like you, that was honestly the most perfect thing that you could have found, you know, and also taking advantage of the skills and strengths that you have just as an athlete, because you're very athletic. So I'm glad that you're able to get through that. And, you know, obviously, everybody has days here and there. But overall, you would say that you're probably kind of fully past that, right? Yeah, yeah, no, I, a lot of times it's, I mean, with me, it's just I like even just like buying solace of eating whole foods. I mean, my friends make fun of me, I eat a lot of fruit. They'll see me with a huge bowl of blueberries to like, fruit the best, who makes money for that? I think it's just like, man, that's a lot of blueberries. But I mean, with me, it's like, man, I, it's like, these are the foods I enjoy. They, I was like, I know they give me, I mean, less stress than if I eat like a bowl cereal or things like that, even though I still do that. It's just like, I crave the healthier things. I really enjoy that. And with me, it's like, that's, I mean, I know that's going to fuel me as much as anything else. And yeah, like, I, again, like I have my days, but in like, in the end, it's, you know, like, we were talking about the extrinsic versus like intrinsic motivation stuff. It's, I like, I love just like the way I perform. I love like the way like, I was like, I love myself as an athlete, a daughter, a doctor, like a coach, like those are the things I take pride in more so than just the way I look now, which is, I mean, I hope everybody gets that point. Yeah. And that's, that's our goal, right? And that's why you want to coach and you've been, you know, you've been doing different types of coaching before coming to Team Look-O-Fit, just in a different kind of capacity. But yeah, I love that. And I think that there's, there is a difference. Like that's really when you've kind of made it over that hump, right? Because I think, and this is not just for eating disorders, this is just in general, but like, there is a big difference. Like you can eat almost anything, right? Of course, again, you know, when we're talking about calorie balance and performance and all that, but there is a really big difference when you're choosing to eat things that you know, you feel good eating, right? And when people start to actually feel that, like I love when a client is like, you know, like, I enjoy these things, but I actually feel much better when I eat like this. And I'm like, yes, like this is, this is finally it. Like that's not coming from a place of restriction. That's not coming from a place of like an orthorexic mindset of like, I can only have this because it's healthy. That's a totally different mindset. What you're saying, and what we hope that clients can get to is, you know, I'm choosing this because this is fueling me and I feel better when I eat these foods. Doesn't mean, you know, you don't have cereal everyone's like, we all have those things every once in a while that we like, but that really is that like actual moderation. Instead of feeling like you have to eat something like that because you're so drawn to it, or you can't eat it because you have to restrict, right? So again, going like that's the real end goal that we hope for everybody. And it does feel truly amazing to be able to do that. So I'm so happy that you said that and you're able to, you know, finally move past it in that way. So now we've gotten to undergrad-ish, right? So tell us a little bit about your undergrad and then also, you know, recent schooling as well. I got my degree in undergrad in kinesiology. While there, I mean, extracurricular wise, I was doing CrossFit. I became a CrossFit coach. And then in school, I focused, we had a huge, kind of like, it was more pretty physical therapy or pre-athletic training focus. So I actually worked with the athletic trainers and the sports nutrition staff for UVA athletics, and specifically for the football team. So that was a really fun experience. I dabbled in that, took a year off because I graduated in three years, and I was just a full-time CrossFit coach. Then the past three years, I've been in chiropractics who want to recently just finished up this December. And I was down in Florida for that, where we finally got connected. Yes. It was so crazy how you were, you know, we did the interview process and I was like, yeah, when are you finishing school? Because I was thinking it was going to be like a normal magrat. So you're like, oh, like next week, I'm like, oh, okay, like, that's so amazing. And how was your, I'm just curious, how was the difference working with the sports nutritionist versus your experience at the hospital, which again, completely different target audience, completely different things. So just curious what, how different that was. Oh, it was so different. I mean, just like seeing the variety of foods they had, it was primarily carp based because most of our sports, I mean, that's what you feel yourself with. And I mean, especially with the football team, I was carrying Gatorade shoes around, just making the Gatorade or the water tubs. I mean, our breakfast and snacks like typically consisted of bagels with, I mean, just like more so like lower fat stuff from like Turkey, just like 2% or fat free milk, the muscle milks, I mean, everything is just like, that's what it was geared towards is like athletic performance. And because football is such a glycolytic sport, I mean, you're not probably not working for more than 10, 15 seconds at a time. I'm like, Oh, this makes sense. And I mean, even just like in training and in their scrimmages and practices and stuff like that, like the amount of carbs they eat, or drink during it, that was just like a huge eye opener to me. And just be like, okay, like, that if this is what, you know, these collegiate slash Olympic Olympic level athletes are doing to get to the highest level, I'm like, I mean, I can do the same thing in CrossFit. Yeah, into workout carbs are so underrated. And it's one of those things, especially like, you know, the bodybuilding world embraces it, I would say for a large part, but mostly people think of it as something where it's like offseason, or if you're a guy who's eating a lot of food, which makes sense, right? If you're having a lot of calories, you have to eat, especially carbs, you're going to want to drink them at some point, you know, so inter workout and post-workout kind of makes sense to have a large bowl of drinkable carbs. But even for like, you know, just normal, even lifestyle clients, you know, for a female client or normal, I'm like, Hey, add in 10 to 15 car. And I know that the people like  I don't want to drink my carbs. Listen, your training performance will be so improved. No, I don't do it every session, but I would say that if I can remember the other day, I literally made it and left it on my counter. I'm like, good job, bro. That was a great intro workout on the counter. No, I mean, I'm the same way. With me, it's like I literally just threw a huge Costco box of go-go squeezes in my car. So that way, I can't forget, I can literally just go out my car, pick up one in between workouts. Why would I do that? Because I was like, I feel like I'm forgetting something. And then I was like, oh, that drink that you left on the counter? Okay. But yeah, those things are so underrated, which again, could definitely be a topic for a different podcast that would be fueling for performance. So we could talk about that another time. But love that you had a really great experience there and got to see kind of just a different side of nutrition and dietetics. And then obviously, I know chiropractic school, everybody is pretty familiar with chiropractic work. What were some of your biggest takeaways or things that you maybe didn't expect to learn there? And I know that's kind of an open-ended question. But it's a very intensive schooling process. So just kind of curious what that experience was like and just some of the things that maybe people wouldn't know when we're thinking about chiropractic care. Yeah. I mean, with chiropractic care, we have a lot of classes specifically on nutrition from just like biochemistry of metabolism to just medical nutrition in general. And especially when it comes to vitamin deficiencies, we have a really keen eye of picking up the clinical signs and helping out or even in like blood work panels. We can see like different vitamin deficiencies or maybe it's not a problem yet sort of thing. I actually did have a few classes on sports nutrition, which is actually like I was pretty blown away because I was like, wow, like it's like we had like a sports chiropractic kind of scope in our curriculum. But just I wasn't expecting it from the nutrition side of things. So I thought that was really cool in general. And it was, I mean, I was really just really blown away of I was like, oh man, like I feel like I can be this like functional medicine practitioner, more so than just a chiropractor. I feel like at my school, they really prepared us in the like to be a doctor that doesn't prescribe medications rather than a chiropractor. They gave us the skills to adjust, but they're saying you have the rest of your life to get better at this. Whereas, you know, we're going to set you up strong from just that like medical doctor sort of mind, which that I was pretty blown away about about my school. Yeah, that's not something, you know, we obviously again talked about that, but that was not something that I had really expected either. But when I think back to it, I know some I know some chiropractors who focus primarily on, you know, adjustments and body work or focus, you know, primarily on movement and kind of preventative stuff there. But then I do think about it and I do know a handful of chiropractors who also focus more on that kind of holistic side of everything and, you know, playing into nutrition, vitamin and all that stuff. So I'm like, okay, like that makes sense. So that's amazing that you were able to have a school that did focus on that. And that's of course going to help so much with with coaching people and being able to spot those things. And I think it is so important because you are working in a capacity where you are this practitioner, not just, I mean, yeah, certainly we all know chiropractors who just, you know, do little little cracks. Okay, get out. You know, like that is that is possible, but being having the ability to have a more integrative practice with preventative medicine and really being able to educate people. Because again, that's the thing that you're going to be able to do, like, you know, your experience with that R.D. Like just kind of running through everything. Okay, not maybe her fault. It's just kind of the way that the system is. But in your situations, like, hey, you can actually talk with these clients, you know, especially if you're in there for like longer sessions and be able to make some of this, you know, this change and really help people in that way. So I'm just really excited that you're going to have the ability to do that with your in-person clients because right now you are working at a facility, right? Yes, yes. So I work up at a clinic here in Alparetta, Georgia. And I mean, like you said, like I work more so on, again, just adjustments, manual therapy, rehab sorts of things. But I really, I am a huge advocate of just supplementation from Boswellia, fish oils, vitamin D stuff like that. And just kind of like getting like pinpointed signs of like, hey, like, if you don't, it's like, if you're not sleeping well, like maybe we should throw in like a Zika magnesium supplement or check out your bedtime routine, things like that. Like I feel like those little nuggets I've gotten over the years from coaching, I've received from nutrition coaches to what I've learned in certifications through CrossFit, through precision nutrition, things like that. That background has helped me a lot in my chiropractic profession. And then my education at least has gotten me to like, okay, like I know the metabolism behind things, I know, or just like how the body works when things happen. So it's really cool seeing the practical knowledge join my education knowledge. Absolutely. And that really is the mark of a great coach and practitioner. So I'm so thrilled that you're doing that in an in-person capacity and then also going to be doing this with us in this online capacity. So I, you know, working with people online is different, but obviously it opens up this whole scope of people literally all over the country. You know what I mean? So it's truly great the fact that you're able to, you have this knowledge, you have this experience, and you genuinely want to help people here. And like that is the most important thing as a coach. You know what I mean? Like obviously, like knowing and have like knowing information and knowing how to make adjustments and like what to say, all that is so, so key, but like having the client mentality, like that client first mentality of really being able to say, okay, how can we look at this root problem? You know, it's not just like, here's your carbs. Okay, that might, that might be an adjustment. You know what I mean? That might be that week. But then like you said, what's your bedtime routine look like? Where are you supplementing here? Where are you locking? Like what is your normal morning routine? Like there's so many different things. Oh, this is bothering you with training. Well, why don't we try this? Like, so there's this whole, you know, and the words, the words like functional, integrative, and holistic, all this gets thrown around like so much. And it's hard for people because it's like, well, what does that mean? I know this, I know that person's a quack, but then this person's good. And it's like, sometimes I hate how words have gotten misconstrued that way. But I would say that a integrative holistic approach is certainly what we do take here at Team Look of It. And I'm so happy that you are, you know, doing that already, have been doing that, and are interested now in doing this with clients. So if anybody is interested in working with Hannah, she is taking on new clients. So excited. And anything else that you guys want to hear from her, from us, definitely let us know because there's so many great topics just from this conversation. I'm already like, okay, we can talk about this, like all these different things. And like even the smallest things like vitamin D, like that everybody should be taking vitamin D, like I don't know one person and you know from looking at a lot of blood work, I know from looking at a lot of blood work, unless people are supplementing the chances that they are in an optimal range of vitamin D is so low, so low. Like it's, it's crazy. Like, and it's one of those small things that has such a profound impact. So yeah, I definitely want to do a deep dive into more like vitamin mineral stuff. So already, my brain's already gone. So I gotta give my notepad out, gotta before I forget. But any other closing thoughts, like anything you want to share, anything else that you want to talk about? I mean, no, I mean, like I said, I mean, and even said at the beginning of the podcast, I just like, I can't wait to work with this team. Like, I'm, I'm so excited because just already like seeing, seeing you guys walk the walk, being client first, everybody's so different. And you want your, they're not just a number. You want to get to know them as a person you want and just like see like how they respond. Like you're only going to go like as fast as they want to and but like actual or but push them like a little bit outside of their comfort zones and just get to know the, get to know the client. That's what really sparked my like interest in working with you guys. And again, I'm just grateful to be a part of the team and I'm proud to say that I'm a part of it. Well, that just made my day. So thank you guys so much for listening. Like I said, if you guys have any other future topics you'd like to hear about, let us know either in the comments or you can send us an email at info at teamluckofit.com. You can also reach out to Hannah for coaching. Do that, you know, visit our website teamluckofit.com and you can apply for coaching with her. And yeah, we will talk to you guys next Wednesday.

=== FILE: Episode 269： How to improve communication with your partner. [mD_su06fyf8].txt ===

 welcome back to another episode of the LocoFit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlin, and this week I'm joined by our team and health counselor, Rick, and we're gonna talk about ways to improve connecting with your partner. And I'm really excited to get into this, and I think this is something that comes a little bit more naturally in the beginning of a relationship, just because there's all these positive feelings and there's all this newness of the relationship and just getting to know someone, but certainly that does taper off at some point, and that's actually where the real great stuff of a relationship does happen, but this connection and building upon that as the relationship progresses is so important. Yeah, and I think this is a really misunderstood aspect of relationships because when you get past the initial dating phase, when you're with somebody, whether it's six months a year or whatever it is, the beginning of the relationship you're filled with, tons of excitement, the relationship is new, and so it's constantly on your mind, and so you're thinking of like, fundates and things to do because everything that you're doing in the beginning of the relationship is the first time you're doing it with this person. And then what ends up happening is, is as we kind of move away from the euphoric phase of the beginning of a relationship, and we start to get into what a relationship is a year, two years, three years, four years down the road, where it gets lost are the small moments of connection that actually exist, which are bids for each other's attention and connection that get lost. And all too often I think one of the things that happens is people tend to replace these things with acts of like these grand gestures that don't carry the same value as the small moments in the relationship throughout the day, and throughout the week, throughout the month, et cetera. And so I think sometimes people lose the ability to understand the right ways to connect with each other because with the exception, you know, when you're talking about breakups, which is ironically the topic of our next podcast, going through a breakup, what does that mean? The majority of relationships don't end because of abuse or infidelity even. They end because there's an emotional distance between you and your partner. There's a resentment that has set in, there's an emotional gap that comes, and so it's just like we're kind of, we're frustrated completely with each other, and so we're separating. It's not every relationship isn't ending because the result of an affair or some sort of physical or psychological abuse. And so this is why this episode is particularly important and this skill to develop is particularly important in saving and maintaining your relationship because without it, your relationship is going to suffer in the long run. Does that make a little bit of sense? Yeah, and I think it's a great point that you made there in terms of people making maybe these grandiose gestures, you know what I mean? Like, oh, here is an expensive bag, or here's a trip or something big that we're gonna plan or a party or whatever it might be, right? And it's like, oh, that'll be something, they'll really understand the magnitude of how much I feel for them, but then it's like all those little things, so the day-to-day stuff is really what kind of adds up over time in terms of somebody maybe either developing some resentment or kind of moving apart. I think it was Peterson who said this, but it was like every time you walk in the door, like when you come home, like literally every day you're gonna walk in, and if you come in in a bad mood, or you're angry, or you're loud, or you're hostile, or whatever, every time you greet someone, like that is something that could be very different, all those negative emotions versus a positive emotion. That's something that you do every day that a lot of people don't even think about because they're coming in, and they might have all the right in the world to have those feelings, but it's like if someone is being met with that every day, like how can you expect the partner to be like, oh, I'm excited for them to come home, because it's like, oh shit, what's gonna happen? Like they're very volatile, and of course there has to be a level of understanding, like not every day you're gonna wake, you know, you're gonna come home and be like, oh my God, it was the best day ever, but there has to be some level of communication there and some awareness really. So yeah, let's get into it. Yeah, so what is a bid? What is a bid? Please, because I was really struggling with this, you guys had no idea. I was like, a bid? Like I like this idea, but I'm really not sure, so please clear it up for us Rick, because I think every, maybe not, maybe it's just I'm alone here, alone here, but I think that this was a confusing thing. You pick up on so many other things, like from this realm, I just think why is this is hard for you, I don't get it. Never heard this term. The term bid. Like in this context. Oh, okay. Well, so the term in and of itself, like when we're talking about responding to bids or bids for connection, and it does come from the Gottman Institute. So it's not like, you know, traditional, like for example, like schizophrenia, right? That's a term that every clinician, everybody uses because it comes from the DSM. So unless you kind of subscribe to Gottman or follow some of their teachings, you might not have heard it phrased as a bid, but almost every relationship counselor on some level, not counselor, but theologian, whatever, developing, who's ever developing some of the material, there's some form of ways to connect, strategies, steps, things to do to connect emotionally to the relationship. So the best way to kind of think about a bid for your partner's attention is, this is nothing more than your partner's attempt to connect with you for attention or emotional connection in some way, shape, or form. And so you have basically three ways to respond to somebody's bid, essentially two, let's just call it two. You can either turn toward the bid or you can turn away from the bid, right? There's a third one where it's turning against the bid, which is, you know, more punitive in nature, but essentially that's also turning away from the bid. And so when we talk about turning away, it basically means somebody's doing something in the relationship where they're looking for help. So a bid can be verbal or nonverbal, okay? It's an action, it can be a gesture, it can literally be a request, even a verbal request. So- Hold on, let me stop you. So this is something that you are requesting or you're doing for someone or both? I'm doing, like if I'm in a relationship, I'm going to say or do something perhaps subtly or not subtly to get attention from the person that I'm with because I want connection, I want somebody to connect with me. So like one of the more common ones is people will talk about the sigh, right? So like somebody lets out a sigh. Okay, so we're going to pretend you and I are dating. Oh, great. So you're sitting on the couch, I'm sitting on the couch, I let out a sigh. What's your response? You ignore it, perhaps, right? No. What would you say? What the fuck, I'm just gonna, what the fuck are you sighing about again? No, I would, you know, question where that's coming from. Let's say I'm in a positive mood. I'm gonna check in and ask why you're sighing. No, even if we're in an argument, I would definitely do that as well. So yes. Okay, so that's a good example though. That's a perfect example of you turning toward the bit and responding in the way that I would want people to respond to you because I've told everybody before who's ever listened to this and listened to me talk about relationships, like take the guesswork out of it, tell somebody exactly what you want. And as time rolls on and people become more comfortable voicing their opinions and asking for things, that becomes easier to do. But a lot of times we still require, or we still rely on kind of like subtle ways to engage the person without necessarily telling them I'm looking for attention or I want connection or something like that. So if I let out the sigh and I'm like, and you're like, hey, what's wrong Rick? What you've done is respond to me and you've actually asked a question. You've shown interest, you've taken it, you've made effort and now I can engage. I can be like, this is causing me frustration at work. At, you know, my mom is bothering me or my sister or whatever the situation is. Well, now I'm dialoguing with you and what are we doing? We're connecting. And so in this moment of frustration or sadness or depression or loneliness, make some sort of attempt, either verbally or non-verbally to connect with you. And based off of your response, I either get that connection or you turn away from that connection. So you either turn toward me and start to engage in that relationship where you turn away from it. Yeah, I could be like, what's wrong? But obviously that's the same phrase, but how I said it, the person is certainly, like I'm definitely turning away from it and the person is probably not going to want to be open or maybe they will, but then they're just upset, you know? Well, and sometimes how you say something, and I've expressed this to people too, how you say something is actually more important sometimes than what you're actually saying. And somebody's like, give me an example. And I was struggling to come up with one. That's a perfect example. And so I came up with this one. It was much more relatable. There's a song by Ice Tea called Cop Killer, okay? He's screaming the word cop killer. When it first came out, it was horribly offensive to everybody because of the way he was saying it. And I said, but yet no one has a problem with the Eric Clapton song, I Shot the Sheriff, right? Like when you think about it, like, I shot the sheriff, like it's this catchy little melody, it's there. And then you hear Ice Tea going like cop killer and he's like screaming it. They're talking about the same thing, but you have a very different reaction to one or the other. Why? Because of the way that the message is presented. So how you say something sometimes is actually more important than what you're saying because people will infer based off of what they feel. And so Lauren said she was interested. That's what her words said. But what she really said, what's fuck off? What's wrong with you? Again, I don't want to deal with this. Or yeah, what's wrong? And then I'm like scrolling or I'm trying to like, if we're on the couch, try to watch something or go do something in the other room, like, yeah, what's going on? But you're not really being engaged with the person. And so what you've just done is it's like, I asked you what was wrong and you didn't say it. It's like, no, you didn't really ask. You weren't there, you weren't connecting with me. You didn't actually care. I could pick up more on your sarcasm, which mattered more in that moment than what you were actually saying. Because what you were saying didn't matter. It's what I could feel. And so understanding that how you say something, the inference behind it, is more important than what you're actually describing to the person. I mean, you can read studies. I've seen studies that go from like 70% up to 90% of all communication is done non-verbally. And so what is that really saying? It's not so much what you're saying. It's the energy that you're carrying with it. It's your mannerisms. It's your gestures. It's the effort or attention that you're putting into something. It's all the things that aren't being said but are being done. And so when it comes to a bid, turning away from a bid looks more like not responding at all, ignoring your partner completely, which is really very common. Just kind of not really engaging in that aspect of the relationship, not asking questions, being like, oh, that sucks. Now, sometimes that's what's needed. It's a difference between being like, that kind of sucks and not caring versus God that sucks. And what a difficult thing it is to deal with that at work. Very different in that space. Turning against the bid might be really questioning the person and turning into them. And like, why are you upset again? Now, why are you upset again? Yeah, same phrase. But said very differently. And so what I'm really doing is I'm coming at you from an accusatory perspective. And when you go back and look at the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, now I'm criticizing you. And so defensiveness is going to start to creep in. Because when I approach you like that, what are you going to do? You're going to get defensive and you're going to start arguing back. Why are you coming at me like that? I can't talk about my work anymore. I can't talk about my family anymore. It starts to make the person defensive. Yeah, like, oh, this happened again? Or like, you said this last time, like, why would you let that happen again? It's like, well, fuck, I don't know. That's why we're talking about it. So I think that there's like, sometimes I do, not sometimes, I do know that a lot of people mean certain things in the right way. But sometimes their context maybe comes off wrong. Or their tone does. Like maybe that's the only way they know how to communicate. Especially with people who have very strong personalities. Like there are some people who are just going to be very like, here's what's the problem? Let's figure out the solution right now. And it's like, hey, sometimes you want to just be like, here's the situation. I just want to talk through it. I don't necessarily need to have a final answer, final dissertation right now. But that's going to be obviously a personality mismatch. There's just going to be some people. I would say a lot of couples probably struggle with that. Some people are just very, very aggressive in terms of trying to figure something out right then and there. And I would say that typically not always, of course, but generally speaking, men are very like that. In my experience, there's a problem. Well, we're going to find a solution right now. And it's like, whoa, maybe not. And then for a lot of women, not all, but for many, it's more of a longer, slower process. And maybe I'm biasing this because that's how I process things. But in talking with a lot of friends and clients as well, I do know that there is definitely a different emotional level to conversations in terms of just being able to express those things and work through it in a verbal way instead of just we need a solution right now. It's like, maybe I'm just saying it, and then we can address it another time. And then, but I feel like there are some people who just have very strong personalities who want to close that right now. Like, OK, what's the problem? Let's figure it out. Hey. Hey. Yeah. And that's not always, I know, it's not always a male-female thing. But I would say generally, maybe more, maybe more generally. I don't know. Do you see that in your couple counseling? Absolutely. Not even in couples counseling. Just in men and women, we tend to process things differently. And so we are speaking in general terms, because not everything is applicable to every person. But generally speaking, when men hear a problem, they think about it more linearly and from this logic perspective. Because they aren't as conditioned to process emotions. So if we're looking at an emotional mind, a reasoning mind, men tend to go more from that reasoning mind in terms of, oh, you're having an issue with so-and-so at work, or this is creating a problem in your life. Do this. Here's the steps that I would do. First of all, you didn't even ask for my solution. Men have a tendency to kind of volunteer those things. And that's something that even I've had to learn to do over the years when people are talking about something like, I might be like, we'll try this. And I have to shut up and mind my own business and wait for somebody to actually ask for, what do you think I should do? Or what guidance, what suggestions do you have? And sometimes it's not even that direct. Sometimes it's like, OK, well, what options have you explored? Like, your husband's not responding in the way that you want him to. So what have you been doing to get him to think about things differently, how have you been communicating that, et cetera? And you start going down that road. But I think, yeah, men tend to listen to a situation and immediately try and find a solution versus what sometimes people are really asking for is just that you're listening and that you're sharing this space with me. And it doesn't have to be anything else other And guys, it can actually be really freeing. I don't know how many men listen to the podcast, but it can be really freeing sometimes when somebody's telling you something to not have to come up with a solution for it. To be like, wow, that's tough. Or that sounds really hard. Or how sad, how depressing. Or here's a better thing. Sometimes ask them a question. Here's one. How did you handle that? What are you going to do about that? That sounds challenging. Have you thought about what the solution for that's going to look like? And then the person might be like, yes, I have. I've thought about this. Or no, I haven't. What do you think? What would you do, Mike? You're good at business or whatever. What's your take on it? Now we're dialoguing. Yeah. And this goes for other relationships as well, not just romantic relationships. So as you're saying that, one individual, you might respond one way in a romantic relationship, but then in your professional life, in your professional relationships, or your friendships, you're totally different. I'm the same way. I'm so used to being where the coach at, because that's my job, that when there is a problem, I'm trying to help people find a solution. But sometimes, even in a coaching scenario, it does help to take that step back and more so prompt and be indirect in terms of follow-up questions and let's reflect on this. Instead of just inserting, oh, I'm the expert here. It's called something in a book that I read, not maybe the expert trap, but something along those lines. I mean, of course, people are coming to you for solutions if you're their therapist or I'm their coach, but we have to be able to actually listen first. And that's something that I really had to work on over the years, because it would just be like, oh yeah, do this, okay, yeah, do that. And maybe there are certain times, of course, where it's like, hey, this is so glaringly obvious, you know what I mean? Or they've asked that question, but a lot of times there is a more indirect way of going about it. And then when the person does discover it themselves, they're able to actually make that a more sustained change or adjust their behaviors accordingly. Yeah, because it's not. But this applies. Obviously, we're talking about this in a romantic relationship, but you can also think about this, like I said, in terms of any really relationship that maybe, maybe if you're struggling with a professional relationship or maybe with friends, you're like, gosh, I feel like I'm always struggling here with this. Like this could still apply, it's gonna be different, but I feel like it still could. Yeah, absolutely. And what makes this fundamentally important for the relationship is think of your relationship like an emotional bank account, okay? There's a technique of theory in psychology called motivational interviewing, and it relies heavily on like a four to one ratio for positive compliments to one negative. And what the Gottman's actually discovered throughout the course of studying people over 40 years of studying couples is they recognize that the best couples that succeed have a like almost a five to one ratio. And so what I mean by that is this. Your relationship is and exists very much like a typical bank account, meaning every day, every paycheck, like in a perfect world, we're taking money out of every paycheck and we're putting it into our account. We're creating a savings. Will we create that savings for a reason? The car breaks, some sort of emergency, we need that money. So we reach into our bank account and we pull it out. Well, your relationship works the same way. If I don't put anything back into the account when something bad in the relationship happens, I have nothing to pull from. And it's not a one to one, this is not AI did one thing, I can take one thing out, it doesn't work that way. This is switching your mindset to the concept of continuously, consistently investing in the relationship and in this person to the point where when I need to take a deposit out, there's so much in that account already, it doesn't affect the relationship in a negative way. If I'm doing like one or two positive things or responding to one or two bids, but then taking a bid out, it doesn't register the same way as like, oh, well I put two in and I took one out, so I'm still one up. Like it doesn't quite work that way. And so what ends up happening is the relationship fails. I think in some of the most recent statistics and give me a little bit of leeway on this, I think they said like 80% or a little over 80% of the most successful relationships are people who do the five to one kind of ratio, who are able to respond to five. A little over 80% of those relationships succeed. The people who fall below that, there's like only 33% of those relationships succeed, which are 30 or 33% something like that. So you're essentially looking at a 60 to 70% fail rate. And so it's not, this isn't like, I just did one nice thing for the person. And here's the part that I wanna really kind of identify and I think you started talking about it earlier with like the Peterson comment. It's not acts of these grand gestures. Okay, and this is where I think men struggle a lot. I'll hear this a lot from men. I'll hear shit like this. I would die for my wife. Like I would kill anybody who hurt my family. I would do anything for my family. Everything I do is for them, right? And so they're like, I would die, I would kill, I would sacrifice myself. I would do all these wonderful heroic things, but they're not asking you to do that. What they're asking for you to do is show up in the relationship. What does that look like? It means talking to me about my day. I don't need you to die for me. I don't need you to lay on a railroad track for me. I want you to ask me how my day went, right? I don't need you to kill somebody for me. I want you to make me dinner once in a while, right? I want you to give me a kiss at the door. I want you to greet me with a warm hello. I want you to come home and not go right for the bottle, but talk to me about what's happening in your life. I want to get a hug. I want to sit and hold your hand. I want to walk down the street together. That's what I'm asking for. I don't need the grand gestures. I don't need the diamond ring. I don't need the trip to Paris for three weeks. This is what I need to make the relationship work. And I think sometimes men get in that trap of, I'm going to give you all these wonderful lavish gifts, but never show up in the rest of the relationship. And I've seen women do this too, especially women who are successful. Believe it or not, successful women have a tendency sometimes to fall into those same traps too, especially ones who have a lot of money or are very worker career oriented. It's like, let me buy them a watch, right? Or let's just, I'll get them a car. It's like, well, that stuff works for a minute. And then you get tired of being alone. You get tired of not connecting. You get tired of feeling like there's nothing in the relationship for you because the person doesn't actually care or to connect with you. Does that make sense? Yeah, no, and I would say that those statistics sound about right, you know? Like whether or not they were perfect. So yeah, I'm going to give Rick simply, which would be like 76.5 or something. And then people get upset. But no, like generally speaking, that makes so much sense because it is those daily tiny interactions. And it's like, yes, the big grandiose things are exciting and they matter. But I would say that it all kind of stems from a place where somebody is putting something else first and then this situation maybe could be more career focused, at least with the example that you gave. It can be hard because if you are either running a business or you're very career focused just in general, like there's a lot of time and effort put into that. So then it feels hard when, because it's like, you know, and just to play a devil's advocate, like that person is like, hey, I'm providing in this situation, you know what I mean? Like monetarily instability. And I'm the stable person. Man, could I just like, do I need to talk about all this stuff? You know, right? Like I do get it. You know, like I could see both sides because I understand both very fully, but it does have to be that kind of meat in the middle. You know, and maybe that person is, you know, they're really gonna struggle with those kind of small bids and those like small acts of connectedness. But maybe there's like a happy medium to like reach and that's where that communication is gonna come in. Like, hey, listen, I don't expect you to like, you know, do like this laundry list of things, but maybe like these are the things that are really important to me. And like whether people like the whole five love languages thing or not, like the concept I think is really useful in terms of framing like, hey, this is how I feel loved. Like all of those things, like nobody can deny that they like all of those things, right, like on the list. Obviously some more than others, but it's not necessarily like, oh, like this, I really like this. No, it's what makes you feel loved or cared for in a relationship. And that's gonna be very different for everybody. So saying, hey, like, you know, if you're kind of getting to this frayed point, it's like, listen, like, I know that, you know, this is where a lot of your time, energy focus is and you don't necessarily maybe see these things as important, but these few things really matter to me. And then I think if you're able to express that and someone is able to make those steps towards it, then that's showing you, okay, yeah, I bet they're not gonna do all those things, but it's like, hey, I would really appreciate if like, when I cook, you did the dishes like that or whatever, like that's so silly or small or, hey, when you come home, like that we greet each other at the door and it's not like, hey, you know, like it's an actual greeting, like it doesn't need to be 50 things, but maybe like these one or two things that we establish and hey, what's something that makes you, you know, feel this way, right? And it could be something that like you, the partner is like, I don't care about that. I don't like that. It's not about that, right? It's not like, what do they care about? What do you care about? And then finding that like middle ground. Yeah, and like you brought up the five love languages, like that is a tool that you can use and this is where you start layering things. Right, if I know what your five love languages are or not, I know what all five are, but I know what your two or three primary ones are. Well, it also starts to guide some of the ways that I can provide bids for you. Like for, so for example, if yours is physical touch and you're sitting on the couch, like I can come up and rub your shoulders for a few minutes or I can say, hey, let's go for a walk and hold your hand. Like I can do little things and that's gonna register with you. Those are little bids that I'm making for connection. And I don't want it all to just fall on like, okay, so I'm just supposed to use the five love languages. No. No, I only brought that up as like a framework. Yeah, it's, but it's, it's a, it's a great way to say, like, okay, if I'm making more of an effort and I want to do these things, how do I start to show them visible ways so that they can actually see I'm making these connections and these bids to connect with them? And so like, think of this as expressing your interest in something like, or your partner's interest and expressing excitement or affection. These are, these are what bids are. And we want to respond to them in appropriate ways, right? Like, so for example, I could see somebody like sitting at the table or at their desk, like working on something and they start to get frustrated. And so they kind of like, ah, this is driving me crazy. Right? Now I could see that as a response, like an opportunity for a bit, like, hey, what's going on? What's making you so crazy over there? And then the person can be like, fucking nothing. I'm just like, it's this bullshit. Like I'm, I'm fucking frustrated. Right? And just, no, you can't help, like, just leave me alone. Like, let me work on this. Well, you also just shut down my response to you, right? So here's how you start to incorporate some of these things. Like, perhaps you recognize later that like, okay, I didn't respond to my partner's bid appropriately, Rick's bid. So later that night, what do you do? You know, maybe we're going to bed or we're coming, you know, we're, we're sitting on the couch watching a movie or something like that. And you kind of hit pause and you say, hey, you know, an hour ago you asked me what was wrong and I didn't respond. And I just want to say thank you for caring enough to ask. Like, I didn't respond in a great way. I just want you to know that like, I didn't miss that and thank you for that. And so now you're kind of accepting a little bit of responsibility for how you responded. And am I going to feel angry with you still? Probably not. Like, I'm going to be like, okay, cool. She recognizes it. She's making an effort to bid toward me. And so now like, okay, great. Thank you for that. I appreciate that. That means a lot to hear from you like, and then, you know, maybe you move a little bit closer on the couch. Maybe you kiss each other a little bit and you keep doing those things. Because we all know anybody who has been in any relationship, it is only a matter of time. It is inevitable that you're going to have problems in your relationship. It is, it's a certainty as death and taxes, there's going to be problems in your relationships. And so in order for the relationship to really survive when tragedy or difficult times or challenges or obstacles come up, you need to have an emotional bank account full of reserves. You need to have money in the bank in order to pull something out to pay for the damage that comes later. Does that make sense? Okay. So think of it as just again, like a bank account and I want to keep making deposits over and over and over again. And I'm going to go over a list in just a second of like what are some common bids because some people might be like, I still don't really know what a bid is. Yeah, I was going to say, let's give some examples, which we have, but I think that that would really. Let's jump toward those. Okay. So here's kind of like a basic checklist. You know, there's like 50, 60 items on this that you can do. So here's an example. These are just examples. You guys can create your own, figure them out, but here's a good starting point. Checked in with one another at the end of the day and talked over events that happened in the day. So, hey, how was your day? Tell me what happened at work. You know, what'd you have going on? Now you're talking. Stayed in touch with your friends or your family. You went shopping for groceries, perhaps together or separately. Maybe it's something that you always do, but now I'm going to do it for you. I'm going to do that little bid. Like, hey, I'm going to the store. Do you need anything? Like, yeah, that could be a great bid or like, no, I don't, but I'll go with you. Or do you want to go alone? Like, yeah, I know you've been frustrated lately. Do you want to? That is a big one, right? That is a big one. Sometimes like. You just want to be alone. Yes. Oh my gosh. And people who get that get it. And people who don't just don't. I will never forget. I was with my friend and I was like, hey, again, this is a friendship context, but I was like, oh, I'm going for a walk. I'll be, she's like, do you want to go for a solo walk? Or do you want me to come with you? Because I have to go for a walk as well, but I totally get it. If you want to go for, I was like, I want it to be a solo walk. And I really appreciate you asking. Cause if she had just said, hey, I'm going to go walk too. I wouldn't have said no, you know what I mean? Because I was like, that's rude. And I obviously enjoy her company. And I was staying at her house, but the fact that she even said that, I was like, I know you get it. Like you just, you get this. So sometimes you need a solo trip. So. I'm glad that she was able to recognize that. And that you were able to be honest enough to say that with, cause there's sometimes I think there's that risk of hurting the other person's feelings and how they're going to internalize that, which is common people do that. But it's like, Especially in a relationship. Cause you're like, oh, you know, they're being nice. I kind of want to, you know. Well, and if one person tends to be like more quality time and like want to be a little bit more involved in the other person's perhaps a little bit more introverted, you know, and they're just like, I just want to be left alone a little bit. And it's not about them because you could replace them with anybody. ogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogen I'm not going to do it. Cross off newspaper, read the same book, or read different books. Read different books, but at the same time. But at the same time. There you go. There you go. Called your partner during the week, planning a workout together, texting somebody before a meeting or before an important event, like, hey, good luck. Or thinking about you, I love you, whatever it is. Just letting them know those little things. Go on a date with your partner without the kids. Went out on an overnight getaway with your partner to a romantic place, shared morning breakfast together during the week. How often does that occur for most people? Very rarely do we make time in the morning. People sleep as late as they possibly can before they have to get up to start the rest of the things that are going on that day. And what you recognize is when I ask somebody, and I ask this all the time, I say, you had a plan for today. And I'm like, yes. I say, tell me about it. And they tell me all of their day, and nothing in their day relates to their relationship. Right? It's like I had to get up, I had to go to work, I had to do the meeting, I had to do all these things. There's no part in that day where they were like, oh, I was going to text my wife or I was going to call my husband or I was going to stop at the store and get his favorite candy or something like that. Right? It's just never in there. You look at your day, your planner for the week. What's in your planner? Most people do not have specific things or times or plans that they're doing. And then they're going to wonder why the relationship is struggling after five years or 10 years or whatever it is. Doing yard work together, shared physical workouts together, going on weekends, doing things together like a picnic for example. Spending time together with the kids like bed times, baths, homework, that kind of stuff. Taking a long drive together, watching a video together, watching TV together, ordering dinner or takeout together. It doesn't mean you both have to be on the phone, but just doing little things to connect. Watching a sports TV together, sharing your favorite activity, finding an activity for the two of you to do together. Maybe you like going to the gym. I like to ride motocross and you don't want to go to motocross or I don't want to go to the gym. But instead we're going to figure out like, oh, we both like playing racquetball or something like that. I love, you guys can't see if you are watching this on YouTube, please zoom in on Lauren's face just to watch her facial gestures when I read this list. Like, what? That doesn't make any sense. I'm like, it's so stupid. I was like, do you like motocross? I was like, I don't think so. I was trying to rack my brain for any conversation we'd had about that. And then I was like, I think this might just be an example. Yes, it was just an example. I feel like people who listen to this sometimes are like, can this fucking guy talk about anything other than Jiu-Jitsu? True, true. So motocross, like something that you're not going to do. You could have said like ride a bike. I mean, I don't know, fucking anything. So it's motocross. Just came to my, well, because I was going to go with like shooting and then you were going to be like, I like shooting because I know you and I was like, so I was trying to find something that you would not say that to. You're right. I would not ride a motocross bike. Like I barely ride a bicycle. So. All right. So let me get back to this list. Quality time, not motorized things. Build a fire together, sit in front of the fire together, listen to music together, went to a concert together, went dancing together. I'm just going to keep, I'm going to ignore you and just keep reading this list. Go to a nightclub together, go to a theater, go off to eat. Took kids to different lessons together, attended a different sports event, wrote letters, wrote cards to each other, took a vacation together, planned something together. It doesn't matter what you're planning, plan something together. So going back to the, sorry, I'm going to cut you off. Going to the. Sorry, but you're going to do it anyway. Yeah, I'm going to do it anyway. Um, when, you know, I know that obviously people, everybody's busy, right? Especially if you, you know, have kids and there's so much going on, you know, pretty much, I don't ever really talk to anybody. They're like, man, I just got shit going on. Like, no, everybody has things going on, right? So you know, people are going to use planners. They're going to like, you said all this stuff is in your day or in your week, but your relationship isn't. Do you think that it's important to like plan these things ahead of time or like keep them spontaneous or kind of do like a mix of both? Cause people are probably thinking that, right? Like, okay, I want, obviously it's planning like a date night at a nice restaurant that might need reservations, right? So that seems kind of obvious. Um, but maybe keeping other things like, Hey, like Wednesday night is our night to do something, but we're not going to, we're just going to kind of decide like, right? Um, I'm not really sure if that makes sense or not, but I just know that some people are going to be like wondering, okay, do I put that into kind of the, the weekly plan? Um, or like, how do I do that? Well, and I think yes. So the correct answer that I think is both because some of the stuff you're taking a very proactive approach with, like you said, planning a dinner. So fine. I'm going to call and make a reservation somewhere. But I also think there's a spontaneity in this, that one of the difficulties in a relationship is that people take the relationship for granted. They get really comfortable in the relationship and we stop actually investing in the other person. So like there's a difference between making a dinner reservation and planning a special date, which a lot of the things they just read as bids were essentially date nights, right? Versus you're sitting on the couch or you're frustrated and you're coming home from work and I'm not engaging in you in a dialogue about what that frustration is. Right? So like here's, here's some examples that the Godman Institute has given, you know, people on some of their literature. So here's like do's and don'ts. So partner number one says, isn't that a beautiful boat? And the second partner gives no response and just stays quiet. So you didn't respond. Right? That's the don'ts. Because I said, wow, isn't that a beautiful boat? No, I know what people are, some people are going to think like, does that mean I have to respond to every little thing, every single thing that they say or do. And it's like, no, but what they're doing is they're attempting in this moment to actually have a conversation with you. And so what they really want is to be acknowledged. Right. And so isn't that a beautiful boat? Yeah. It looks like just like one of the other ones that we saw just last week. Or even if it is like, no, I think it's ugly as shit. Like you, it could at least still be saying that because then that's still like responding and then that's still like a conversation. Like you don't have to lie. If you're like, oh my God, that's such a beautiful boat. And you're like, no, that's just ugly. You know, you could say that. Right. Oh, no. I mean, did I create a new bid? If you're buying a boat and he's like, do you like this one or you're like, do you like this boat? Then give an opinion. Like, no, I think it's kind of like a lie. I think it's ugly. It's ugly. How about say like, what do you think is pretty about that boat? Yeah. There we go. There's a better way to respond. Okay. But it would be like in a joking way, like, no, I don't like that. I wouldn't be like, no, I don't like that. You're stupid. Okay. It would be like, no, I don't like that. But, but be aware of the fact that if I'm like, oh my God, that's a beautiful boat. And you're like, that thing's ugly as shit. Like there's a little bit of, what do you like about that? That would be the question. But if you said, no, things ugly as shit, right? Somebody might feel less inclined to start sharing their opinion around you because they're going to feel a little bit judged and criticized. Yeah. There you go. Why am I asking? So that would be an example of turning toward or away. We're not doing it. Okay. Now, Lauren, these are examples. Other people wrote, I didn't. Okay. So the more newspapers involved. All right. Let's see. All right. Here's partner number one. Here's the don't that jerk at work for, I didn't show up until really late and I missed my bus home. I'm sorry that I'm late. Partner number two responds by saying, why are you bringing Fred up again? I'm so tired of hearing about your work problems all the time. Who cares about Fred? You're late. Quit trying to blame it on Fred now that your dinner's ruined. Right. So sure they responded, but in a very negative way. So here's a better way to respond. We know what the person said. So that jerk at work, Fred didn't really show up until late and you missed your bus home. I'm sorry. So that's what they said. So partner number two responds with, dang, what a drag. Like, I'd like to ring that guy's neck too. Or aggressive examples here for it. Now, now we're getting into Lauren's low language. So the partner could respond with something like, yeah, me too. Partner number two could say, yes, I'm upset that you didn't call and that dinner is now a little cold. Right. Partner number one could say something alongs of you're right. I should have called. That was a little insensitive of me. I'm sorry. Partner number one, a partner number two could respond by saying, yeah, you know, we have kind of talked about this before. Partner number one, not being defensive. It can be like, yes, I know. I guess I was just so absorbed in what was going on in my life and not showing up. I completely forgot about calling. So what are we seeing? We're seeing taking responsibility. And then the other person can say like, okay, well, what do you want to do for dinner? Well, how about I take you out since I run dinner tonight? You know, it's my treat. Like, great. And so now we're working through the relationship. We're not arguing. We're not criticizing. We're starting to pull from multiple cues here. We're starting to look at the four horsemen of the apocalypse and the way that we communicate. We're not trying to criticize people. We're trying to more or less complain, which lowers defensiveness and all the other things that come with it. I'm also taking responsibility or you're taking responsibility, whoever it is in that space by saying like, okay, I didn't call. I was late. I wasn't considered in this space. And so recognizing that is really important and taking responsibility is equally important because it doesn't make the other person feel like they're always wrong. Yeah, I think that's a great way to kind of tie this all up. And because I think that sometimes people might think this only has to be like, oh, you just have to respond in like a positive way. And it doesn't need to be like that. There can be this dialogue of like, the other person maybe is upset or wasn't handled properly. But like in that example, there is this dialogue, there is this communication of figuring out, okay, hey, like this happened, here's how I responded. This is how I felt. Maybe we can come to a conclusion to not do this again. And again, it's not to say like, oh my gosh, nobody can ever make a mistake in a relationship. But it's about like, if that person was just like, yeah, it's fine. But really they were upset that you didn't call saying, hey, you know, like next time this happens, like just call me when you're leaving or when you're late, especially if you're on a bus, like you have no excuse. Anyway, you know, but you know what I'm saying, like there is there's different steps. It doesn't just have to be like this positive thing all the time. Like, oh, I did this for you. Like, yay, good job. Right. Like I think that it can be this kind of back and forth and that still is this encompasses this topic. Yeah. And so I guess if I'm going to just kind of give some kind of final takeaway points from this is remind yourself that there's two, there's two major responses to a bid. You're either going to turn toward it or turn away from it. You want to create the habit. And I say create the habit of doing this because it's going to take some time. And what are the best way for you guys to start to approach this is to have a conversation with your loved one, right? Whoever that person is, the person usually for the romantic relationship we've been talking about, sit them down. Hey, I've been thinking about our relationship a lot lately and I would like to know what are some of the ways that I haven't responded to you in the past that you would have liked me to respond. You know, I've just learned about this thing, you know, bids for the relationship, like what are things that you think I could be doing to kind of help? Like, and it can be anything, right? It can be when the person, again, they're verbal or non-verbal. So when a person lets out a sigh, like ask what's going on, inquire about that. Part of that might mean putting your phone down, turning the TV off and like actually engaging in a conversation. It could also mean greeting them at the door with like a 10 second hug and an actual kiss. It can mean sitting down and having dinner together, holding each other's hands, getting up or folding the laundry together. Like you see the other person doing something. Go and offer help. Hey, can I give you a hand? Do you need anything? No? Okay. I'm like walk away. But it's this constant bid to connect with the person. And if the person, what you might also recognize is some people are really good at making bids, but then the other person is really good at rejecting those bids and turning them away. And so it's like, I need to work on my receptiveness toward the things that you're saying and doing. And so this is how relationships become healthier and more robust and stronger so that when major tragedy happens, you're able to withstand it. And so I think, you know, remind yourself it's not always about the grand gestures. It's the little moments within the relationship. How are you turning toward each other? And I've always believed and I've been striking to, or not striking, excuse me, I've been striving to really reiterate this with my clients and that remember the purpose of the relationship is for you to serve. And if you're going into the relationship reminding yourself that it's my duty, my job to care for this person, to be there for this person emotionally, physically, in every possible financially, whatever spiritually and times. And to remind yourself of that duty to the relationship, it means then that you're going to come, you're approaching the relationship from the perspective of what am I doing to connect with this person? How am I looking to serve them? How am I striving to improve the quality of the relationship constantly? And if they're doing the same thing, you're both going to be putting deposits into that account. And then when something happens, you'll be okay. It won't break the relationship. You won't even doubt the relationship. You won't be like, God, is this, do I have to leave? Should I break up? Do I stay? Like, it won't even be an issue. You won't even think that you'll just be like, okay, you don't know, like life 90% of the time is really great. We just have, you know, like one or two things that happen on occasion that we know how to work through. Why? Why can you work through it? Is it because you communicate? Well, no, it's because we've been putting so much love into the into each other that the relationship can stand, you know, things that attack it. Absolutely. So I hope you guys really enjoyed this podcast and learning more about bids. If you had not heard of this before, um, maybe I'm the only one, I guess we'll find out comment. If you had never heard of this terminology, I mean, I totally understand it. Like I said, I just never heard it presented that way. So I'm going to give myself a little bit of credit there. But no, this was really great. And I think almost everybody can benefit from this. I, you know, of course we talked about this mostly and the lens of a romantic relationship. But if you are maybe struggling in some other areas, you can certainly use this to reflect as well. So if you guys are interested in reaching out to Rick for consulting, we will put his email below, but say it for everybody. Full circle therapy, FL at gmail.com. And for more information on our coaching services, you can visit team look of it.com for one on one coaching. And if you're interested in our subscription app, you can visit redefine healthy.com. So thank you guys so much for listening. If you enjoyed the show, please share it and we'll talk to you next week.

=== FILE: Episode 270： How to change your view on yourself ｜ Interview with Kasey Jo [RtNPc6x7rAo].txt ===

 welcome back to another episode of the Loco Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and today I am interviewing my friend, Casey Orvidis. I am so excited for this, because actually, before we were talking a little bit before this, and you said you haven't talked about this on a podcast, and honestly, when I was thinking about topics, obviously a lot of people know you for growth mindset and behavior change, which we will weave those concepts into this topic, but I really wanted to get into the idea of the journey of changing how you view yourself and really what that idea of belief system is, and all, because honestly, that really is the root of everything, and you said you haven't really talked about this before on a podcast, so I'm stoked for this, and I know that everybody listening is gonna get so much out of this, but before we start, please introduce yourself. Yeah, thank you. Man, I'm gonna introduce myself. Where do we wanna start? How far back do we wanna go? One, three. Right, so here's where I grew up. This is how I was parented, no. So I kind of like to describe myself in general as being half psychology and half health and fitness in general, so like how my brain works, where my passions are, how my business has been built at this point. I do have a PhD in psychology. I studied health behavior change specifically, so even more specifically, I really got into the nitty gritty of growth versus fixed mindset, and how that plays a role in how healthy we eat and how often we exercise, and then I took a lot of that and was applying it literally during my PhD as a nutrition coach, and kind of seeing how some of the stuff in the lab actually played out in the wild, so I did a lot of that kind of intertwined at the same time, and while going for my PhD, the typical trajectory is to go to be a professor, do research, or go the industry route, work for Fitbit or Apple Health or something like that, which would have been really cool, honestly, but I was kind of battling between this, like, well, I have this kind of little nutrition coaching side hustle, I could lean into that and see where that goes and see how I can bring more behavior change and mindset science into that world, or yeah, I could go the conventional route. So I took a chance and decided to go the unconventional route and build my business and see where that went. I knew I didn't always just want to nutrition coach, I wanted to do more, I wanted to build programs, and now I have the Health Mindset Coaching Certification, which is a certification for health and fitness coaching professionals, to learn more of these strategies behind mindset and behavior change and the science of all of that. So I dove in, haven't looked back, it's been three-ish years at this point, a little over three years, and it's been an awesome ride, I'm really excited to continue to bring more of this and continue to combine the worlds of health, fitness, psychology, mindset, nutrition, all of it. Yeah, and I'm excited to talk about something that I don't typically talk about today. And I think that this is, and if you guys listen to the show or follow me, you know that this is really where my interests have started to merge, because it honestly is the root of everything. And I think that it's so interesting how the industry, and we'll put that in air quotes, always seems to oscillate with different things. And I think that there has been such a big push for mental health as an umbrella term, like mental health matters, let's put mental health first. But what ends up happening, at least in my eyes, is that we have this focus on all of that, and then we don't follow it up with the other physical behavior, you know what I mean? There's always be a disconnect. It's either we're focusing exclusively on physique or performance or longevity, or mental health. And it's like being able to merge all those things which I think you do a really great job of, that is really, I think, where the future lies in terms of how we're actually gonna be able to help people in the long term, because your body is influenced by your mind and vice versa, obviously, as you know. And this really is, it's not just one or the other. And I think that, as always, like I said, the industry always seems to oscillate. It's like, oh, I FYM doesn't work, well, we need to do clean eating, okay? Well, that doesn't work, well, we need to do this. Well, then tracking macros, that can lead to disorder of eating. So we just need to intuitively, like, whoa, whoa, why are we, so there's always these really big fluxes. And I feel like there's a really big flux towards mental health, which I'm super here for, I'm super all about, but we also, I feel like, have to, we can have those two worlds combined. Would you say that there's a difference? Have you noticed a difference as a practitioner and researcher, like in the past couple years? Yeah, you know what I noticed too, and I think this kind of echoes what you're talking about is this idea that, yes, okay, so tracking macros, paying close attention to your steps, things like this, like there's that camp that says that is obsessive and that is not healthy, and you shouldn't be doing those things. And that camp is very much the anti-diet crew. And also the, like, you essentially don't need to be doing those things in order to be healthy. And like, if you want to prioritize your mental health, don't do those things, you know? So that becomes, yeah, it's a very difficult, obviously the conversation is so nuanced. And just because someone is tracking macros does not mean it's obsessive or it's impacting their mental health. In fact, it could be very well-helping their mental health, right? So I think, yeah, it becomes, people dig their heels into the ground into these certain beliefs. And I will say, I think a lot of this just comes from, without going too much on a tangent here, it comes from this idea that we hear all the time as content creators, you need to be polarizing and you need to niche down and you need to have, you know, this like, this message, you're like, yeah, I'm ready to go on this one. So I do think like a lot of that is where that comes from too. And like, to be honest, the stuff that's most popular is the stuff that's most sensationalized. And the same thing happens on just like mainstream news, right? So a lot of this is like, okay, well, I'm gonna get the most likes and comments and shares and like, argumentative things going on in my comment section. If I say like, diets don't work and I'm part of the anti-diet crew. And if you love yourself, you shouldn't want to diet. And it's like, dude, there's so much more to this conversation. So yeah. Co-exist at once. Exactly. And when you said the niche thing, like I understand, like, yes, you need to have a target audience, but like, holy shit, like can we not as like a society understand that like an individual or a company can be multifaceted? Like that consistently blows our mind. Like I'm never like, oh, you only need to do one thing. Like I'm like, oh, this person does this, this, like that's so rad to me. Like I love that. But it's like in the world of social media and just media in general, which is how most people are consuming information and finding it, like whether we like it or not, it's the reality. Like people are like, nope, this is what I do. And it's like, like that's how they find it. And it's like, this is a little boring. Like I can't stand most accounts because it's just, I could, I know how I could improve my account. I know I could, but I'm like, I don't, I don't do it. I like talking about it. And this, and like, like I, like my clientele who are like, they're all interested in a lot of different things. So I'm like, okay, like, you know, if I wanted like a carbon copy robots and everybody, like, sure, maybe I only talk about one or two things, but it's like, no, like I'm interested. I actually want to facilitate people to have a multifaceted life. Like part of this coaching is so that we can, you know, hey, we're going to take care of the nutrition and the training and the mindset stuff. So that actually is allowing you to be able to do these other cool things. Like that's part of what like my goal as a coach is. So it's like, I'm encouraging people to be multifaceted in that way. So anyways, yeah, before we get to, to, to, honestly, this does go into a lot of what we're talking about. So let's talk about like identity and belief systems kind of on the first like fundamental level. Like if somebody were to ask you about that, like, how would you, I guess, even define that with that in terms like self-identification? Cause we hear these words all the time. Like, what does that even mean? Yeah. Yeah. And I think at a basic level, I think most people understand at face value, right? Your identity is something, it's a, it's a, not I was going to say like made up, but sometimes it can be made up, but it's essentially a set of beliefs based on experiences, feelings, situations, circumstances, go full circle here to when I made a joke about how I was raised, but like that, that like all of that stuff comes into play when deciding your identity, but also it can be more superficial things, right? Like you can take a personality test or maybe you're so drawn to your Zodiac sign that it's like, I'm a Sagittarius and like, this is how I act and this is how I respond to things that you absorb that into your identity. Now that's how people do, we know this from research on self identity. People, once they have an understanding of what their identity is and what they're labeling themselves as, they will, speaking of digging your heels in the sand, they will do that, right? They will try to do everything to showcase that that is the case. Even if like at its core, they know it's not true. It's like, oh no, but maybe we can swing it this other direction and that still makes sense for like who I see myself as. So your identity and who you see yourself as is incredibly important and probably more important than most people even realize. Like they don't understand how often they're actually operating from a place of their identity. And that's what's causing them to make certain decisions or go certain direction over their like true conscious thought process, right? It's coming from this automatic place of like, oh, this is who I am. So I'm gonna turn right when maybe left is actually the direction you want it to go. So it really does make a big difference. And there's tons and tons of research on this, especially when it comes to like exercise, healthy eating, things like that. People who see themselves as an exercise, exercise or see themselves as a healthy eater are the people who are choosing to exercise more frequently or have greater intentions to exercise or eat healthy, et cetera, et cetera. Like we see it over and over again, which I think, you know, most people listening are probably like, well, yeah, I guess that makes sense. But what are you doing with that information? Like are you actually like, do you know what the identity is that you're operating from? Like how much time are you actually spending with that? Yeah, and that's where, and we won't go down the rabbit hole, but that's why identity politics is the fucking absolute worst because like you said, literally clearly defines it like, okay, here's the set of values and I'm gonna stick my heels in no matter what. And you are no longer able to make decisions for yourself because you're only going to like, what is the group thing? And that's where it can be really dangerous. And this is not just political, I'm talking about like left or right, I'm talking about like anything, you know what I mean? Like having an identity of like, I'm of this. And now I would say that potentially there could be certain upsides to this, right? Obviously, like when it's a positive thing, right? But as like there's always this kind of continuum of like if it's negative, it can really harm you, right? Like if you're saying to yourself, okay, I'm always someone who's late. Well, if you always say that and you identify as a person who is late, what are your behaviors gonna exhibit? You're gonna give yourself a path that you're always late or I'm somebody who puts news in my alarm, okay? Well, what can you do about that? But on the flip side, if you're like, no, I'm a healthy eater or I'm an exerciser, even if you're not, right? Like that can actually start to help. So where, how, I guess let's start with the negative part first, of course. How, let's say you have these negative, this negative talk or this negative belief system in terms of like how you view yourself or your behaviors. What would be some ways that, you know, people could start to shift that away? Like, oh, you know, anytime that I'm, you know, I'm a late night snacker, which, you know, I'm not saying that nobody can eat it late, but we know what that means, right? Typically when you're talking about late night snacking, that means you've already had all your food for the day, probably having some uncontrolled eating or, you know, I'm just not, I'm not somebody who can stick to a plan. Like when you have that negative identity, what are some steps that we can potentially take to start overriding that? Yeah, and what comes up for me, first and foremost, and see like, I can't not talk about mindset. Like those, every single one of those statements is a fixed mindset statement, right? Literally declaring yourself as a type of person or like, I've, those words, I always do this. I never do that. Those should be like that mindset, like alarms or blaring, you know, fixed mindset alarms. So like understanding too, that like hearing those things, like this is where from a mindset perspective, if you're saying these things to yourself, if you're hearing someone else say them, if you're a coach and your clients are saying some of these things, that should be an alarm for you to go, okay, we got some fixed mindset stuff going on here, right? So if you're thinking, oh, well, I'm just, I'm not someone who like, likes to exercise. I've never been someone who likes to exercise. That should be like, whoa, whoa, whoa, like, why are we saying this? Where is this coming from? So something you can actually do to unpack some of those negative self-beliefs, fixed mindset, whatever we want to call them in these situations, especially if they're like repeated patterns, which typically these things are, right? Otherwise we don't say them if they aren't something that comes up frequently. It's actually something that can lean on cognitive behavioral therapy here. So working through kind of like this step by step process, the first step being what evidence do you have for that thought, right? So I'm not someone who enjoys exercise. Okay, so you're thinking this, there's a reason you're thinking this. Why are you thinking this? Like where is the evidence to support this? So for you, maybe it's historically, I haven't enjoyed exercise every time I go. I don't like it. I just think about leaving. It's so hard for me to get there. I've never found something that I enjoy. Like, okay, all of that's valid, right? And that's helpful information to understand why you're thinking that way. The next step is to think about evidence against that thought. So you're not the type of person to enjoy exercise. Do you have any evidence ever in your life where that's like not true? And you have some evidence, essentially not supporting that thought. So this person may be thinking, oh, you know, like when I'm hiking, I enjoy hiking and I guess hiking is technically exercise. So like there's an example of where this wouldn't be true. Or there's been situations when I'm working out with a friend that time seems to go a lot faster. I'm actually having a good time because there's a social aspect to it. It's like, okay. So like kind of continuing to like run through this list of where this is not true. Now, taking the evidence for and evidence against, essentially what we're really trying to do here is create a more accurate depiction of reality, really. Now, weighing those two things, like what is the more accurate definition of that thought, right? So instead of I've never been that type of person to exercise, I'm not that kind of person. Maybe if I haven't consistently found exercise that I enjoy, that's the truth, right? Based on what actually has happened in your past and what is currently happening and how you're feeling on a day-to-day basis, that's the truth. Not that you're not that type of person. It's just that you haven't quite found your thing yet, even though some things have maybe kind of like given you a glimmer of hope. So now that we have that, how does that make you feel differently? You know, and a lot of times when I do work through this with clients and we're doing this kind of in real time at the end, they're like, I feel a lot more in control of this now. You know, I feel like I better understand where to go forward and what this means. And so now when that thought comes up, the idea is because you've gone through this process, you better understand it. You can notice it and be like, oh, there's that thought again. You know, it's kind of trying to get at me again, but I know it's not true. So like what can I do instead? How can I think about this differently? So that is very much from just like a negative thought pattern, breaking perspective. But when we're talking about fixed mindset, we're talking about these negative self beliefs, that's essentially what they are, right? Especially when it comes to your identity, because your identity is something that has been cultivated over you thinking certain thoughts, same thoughts for a period of time. So yeah, I think that that is one like very like strategic exercise that you can use. Yeah, no, that's so great because I find that so many people will, they identify with that identity so closely meaning like, oh, I'm so disgusted by where I'm at right now. I can't believe I let myself get here. And it's like, okay, hold up. Like that is so disempowering. Like maybe you're gonna be able to pull yourself out of this rut for a few weeks, a few months, but you're probably gonna find yourself back in the situation if you're always viewing yourself in that way. Instead of being like, I might be unhappy or even disgusted, use this person's word, disgusted with my current physique. I'm not disgusting. I don't wanna be here again. What are the steps that I can do to change this? And I know that's so small, but it really is so different. Like, oh, I'm lazy. Like, okay, these were the times where maybe your behaviors were lazy. These were the times that you weren't. Now let's become a not lazy, like you don't have to be a lazy person anymore. You know what I mean? Like you can choose like these are all things that we don't have to internalize. And this has been like a process that I've been going through just cause I can have kind of very default negative setting just for a lot of things. And it's really, really hard to work through, but like having those cues to be like, well, here we go again. And you get better every time, I think. You know, it's like any behavior. Like you're gonna get better at catching it early. And I don't know if you can speak to this from a maybe more scientific perspective, but like I always try to tell clients like, listen, if you have that thought, it's okay. Like I'm not expecting the thought to go away. It's acting on that thought that's more important. Like if we want to get away from acting on those thoughts and those behaviors, like if you have it, that doesn't mean that you're a failure. Like I think that some people, especially in this, you know, again, the online kind of culture is, oh, well, if you ever have a negative thought about food, like you have a bad relationship with food. But bad thoughts all the time. That doesn't mean that I have a bad relationship with food. I just had a thought. And maybe I had this thought because I didn't sleep well, where I was stressed. Like there's usually a lot of reasons why those thoughts come up, but there's a difference of having that thought and then saying, well, this thought isn't me. This thought isn't what I'm interested in pursuing. And then stopping it and then moving forward. There's a very big difference. And I think that a lot of people are sold this lie, whether it's like that or like, I don't want like, you know, never be anxious anymore. Well, if you guys could find that cure, you know what I mean? Like I would love this. Yeah, bottle that up, please. But like never having anxious thoughts is not the goal. The goal is to not act on those. So I don't know if there's a term for that or anything that I find that is like, if we're able to stop what's gonna happen after, that's more important than like, we're not gonna ever cease negative thoughts. It's about acting on them. Yeah. Oh, I love all of this so, so much. And I don't know if you realize this, but you're basically speaking to acceptance commitment therapy. It's literally like a practice inside of psychology has been around for a long time. It's a branch of cognitive behavioral therapy, but a big part of it is accepting that you have these thoughts and these emotions, but that doesn't mean it has to define you, right? It doesn't mean you have to act on it. There's a big part of that is this idea, they call it diffusion or fusion. So if someone who is in fusion, that like they're fused with their thoughts basically, it's taking over and determining their actions and how they operate in the world based on those thoughts, those emotions, those feelings, and diffusion is what we're trying to achieve and try to allow those thoughts to happen, but not allow them to control the actions that we take and how we live our lives, right? A more, I guess, less like jargony type of term would be like hooked and unhooked. So the idea is not to get rid of the thoughts, but instead just unhook ourselves from it, right? So the issue is not the negative thought. The issue is that you get hooked by the negative thought and now it's essentially determining how you live your life. Like that's the issue. So what's interesting you bring up too is that like, oh, I had a negative thought about food or about my body today, so like, oh my God, that's so bad and you spiral into this whole like, I have a negative relationship with my body, with food, like all these things, what's wrong with me? And the reality is if it's not negatively impacting the rest of your day and you just had that thought and it kind of just left, that's awesome. You know, that's great. That's part of being human. We also, as humans, have a negativity bias. Like we literally seek out the negative because it's a survival mechanism. You know, we're looking for the bad things to protect ourselves and be on the lookout for those things, which is why, you know, things like mindfulness and meditation and being present and practicing gratitude. Like those are all super effortful things because our normal, our standard is not to do those things. It's to go, well, what's gonna happen? What's gonna be bad? Lauren, we actually talked about this when we were in Nashville and I was across the table and I was like, you know, sometimes I'm like walking the dogs and I see cars coming at me and I'm like, that could like, they could just end my life right now. That could happen. And you're like, that's anxiety. And like, but that is just like, our brains will do those things, right? Just kind of naturally. So we have to actively be like, no, like I'm grateful for the sunshine and this dog walk and like pay attention to that. Instead of like, what if that ongoing traffic just like makes a slight left turn, you know? So yeah. Absolutely. I put that in a story yesterday and I was talking to one of my coaches Danielle and she was like, bro, you're so like dark. And I was like, what do you mean? And like, I was, so I've been doing 75 hard and I was talking about, because anybody doesn't know there's two, at least 45 minute workouts. So for me, and one of them has to be outdoors. So I've been doing a daily walk, which I do walks anyway, but normally I do two shorter walks. So now it's 45 minutes of a walk or some kind of cardio. Like that's gonna be obviously, you know, more time with my thoughts, which is nice. But also sometimes I was like, sometimes that reflection can like, basically like, I'm about it, like I'm on the path of not like, on a path down that like nihilistic spiral and like I'm like one step over the cliff and like I'm just sharing this and I'm saying, but being present is the way that I avoid this at all. She was like, bro, like this shit was so negative. I was like, I was trying to give tools as how to not stare. And I'm like, maybe everybody else doesn't see it this way. But that's how again, maybe that's just me. I don't know, but like it can just spiral really, really quick, but the best way that I've been able to combat that is to just be, okay, no, I am being present here and like really focusing on that kind of mindfulness practice. And it is so hard, like it is not easy for, you know, obviously some people it's easier because they've done it for a long time, but you have to actively seek out and pursue that. And that's something that I don't think is innate in most people. I don't think that most people, I would say that now kind of ties are turning like it's become more of like a thing to do. I remember really, I don't know, outside of, you know, the weird spiritual leader like, you know, 10 years ago, I don't really remember people talking about this as much as they do now. True. Right? Of course that can be taken out of context as well. There's, you know, there's plenty of that too. But yeah, I definitely think that those are great tips in order to get out of that. And just really guys, like it's okay to have these negative thoughts and beliefs, but it doesn't mean you have to identify with them. And that should really be the core thing to start working through. Now, so shifting more towards how do we create these positive beliefs and create this positive identity? What would be some tools, I guess, to do that? Yeah, I think like we were kind of talking about and kind of segueing into this, a lot of it does come down to breaking through those negative patterns, right? And the more you break through the negative patterns, the more you'll be able to see the positive. And like what Lauren was mentioning, which also ties back into acceptance, commitment therapy a lot, is that idea of just like being present. And actually it's an analogy that they use in act acceptance, commitment therapy is dropping anchor. So in those situations where you feel like kind of these negative thoughts are spiraling and now you're thinking about all their things and now it's going this direction, you're like, oh my God, like all of this is happening. I'm not feeling good about this, like dropping anchor and bringing yourself back to the present as like literally, and it sounds like a little bit woo-woo but like move your arms and your legs and walk around and like touch yourself and feel like where you are, you know, bring yourself back to like reality for a second. Cause the truth is like those thoughts that you're having are likely not even fully true, right? The problem is like we have some of these negative thoughts and they just spiral into like birthing gremlin thoughts and turning to like this whole situation. It's like it's not even reality, which is why that like forced that process that I went through before can be really helpful, but understanding that your thoughts can just be thoughts and thoughts and feelings are not the reality, right? It's literally in your head. So like bringing yourself back to home base here and actually in the present moment can be very helpful. But then I think, I don't know, there's a lot of different directions we could take this but I think just like something developing self-efficacy is a really important thing in the behavior change process and developing new habits, things like that. And self-efficacy is essentially this idea that even in difficult times, you're still gonna continue to work towards things that you value, things that you prioritize, your goals that can be helping to us or otherwise. So, and how do we do this, right? How do we develop more self-efficacy? And a lot of that can be related back to your identity. So how much of this could be just like affirmations? Like I am a healthy person. I do healthy things, right? Sure, that could be part of it. And there's research on affirmations that's definitely part of it. But how much of it too is just literally taking action as if you already were that person, right? So if I were that ideal self, what decision would I be making? Would I hire a coach? Would I, you know, not hit the next Netflix episode and actually go out and get a workout in? What would that person do? Cause a lot of it is like the more actions you're taking, the more you're showing yourself that you are that person, right? I also think just like using the language that you use obviously with yourself and with other people, you know, even as little as, and there's research on this too, using different words, like instead of, I can't have something, I can't do something. And instead, I don't do that. I don't want to do that, right? So if you're in a social setting and you're trying to drink less because you're trying to show up as your healthiest self and like kind of go into that identity instead and your friends are pushing, you know, a third drink on you and you're like, my boundary was too for myself, like coming into this, saying something like, oh, you know, I can't cause I'm working with a coach or I'm on a diet or I can't do that right now, kind of belittles you and also takes your power away and makes it feel like, oh, well, I can't, you know, instead, if you literally just said, oh, I don't have more than two drinks on a weeknight, you know, or I don't want to do this because I set this boundary for myself, how much better that feels and how much more empowering that is just by switching literally one word. And the more you do that though, the more you're showing yourself and like providing evidence for the fact that you are that healthy person, you are that person who like wants to feel good the next morning and like wants to wake up feeling their best and not feeling guilty about decisions and you stay true to the boundaries that you set for yourself and all of those things. So even just little things like that could be really helpful and also on sort of like the same line, communicating with other people in your life too, right? Like this could, in that very same situation, it could have been a text message that was sent to your group of friends beforehand, like, hey guys, I actually would love your support.  I'm gonna try to stick to two drinks tonight, so don't let me have a third one. Like, if anyone else wants to, like, get in on this with me, like, let me know. Honestly, when I do this with clients, they're always surprised, because most of the time they're our friends who are like, oh my God, I'm trying to drink less too, let's do it together, you know? And they don't even realize that, because they're not having those conversations. But that kind of allows you to, like, get in before you're in the situation too. That can be helpful. I mean, I could keep going with different strategies here, but there's a lot of different ways you can start to, like, develop that identity, but I think a big one is action. Absolutely, I think that, and again, this is where the, like, disconnect of, like, the current movement, at least in some capacity, I feel like, is there is so much talk of just talk and thoughts and affirmations, and all those things are so, so important. But what are the physical actions that you're taking? Again, this is kind of that combining of, like, mind and body together. Like, physically doing something, like, what are the actions, like, are you proving to yourself? Like, okay, you say that you're lazy and you don't want to wake up on time. Well, is it because you are hitting snooze? Is it because you wake up and you're scrolling on your phone? Like, I got so bad with that, you know what I mean? And I know that it's something, like, I don't ever feel good when I do it. Like, literally, not once, not, zero times have I ever felt good when I do that. And for whatever reason, I got into that habit, right? And it's like, bro, like, what are you doing? Like, this is not, like, you, this is not how you want to be. So now, I literally, and I don't know why, like, it's so, it's so stupid, but I put the charger, because I have a charger on, like, my nightstand has, like, a plug in it. So there's some of those that just, well, I have the charger there. So now I took a new charger and I put it on the chair on the other side of the room. So when the alarm goes off, that's pretty annoying. If I don't get it, so I physically get up. And the chances of me getting up and then laying back in bed are much smaller than, I mean, like significantly smaller than if I were just to roll over and either turn it off or do, you know what I mean, like, whatever, right? So something as small as that, like, just telling yourself, like, I'm going to do this, because I have all the reasons to want to get up. Like, of course I do, like, I have all the stuff that I got to do. But I was finding that if I didn't have, like, an appointment or had to be somewhere, I would just, oh, I'm working in bed. You know, I'm checking messages. Right, right, right. You know, like, but then, oh, then I'll just roll a little bit. Or then I'll just, now my eyes are like, it just, it was just never good. It's about, like you said, not just, okay, what you first have to, I think, say to yourself, okay, who do I want to be? Like, what are the systems that are anchoring me? But then now what are the actions that I have to take? And maybe that is hiring a coach. Maybe that is studying for something. Maybe that is having just accountability with your friend group. And I think that, you know, you were talking about how people build things up to be so much more. The social aspect of change, I think people build up to be so much more than it actually is. Like, I mean, eight out of 10 times. Now, does everybody have that one person in their family is gonna make some fucking off the wall comment? Do you have that, you know, nosy co-worker? Yeah, maybe. Like, you might, but the chances are, and I always try to tell clients is like, listen, those people are most likely not going at home being like, man, what did, what did KC eat at dinner? You know, that was a lot. What did they, nobody cared that much, you know what I mean? Like, and if they do, then they have a lot of other issues that they need to deal with on their own terms. As long as you're not, like, you don't need to walk into somewhere and be like, oh, I mean, like this, everybody here is eating like shit. You guys should really just, that person, you know what I mean? Like, you don't need to be condemning other people for their choices. But I think a lot of times we build up so much in our heads. Oh, everybody's gonna judge me here. Well, my friends always order this. So I have to, are your friends paying for your dinner? Did your friends, is it a set menu? No, even if it is a set menu, you can still regulate how much you're eating. Right, so there's always still that level of choice. And I think that if we go into it with that saying, okay, I'm a person who identifies with these behaviors, this is the, these are the goals that I'm working towards. And that person is going to have, you know, that example, two drinks. That person is not going to have dessert. I'm just saying, yeah. That person is going to choose the higher protein option. Whatever that is, like going into it, and, you know, maybe cloning people in for sure, that can really help. And then, yeah, I think just talking about it and saying, this is what I'm doing, or I'm not, you know, I'm not doing that right now. You know, I'm just, I'm taking a break, or I'm not going to, you know, and that's something that like, can like, I, you know, with 75 Heart, one of the things is not drinking. And obviously everybody who knows me knows that I'm a social drinker. So I'm going to an event, and I know that people are going to be asking, because it's going to be, it's just like a, hey, let's take shots, let's do this. That's just, oh, that's what I'm going to be doing. And I'm, you know, going to have to explain that a million times, so just be like, I'm just not doing that right now. And I'm not going to make a big deal out, oh, I won't take 25, no, nobody cares. Like, literally, nobody cares. Nobody cares. I don't care. I'm just not doing this right now. Hey, it's my goal, except this for myself. And it's just kind of, you got to make it work. And it's just one of those things that I think we can either over identify with things, right? And then it becomes like everybody's like, okay, hey, bro, let's talk about this. Right, yeah. So we can either overdo it, like, like you said, you walk in, well, you shouldn't be eating that. Like you have any idea how bad that is for you. They don't care right now. They don't want to hear that. If they wanted to hear that, guess, guess how a change is going to happen. You consistently show up and you bring your food. Eventually someone's going to go, hey, what are you eating? Like, you know, you look pretty good. Or you, you know, your presence is like really vibrant lately. Like I've noticed you've been doing this. Then maybe they're actually going to be interested in it. If you come barging in, like, what's that shitty meal you're eating? It's not going to do anything anyway. Yeah. Who's going to make any changes that way? I think that you having that, like, that positive version of yourself, like whatever ideals that you want to live with, and then having that accountability, right? Like, I mean, I think we both can attest to, like, you know, open coaches for a long time. Like the power of coaching is not necessarily the program. It is the accountability. It's the accountability and it's the fact that we are detached observers in our clients' lives who are connected enough to know what's going on, but also detached enough to be able to see past whatever emotional things are going on and whatever is potentially hampering why they're not making change. And that really is the value of coaching. You know, of course, part of it is going to be like, hey, here are these adjustments, but it's going to be like, here is the adjustments because of all these things that maybe you couldn't see. And I think that that is, you know, the power of having accountability because otherwise we, you know, those negative thoughts are going to come in. Those stressors are going to happen and it's okay. But we all need, everybody needs accountability. It doesn't matter who you are, I don't care how per-strict, how great you are in one area, you're probably going to need it in another. Yeah, for sure. And I think it's important to mention too, is that like, I think Lauren, you're a really good coach and you operate from a place of like, behavior change is important and lifestyle factors are important, you know? And there's plenty of coaches who will say, oh, the adjustments, that's what I do. That's what you're paying me for. Like here are your macro changes each week. When in reality, like we know there's a lot more to that. And like the accountability that comes with like, having a good coach, not someone who's just like making tweaks on a week to week basis, right? Like there is a difference there. And so I just wanted to point that out because I think too, like you're talking about all of this. I'm like, yep, but Lauren, that's because you're a really good coach, you know? Not all coaches are operating from that place either. So like, it's, yeah, important. Fair, that is, I guess fair. So thank you for that. I know you do that, of course, as well. So when we are talking about just identity in general, like if somebody is like listening to this and they're kind of like, oh my gosh, okay, like this is so resonating. Like where would be the first step, I guess it's someone who would take, would you say let's tackle the negative? Would you say let's tackle the positive? Would we say let's create, like sit down and just brainstorm? Like who is it that I want to be? Who is it that I don't want to be? Like would you say that there's kind of a first step in order or would you say, no, do all of this and just really give yourself, like, I'm going to sit down and create this space in order to like get all of this out? Like where do you think people should start? So we obviously covered a lot and there are a lot of, like I really hope people go back and listen to these things and like go back through the steps and all of that. But it can feel kind of overwhelming. So where would be, and we both know that change is not gonna, like yes, you can make changes with something that's drastic, but we also have to make sure that we're, we have the large goal, but we also have kind of a smaller thing. So first, where should someone just like start with all this, would you recommend? Yeah, honestly, this is something I say for a lot of, any honestly, any behavior change, any change you want to make in your life is awareness. Like awareness needs to come first because you can't change what you don't know needs changing. You can't improve what you don't know needs to be improved. So you really, if you're listening to this and it does resonate and you're thinking like, okay, I don't think my identity is in the right place. In fact, I still identify as the party girl or the person who like really doesn't like exercise and historically like tried to bow out of like runs with my friends and things like that. Like that's where my head is still at. Like no wonder I'm having so much trouble, right? So that in and of itself, like if someone's listening and you're going through that process right now, that is step one. Really, truly like understanding like where this is holding you back and like where your identity currently lies and how that contrasts where you want to be. The biggest thing I see in coaching is that is holding people back is something called cognitive dissonance, which Lauren you're probably very familiar with. The idea that I want to be this person, I want to do this thing, but my actions are not in alignment with those values and those priorities. And that doesn't feel good. Does not feel good to be like, I hired a coach, I'm trying to be healthier, I'm trying to drink less, but I also am finding myself still being pulled to be that party girl and to say yes to the next drinks and to like go out when I know I don't really necessarily want to, but I'm just like feeling pulled to do that, that feels horrible to be in that sort of like back and forth of like, but this still isn't what I want. You know, and that is cognitive dissonance at its core. So that kind of feeling is something you want to start to pay attention to, like recognize the cognitive dissonance, recognize some of those negative thoughts and belief that you're having. Honestly, don't change anything, just pay attention. That's where you really need to start. So like if you're hearing like, I'm talking about all these different strategies and steps and things that you could potentially do, like don't worry about any of that, this podcast, you can always come back to, start by just paying attention, like take the next 48 hours to just pay attention to any sort of like identifying words, phrases, things that you're saying to yourself, to other people. Are you saying, I always do this, I never do that, I'm not that type of person, I am that type of person. Pick up on the language, write it down in your phone, just notice, just pay attention and see what you come up with. Because if you are really kind of in this space of like, I don't even know where to begin, this is something I know I want to work on, but like what the heck, just pay attention, because I promise that in and of itself, if you take some dedicated time, we'll reveal a lot. So that's truly step one. Yeah, and I think that's where the power of journaling is, is because you are simply reflecting on what is happening. And I think a lot of times when people think about journaling, they think they have to have some like elaborate practice, but a journal could just be also you jotting down thoughts at different points in the day, right? Or it could be like almost like a dear diary, like why am I like this? But like literally, it doesn't need to be like a six step gratitude practice. It doesn't need to be like a, you know, you're filling out this pre, no, no, no, literally just sit down. And when I know, when people struggle with journaling, they also know, okay, this sounds cool, I want to start up, but I can't really do it. I always try to say set some kind of a limit. I'm going to write for one page. I don't care how long it takes me, I'm going to do this. Or if you have limited time, I'm going to write for 10 minutes. That could be six pages, that could be two sentences. I don't really care what it is, but I have a goal for doing this. And if you can continuously show up and do that, you're going to be able to reflect on a lot of different things. And that can also be a kind of just a practice, like you said, just jotting things down. I'm a big like hand writer, like I like writing things. Like I physically find that I am able to get things out better. But if you want to just jot things down and a note, and sometimes I do that, especially for like content, you know what I mean? Or just like ideas for like a couple of- You quickly think of something, yeah. I know I'm like, bro, what am I talking about? But sometimes it can be a little, a little haphazard. But just being able to jot those things out. And that's, I mean, think about it. Like whenever a client, like say you're having issues, this is like the first Lyam defense I have when someone is having issues with like sleep or digestion or something like that, right? Okay, like, well, there's obviously a lot of reasons as to why, like I could give you 10 reasons, but maybe your real reason is the 11th thing that I didn't share. So I need you to reflect on what this was and give me some key identifying things that happened that day that happened before that didn't happen. And then we were able to piece together, okay, why is it that your sleep is disrupted, right? Could be a number of things, but like, here's some strategies, but first, let's really reflect on this and then come back to me. Because again, I can throw things at people, but why, like, why do that if it's not even gonna be useful? So I think that's a really great place to start awareness. It's so interesting like this in my life, the more that I'm aware, ironically, the more I pick up on patterns and it's so, so interesting that like you start to see different patterns of things and awareness has been coming up a lot and it really is so, so fundamental to anything because without awareness first, you're not even gonna be able to make these changes, but then you're not gonna be able to catch them when you are going kind of down that spiral. And that's why it is so important, like whether it is sending it to a coach, whether it is sending it to a friend, family members, and it's gonna be whoever it might be or even again, reflective of yourself. Hey, whenever I'm feeling this, I really need to go do this. Okay, I need a book of meditation class or I need to go to the, okay, it's time for this. And maybe it's time for a therapy thing. Maybe, you know what? I've been trying this thing with my diet for six months and I'm just running my head into the wall, like I need to hire someone out. I wear too many hats, I hear this whole time, I wear all these hats, I just wanna give this to somebody else. And so I think that we all need that and everybody needs that in different areas. So the only way that you can find that out is awareness. And the last question I have, I guess it's tied in and I'm like, I want it to make a awesome segue, but of course you guys listen, you know, that I don't do that. So when we are talking about making change, right? I'm just interested in your thoughts. This doesn't have to be a concrete thing, but say somebody does wanna make a change. There are some people who obviously say like, you need to set something that is so different than what you've been doing, right? Something that is so dramatic. Let's just say, we'll call it dramatic, right? Something that's very different than what you've been doing to kind of like shock your system for lack of a better word. And really like, because you're not gonna get out of whatever bullshit you've been doing by doing the same thing. Other people are saying, no, no, no, just take one small step at a time and be really gentle with yourself and it's okay. If you say, so I have an idea of what I think you're gonna say, but I'm interested in hearing from you. Cause again, I feel like there's two camps. As always, there's no, you know, there's always two camps. So the take one tiny step and be gentle or no drastic change, you better hold yourself accountable no matter what. Hmm. Oh, this is a good question. I think like my gut reaction is like, well, it depends on the person, right? But like, of course, like it depends. But the truth is like, I actually made a Instagram post recently that was essentially reflecting on like New Year's resolutions type of stuff. And if you want to do something different in 2023, you can't keep doing the same thing that you're doing in 2022, right? So something needs to change if what you're currently doing is leading you in a direction that you don't want for sure. But the like intensity of that change, which is essentially what you're asking, does like depend on the person, depends on the situation. However, I think what we're really trying to get at here is how do we make you leave like comfort zone area, right? And I think that's kind of at the crux of a lot of change in general is that we keep doing what we're always doing, not because, what did they say? Like the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting the same result, which is definitely not the definition of insanity, but... It's more like... Exactly, but that's sad. Like it's really, it's not insane to think that way. That's what's comfortable, right? It's kind of like our default is to keep doing what we've always done because it's comfortable. So I think the question is less about like, do we take a small step or do we take a big step? And more about like, how do we get outside our usual comfortable zone? And for some people, taking a small step is uncomfortable. And like that's enough. And that severity is the same as someone else who's like, I need a drastic change, you know, in order to switch this up. And for that, like that could feel the same for two different people, even though one person is like, I'm gonna start adding an apple to my diet. And someone else is, I'm getting rid of every single thing that's in my pantry. I'm starting over, I'm hiring a coach, I'm joining a gym, I'm doing this like drastic lifestyle change. I'm cutting off ties with these people in my life who are toxic and like doing all of this stuff. Like that could feel the same for those people, right? Because this is where the independent, like depends on the person, situation comes into play because each of those people had different past circumstances, situation, self-belief, identities, things like that that are gonna play a role. So I think maybe just asking yourself the question of, what would be a step that would make me uncomfortable and would start pushing me towards the person that I want to be? What does that look like to you? And ultimately like that's the direction you should go. Absolutely. And I love that answer because it really, as with everything, it really does depend. But I think that more than just it depends, I think that it is important to reflect on the individual. And there's a lot of people who like to knock different methods, right? And I think that we really have to look at, okay, well, what does that person need? Like when we see some people who do extreme things, there are some people who are just going to be more extreme individuals and they operate really well that way. So like who am I to say to not do that, right? That might be better for them. Also, there might be somebody who really, really needs something that is more scaled back and small because like you said, that has the same magnitude to them even though it's a lot of stuff behind. But if it's still getting them moving forward, who am I to judge, right? So I think that it really depends, and that's again where a good coaching relationship comes in and you start to learn where you can push people because you kind of start one way and then somebody, you know, you can kind of see how they respond. So that's always kind of like a learning process, but I really think that this again comes back to awareness and understanding of yourself and saying, okay, and you can always start somewhere and then adjust. You know, it's not- Nothing's permanent, yeah. Oh, nothing is permanent. You might decide, okay, this is what I'm going to do this week and then I might be like, whoa, like that was way overwhelming, not to the point of like this was challenging, but like, I mean, this was, I did these things, but everything else fell apart. Right, and now I feel bad about it, right? Yeah. I didn't do all the things I set out to do and then now you're back in square one because you're not motivated. Oh my God, yeah. So that's not good, but it's also not good to be like, all right, I'm making this change and then it was easy. Like, okay, it should be hard. And again, whatever that feels like to you, what it's going to feel like. So I think that approaching things with that mindset, but honestly, once you do decide and have a handle on that, I would say that it probably is best to just see certain things through, at least so you can hold yourself to be, because otherwise you're just gonna, you're always gonna say, oh, well, I'm a failure because I continue to fail. So it's like, all right, let's really reflect before we start something and then figure out, okay, now this is what I'm going towards. Yes, we can still make adjustments, but like I'm gonna stick this goal through with adjusting. I do think there's like, yeah, like there's a delicate balance and I actually think there's research on this too, related to like goal setting in general. And we want to essentially be seeking moderately challenging goals. So, but what is- I can't really throw that paper, but it's a, I know exactly- Yeah, right, it's a paper, it's out there, yeah. But like, what is moderately challenging? You know, every person's moderately challenging is totally different. So we wanna be in this like happy zone of feeling pushed and stretched, like we're working towards something because right, if someone's like, oh, I'm gonna add an apple a day to my diet, and that's like a small step, but that's way too easy for someone. They're not really gonna feel like they're gaining any traction or, you know, making progress quick enough. So they'll lose momentum and fall off. And then the same thing can happen on the other side where it's like, yeah, I'm doing a lifestyle 180 and that was overwhelming and I can't keep up with it and I'm a failure and then you don't do it, right? So it's like finding that happy middle ground for you whatever that looks like. And that's, yeah, absolutely where a good coach can really help you out. Yeah, so really hope this gave you guys some good insights and I thoroughly enjoyed this episode. So thank you so much for coming on. Share where people can find you and learn more either about your services and also the coaching course. Yeah, so our social media goes, I'm mainly on Instagram and I'm coach Casey Joe over there. I'm gonna attempt living in TikTok land this year. So don't hold me to that, but I'm coach Casey Joe over there as well if you wanna join that fun. But if you are interested in anything, I offer product programs like Lauren mentioned, the Health Mindset Coaching Certification. You can find out more info at kjocoching.com. I say that now as we're like in the middle of like massive website redesigns and like that may change. But for the most part, it'll get you somewhere and then you'll find your way. You'll find your way. Yes, you'll find a way. It'll get redirected, no. Exactly. Thank you so much for coming on. I really, really appreciate this and I know everybody's gonna get so much out of this. So for more information about any of our coaching services, you can visit teamlococafit.com. Oh, and where for good? Oh shit, yeah. About to log off the damn podcast. Announce, which we haven't announced the time of recording but this will be announced when this comes out. Our event that we're gonna be doing. Yes. Oh my God, like totally forgot. So it's a log off. March 17th, 18th, 17th through 18th. We'll be in Tampa hanging out, talking all things that law from a scientific perspective, no bullshit perspective, but also just hanging out and having a really good time. And that's really the biggest component of all of this is connection, getting out, make some new friends, networking, get out of your comfort zone as we've chatted about, lean into that identity. Yes. And honestly, like there's, it's really hard because I feel like a lot of events are either just hanging out or they're just, you know, talks and information. So we really wanted to create something that was gonna be combining all of those things. And so it's gonna be me, you and Chanel. So we all have kind of a similar like vibe and we were like, why don't we all do something together? Like this just makes the most sense. And I was like, we gotta make it fun. So of course, like I want to set up all the fun stuff. So we will put that information below so you guys can check it out. But it's gonna be amazing. We would love to see you there. And just saying it's your girl's birthday weekend. So it would be a great time. And also if you live anywhere, probably almost any place outside of California, you're gonna wanna get out of there, probably get around to that time. It'll be a great time of year to visit Florida as well. So you get like a little vacay in as well. Learning, hanging out, connection, all the great things. So we will put that information all in the show notes. Thank you guys so much for listening. If you enjoyed the show, please share it. We would greatly appreciate it. And we'll talk to you next week.

=== FILE: Episode 271： Help! I am in a relationship but have a crush [Uc8aTv8htTU].txt ===

 and alfalfa-fibrinogen. Welcome back to another episode of The Look of It Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlin, and this week I'm joined by Rick, our team mental health counselor. It sounds like you're like a camp counselor for the worst summer camp ever. Conlin's kids. Oh my god, that'd be an actual horror show. Speaking of horror shows, listen, we try to record this later when it's not so loud in here because the office does get pretty loud, but there's the cleaning crew here, and earlier, normally if there's some sounds, it's like okay, but there's some vacuum situation happening where it's this low humming and then a screech. So if you guys hear that, I'm very sorry in advance, but we're just going to roll with it. So today's topic is actually a question that was sent in, and honestly this is so relevant. Now if you hear this and you're like, oh, I've never experienced this exact situation, kind of like the architecture of the question I think is really relevant. So maybe this exact experience isn't what you have dealt with, but this situation you would agree is pretty common, right, or common at some point people's. Oh, 100%. Okay. Like the person who wrote this, if you, like as you were describing that, I was going to say if you haven't been through this yet, like strap in, it more than likely will happen at some point in your life. Yeah. So without further ado, I have a crush, but I'm in a relationship. So the full question is me and my boyfriend have been together for almost 13 years since high school. We go through ebbs and flows of our relationship, but sometimes life gets busy and the effort to make time, or even the ability to make time in our free time gets to be difficult. This year I find myself having a crush on my boss. I don't know if it's a romantic crush, but some of the attributes he has are attractive to me. Ambition, knowledge, intelligence, skill set and passion for his career are some of those things along with he is attractive. I feel extremely guilty because I love my boyfriend and would never want to do anything to hurt him. And I don't ever plan on pursuing this because I don't want to ruin my relationship or professional career because I do work directly with him a lot of the time. But how do you go about this? The guilt or confusion that comes with it? I'm already a very anxious person, so this has caused some extra anxiety in my life when it comes to home life and work. Listen, this is a tough one, but like you said, at some point many of us have found ourselves in sort of a situation like this, especially this is a 13 year relationship. So therapist or camp counselor, what do we do? Run 20 laps. And do sit-ups. No, first and foremost, I want to thank whoever the person is that wrote the question and trust and believe that you are not alone. There's probably people listening to this right now that are going through the same thing. It is a fairly, fairly common phenomenon to find yourself in a relationship with somebody. And at some point, inevitably, depending on how long the relationship is, to find yourself attracted to somebody else. This is nothing new. And I say that just to kind of hopefully put your mind at ease to help you recognize and understand that what you're going through is normal. This is a typical byproduct of being in not only a relationship, but being a human being and interacting with new people throughout your entire day, your weeks, your years, your months, that kind of roll on by. So being attracted to other people is normal. And for those of us listening, if you haven't been, this is actually something that I think occurs multiple times throughout a person's life. Even if you're in a great relationship and you're happy and you're with the person that you're like, oh my God, I'm spending the rest of my life with this person. I know them. They know me. It is not uncommon to find yourself attracted to somebody else at multiple times throughout your life. It's just, it's a byproduct. I kind of liken it to just because you're in a relationship with somebody and that part of you even feels fulfilled. It doesn't turn off the part of you that found this person attractive, right? The person that you're in a relationship with, like you had to find them attractive. That part of you doesn't just shut off because you're in a relationship. People are going to come into your life that are going to have new energies, new ideas, new thoughts, new values. And you know, it doesn't hurt if they're physically attractive either. So those things captivate you. They capture your eye. And sometimes you can just find ourselves being like, hey, I'm in a happy relationship, but I have a crush or I have feelings for somebody else. I think the important part is, is what this person is doing is they're actually recognizing it and acknowledging it rather than like shoving it inside and pretending that it's not going to happen or allowing themselves to play out in some, you know, unfortunate circumstances could occur. For sure. And this is something where I think you were going to probably touch on it, but like this person is saying like, I find these things attractive, right? So it's not necessarily just about like, oh, wow, this is just like a physical attraction. It's like, oh, maybe I find this, like you said, kind of idea or different energies attractive about this person. And that doesn't take away anything from your relationship. You know, it's just like, Hey, I also like this. And maybe your partner has those things. Would you say though that maybe the partner doesn't have that? Is that sometimes where you kind of see that disconnect where it's like, oh, I find this really attractive in this other person. And then it's because maybe their partner doesn't have that or is that not like a common theme that you see? It can be all of the above, so to speak. So and I will kind of get into this. So part of what I want people to understand too is sometimes attraction borderlines on intimacy. And what I mean by intimacy is I think sometimes people think of intimacy as like this exclusive sexual component. But for most people, when you start to get into like, especially a therapeutic sense or a more complete sense of what intimacy is, it includes feelings of closeness, of safety, of connectedness, of trust. And so what I hear in that question is a 13 year relationship that started earlier in their life. They're in different life spaces right now. And so perhaps they may not have evolved. I think she alluded to the idea. I'm going to assume it's a she, by the way. So if it's not sorry, but it's just for purposes for my purposes, it's a little easier that she talked about there's a lack of effort that was being put in or that there's a difficult time that they're not finding for each other. Yeah. So to me, I start hearing that and I start thinking like, okay, lack of effort, there might not be a sense of real connection that's happening there. They might not feel as close as they used to. And so the idea of somebody else coming into the picture is like, well, this person kind of stimulates me. They're new. They're exciting. Even if I've worked with them for years, like you might find yourself like, I've never been attracted to this person, but now all of a sudden I am. So I start hearing some things with intimacy. And then one of the other things that is really fundamentally important in understanding how this occurs and understanding your own kind of psychology is that as we progress through life, we change, right? In case and point, like think about who you were when you were graduating high school, what your goals, what your priorities were, who you were as an individual. And then think about, so you're like 18, 19 years old. Think about who you are in your twenties, you know, when you're in college and what your goals and ambitions are. It's dramatically different just in a four year period from what it was when you were in high school. Now fast forward to your thirties, right? You're a completely different person in your thirties than you are when you're 18, 19, 20 years old. And who you are in your forties is different. And so I say that because what I want is change is inevitable. You're going to change as a person, your outlook on life, your perspective, your mindset, your attitude, your value systems. If that's changing in you, it's also going to change in the person that you're with. And here's the crux of it. Are you changing in the same ways? Is the relationship evolving in kind of the same direction? Do we still have the same shared meaning and purpose within the relationship? Like when you get together with somebody when you're in college, right? Like partying, drinking, being more spontaneous and impulsive is kind of a fun quality and trait. Well, let's fast forward 10 years. And we have a mortgage when we have rent, when we have bills, when we have accountability. Maybe we have a kid or maybe we don't. Suddenly spontaneous, like partying, isn't the value anymore. The perspective has shifted. And so I think one of the most difficult aspects of maintaining relationships when we're young through getting into our 40s. And I say 40s because when you're 40, you're pretty much who you are. There's going to be some things that are going to happen in your life that are going to change you, but through your 20s and through your 30s, life circumstances and experiences are still happening to you for the first time. So things are going to shift, things are going to change. And is the relationship changing together? Are you growing together? And it's not uncommon for people to grow in different directions, in different ways, at different paces. And it can take the relationship time to catch up. And so it's not always that the relationship has to end. It's just these are what cause these lags in the relationship. Yeah, and especially like they talked about in the beginning, life gets busy and it's hard to make time for one another. And that is so obviously relevant to a lot of us, especially when you've been in a relationship for a long time, you kind of start to, and I don't want to say this in a bad way, but like take things for granted. Right. And it's like, oh yeah, well, they'll always be there. So like I'm going to go do this and then they're going to go do that. And then it's like, that's where that kind of time becomes difficult, not just like the normal time like work commute, like other extraneous things that you have to do, but like just the kind of like, oh, well, we'll go do separate things. And then it's like, oh, well, this other person is over here and they're exhibiting all of these great qualities that maybe I may or may not be getting. Right. So it becomes really interesting for, and like you said, that's all very normal. Acting on it is obviously different than feeling it. Right. So this person is very clearly stating that they don't want to act on it, but the main, I guess, question or what to do with this like guilt and confusion and anxiety, because even if you recognize, like even if you detach and you're like, all right, like, I know I'm not going to act on this. I don't want to, but like I'm still feeling this way. And I genuinely like love my partner, but like this anxiety and guilt is still here. Like what can I do? I guess about that. Yeah. And so for me, this is where thinking about things a little differently, I think might actually help people. The person writing this views this as something that's causing intense anxiety, maybe even some shame or some embarrassment around it. And for me, this is an opportunity, not necessarily something that's bad, but it's an opportunity and what I mean by that is it's an opportunity for honesty. And I think what happens is you nailed it when you said we take our relationships for granted. We do. Here's how you know this. Go back to when you first started dating. How much time, effort and energy did you put into getting to know this person? Like responding to text messages and phone calls and planning dates and like thinking about the person. Okay. Versus what that effort looks like two, three, four, five years into a relationship. And then all of a sudden we're like, we wonder why the relationship is struggling because we're not putting in the effort anymore. And in fact, I would say these two people or this couple, I would look at them and I would say like explain to me, like write out your week for me. Tell me what's happening throughout your week. Like let me hear your routines, your schedules. What I would hear inevitably is like their hygiene habits, they're getting ready for work. They're going to, what projects and things that they have going on, what goals they're working toward and I'm going to hear everything. If we're going to get to the end of the week and I'm not going to hear anything that relates to the relationship. I'm not going to hear like on Mondays, I like to send my partner a thank you card or an I love you message because of whatever or on Tuesdays, I like to stop by the store and get their favorite food. Or you know, I know that on Wednesdays, like our laundry starts to pile up from the day, so I like to do this nice like fun thing for them where I do laundry. So I take it off their plate, like I don't hear any of that. And so we end up taking things for granted. We fall into routines and by falling into routines, what I also recognize is when we start dating and then we get several years into a relationship, there's these like observations that we've made. We've heard the person make statements, judgments, things like this. And so they get registered in our minds and we don't challenge the person anymore. We don't necessarily like call out. Like I know this person doesn't like this. So I just don't do it or I don't say things. And so what is it happening is the relationships, we start to create these dynamics and these patterns that don't necessarily work or allow for honesty anymore and honesty and open communication is something that like when it happens in the beginning of a relationship, it has to be fostered throughout the relationship. Like you're getting to know each other so everything is new, but what happens when we know each other? And now we have to work on really communicating what our needs and our wants are. And so this allows the old dynamics and the old patterns to die and we can create new ones that actually serve the relationship. And that to me is where this is at. It's like, okay, we've been together for 13 years. It's a long time by anybody's standards. And so I would say like, okay, the relationship clearly has value to this person they wrote in to a show for us to discuss it, right? So it's clear that this isn't just somebody who's looking to get out of a relationship and start, you know, in a fair or a fling. But I would say what is pretty common is that in not recognizing that maybe our old ways, the way we started, the patterns that were created when we started dating each other are no longer serving us. And we've been maintaining these old structures for a really long time. And now it's like it's getting to a point where like outside interferences are starting to come in and it's like we have a choice. I can continue to let these outside influences come into our lives and see where it goes. Or we can be honest with each other and say this isn't working anymore. Not that we're broken to the point where we can't be together, but like, hey, we got to this point and everything got us here. But you know what, in order to get from point B to point C now, we need to create new rules, new structures, new dynamics in order to make the next step of our relationship. In order to go from 13 years to 25, that's like a whole new category perhaps. Yeah, the not challenging that person is such a good point because, you know, like you said, you know what someone like, you know, like, okay, this is, it's not the time, right? Or like, oh, this really bothers them. Like, I don't want to bring this up today. And obviously a lot of that has to do with like confrontation. And there's some people who are certainly more confrontational and direct than others, right? And like, hell no, I would never let that slide. Okay, well, you don't know somebody who doesn't like confrontation. Then, you know, like there is, I would say more people than not, would you agree? And then more women than not, again, generalizations here generally don't love confrontation. Or do you not see that? I don't know if that would specifically put that on women as much as I would just say it is a characteristic of the relationship that there's somebody who doesn't like conflict and there's somebody who's okay with it. Because if there's two people who like conflict, then it's just like, I may have constantly, or it could be great. I guess it really depends on how they manage. Yeah, that could be a spicy relationship. If they have like an integrated way of sharing their confrontations. But I think that's such a great point of like, we don't really challenge people because when the relationship is new, we don't know. So we're kind of more open and curious and are asking those things because we're genuinely asking them because we don't really know the answer. But when we know the answer and maybe we don't like the answer, we're kind of like, do I want to deal with that right now? Or is it just easier to like, just make dinner and then like call tonight? You know, like avoiding the pain and discomfort of having a difficult conversation is definitely a trend in all relationships. You know, because yeah, I mean, realistically, you can't every time something comes up, you can't be like, Hey, let's take a pause. Like we need to talk about this for three hours. Like, I mean, realistically, you can't always do that, you know, so it's like, there's a realistic component to it when you're dating someone. You also can't expect those things to like those 10 conversations to go by or 10 conversations that needed to happen go by. And then there's not an issue. Right. Um, but with, with this, like the, I guess the concern, right? Or where the anxiety would stem from. And I'm, I'm, I'm inputting my question in the question. Would it be, would it make sense for this person to share these feelings with our partner? Like, Hey, this is what's been going on. Or just kind of leave this out and say, um, you know, it's been hard for us to make time together for us to feel connected. I've been feeling this way and this way and just kind of leave out the kind of, I guess the, the other half of the situation. Cause like, is it relevant to bring up or is it not? You know, like that's, I guess my question. Well, are we being open and honest? How honest do you want me to be? See, this is where the, this is the problem. This is where people will ask for, they say, I want honesty, right? And then when you give it to them and it threatens the relationship, what, what negative reactions and emotions are going to start to come up from this. If I tell you that I have a crush on my boss, right? Or I have a crush on somebody that I work with, forget the fact that's even their boss. It doesn't matter. I just have feelings for somebody else. What does that mean for our relationship? Right? And so it's like, okay, do I frame this in a way that goes from, Hey, I want to talk about our relationship. There's some things that I've recognized that qualities and aspects and traits, personality traits, perhaps that are missing from our relationship that I find attractive. Well, great. That doesn't tell anybody that I have feelings for somebody else. There's another way of saying, Hey, I've actually found myself of being attracted to somebody else for these reasons. Right? This is missing from our relationship. Let's talk about it. So you think that's the better approach? Look, I'm going to... No, I know you can't answer. It has to be case dependent. I totally get that. I'm just asking in general. I think to me, what is helpful is understanding that the person that you're with isn't going to be perfect. That the person that you've chosen to love is going to fall into situations and have experiences that they themselves don't even want. They didn't wake up one morning and were like, Hey, I want to do this. And so if I can get past my own hurt feelings for just a second and recognize what this person is telling me and recognize that what they're actually talking about is a way to improve our relationship. And it's going to hurt to hear some of these things that they might be attracted to somebody else, but it also doesn't mean that they're not attracted to me. It might mean that they're looking to open up this communication. So sure, could it hurt? We both know that. I'm just saying, do you take a person who's maybe not that self assured with themselves and you brought this up? I think we're a lot of this anxiety is stemming and maybe I'm just reading into this, but I think a lot of this anxiety is, Oh my gosh, is this going to be found out? How would I ever tell this person? You know what I mean? Like I have these feelings and I probably want to tell them, but I don't know how because what if they get upset or leave me or whatever? Like that's a real concern. So it's like, do you even bring that up? Is that even relevant? It's not like, Oh, hey, like I've been cheating on you for the past year with this person. Like this is not obviously to that level. This is different. So I think that's probably where some of that anxiety is stemming. So well, some people will tell you that a live omission is still an omission. You know, it's still a lie, but in this case, I think it would be okay for the person to say something like this, like, Hey, I want to talk about our relationship. I have found myself attracted to other people or another person who may have these qualities. And I'm telling you that not because I'm going to act on the attraction or that's there, but it's an underlying symptom that something else is missing in our relationship. And I'm not even going to put it all on the other person. Because part of this would be for this person to start to explore within themselves. Right? Because here's the thing, when your relationship isn't fulfilling you in some ways, are you doing any changing to go with it? Or are you sitting in the same spot and like somebody new kind of comes in and it's very easy to idealize that other person. It's very easy to put that person up on a pedestal and be like, Oh my God, they have these things which are different from this person. And now those are attractive qualities and part of it starts to lend itself into, we start getting into desire. We start getting into attention and feeling special and some of those other things. And so part of me wants to start asking this person some exploratory questions like, do you resent your partner for not putting in enough effort? Do you feel like they've been putting enough effort in prioritizing you and making you feel special? My guess answer would be no, because of their finding themselves kind of immersed by their careers right now and not really putting in that kind of effort. So what feelings of anger and resentment are happening in the relationship? Are you turning from away from your partner or are you turning towards your partner right now? Are you turning away from the person that you've become? Right? It's very easy for us to project our feelings onto our partners and to be like, well, they're not changing. They're not growing. Well, maybe you're running away from the person that you've slowly become. Maybe you've become a person who's not putting in time, effort and attention. You know, one of the things I was talking about this with somebody and they were like, yeah, my boyfriend doesn't make as many sexual advances on me as I would like. And so I was like, well, how often are you like coming home and showering and changing and getting out of your gym clothes and putting in a little bit more effort into being something that's a little bit more desirable for what they want? And they were like, well, I'm not. And I was like, okay, so maybe it's not all on him. And I'm not trying to victim blame here or anything. But the relationship road has two sides to it. There's your side and there's the other person side. And so sometimes we're not always looking for someone else. Sometimes we're looking for a different version of who we are. You know, if you guys are looking for other material on this, like a lot of this has to do with like Esther Perrell's philosophies on relationships. She has a lot of great books and material on affairs and redefining what that means. And so sometimes what I recognize is attraction to other people or even an affair for that matter isn't necessarily about sex. It's more about, you know, desire. I listened to this person's explanation of what they're looking for and it doesn't really seem like they're focusing on superficial needs, like they're talking or identifying specific qualities that aren't necessarily about a person's looks, but more about their content and what might be missing in the relationship or perhaps within themselves. You know, oftentimes we can kind of look at our attractions and desires as something that might be missing or incomplete within me. And so it's easy to see those qualities in somebody else and then to say like, well, my boyfriend or girlfriend doesn't have those things. Well, maybe I don't have those things either. And so I admire them in somebody else. Because maybe I can work to provide those things for myself. And then I don't have to rely on my partner to be that person. Now, I'm not saying that they should be a lazy, you know, fat person who sits on the couch all day, but I am saying sometimes the answer to a relationship problem isn't always in our partner. It oftentimes it's within us. And because that's the only side of the street you can control. That's your responsibility. Is that a little clearer? Oh, yeah, absolutely. So you would say the first thing would, as far as like action steps, so someone would reflect on maybe what's missing within them and then definitely bring this up to the partner. And I guess we'll leave it open to however you want to approach that. But obviously honesty is generally the best policy. Yeah. I mean, you have to know. We don't know anything about the situation. Like I don't know what your partner is like. You know what I mean? Like there could be some other contextual things that were missing. So I don't want to say that. And then it just be something that's really, really negative. So obviously you have to determine how you want to bring that up. But I think that the way that you phrased it made sense in terms of saying like, hey, it's not like I'm, you know, I'm doing anything or I'm pursuing this person. But like I have been having these feelings and I find these things interesting. Maybe it's because again, after more reflection, step one, I haven't been presenting this here or I felt like maybe we've been lacking this together and then bring it up. So it's not just like a, hey, I find this super attractive about somebody else and you don't have any of that. Like obviously not the approach. Certainly not. And I think almost everybody knows that. But I say that and when we get upset, right, we have all these things planned and then when we get upset, we don't always say things that we mean. So that's where step one is really important to reflect on this. So you kind of have a way that you're going to approach this. Again, maybe I'm just speaking from my experience, but I know like if I'm getting keyed up, like I'm not going to say really the best stuff. You know what I mean? Like I'm not going to have my best work when I'm upset. So it's usually better to think through it for a while beforehand. I mean, don't sit on this for a year, you know what I mean? Like actually process this first so that you really have like a sound discussion or talking points going into this. And it's not just like a blur of how emotional you're feeling because the words that this person is using like guilt, confusion, anxiety, like that's a lot. And at some point, like you're just going to hit that point where you're like, this is my breaking point. And that when you, when you feel in that state and you bring this conversation up, I don't think that it's going to end probably how you intended. Well, right. And maybe recognize too that this isn't a one conversation, one and done kind of a thing. So maybe there's an easing into this that happens. It's like, okay, I want to sit you down and tell you like, look, some things in our relationship have changed. I've changed. I'm owning my side of this. I'm looking at my qualities that I've been doing to things, behaviors, whatever it is. I've also been looking at some of those things for you. And so you start by easing into the conversation with that, right? And then it kind of at over two or three or four conversations, maybe then you say, look, yes, part of me has found these qualities and other people to be attractive. Is it necessary to, to tell them like it's, you know, this person at work, maybe, maybe not, I'll leave that up to the individual. I guess it just depends on how honest you want to be and whether or not the message is really being conveyed. You know, and if you're truly attracted to somebody else, like then it's a slightly different thing in terms of redefining boundaries and pulling yourself out of a more high risk situation where you're likely to have an affair, right? Because if you don't and you keep feeding into it and you use it as an escape for what isn't happening in your relationship, like feelings are going to grow, they're going to intensify and whatever confusion you have now is only going to be amplified. And then you will end up hurting him. You'll hurt yourself in the process and then probably a third or fourth person somewhere in there too. So, but I guess the underlying theme, if I were to kind of pull this all together is that new attractions or even an affair or trauma within the relationship can finally create an era of honesty in the relationship and it can allow for honest and open communication. And so what I mean by that is you can stop upholding this old status quo that wasn't working. It's not the same, you're not the same two people you were the first year or two you started dating, especially 13 years into it. And how willing is this person to talk? How willing are they to make changes? You know, what are some of the qualities and attributes that they have that are amazing? You can be idealizing this other person that you're meeting and understand this that like, that's a fairly common thing. You meet somebody new, we put them on a pedestal where like they're perfect, they're amazing. Trust me, like three years into a relationship with anybody, they're not going to be perfect anymore. They're going to be flawed human beings just like somebody else. And then this is going to come up again, the ability to communicate your needs and your wants. And so I guess the final note or one of the final notes that I want to leave you guys on is communication is always a two way street. And you can't control whether or not the other person is going to be able to share with you in an open and honest way. You can't control their reactions to things, but you are responsible for your side of this. It's your side of the street that you're responsible for. And if you feel like a conversation might not go well, then start by writing some letters. Start by sending an email. Start by sending a text message if you have to. Like I hate text because it can be misconstrued some ways, but it can start. But here's the other thing. Let go of the results. Some of this.  this isn't about whether or not things are going to change. Some of this is about whether or not you can communicate your needs, your wants, and your desires. And that, I think, is more fundamental than the change that can actually occur in the relationship, because whether or not it's reciprocated, you still have to do your part. And so, you know, understand that this is normal. She is in a long-term relationship, and these are the kind of problems that come up. This is what, these are just the grooves of the peaks and valleys of a relationship, and you're going to be in them no matter who you're with, and for how long you're with them. Like, it's inevitable. So learning how to communicate your way through it, that's the lesson to take from this. Absolutely. So we hope that this gives you some pathway forward. This is certainly not an easy situation, but we really appreciate this question. And honestly, if you guys want to send in any questions, we love these types of discussions, because it is so specific, but also, you know, general lessons that everybody can take away from it. So if you do have any questions for us, we do have an anonymous link below in the show notes, or you can also send an email to info at teamlocofit.com, or you can just send me a message on Instagram. I may or may not see it, though. So maybe not the best way. I don't know why I haven't said that. So let's just scratch that one, because my toxic trait is either answering right away or not for like weeks at all. It's really, it's really great. But yes, thank you so much for this question. And we really hope that this gives you, when we're asked some direction, and then also everybody else listening, kind of a framework of how to move forward through this really, really common yet challenging situation. So for all the information about our coaching services, you can visit teamlocofit.com. What is your email? Full circle therapy, FL at gmail.com. Longest email ever. And then for more information on our app, which has training macros meal plans, all great stuff, mental health resources, you can visit redefinehealthy.com. And if you guys enjoyed the show, please share it. We would really appreciate it. And we'll talk to you next week.

=== FILE: Episode 274： Readiness and recovery ｜ Interview with Adam Ibrahim [LnUExMgfwFM].txt ===

 welcome back to another episode of the Loco Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means for you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and this week I'm interviewing my friend, Adam Ibrahim. I said it right? I almost messed it up. I got nervous. Game day. Game day nervousness. Anyways, my intro is, as you guys know, if you're a listener of the podcast, are never great. So, we've been friends for many years. Give a little background on yourself. And today, we're actually going to dive into an interesting topic. So, you are doing your PhD, and I was, you know, you were running research study, and we're talking about readiness and recovery. And I was like, you know, we just need to do a podcast on this, because this is a really interesting topic that I think a lot of people will get benefit from, and just kind of change the way that they conceptualize this topic. So, before we get into that, a little bit of your background. Yeah, I mean, like Lauren said, I'm a PhD student at the University of Tennessee. I've got to give a lot of props to Dr. Bill Campbell, who is my former mentor, Dr. Samuel Buckner, who is my former mentor. But now, I work under Dr. Kelly Strohacker. So, she's really the individual that started the readiness concept. She identified the gap within flexible non-linear priorization. But she's more of the behavioral cycle aspect of just exercise adherence. And when I first met her, she talked to me, and I was like, I really have no idea what you're talking about. So, this is probably a sign that I need to come here and get uncomfortable, learn a little bit outside of my research realm with physique enhancement and blood flow restriction and things of that nature. So, I've done my masters at USF with Campbell Buckner. But yeah, I've coached basketball for almost six years, middle school, high school. I was a former collegiate athlete myself at the Division II level. Yeah, competitive power with the whole three-state records, Tennessee, Florida, South Carolina. So, I like to say, yeah. So, well, it's like a 90-minute drive. So, it was like, why not? Why not just go over there, break them, go back home to Tennessee? So, yeah, it's been a fun journey. But again, I got to give a lot of shout-out to you, for example, Dr. Chris Guy, a lot of the people at Evidence-Based Movement. So, I've been impacted by a lot of people and I've been fortunate to be where I'm at today. Oh, well, no, I'm super excited for what you're doing. And I love the idea of just kind of exercise adherence in general. This is a topic that I feel like, especially in the scientific realm, we're always talking about optimal. And this is something that I always, like, I understand. But then it's like, okay, we have to get out of that realm and say, okay, what is optimal? But then also, what is actually going to work? What are people actually going to do? What are these first steps? And like an optimal program means nothing if the client isn't going to be able to execute on it, or the person, individual, whatever it is. So, I love this topic, and I don't think it's really discussed enough, especially in the world of the scientific literature, because it's not as like... That's sexy. Yeah, it's not that exciting. No, it's not. It's really not. It's kind of like the weight regain stuff, you know, I love all that. But who wants to study that? We want to study like, what are the next like protocols that we can do? What are the next drugs? What are this? And all of these things are amazing. But like, that means nothing if someone can't keep off the weight that they've initially lost. But like studying how to maintain something is pretty boring. So, I think the one thing that I've learned within being at University of Tennessee, and Dr. Kelly Strohacker is right, you look at any exercise science literature, there's always nothing but positive outcomes coming out of it. So, like, that's obvious. Exercise is good, but still people don't do it. And even the scientific literature, like you only see positive hypotheses, like only no results. And you still learn a lot of good things from those no findings. But the proof of concept worked, the exploratory work, which is what you kind of talked about of what I'm trying to do right now. She highlighted something called the orbit model, the things that we have to do a lot of refinement. We have to get things optimized rather than just throwing things in RCT after RCT, because again, we can get people in the lab, we can do all of these things. But in the real world, that is complex, as we know as coaches, people don't really do what they're supposed to be doing. So, getting, again, people to adhere to it long term, taking what I always say is the small steps that, again, aren't sexy, they're not flashy. But you're able to do this when you're 50, 60, 70, because you've taken the time to refine and do all of the things that you should have done to get to where you need to be to sustain and maintain what you're trying to do. So, what is the orbit model? So, that, I couldn't tell you the exact orbit or the acronym of it, but in a general sense, it's not just putting a trial together. And again, we're going to see the same thing, again, with auto regulation, that literature is just my realm of research. And the gap is what readiness is, but auto regulation, again, Yeah, explain that from the beginning. In what realm? Sorry, I'm going all over the place, it seems. I know, I know, just start with what does auto regulation mean to you and your research? Yeah, so my research realm is focusing on auto regulation rather than just a performance enhancement realm of training or anything like that, but a way for us to utilize it to improve and optimize exercise adherence because it's flexible in nature, right? It's a person adaptive, which a lot of the psychological individuals in research have now called for repeatedly, because again, we can put people in a program in a lab, they're going to see gains in strength, they're going to see gains in most of us, they're doing what they're supposed to be doing, right? So eight or a 10 week study. Yeah. So you're going to see all those optimization, but what happens after? What was the experience of that program? And those are the questions that nobody has asked in pureization literature and auto regulation literature. So when you mean auto regulation, like somebody who's able to now regulate themselves over the course of a long period of time and how they're going to adjust what they're doing or what they're not doing. So auto regulation, I think as a formula is right, your baseline fitness, your baseline fitness, your fatigue, your fitness and your readiness. And what we highlight is the readiness, but we like to balance specifically in the sports realm is your fitness and fatigue readiness has been taken into concepts that it could just be your energy level, could be your motivation, could be just your personal preference of whatever you want to do on that specific day. But auto regulation, again, is this adapt, I can't state the exact definition off the top of my head, but it's just an adaptable framework to allow for you to have a positive experience with any form of exercise in that sense. So what were you guys seeing that was maybe what kind of kicked all this off with your research? Like what was like the gap in this question that you were like, I'm really trying to figure out this and obviously that changes over time as you're conducting the research. But when you went into this, like what was your question? If you can share that? No, yeah. So really the question is actually what readiness is. So when you when I first came to the University of Tennessee, I did a systematic review on just so auto regulation even back up a little bit more. There's within session, which is your rate of perceived resurgence, your velocity based training or repetition, your reserved, all of those like I'm making adjustments within session. And if you want to study that that's super complex, because you're making all of these adjustments to those variables and things of that nature. But there's meta session, auto regulation, which is your flexible nonlinear periodization, heart rate variability, APRE, all of these other before the session you've been concludes or starts, you're dictating how you're going to perform the specific session. And what we've seen within auto regulation is either purely subjective or purely objective with heart rate variability. And we've continuously seen incongruences between objective and subjective forms of readiness. Right? Heart rate variability is supposed to pick up on all of these environmental factors, your psychological, physiological status. But it doesn't always align that way, right? Your wearable could say one thing, but you can feel another thing. And what we've tried to do is take these readiness constructs that we've almost time up with as a lab through more of that exploratory work with post session readiness recall, or it was just asking people literally, what do you need to do to feel ready? And this goes all the way back to Kramer and Flex 2007 FNLP textbook of, right, there's a seven step checklist that you're going to be able to go through with an athlete or whomever to allow this adjustment or this adaptation, this auto regulation form to optimize the training session. So a lot of that was, we came up with this word, this term readiness, there's a seven step checklist, but nobody's actually done the work to, does this actually work, face value, it works, it makes a lot of sense. But we've never actually put it to the test. So now we're saying, all right, what is what is readiness? And we've gone into a whole mess of things almost, but that's that science. And you're opening up, okay, this is this first question. And then wherever this leads, obviously, that's how that the whole scientific process works is like, we learn this one piece, and then we add that piece to like the larger puzzle. And then that starts like five other kind of sub topics, we're hopefully we're hoping that it does, right? Exactly. But especially when there is so much lack of understanding, right, then I think this, there's so many kind of rabbit holes to go down. So you did the systematic review when you got there. And then now you've been doing your own research. And where, you know, what was kind of the, the reason for doing this, like what, what gaps did you see that you're like, all right, we don't, after the systematic review, we know this, but we don't know that, like what were some of the big findings there that then contributed to you wanting to run this study? Yeah, so there's pretty much two things. One, specifically being the systematic review, seeing that meta session regulate auto regulation was either subjective or objective. And we've seen these incongruencies in athletes, even in, you know, clinical populations of, Hey, I feel all of this pain, I feel like tachycardia, but you go to the doctor and like, so tough to study to, oh my gosh, bio psych of social model is insane. So yeah, a lot of these thoughts, feelings, objective, subjective markers or measurements, they don't always align. But another way you could utilize auto regulation, meta session, auto regulation is a tool to teach and anchor the experience of exercise. But Dr. Strohacker, and that now currently Dr. Corey Beaumont did a lot of work to understand what the constructs of readiness were. So there's 52 constructs that we have currently. They fall into like hunger, just energy levels, all of these other constructs that you again, you would think of, of how I'm actually going to prepare for an exercise session. So we gave ecological momentary assessment. So pretty much people for 21 straight days would answer a survey on their phone. And they would say, right now, how are you feeling? So we try to build this readiness profile for them. And we were presenting this to them. But one of those things that continues really was a theme after we interviewed them of, hey, does this make sense? Would you actually utilize this was like, no, because my wearable says one thing, and I feel another thing. So that's what's kind of got me into, right, if we're going to build something that is actually practical and people can utilize of readiness from these profiles, but the barrier is, I don't trust it, or there's this incongruity between my wearable and now I'm not going to even trust what you're trying to build because again, I have these trust issues because something else is biasing my interpretation of what we're trying to present. So again, my findings and my sister on a review being subjective versus objective. Well, we did subjective, we tried to make an objective measure out of this readiness, but people were still not buying into it. So again, that's that proof of concept. If we're going to refine auto regulation to help exercise adherence, we need to hear from people like yourself or, you know, people that continuously exercise so we can refine this for the individuals that don't even do the thing. Would you say, well, we're the most common devices. Obviously, I know for your research, you're using Aura and the Woot Band, but for the systematic review, like, are those still like the two biggest leaders? Like, I guess, I don't know any other ones to be honest. I know that there are, I just can't think of the names. Who's that guy? He's a big strength coach. Joel, somebody, I think he has one, but well, see them. No. Anyways, but it's like a smaller like company, I'm sure, you know what I mean? But like, I don't know. So when you're doing the systematic review, like, what were some of the wearables people were using? So all of any heart rate variability objective, metastation auto regulation was all using a heart rate monitor. Oh, nothing was actually utilizing a wearable. Why we're using the wearable is because specifically the aura ring, right? It says, this is your readiness. Or the Woot Band is this is your recovery. And that's a whole another can of worms that in the literature, recovery, readiness and resources are all used interchangeably. So there's again, we're starting really, I don't want to say low, but there's a lot of optimization we're allowed to go ahead and confront and see what we can actually utilize auto regulation for rather than, hey, it's used for sports performance to mitigate fitness and fatigue and allow for, you know, improvement performance. But we can also use this for the general population to have positive exercise experience and get them to actually adhere to exercise. It's not that rigid, hey, if I'm going to do this exercise, I have to adhere to this specific day, this specific plan. We can make these adjustments. Hey, if you're readiness is low, whatever that means to you, you can be adaptive. You can do a lower intensity workout, lower the rate, reps, maybe even do a completely different session in that sense. But I'm not even sure why I was going to do that. That's so tough though, because especially when somebody's first starting, because for a lot of people, they might be like, Oh, like, well, everything I'm really sore. This hurts. Like, I probably shouldn't do anything, you know what I mean? And then like that, like the lack of previous consistency will make all of those training sessions harder. And then that could be like, Oh, well, I'll just rest another day. And like, it's very like, there's like that fine line of like, you are, I guess, maybe undershooting your actual readiness for recovery. Right. And then it's like, you know, so, so much of behavioral stuff is just actually setting a routine and being consistent. Obviously, then once you're able to refine that, it's then saying, okay, you know, how am I feeling? I can't regulate, okay, well, Monday can actually be Tuesday. But like how many times do we know people who are like, Oh, well, Monday, then Tuesday, and then Oh, it's Friday, and I haven't worked out. So right. So it's like coming to that like middle ground of like, how do we have adherence and push through those like those hard days. And then also obviously on the whole other end of the spectrum is like the athlete who's like, their legs falling off like, Oh, I'm fine. I can go train, right? Like there's both of those ends of the extreme. And that obviously makes this research even more challenging, because it's like, if you're studying everybody, then it's like, that's going to skew stuff a lot, right? Yeah. So a lot of what metasession auto regulation has studied or the population is all trained individuals. But the thing is the way they've opera operationalized readiness. Again, it is purely objective, purely subjective. And you kind of said, right, if athletes feel this way, and they're just at will, they just able to self select whatever session they want to do. How do they how do we know that individuals had high readiness first off? And they actually again, matched whatever workout that was supposed to be. So that's where again, we need more information from the current studies. There's a lack of construct validity. There's just more information needed. And I think what you're saying is right, if somebody has that misalignment where maybe they have low readiness, or they have high readiness, let's say, but they continuously don't train the way they're supposed to, right, they don't challenge yourselves enough. That's where again, you can go to that journaling aspect of post training and actually ask yourself, am I seeing the results that I push myself? Another way with FNLP specifically, what they've done is right, you have an array of training sessions, right? So let's say high intensity, low intensity. But if you choose that low intensity, they will now you cannot do that for the next 12 weeks. Yeah, as you continuously go throughout your program, you are now slimming down the exercise selection process. So there's, there's ways around it. But I think again, as a coach, having that conversation like, Hey, we're flexible, but you have to understand that exercise is going to be a little uncomfortable. Our goal is to realign based on how you are specifically feeling. But there's going to be times where it's like, we need to go ahead and just push through whatever we're kind of feeling in that sense. Yeah, it's so tough. And, you know, if somebody is working with a coach, obviously, it's a little bit easier because you can have that detached person who can, you know, your, your accountability as a coach, you're giving accountability, but you're also being that detached perspective to be like, Hey, you know, like, you can step it up or like, no, like there was a lot going on, you know, maybe take a like a D load this week or take a day off, whatever it is, like, you're able to see that a lot easier. But for a lot of people who are doing this on their own, obviously, that's really where the challenges, especially if they are a beginner and they're doing this on their own, that is where I think there's so much that is like that like you said, like that fine line. But I do like that model of like, okay, if you choose this, then that means you get this or you choose this now, then you don't get this later. And it's kind of this idea of like, I guess postponing, I don't know, one called gratification, but it's an easy way for me to conceptualize it. But yeah, that's so the adherence adherence is everything, right? Whether it's training or diet or cardio or behaviors, like literally everything comes down to the adherence of it, like there are so many great things that you can do, you know. But then I think that that's where people get really tripped up is like, how do I actually make this sustainable? And that's like the boring stuff. But that really is everything. So when you what are the main questions that you're asking from your research, I know you can't share that obviously yet, like any of the results because I mean, at this point, you still haven't even gone through all that. But what were the main things that you're going through? Well, I will say with the current project that I'm doing right now is getting into if you have these incongruencies, why do you believe these incongruencies are happening from your wearable, right? What it's telling you your readiness is at versus what you actually are feeling. And, you know, going through it now, probably didn't pick like the best training population, because I think you guys know what you're feeling, you guys almost have this buy in. But in the sense that I'm hearing a lot of also great information of what you guys think readiness and recovery is, and it aligns a lot with what we've already found with untrained and like obese, sedentary females. So the cross talk between again, we are starting to understand more and more what readiness actually is. But again, the wearable is just a tool that you said it and multiple people said it's allowed me to take the ego out and actually be okay with toning it down a little bit because as you said before, to utilize auto regulation appropriately, you need to be accepted of today's not the day. And because it's not the day I need to lower I need to make an adjustment or if today is the day, like I'm feeling really good, go ahead and bump everything up. And that goes back to what like self determination theory of like, I'm giving you all talking to support, I'm allowing you to make the adjustments based on how you feel, right, giving you that control of because I'm feeling XYZ, I'm able to make these adjustments and being able to reflect on it positively through a journaling or whatever the case may be, saying, Hey, I made this adjustment. How did I feel after like that exercise experience is crucial for that adherence aspect, right? I think a lot of people will say if I made the adjustment, at first, I didn't enjoy it because I felt like I was letting myself down. I felt like I could do more and that's that athlete's mentality. And I think a lot of us have like, if I'm doing less, I'm a failure. Like, again, exercise is supposed to be hard, go harder, go home. But it's that short term of sacrificing a little bit, you're able to kind of bounce back through another session or again, optimally perform another day or another week throughout. And that's the whole thing of auto regulation. If you can take into account your readiness, you're able to finally tune your fitness and fatigue is the ultimate goal is for you to express your fitness throughout the rest of your program or I will say throughout the rest of your life, you're going to have fatigue accumulate in a sense. But if we're able to adjust appropriately based on our readiness, again, hopefully fatigue will be able to be mitigated as quickly or as as fast as possible. So you can express your fitness, you can continuously adhere to the exercise because the experience is positive. And it's thinking in terms of like, okay, what's going to happen the next few weeks or what's going to happen the next few years. And that's so hard for us to see sometimes, like, especially like, when there's a lot of other factors going on, you know what I mean? It's never usually like, just that one thing, there's always like, like, like, everything's like toppling down that week. And then you're like, Oh, well, I'm this huge failure with my training or whatever. And I was even having a conversation with a client the other day. And she was like, Oh, I'm so really struggling with, you know, this aspect. And I was like, it's okay, like, you don't nobody said you needed to add 50 pounds to your squat, you know what I mean? Like, maybe you could do that for a session or two or a few and then be completely beat up, probably injure yourself. And then in six months, we're no farther ahead. You know, I'd much rather you slowly be able to make progression. Now, not saying that if you slowly improve, you're going to be able to add weight every week. Of course, not. Did you're like any of your coaches ever say that growing up like, Oh, yeah, if you had five pounds each week, like, think about what you'll be doing at the end of the semester. It's like, I would have been squatting 2000 pounds at this point. You know what I mean? Like, I mean, I understand the concept they were trying to again, have that kind of like delayed gratification mindset. So like, I get it. But it was like close, but not there. But not quite. But yeah, like the idea of, okay, what's going to happen in this session or the next few sessions versus where is it's going to put me in the long term. And, you know, sometimes we do have to make short term sacrifices. You know, if you are an athlete competing in something, that is a very different story. You know, we talked about this on our interview, like when I was competing as a physique athlete, like, there are just, there's a certain point in prep where every day you wake up and it's like, no day is my day at this point, you know what I mean? But I'm going to make it my day because there is no other option. Right. And that's a very specific goal for a very specific day. And that's completely different. And performance is likely going to suffer as you are losing body fat and you are in a severe restriction. That's just kind of the name of the game. If you are competing in a strength sport where you're trying to hit certain numbers, there's going to be like, Hey, you got to make some short term sacrifices and feel really, really fatigued in order to kind of get over this and get stronger. But that's still within a cycle of looking at the big picture. You know what I mean? Like, you can't do that. You can only do that a few times until anybody is like, no. Yeah. So there's going to be different times. But in general, outside of those very, very specific situations, I think that this concept of being able to regulate yourself, like we talk about this all the time on the show with regulating your food, like right, like the actual key to sustainable diet is moderating yourself and having the ability to do that in any situation. And that is absolutely the hardest thing for people to grasp. But that is like the crux. If you can moderate your food intake and say yes to certain things and say no to other things and moderate how much you're eating, you will be able to maintain any physique that you want. But that is so hard because of those biopsychosocial factors and everything else. You know what I mean? So I'm not saying it's easy. I'm just saying like, that is the crux. But the same thing with training, if you're able to moderate yourself during the session and afterwards, like that is what is going to be able to get you the results, not just for that eight weeks or those 12 weeks, it's afterwards. Like that's what always, it always goes on mind that the studies where they do some crazy stuff for eight or 10 weeks, you know what I mean? And it's like this, these crazy volume studies. And that's always like, okay, cool, like cool story, bro. You know, like we did all this volume and we saw results. Like I'd fucking hope so, right? Like I would hope so. But what are those people doing afterwards? It's just like the crazy diet studies. Okay, now we're on this, you know, the very low calorie diets which are in literature typically less than 800 calories for people who are generally speaking overrated no B. So they're going to be at a very high body weight for that low amount of calories. Okay, cool. They lost weight. What happens afterwards? I want to see the follow up six months. Right? So it's like one of those things that it's like, we can't science gets so focused on just this, which is understandable because of the design and the nature of it. But it is frustrating because again, people are looking for that grant money, people are looking for certain notoriety. Oh, I want to publish this research with these crazy results. And then it's like, okay, well, then where does that land? Actually, everybody like, is this actually serving people? Is it actually again, in my eyes with the orbit model tries to do is try to move the field in the appropriate direction. And it's very collaborative in nature. Prime example is we work with, you know, Dr. Richard Keegan, who is in Australia, who made the arm scale, which is a readiness scale for the army. My mentor, Dr. Kelly Stragher could easily started picking it apart and be like, no, this is what readiness actually is. But instead, we've actually started to collaborate with him. And we're refining his specific scale, but we're trying to refine it for exercise. Because right now, we literally just have a long list of what people are reporting. And hey, go ahead and let me know what's most important for you for readiness. And to kind of go back to your point of there's these specific points where I may not feel ready, but it's that motivation that specific time frame. Dr. John Kylie says a lot about this is like, sure, you might not feel ready, but you know, it's a world cup game. Put your feelings aside, and it's time for you to perform. So this is where readiness, it's not just going to be, you know, you tell me readiness feels like this right now. Readiness for you 10 years from now could be totally different. And kind of how you've evolved as a physique competitor into now just almost just focusing on general health. I'm sure your readiness measures or constructs would have been very different for you while you're a physique competitor and what it is now. That's the thing is readiness is evolving even during the session, throughout your whole time of being an exerciser. And I think that's the premise. If you're able to self regulate and auto regulate yourself and be in tune with your body, you should be able to do this complex health behavior for the rest of your life. And that's that's the unfortunate thing about exercise. You have to do it for the rest of your life. If you want to go ahead and see these benefits. Not a lot of people see like these 90 day challenges or 75 day challenge or anything like that. It's a great jumpstart. But what did you actually get from it? What was the experience and the eight to 12 week study that we the first study that pops into my head that was grueling was the Cody Han study was like, they worked up to 20 sets of squats in one session. And I'm like, one, how, how did me with that? Why did I get questions on my IRB for just asking people simple questions about what readiness is, but he can almost literally murder somebody with squats. But it goes to study. It was, I think it was 12 weeks. But my point is, is people can do these things. But how do they feel after? I bet you that person or those subjects probably haven't squat in quite a long time, right? Because they have squatting again. Yeah, they have this negative association with it by squat. I'm going to feel soreness or whatever the case may be. And that is the other theory. Like we talked about the art of pie, affective, reflective theory of physical inactivity and exercise where it's this dual mold model, right? We've heard that type one and type two processes thinking fast and slow. I don't know. So as I'm thinking really slow about it. So what it, what, what, when I first say anything exercise related, there's an immediate process that people have of like, Oh my God, exercise is great or exercise is bad. And that deliberate slow, that fast media process is really what's going to dictate am I going to go ahead and perform exercise or not. And that's really dictated on your continuous exposure and experience of exercise. It's going back to auto regulation. If we can modify the intensity and actually allow somebody to have a positive experience, hadonic theory, right? People do, people seek the pleasure. If we're able to have this as a pleasure like experience, I'm going to want to go ahead and continuously do this exercise. Sure, I might not see the results, but at least it's, I'm not doing a hit session where I'm like feeling gas. I'm feeling like, again, I just want to throw up and hurdle like affect the way we feel within session steadily decreases. Once we've crossed that lactate threshold, and we don't know too much about resistance training, along with exercise science, we don't know much about resistance training. But with aerobic training, once you've, yeah, a big pet peeve, especially at the university of Tennessee, but once you cross this threshold, immediately you start to have all these negative thoughts and feelings. But if we can kind of mitigate and modify the intensity or whatever the workloads selection can be, again, the experience of exercise.  should be more positive, you should learn, like William Graziano says, you kind of much in a little bit of being an educated dieter, right? If we can make people educated exercises, like they're able to again auto-regulate or self-modify whatever variable they need to modify, again the adherence to exercise should in theory be better. Yeah, and I think over time to the tag, I guess that you put on, I'm trying to conceptualize the right word, but the word or the emotion that you put around it is very different, right? So when you're talking about, let's say, a challenge, or something, any kind of program that's gonna get people started, right? Obviously it's gonna probably be unenjoyable in the beginning, right? But they're gonna stick to it because they have these parameters, and like I'm right, I need to hit this because of whatever. Someone says that I'm holding myself accountable, but over time the more that you do it, do you realize, okay, actually, when I do this, maybe I am feeling better, or when I hold myself accountable, I feel better, right? So that tag now is a positive emotion, like when I do this, I feel this way, or when I, maybe I still don't even feel great doing this, but that affects everything else, like I still don't maybe love training, but when I train, I sleep better, right? Like there's these other effects, you start to kind of change that tag of how you feel, but I'm trying to think of a better word than tag, but... Like, right? Like, wow, the association is sick. My vocabulary is awesome, but your association is now going to change with it because of all the other kind of downstream effects, which was one of the most amazing things about exercise, in my opinion, is that there's so many peripheral effects, right? Like whether it's like sleep, mood, energy, digestion, like all these things, obviously, you're going to physically look different as well, depending on the type of training that you're doing, but like how you're feeling is gonna be even quicker, I would say, right? Like within a week, you will notice those differences. You might not have a different physique, you might not run faster, you know what I mean? Or lift more weights, but you're probably gonna be like, wow, my digestion is better and my sleep and my mood, and like when I train at this time, my energy, but all of that takes time and reflection. So I do think that at some point there has to be that, like how do we bridge that gap of like, okay, the beginning is gonna be really challenging for most people, so we need to have a way for them to actually stick it through, even if they don't like it, but then associate it more positively, so then they're able to adhere to it. Does that make sense? Yeah, I think even if, where you say like, the beginning is gonna be hard, I think the beginning of any new behavior is gonna be hard, but still realigning with a low intensity bout of, hey, like games clear says it, where he talked about an individual's story of losing 100 pounds and keeping it off. When he first started, he literally would just go to the gym for five minutes and walk in, but it was instilling that behavior of getting into the gym and doing those things. So again, being flexible, being adaptive with your exercise program and not what I continue to see as a coach and even with research is like, no, we're coming in three sets of 10, and we're just gonna continuously progressively over the five pounds, more reps, more sets, anything like that, but in my eyes, more important is like just doing the damn thing is really impressive, especially when it comes to exercise, when it doesn't always feel good and taking note of all of those other subjective or behavioral aspects that you are also reaping from exercise, because we can tell, and people know all of these things, but yet they're not adhering to this behavior. I think too, the reflective part is like everything, right? Like that is the piece that I think a lot of people don't think about in terms of exercise, right? Like now with the way that people are conceptualizing mental health, like a lot more people are being reflective about maybe their mindset or the way that they have conversations or confrontations or whatever, right? Like that is very normal when we're talking about like, hey, when we're working on our mental health, like we're maybe gonna journal or go to a therapy session or talk with someone or just reflect in general on these things. The conversation about reflecting on exercise is not really a conversation that I think has had, and I don't think I ever had like distinctly tried to have that conversation with myself. I think over time it developed because I developed an intuitive sense because I've done it for so long, but I think that if we can start that process earlier, the same thing with diet, like, you know, when people are struggling with their diet, okay, like it's not just, there's a lot of reasons why. So we need to be able to reflect on, because I could say 15 reasons, but you might come up with a 16th one that's different and unique for you, but that only came through reflection. So I think the idea of like having those introspective thoughts is very normal for mental health, but is not discussed at all in the realm of like physical health, and I would say that's, you know, exercise and diet and all those behaviors, and it's definitely, I think, I don't see any downsides to it, you know what I mean? Like, I literally don't see any downsides for people to actually start to be more reflective on their training, and this doesn't mean you have to write a thesis on like, how you're feeling every day, but it could just be a few notes that you're jotting down, and this goes for anything. When someone's dealing, I mean, you know, when a client's dealing with digestive issues, what's the first thing? All right, well, let's start to maybe pinpoint some foods, or was it a certain, you know, at a certain time during the day, or was it at a certain point in the week, or was it after, you know, this really stressful meeting? Every Thursday you have this meeting, and then, oh, Friday, completely shot, like, how do we realize those things through journaling and introspection? So we always do that with those types of things, but with exercise, I think that that is just not even a conversation, and I think that that would really be like the, honestly, one of the biggest things that we could get people to start adhering to. And I think it's self-monitoring, and the behavior or outcome that you're trying to strive for, is like, how am I getting there? What did it feel like when I got there? And this is where we talk a little bit about exercise science research being very quantitative focus, and the research I'm doing right now is very qualitative focus, but I'm trying to, and there's mixed methods research, and it's what we do as coaches. We have all of this objective information, repetitions, whatever the case may be, and we have them fill out this subjective form of, okay, tell me actually how things went. I think that's what needs to happen in the exercise science literature, is like, tell me this big story. Sure, again, I'll go back to the Bluff-Lover restriction study I did with my cast with Dr. Buckner. Did that for, I think it was eight weeks. I haven't trained CAF since, because it's been, one, because we didn't grow, two, because it was awful. So that's what I expected you to say at all. I thought you were gonna be like, that's when I started journaling about my... Well, if I can reflect that, like again, affective, reflective, like reflecting on that experience. Yeah, I spent... Yeah, I spent... I spent 30 minutes three times a week to train my cast that didn't even grow, and it was painful, it was excruciating, but thinking about how, again, we can reflect and hold ourselves accountable to, hey, I made this adjustment, was it the correct one? If it wasn't, what can I do next? And so, again, when you're exposed to another situation or a circumstance, again, with exercise, you should be doing it repeatedly, you can make the appropriate adjustment. Again, it's a learning aspect. You were able to make this, make these adjustments throughout your time because you've done it for a long time. A lot of us are forced to make these, whether it be an injury or just a whole life shift. But if we can avoid that chronic injury or anything like that, now it's like, right, I don't have to have this kinesophobia of deadlifts are terrible or anything like that. And that's, yeah, there's so many things that go into exercise that we miss with just focusing on objective measures. Oh, like, it's, again, going back to the psych world, that's so subjective-based, and then there's not enough objective stuff. And then with the exercise science world or the diet research world, it's all objective and not subject. And it's like, why can't we bridge, we are doing that on a day-to-day basis as coaches. And that's how we're finding out these things. And that's why there's a lot of people who are in the industry who are like, well, who needed a research study for that? Like, we figured that out 10 years ago, you know? And it's like, yes, we did, but the whole point, the idea of science is to be able to move things forward faster, you know what I mean? So it's like, so we can avoid, and that's our goal as coaches and your goal as a researcher is, okay, how can we get people to avoid, you know, we did this for 10 years before we realized it. Like, you do something long enough, you're gonna figure it out. But, hey, maybe we could shorten that time course to six months for someone. You know, and maybe we can't, maybe the answer is, you can't do that. Maybe the answer is, it does take that long. Like, I don't know, there obviously has to be a time component. Nobody's gonna be able to bypass certain things in terms of like having a really deep understanding of it. Like there's just literally no way. And obviously some people are gonna pick things up faster than others, but there absolutely is a way to shorten that time course. And that is where research and application from coaches and educators in the space talking about this absolutely needs to happen. And I think that there's too much of a, yeah, there's too much of it. And there's too much like, this group is right, this group is wrong. And like these camps, you know, like the whole like scientists are in their ivory tower and they don't know anything about the world. And then there's like the, you know, on the ground people, but like the scientists were like, oh, they're just dumb meatheads. And it's like, there's obviously both of those, but there's a lot larger group of people who are kind of in that middle group. And we can all to your point work together. That's always just blows my mind about the industry and like when we all start arguing about things, you know? And like, I think when you're newer to something, it's you really get like passionate about your beliefs, even if you don't really understand it and you're maybe say things that you shouldn't. But the more that I do this, the more that I'm like, almost everything works. Like literally almost everything works. If someone can adhere to it and it works for their life circumstances and being able to flow in and out of different types of programs and things for people and your clients is coaching. Like I don't care if someone now is, I have some clients who are keto, some clients who fast, some clients who have high carbs, some clients who have low protein, high protein, plant bait. I mean, they're all different things. Whatever works for you. You know what I mean? And again, there's like, yes, there is optimal, right? Somebody's like, what's the most optimal plan for this specific goal? I could lay that out, but if that person's not gonna be able to do that for more than three weeks, then like what the fuck is the point of the optimal plan? Instead, if we did something that's like 80% optimal and they're actually gonna be able to do it for, like you said, the rest of your life, like eating healthy and training hard are constituents of being a healthy person who's aging. And all the benefits that we hear about are because they're compounded over time. So like, how are we gonna actually be able to get someone to do this and not just consistently fall off and just yo-yo through everything? And that's really like, if someone's like, what do you want to do? And they're like, that's it. That's what I want to be able to figure out. And as a coach, and be able to help educate people on that because everything comes back to that. Like everything comes back to like, you do something really hard for a little while and then you fall back off and you do something hard and you fall off and you go through this yo-yo cycle and you look up in five years and you're in a worse spot. It's like, what's the point of that? Yeah, and I think, you know, having a pragmatic hat as a researcher and seeing again the quality of my work is actually impactful for the individual like yourself or personal trainer's coaches. And it's gonna take time, like the whole process of, right? I think it's the system at the end of the day where we are tenured based on how many publications, how many grant dollars we get and not so much about the impact on the field or yeah, just the space. And I think that's one of my biggest pet peeves and eye openings of that's how great my mentor is. It's just like, take your time, like let's get some quality work in rather than just pump out research or research article after research article that doesn't do anything. And that's what the whole orbit model would say is like, start off with a review and then continuously do this proof of concept work. And then before you even start an RCT, it's like, do a case study and then do a small case design. It's literally this iterative process that we don't wanna waste all this money and time, but something that we think should think or we think should work. And again, exercise is going to work in an eight to 12 week period in a lab. How can we do this in again, real life conditions? And we have a lot of the tools to do that like EMA where we can literally just shoot people the text and hey, tell me what you're doing or here's a program, tell me how that felt. So there's a lot of optimization or opportunity for exercise science to take advantage of the technology that is happening within the research, but it's gonna take time. And more importantly, we need to start being collaborative because again, like the three words, readiness, resources and recovery, they're interchangeable within the literature right now. And yeah, that's one of my biggest pieces, right? If you're gonna define or if you're gonna have a construct, we need to be able to clearly define it so we can again, specifically attack what this is happening. So again, we're pushing the field in the right direction. Rather now we have to have these arguments of what is this? Or how can we actually define it? Yeah, I think I'll stop that tangent now. No, I think that's part of the problem with the grants and the way that everything is set up in academia and people always, like you said, searching for those positive findings or those big findings, like you're going to self-select, research designs that are going to fulfill that, right? And anybody who thinks that scientists don't have bias is completely wrong. I mean, you would like to imagine that nobody does and a lot of people don't, right? I'm not trying to sit here and be one of these like scientist bashers. Like clearly I'm far from that. But I do think that there is a lot more that we can like a collaborative process and that's, I think there is a really big, probably benefit that you are a coach and you've been an athlete. Like I think that that really has probably helped you with making these, this design and just kind of how you view research in general, right? Like I think that that's a huge piece of it instead of just being someone like, oh, let me put out some papers and like hope that they do well. You know, like you have a completely different lens. And I think that that is a really, really big deal. Yeah, yeah, I think being able to, I always say walk and walk, but also chalk the talk of I'm able to be a practitioner. Like if there's three things that I hope to continuously do is, you know, train, coach and research, I'm able to do that for the rest of my life. I know I'm going to hopefully have an impact on this field that hopefully will transpire for generations and generations, you know, teaching kids in the classroom, giving talks at conferences, anything like that. That's the ultimate goal. But I think right now from what I know, we definitely need to take a step back. And it's not about just running RCT after RCT. So randomized control child, just putting people into two different groups and again, telling them to exercise, we're going to see outcomes. That's why till this day, there's still a debate of which periodization method is better or now what auto regulation method is better. So that's the purpose. If we can't get people to do exercise, why are we arguing about this? So that's where I think again, taking a step back, learning, you know, qualitative and not all qualitative is all these touchy feelys and stuff that I don't care about. It's like, well, there's been this huge shift since, I think COVID or whatever the case may be where we need to actually make sure our mental health is good. We need to actually make sure that what we are doing is having a positive impact on our physical, mental, spiritual health, whatever the case may be. But yet we haven't actually, you know, take that formative action in research, but I think we're starting to make these jumps or these steps to the appropriate way to refine some sort of package that allows individuals to be adherent to exercise and my bias is let's use auto regulation for that because they do it in its fourth performance to achieve optimal performance, but if we can achieve an optimal experience, performance would be that I have a saying to all of my clients, chase the behavior, not the outcome, because if you do the behavior, that outcome is eventually going to be there. And that just usually clicks for a lot of people. It's like, don't worry about that objective stuff. Focus on your thoughts, your feelings and literally learn the skills to allow yourself to be an educated diet or an educated exercise. Because if you have that, you don't need me. And that's the end of the goal of like, you don't need anyone to really tell you what to do. And being able to do that, again, you're competent. Now you're again, autonomous. You are feeling those human innate needs that, again, in theory should allow you to be intrinsically motivated to just do the thing no matter how ready you are. Absolutely. So if you could leave people with one, one, I guess, piece of advice, one earth shattering piece of advice on readiness. No, there's so many great gems in here, but like one thing to kind of summarize this or just in general from all of your findings so far that you would like to leave people with that maybe isn't as commonly known. Yeah. I think the thing that I've learned from getting into this research space is be okay with just, again, literally just doing exercise. And it doesn't need to be the hardest thing. It should add to your life. It shouldn't take away or I said, it shouldn't be a burden to do this thing. This literally should be exciting, motivating. I always think of whenever I go to a new gym and I'm just excited to just try all the new equipment or some equipment that I've never done before, keep that within your life. It doesn't need to be a job. It doesn't need to be a burden. And utilize literally how you feel and reflect on that. Like, okay, I made this adjustment. What did I adjust? And when I made this adjustment, I felt this literally right after. How'd you feel the morning of? Literally do these reflective processes on a literally on a routine basis like you would do exercise. So you can actually learn and become that educated exerciser. It is okay to tone it down so you can feel better the next day or the next week, the next month. Because if you're able to continuously mitigate or reduce the fatigue or the stress from exercise, you should hopefully long-term feel better, perform better. If you're feeling better and performing better, all of those goals that you have should be able to be maintainable and sustainable. Absolutely, I love that so much. And if there's one thing that I've learned in the past year, just reflective practices in general are so powerful in really every aspect. So this doesn't need to be something that takes you 30 minutes to do. It could be a simple kind of just check, how are you feeling? And doing that on a consistent basis is really gonna be what allows you to do the things that you love and feel really good about them for a long time. So where can people find you? And or I guess more importantly, where can people find maybe, is this a systematic review published? It's been in review for quite a long time. What comes to academia? It's a process. Also, that's the other thing. People are like, well, why is it so slow? You guys have no idea. And I only got a slight taste of it. And that was enough for me. Like it is the slowest process. So let me talk about delayed gratification in patients. Academia is where you will learn that either the hard way or the easy way, depending on your personality. Yes, so okay, that's not out yet. But is there anywhere the people can follow you if you even want them to? Yeah, I mean, I'm on Instagram at the coach AI, pretty much on all social media platforms. But Instagram is my main platform. Research gate, just Adam Iberham. But if anyone has questions, they can literally shoot me an email. At, I'll just do the Propazik email, but adam at Propazik.com. Can send you all the articles. But first off, I always gotta say, shout out to you for having me on and all of my other mentors, Dr. Campbell, Dr. Buckner, Chris Guy, all of those other individuals that have really shaped me and allowed me to be in the seat right now. Yeah, well, this was an amazing interview. Thank you for coming on. So if you guys have any other questions for us, you can visit teamlocoufit.com for coaching and other resources. And if you're interested in our app, which has macros, meal plans, training programs, all of that great stuff, you can visit redefinehealthyapp.com. I almost said the wrong damn URL. All right, thank you guys so much for listening. Share the show if you enjoyed it. And we'll talk to you next week.

=== FILE: Episode 275： Behavior change [6dP4m8nnV5c].txt ===

 Welcome back to another episode of the Loco Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and this week I'm joined by our team at Mental Health Counselor, Rick, and we're going to be talking about the steps to behavior change. And so we're recording this, we're about a week and a half into the new year, and it's funny, I was thinking about this topic, and then you were thinking about this topic, normally we brainstorm together, but it just didn't happen this time, but I was like, I want to do one on this, and then you're like, hey, here's for these notes, we're going to talk about that. I was like, oh my gosh, because this is so pertinent, and this really is like the root of everything, right? Because most people have goals, right? I would say that everybody listening to this podcast is interested in personal development and self-development, challenging themselves. And we always have really great intentions to want to change ourselves in some type of way. But oftentimes, there is like a mismatch of our intentions and our vision to how to actually create that change. So we're going to go through kind of a step by step, I don't want to say a protocol, but kind of a framework to think about behavior change on a deeper level, and keep this general enough to where you can apply it to really any goal, whether that's physique or health or even, you know, personal development related. Yeah, and why I think this is a really relevant topic right now is not only do a lot of people call and have issues with this or inquire about what are some actionable steps. And I'm going to give you guys actionable steps throughout the entire podcast. So if you're listening to this and you're like, what are some really good concrete things that I can do to create behavior change, get your notebook out, write these things down, because there's about seven or eight steps that are really very crucial in this process. But it's obviously the new year, everybody makes new year's resolutions. And some of the people are finding a difficult time either really getting motivated to create the necessary like momentum for change, or they've already failed. If you failed, don't worry, welcome to the rest of the world. We just have to far a little higher than that. And let's just pick ourselves back up tomorrow. While you're in your pity, we're getting plenty of that tomorrow's the 10th. Like it's all good. You didn't miss too much. You know, and you can, you know, really just get back up and figure out what it is. And I think there's the other part of this too, is that people start with an idea, a concept of what they want something to be. And they just, they don't really have a great plan. And so all of a sudden it's like, where I am and where I want to be, there's not a clear cut line for how to get there. And I think this gives a really good explanation. And it's not just, this is not just about a behavior change in terms of there's something that I'm doing that I don't like. This is kind of like, can really be used in how I perceive problems, how problems exist in my life and how I've been analyzing issues within my life and what steps I can take to actually reframe my perspective, my outlook, and ultimately the goals that I use to achieve those things. So yeah, so this can be really used in almost any setting. And that's why I like the word like framework, because now you can kind of view these things through this lens when you're making decisions. And because like you said, the biggest thing is people are making these plans, making these goals, but we're making goals that are so big, which is fine, but we're not having any of the steps like before that end goal, you know, we're starting at zero and we want to go all the way to 100. And that's fine. But you need to have, okay, what's at step five, what's at step 10, what's at 25? Okay, what happens if I go from 25 to 15? And then 17 and then back, right? Like there has to be a plan. And that's actually, if you guys listened to the podcast with me and Karina, we talked about goal setting. If you haven't listened to that, I would definitely go back and recommend we give some actionable steps, just in general with goal setting, which is a totally different topic. But let's say you've picked the goal, you have the vision, you're trying to execute, maybe you've already failed, maybe you haven't, the momentum is either strong, or maybe it's kind of fizzling out. Here are the next steps in order to actually change your behaviors. So number one, I would ask you to describe what the problem behavior is first, right? What is you're trying to change something? Well, something exists in its place. So describe what that behavior is. Is it overeating? Is it overthinking? Is it yelling at your kids? Is it acts of violence or aggression? Is it overwhelming emotional outbursts? Let's see, dissociating, not coming in late, whatever it is pulling, putting things off, procrastination, refusing to engage, like whatever your issue is, what I want you to do is number one, be very specific and detailed. No vague terms here. Be pinpoint accurate with what the problem behavior is. Identify exactly what you've said, what you've thought, what you've felt throughout that process. If feelings are kind of difficult for you, you can skip that step, but traditionally, we're trying to change behavior because of causes, negative consequences in our life. And so really, what I want you to do is to start, this is kind of like the therapeutic side of behavior change, really starting to explore what it is in that process that is creating emotional pain for you. Identify what you did not do instead. So the next step to that might be describing the intensity of the behavior or the other characteristics that are involved in this, like put it on a scale of one to ten, ten being really intense and highly irrational or emotional or creating negative experiences and emotions with me and one being zero, like where on the scale is this problem behavior ranking? Would you recommend doing this for like one at a time? Yeah. Yeah. Michael, let's start with, yeah, just start with one. When you said like ranking them, so I wasn't sure if you meant ranking like all the problems or just, did I say ranking? Maybe you didn't, maybe I just made that up. I don't know. I don't know. Should we rewind? Rewind. Okay, edit, edit. Here we go, editing. Now when you said overthinking, I was like, well, there's me. So now I'm really overthinking. He's talking about me again. Damn it. Okay, so one problem, be specific. Be specific. Identify exactly what you did, what you said, what you thought, what you felt. Okay. The second step to that, or third step to that would be describe the intensity of the overall behavior and the feelings and characteristics of that. That's an important step. You really want to understand where this is kind of ranking in terms of priority for you. Describe the problem. And this is a crucial step. Describe the problem in enough detail that a stranger would be able to accurately understand exactly what you're going through. The reason I say that is oftentimes we use these really vague terms and to hear people say it all the time, like for example, you ask somebody how their day is going, somebody's like, oh, I had a pretty good day. What does pretty good mean? Pretty good is such a vague term. It means something completely different to you than it does to me. And it's like, so I really want to get a good understanding of what you're talking about. And we're very vague with ourselves. Sometimes it'll be like, describe to me a goal. Well, I, you know, want to lose weight. Okay. What does that actually mean? Do you want to lose weight, but gain muscle? Do you want to lose weight for what specific reasons? Like, what is really underneath this? Like, we say a term like lose weight. I don't know what that actually means. Like, if I said to you, Lauren, I really want to be a happier person. Great. Okay. Like, what does it mean? What does it look like? Describe with that so that we can see measurable results when we go to analyze this later. That's the biggest thing, right? Like as being able to measure from like, point A to like down the line, you know, a week, a month, three months, being able to review because if you're not specific and you're not, and you're very vague with yourself, then you kind of give yourself that like built in like cop out, right? Because then you're like, well, I didn't really move too far. But like, it's okay. Right. Like I think when we, it's, it's, oh, that's something that I've struggled with previously is being specific with think like so specific like that and not and being really detailed because you kind of like let yourself off that way. You know what I mean? You're like, oh, well, if I'm not super detailed, then it's okay if it like doesn't happen, or I don't really have to commit to it or whatever it is changing something when it is more vague. So the more specific and detailed the better. It becomes more concrete in a way for you to hold yourself accountable. And I think sometimes if it's an important enough change that accountability is necessary in order to promote change when it's something we're loosely doing or not really buying into or perhaps doing for somebody else, it becomes more difficult to answer these questions. And so we really start to get a gauge of your motivation to really wanting to make this change something that you're doing for yourself or for other reasons, external reasons or whatever. So those are kind of like action step number one would be describe the problem in specific behavior, right? Be very specific, not vague, identify what you did, what you felt, what you said, describe the intensity of the behavior and describe it, the behavior in enough detail that somebody who is a stranger would be able to understand exactly what you're going through. Number two for this, describe the specific prompting event, right? Like when I say that I mean, this started the behavior chain of events, so to speak, right? What is leading to the problem behavior? What is precipitating it? Right? What is the prompting event, the triggering event? Perhaps that's a better way to think about it. What's prompting you to make this change? What is antagonizing you? What is the issue at hand? Does that make sense? This is the first thing I have clients reflect on whenever they're going through a problem. It's like, all right, like what like let's say it is like overeating, right? Like just as an example, where they weren't able to hit whatever their food goals were. Okay, well, what prompt that? What was the trigger today? Was it because you didn't have food prepped? Was it because you didn't plan ahead? Was it because you skipped breakfast? Was it because you didn't sleep? Like those are all that's the same problem, but they're all very different triggering events for people and just saying, I could say, oh, well, you should have meal prepped and then the person's like, well, I already did that. So do you not have an answer? It's like, no, but I don't know unless they're going to be able to reflect on that. So so much of this is just a reflective process of what is that trigger. Yeah. And let me read to you some of the things that I've written here. Always begin with some event in your environment, even if it doesn't seem to you that the environment caused the problem behavior. Otherwise, we could ask about any behavior, any thought or any feeling or that we experienced. What prompted that? Possible questions to help you explore this area would be what exact event precipitated the start of this chain reaction, right? When did the sequence of events that led to the problem behavior begin? When did the problem start? What was going on right before the thought of or the impulse for the problem behavior to occur? What were you thinking, feeling or imagining at that time? And why did the problem behavior happen on that day instead of any other day before that? And I think that's that last one is kind of an crucial part because I think what people forget is there was a time in your life when this problem didn't exist. And so let's go back to that time and it kind of helps us understand what occurred to start to create this reaction. Oftentimes, what I find is problem behaviors develop out of a space where we don't know how to cope with what else was happening in our life. And so a bad habit ritual, something has started that now we recognize as problematic, but at one point probably developed out of some need or necessity. And I think going back and being like, what was happening in my life before this actually started? It's kind of, it's not the most important step, but it is a step that gives you additional insight and knowledge into it. Does that make sense? Yeah, okay. All right. So step number three. This is the vulnerable factors. So everybody loves this. Describe the vulnerable factors happening before the prompting event. So what do I mean by this? What factors or events made you more vulnerable to reacting to the prompting event with this problem chain? Does that make sense? Okay. So let me give you some things to kind of clear it up a little bit. I guess, or some problems to think about. Okay. So some of the vulnerable factors, was there physical illness, unbalanced eating, sleeping, injury? Was there use of drugs? Misuse of prescription medications? Were there stressful events in your environment, either positive or negative that affected you? Intense emotions such as sadness, anger, fear, loneliness? Previous behaviors of your own that you found stressful that have been coming to your mind, right? Like sometimes just thinking about your past behaviors or reflecting on who you've been is enough to create stress within somebody. And so when I say the vulnerable factors, it's kind of exploring some of those secondary characteristics of the problem behavior to add a little more clarity to it. Yeah, absolutely. And that's always the hard part, right? Because this is like where you like you've had to be honest with yourself up until now, but now this is like, Oh, shit, just got real. I really can't hide any more from this. I mean, you can, but then you're not going to really get to the root of this. Right? So same way as like, you could keep these things vague and not be very specific, but that's not going to help you in the long run. So actually doing this is going to be super crucial. Even if it is, you know, like maybe, I don't know, unsavory, right? Like you're like, Wow, I probably shouldn't have done that or taken that or acted in this way or, you know, these cascade of events. But if you don't take the time to actually reflect on that, how can you expect yourself to make a change? Because it's so once we already are ingrained in a habit or behavior, like it's that's our default now. That's so much easier than actually changing it. So it's not enough to just be like, I want to do this. Like that's why when we say those things, it just, it doesn't, doesn't stick. Yeah. And I think vulnerability is the space where we start feeling uncomfortable. And when people feel uncomfortable, they start to look for ways to avoid that. And so would you say that this is the step maybe where people kind of like stop or they don't like, they're not going to be honest with themselves? I mean, they can be not honest with themselves at any point throughout this process. You know, but like I said, when somebody's and it's a framework to use in any aspect of your life. But when you're looking at really specific behavior changes, things that have been kind of perpetual, you know, that you've done for years or that have really caused a significant problem that you're looking to really create, these are kind of necessary steps to take in order to fully understand it. Part of this is member of described therapy is like two parts. There's the why something happens. And then the what now, well, this is really helping you understand why this problem behavior really existed and what it means to change it and the benefits and the ways that we can measure progress later. So for that step, number three, it's described the factors happening before the event that made you feel vulnerable, you know, that started down that chain of, you know, behaviors that ultimately led to the problem behavior. Okay, so number four, describe in excruciating detail the chain of events that led to the problem behavior. This is everyone's favorite step. These keep getting worse. I told you guys, there's gonna be a lot of writing. I was down with step one and two, but now I'm like, I'm turning the podcast off. Numbers are just dropping. Nobody finishes this episode. If you've made it to step five, comment below. Yeah. That was kind of like, what was the other one we did, right? I didn't think anybody would, oh, we were talking about shadow work and I was like, there's probably like four people listening at this point, but it was like our highest rated episode. Like Carl Jung's name in it. Yeah, there you go. It linked. So describing the in detail, the chain of events that led to the problem behavior, imagine that your problem behavior is chained to the precipitating event in that environment. So how long is this chain? Where does it go? Where do the links, you know, kind of occur? So actions are things that you do, right? Body sensations or feelings, cognitions, your beliefs, your expectations, your thoughts, events in the environment or other things that you do. Sorry, it's a late night. And feelings and emotions that you experience. What exact thought or belief or feeling or action followed the prompting event, right? So you had the prompting event occur. What happened after that? What is the behavior that you display essentially, right? So that's essentially what this is describing. Okay. So let's see, like, like what would be an example, like look at each link of the chain. Okay. And after you write about it, was there another thought, another feeling or another action that could have occurred in that space? Right? And it's going to start, this is going to lead into like repair and like the actual change, developing new skills. What are we looking at changing? Right? So having a clear understanding of the chain of events that led that not just led to the problem behavior, but what the problem behavior actually is. Okay. We should know that from step one to that makes sense. Okay. So could someone else have thought, felt or acted differently at that point in time? Kind of an important question, right? Because sometimes when we're in our own minds, we don't see any other options other than what we've done. But if I'm like, Hey, what would Lauren do? I know what Lauren would do. You're not asking that question. What would you do Lauren? No, but you ideally want to, that it helps you to find the different perspectives sometimes that you might be missing in yourself to put yourself like, I think we all kind of carry voices and people in our heads. Like for me, you know, like my mom is there, my uncles are there, my sister's there, my friend's father's there, you know, there's various people and characteristics and, you know, individuals throughout my life that have helped shape who I am or my thought processes on things. And so sometimes you take a step back and you're like, Okay, I'm pissed about this, but what would my uncle say? You know, what would my mother do in this moment? Or what would, you know, my friend do who has like a business that I respect or what would this person do who's like my coach, you know, it's like, Hmm, can I challenge myself to think like another person and see a different perspective, even when, you know, my own ego won't allow it, but perhaps by me focusing through a lens of another person, it helps me see my problems in a different light. Yeah, because that's, so that's really just speaking to detachment. But sometimes like you said, that can be really hard when it's just like for ourselves, but maybe pairing it with that like thought of another person could be really useful for you to like, because everybody's like, Oh yeah, of course I can attach. And then you're in the midst of it. And you're like, fuck, I can't attach for shit. Like, like this is, this is so hard. That's why it's one of the hardest things. But I really like that idea of, and like you said, it could be someone who is really influential in your life, or it could be someone who that you're trying to emulate, I guess is a good way or how would this person respond? And even if you don't know, right, like, it's the idea of like, okay, this person runs their business in a way that is ethical that I appreciate. What would I what do I think that they would do in this situation? And maybe you do know them, but maybe, you know, maybe you don't. But having that as a framework, I think could be nice. And instead of like, you said, wanting to detach, like your own ego is like, no, like, we can't see past that right now. And maybe you can in like an hour or two days, but sometimes you need to make that decision like right now. And that needs to be a little bit quicker. Yeah, you know, and it can be people that you respect. But I usually try and make references to are there people in your life that you know that you have interaction with that you can really hear their voice in their head, you know, like, I love Tony Robbins. But I don't know Tony Robbins, I haven't had like one on one conversations with him. I thought you had. You fucking lied. The first time we hung out. I know Tony Robbins. We're friends on Facebook. I mean, I like this page. But I don't have any real dialogue now. There's 1000 videos that you can watch on Tony Robbins. Yeah. You know, like my uncle Joe or my uncle Tom, these are two people that are, you know, are very influential in my life. And, you know, I would sit back and say, well, what would they think? What would they do? And so it just again, it allows you a different perspective. And some of the stuff isn't just about like changing our diet or our physique. Some of this is about changing elements of who we are or how we react to people, or how we perceive situations or events. And I think sometimes that's a really, really understated aspect. An individual's perception of events shapes what they think about it. And two people can watch something or experience something and be moved into completely different directions. Why is that? It's based off their perception and what they're willing to take from it. And so this is a little bit larger sometimes than just, you know, simple behavior changes that you're looking for. This is a change in mindset. This is a change in perspective and attitude and value in the way that you see yourself. And so utilizing all of these skills, and we're kind of running through them and some of this shit would take me sessions to get through with people. Yeah, this is not like, oh, you'd go through this checklist and all of a sudden now, like you're good to go. Like this is going to be a process. We're just laying it out. But then the real work is going to start when you're actually dissecting all this. And step one might be easy, but step three might take you a few months, right? Because it's not like you just have this all of a sudden you meditate or journal, you know, one time and you have this deep understanding of everything like this is going to take time. But we did, of course, want to be thorough and share all of it. But that's okay. And this is a tool that I will use and go back to. Somebody will come in, they'll describe this and we'll say, okay, fine, we're going to lay this all out. And I'm going to work, I'm going to give them worksheets to do and we're going to kind of work through it. And then, you know, we might get another couple of weeks down the road and they'll be like, you know, it happened again, I'm like, let's pull it out. Let's go through the process again. And you go through it and you go through it and you go through it. This isn't like a magic pill. This is just to do the work and to commit to, okay, to make mistakes is to err as human, but I'm going to continue to grow and learn from this process. What's part of this step? Are you messing up? Where are you having difficulty? I was going to say fucking up. I don't know, I didn't. Did you figure out what you were? Forgot who I was talking to for a second. But what you said was really great about this, like this being the underlying thing for everything, because like your perception of events or how you react is what will determine any kind of change for any goal that you've set, you know, whether it's like physique, performance, recovery, health, financial, literally any goal that you've set is not going to change until you get to the root of those issues with how you're perceiving situations for yourself, for other people, how you're reacting, like that is everything. If we can actually change that, then we can decide to make whatever change that you want, you know, to your body and the rest of your life. Like that is, I don't want to say it's secondary, but like it's why people don't make sustained long-term change, because they're only following something for, you know, a certain amount of time and they're doing it more on a surface level, which I'm not knocking because everybody has to go through different levels, right? Like you're not going to expect somebody like day one to get all into this and to fully understand it because it's always changing as well. So I'm not saying that it's a bad idea to just start something, you should, but this is kind of what's going to happen as you progress in your journey. And this same issue could also change over time, right? So like you're saying, you can go through this with a client and then they're like, oh, this happened again, you know, there's so many times with clients where they check in and it's the same problem, but it looks a little bit different now. So maybe they've gotten past level one or level two, but now the same kind of problem is recurring, but it just looks a little bit different. And it might even feel a little bit different, but it's still the same thing when we peel it back. So this is one of those things that it's okay that it might happen again. But are we continuously revisiting this and making changes? And then chances are, hey, you probably don't just got one problem, if I got a lot. So once you get one down, let's, we can start going on that list that the rank order list that I made up, but okay. So as we move on, you know, and just to one, before we move on, like you can apply this toward relationships in your life and feel like, okay, for a year or whatever, I've been working on this and I finally have a good handle on it. I'm seeing things differently. And then you may discover like, oh, there's something happening at work or in my social life. And it's like, I can apply this to there now. And so the idea of it is not just that it promotes instant change. It's kind of a a structure to adopt for life and really kind of managing those things. So this next step, step five is kind of an inevitable step, right, describe the consequences of the problem behavior. What problems have occurred in your life as a result of these issues? You know, how did other people react immediately to the problem? And how did they react later to the problem that you displayed? How did you feel immediately following the behavior that you displayed? You know, what effect did the behavior have on you, on your environment, on your relationships? So this is an important aspect. And it's one where sometimes people can kind of get riddled with shame, feel bad, feel depressed, because it's like, okay, it's kind of easy to identify what the problem is, because I can be a little bit removed from that. When I'm describing the consequences of my behavior, this also encompasses taking responsibility. And one of the most difficult things to do is accept responsibility to somebody else, right? It's one thing for me to quietly whisper under my breath, I fucked up, you know, that wasn't good, or I made an ass of myself or whatever. It's another thing to be sitting in front of somebody that you have hurt, or, you know, we're talking to them on the phone or whatever it is, and hearing the pain of your choices and your decisions, and then feeling that and taking responsibility and saying, okay, I'm hearing what you're saying, and I fucked up, you know, and it's clear that I hurt you, and describe what that hurt is. So recognizing the consequences of your behavior will go a long way in reminding you like that moment when you might be angry or bitter or feeling something, right? And you feel totally justified in your anger. And if you can remember like, Oh, when I do this, it creates this, and this over here, these consequences are far more powerful than what I'm feeling right now. And so shut the fuck up, give myself a minute to take a step back and breathe, and self regulate myself, calm down a little bit, and respond later, right? Sometimes that's the behavior change that we need to implement, which is no behavior. Right? Yeah, that's really weird. Detaching is super important, especially if it is that kind of like a, I don't know how to describe that type of a negative emotion, but like, there seems to be a different signature to something like feeling like down versus feeling really angry, right? Like there's just a different signature to how that feels. So I would say that that's going to be really important for those type of like elevated negative emotions, we'll just calm that is to really be able to okay, like how can I take a step back like, and we all kind of have that visceral feeling when we're getting to that place. So I would say that probably like, would you suggest like, reflecting on those kind of bodily cues, I think you mentioned it in one of the steps, like kind of how you're physically feeling. Because I think for a lot of people, there is like a feeling that you get beforehand when you're going to engage in those negative things. So like anytime that I'm really angry, like, or really upset, like there's a very specific visceral feeling that I get, right? When people have struggled with overeating before. There's oftentimes this certain agitation that you get. And it's kind of hard to explain if you've never felt it, but there's a very specific type of agitation that you'll feel. So it's like being able to identify, Oh, okay, like I'm on that border of like, this could go sideways really quickly. Let me go do something else now. Let me remove myself from the situation. Let me go get out this energy, whatever this is, this agitation and like this kind of a easy light activity. So there's just certain things that I think if we can tie that to our physiology as well, that can help us because sometimes when we're emotionally like very elevated in a negative sense, it's going to be hard sometimes to like rationalize yourself. So if you can tie that to a physiological sensation, that would probably be really useful, right? Oh, yeah, absolutely. The mind and the body are connected. And so sometimes people aren't aware of what they're thinking, or what they're feeling emotionally, but they're painfully aware of what they're feeling in their body, that queasiness, the tension in their shoulders, the clinching, like the jaws tightening, whatever it is. Like, and so even in people who are experiencing panic, like sometimes they're unaware of the thoughts that they're having, but they're very aware of like the nervousness that's circulating throughout their body and their energy. And I say whichever one comes first comes first. If you recognize, Oh, my thoughts are creating this fine, you recognizing your thoughts and your emotions. For some people, until they create more awareness with it, they just respond to what they're feeling. And they don't know why they're feeling it, but they know that like, Oh, like I carry tension like right here in the back of my traps or right in my head. And it's like, I know when I feel energy in those spaces, I'm like, I'm really tense, or I'm either really angry about something. And so being aware of physiologically what's happening in your body can be a really big cue. So yeah, the mind of the body are connected. Which is why we always stress like from a mental health perspective, people are like, I'm depressed and I'm anxious. And the first things I start to run down are like, what's your diet look like? Are you exercising? Are you getting fresh air? Are you getting these things? And people are like, Well, that's not really mental health. I'm like, it's absolutely mental health. I'm not asking you to become the Mr. Olympia here. I'm just saying get off the couch and go for a walk. Right? Yeah, the fact that that's not more discussed, that's a whole different tangent. Yeah, we won't we'll save that for another day. All right. So step number five was describing the consequences of your behavior. So step six, this is what we're going to get to actually start to change the  and alfalfa-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha my journal I'm writing things down and I'm recognizing the sequence of events where could I have interrupted it like this is similar to what we would do with our we call them different things but like behavior chain analysis with some of the inmates is we would say all right what were the thoughts you were what were the situational factors that occurred right what were the triggering events what was the negative self-talk what was this and then one of the things that we go backwards and we say okay over here was the problem behavior you could have intervened here here here and here right yes what were the skills you needed to intervene here what were the skills you needed to intervene here what were the skills and so you look at it and you say all right where am I lacking so this is where I exploded right so I'm going to go all the way back to the beginning and say I could have intervened at any one of these spaces what was missing from my repertoire of tools or skills that doesn't exist that I need to start to create and this is the work right it's easy to do not easy but all the other shit can be done this is the part that requires effort change and commitment and so when you start doing that this is where kind of rubber meets the road you know this is where it can really start to get uncomfortable to be in a situation where you're feeling something and then try and react in a completely different way and not know what the results are going to be yeah but that is everything because like you said there is oftentimes when we're in the midst of this we feel like oh it just went from you know I felt this emotion to all of a sudden like now it's like like level 10 right but really like you said there was there was four or five steps before that right like what could we have done before and not even before that like not even just from the triggering event here like even before that right like if you know okay me being consistent with like my training and my eating and you know doing some kind of self-reflective practice if I do those things like and I get outside and I go for like all that you know the kind of healthy habits that we talk about if I do these things like that's even way before like the triggering event right but that's just as important too like there's so many steps that we can work on and it's okay everybody is going to be different with what is going to set them off but we need to figure out those skills then also like what are the daily actionable things you can do that keep you regulated from like a nervous system level yeah and it's just it's it's just kind of like starting to recognize where in that process I can be accountable to myself and can do different things you know like in jujitsu we talk about we have early defenses and we have late defenses for those of you that don't do jujitsu sorry it's the only great analogies I really have but when somebody has your arm completely extended right and the limb is about to break people will ask what do I do to get out of this you shouldn't have gotten in that position well thanks coach I know but at this point there isn't really much we can describe other than luck right yeah however there were four there was like a sequence of four or five things that happened before that where it was like oh they were starting to shift their hips address it this way well the hips got in this place now what well now my arm is being extended we'll create more posture by doing you know what I mean and so there's this series of steps that you can take all along there to prevent your arm being broken and so that's kind of what we're starting to get people to recognize is what skills are you missing and how do we start to develop them and implement them and don't always wait till it gets catastrophic right we don't want to wait till the limb is like about to snap before we start to defend it man jujitsu is really such a great analogy for this and I really wish you right it's so good because there's so many such as like I feel like I could go on with really describing it but you like visual and the ability to feel it yeah so for any of you that do jujitsu out there you totally get it you get it but if you don't if you know you know but if not sorry I guess go watch the youtube video just kidding don't do that it's very confusing and very weird so to give just a little bit more insight into this like go back to the chain of events following the prompting event circle each link where you could have done something different and where by doing something different you would have avoided that problem behavior okay um what could you have done differently at each link in this chain to avoid the problem behavior and what coping behaviors or skills or skillful behaviors could you have used to create a different outcome for yourself okay what is the desired outcome to have a good understanding of that um you know that should be pretty specific like maybe not hurt my loved ones like that's a good goal you know it doesn't have to be that you create something amazing it can just be the absence of pain um it's a pretty good goal you know like you again if I was going to use jujitsu sometimes it's not about tapping somebody out it's about preventing yourself from being tapped out right and so the ability to to measure your goals and your success is going to be very different um so step number seven in this process is develop prevention plans to reduce vulnerability of stressful events and I think this goes to very well what you were just speaking about right I think I remember reading a quote from Jim Kerry we were talking about this a few weeks ago you and I and it was I think he Jim Kerry the actor if he still acts I don't know whatever he said something like look if you're not going to bed on time getting eight hours of sleep going you know exercising eating right um and reading and talking to people you're not even giving yourself a chance to cope with life so there's basic fundamental things that we can do and so when I start to recognize like people places situations experiences that trigger me it's my responsibility to start to change around those things if I know I can't be in a bar because it's going to lead to me drinking then I don't go to bars and yeah it's a major life change and everybody else most of the people in the world can go to a bar and not have a problem but that ain't me or that's not you or if it's going down a particular alley or if it's going to a particular gym or if it's doing certain things or certain events or being around people you can lie to yourself all you want but the problems are still going to exist and so to start to recognize that and to create prevention strategies right like an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure like prevent the problem from even occurring and you don't have to worry about dealing with it later and so that's really what we do you know like once we've figured out okay what are some of these things then it's like what can we put into place in terms of like your daily strategies and behaviors um and your mindset as well but what are the fundamental things like nobody can expect to eat well if they're not preparing food like I'm sorry but food has to get into your fridge and it has to be cooked obviously there's different ways you can navigate this and you get a meal prep service I'm aware there's a lot of different great options shout out to icon meals for a really great meal prep service but you know you guys understand what I'm saying like there there has to be food there quality food there if you want to follow a quality diet you can't just expect to eat on the fly at all times like it's you can sometimes right um just like with the gym like we can have these great intentions like I want to go to the gym I have membership I got these new clothes I have these goals I have this program you might even have a program but like when are we going what days what times are you packing your gym clothes or are you going to say no I'll just go home and that no you're not don't lie to yourself like you know that when you go home you're going to sit down and then you're going to start doing some stuff around the house you're going to no just pack your clothes and go do it after or do it before like right there's all these different things that can prevent you from not doing the behavior and to take that even a step further if you're planning to go to the gym in the morning what are you doing the day before to prepare for that yeah are you going to bed on time yeah you on your phone like all of those things right and so it kind of becomes this endless loop of behaviors right and creating healthy habits and habits are just nothing more than routines and decisions that we've made over and over again that produce the same results and so you know learning to create a winning mindset or a positive mindset you know where you expect to win is you know winning isn't a sometimes thing it's an all the time thing that's like an old Vince Lombardi quote you know and he also says but unfortunately so is losing and so you either create a mindset where this is going to keep repeating or whether it's one time you experience pain or a thousand times you experience pain it's kind of up to you and I've had a few experiences even recently in my life where I experienced a very significant pain and I was like oh I'm never repeating that like I'm learning from this and you start to dissect it and I've done this work for myself and said okay what am I going to put in its place if this were to ever happen again to prevent it from being there and that's really my strategy is I'm like okay I don't want to do this again so I'm going to prevent it right I don't want to I don't want to have this kind of need five of these situations or 30 I'm going to go through one because you can reflect on it and say it was painful for me but I realized it was also painful for somebody else and so I don't want to recreate that in any circumstance so you look at these kind of prevention strategies as a tool to prevent future harm and then really the last step is repair and describe what you're going to do to repair important or the significant consequences of that behavior right and this is kind of a fundamental step so analyze who or what did you harm in this process what was the negative consequences that you can repair can you make amends can you atone for what you did sometimes it's as simple as paying money other times it might be as simple as doing a favor or an act of kindness other times it might be apologizing and taking responsibility for what you did and just standing in front of that person look to the harm or the distress that you've actually caused other people and you know can you repair or what damage can you repair in that relationship and start to do it if the person will allow you to do it do it and then you know it's not just this isn't I'm sorry and then you know we've talked about the words I'm sorry being nothing more than manipulation sometimes I'm sorry followed by action is sincere I'm sorry followed by changing behavior is sincere and so you start to really explore the damage that you've created and and repair it to the best of your ability however that is and sometimes people are like well I don't know how to repair it ask the other person what are you gonna find out through communication you know sometimes it's as simple as you know listening to what they say and then doing what they're asking if you can yeah and sometimes you can't but at least you are going through the effort to try that obviously it's on them if they want to kind of work that out in whatever capacity that looks like but at least you are saying okay like I did my best here you know and then you just try to move forward from that way yeah and if this is for you just your own thing maybe somebody else isn't harmed this is still towards yourself as well like that's still very relevant because I think what happens when we try to go through behavior change obviously most people unless they're just completely you know aloof to what they're doing to themselves you know most people have some type of reflection I'm like maybe I shouldn't do this but they keep doing it they're like why am I like the why am I like this right like why do I keep finding myself here but when you've gone through these steps like you have to repair that relationship with yourself as well to be like hey like you've done the work to like not be like this anymore and maybe you'll slip up every once in a while but like you don't have to think of yourself in this negative way that like oh well when this happens I'm always going to respond that way because if that's your mindset then you're really never going to make any change so you also have to repair this within yourself if it is kind of like a self to self you know situation because I think that that's where so many people get trapped and they label themselves as like I am this or like I'm uh whatever right and I'm a hothead yeah now you're always going to respond to aggressive you literally are creating that like you're living that out and we're all guilty of it you know I mean like we all do that with ourselves so I think that going through this checklist or this framework whatever we want to call this is really really useful but then also like you said to kind of round that out like hey you need to stop thinking of yourself as this individual like maybe this is how you act maybe this is how you feel sometimes but if you're actively taking those steps to not be that person then you shouldn't label yourself that way because that is the surest way to stay there absolutely so hopefully these steps kind of helped again just a quick brief run through with them describe the problem behavior what was the prompting event go through the vulnerable factors what was the chain of events the consequences of that behavior what new skills or behaviors do you need to start to adapt what prevention plans can you put in place and how can you repair the relationships or the damage that was caused and so a lot of information in this one to kind of like go back and probably write some stuff down if you need it but um hopefully this this was beneficial for some of you guys listening yeah this like we said this is kind of the crux of everything and this is by no means to say like listen to this and all of a sudden like you write this once and it's like you're good to go this is going to be something that is going to take time and reflection and potentially professional help or just some kind of guidance you know whether it is a therapist or it is a coach or it's even a friend you know if if you really want to be vulnerable and say hey listen like you know not everything requires you know like like therapy intervention right like I'm certain there's a lot of things that do but not everything so it could be something that's small but it really does either bother you or kind of hinder your life in some way and be open with a friend or family member and be like listen can you help hold me accountable to this like you know and sometimes that could be embarrassing but it's like listen we all need that so whether it's a therapist coach or a friend or family member get some accountability to these things and then you're going to be able to expedite this process but if you are interested in therapy we will put rick's contact information below but say your email for everybody out loud if you remember. Full circle therapy FL at gmail.com and if you guys are interested in one-on-one coaching you can visit team logo vet.com for more information and also other resources that we have and if you're interested in our app which has meal plans macro training programs and mental health resources you can visit redefine healthy app.com thank you guys so much for listening if you enjoyed the show please share it we hope you got a lot of notes out of this and we'll talk to you guys next week

=== FILE: Episode 276： Q&A podcast [Hd62GU1W8O8].txt ===

 and alfalfa-pyridine. Welcome back to another episode of The Look of It Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Gondlin, and this week I'm joined by a very special guest, my best friend, Chanel. Say hi. Hi. That's your cue. So we are recording this on my birthday. I am super old now, and it's getting... Shut up, I'm older than you. Yeah, okay. You can't say that. That's so rude. I said that in my head. Kind of like most of the things that I say, and then I'm like, wait, did I really just say that? Was Michael Jackson a really good basketball player? Okay, anyways, God, that was like the worst slip up of all time. That was the best slip up of all time. The best worst. So context, we were at the PEC event, and I... You've got to record me because I'm going to do awesome. I did not say that. Let's make that very clear. I was like, let me get some sick content because I never record myself, you know, whatever I'm presenting. And so if you guys have noted from the podcast, I'm not really good at analogies and definitely not good at sports analogies. So I don't know why. I mean, I know why. You're not good at it, so why did you use that one? Because I researched it, and I was like, okay, Phil Jackson. I remember him on watching The Last Dance being a good coach, being a good player, but being obviously known as a coach. And that was kind of my whole point because I was doing a coaching based presentation. Anyways, I somehow mixed up Phil Jackson and Michael Jordan and said, hey, if you know anything about basketball, you guys know all about Michael Jackson. And then as soon as I said it, I was like, no, no, no, back up rewind. Teleport me out of this room. If I could just evaporate right now, that would be amazing. And I love that you got like your laugh in there, which was like hilarious. Anyways, yeah, it was on brand. Let's just say that. But today we are doing a Q&A. So we both put some like the question box on our Instagram. And I just wanted to do a fun podcast. Like if you guys listened to the podcast, typically we're doing, you know, a lot of heavy hitting topics, you know, we're doing a lot of mental health based topics or different interviews or some coaching related stuff. And I kind of wanted to add like a fun, a fun podcast in there because we haven't done feeling like just kind of like a lighthearted, fun one in a while. And the one that we recorded before was like more or less more fitness based or more coaching based. I don't think we've done one like this before. No, we definitely haven't. So I'm excited for this. And there will be definitely some fitness and definitely some coaching in there, but also some just kind of like fun ones. So buckle up. No, it's not that weird. I did ask for weird and juicy questions. Actually, there were a few that were not addressing on the podcast. So first, the picture we used for this, which only like three people remember. So I don't even know I'm bringing it up, but there was a, the, when we prompted people for questions, Lauren made this cute collage. It's cute because we decided it would be a great idea to do a Sunday fun day the day before she left Louisville. And so as me, my husband and one of his friends, and in the back of Jared's car, he has a Chewbacca that he buckles up. It sits in the back passenger of his car. And it's just what he's always had in the back of his car. And Lauren being a Star Wars fan that she is was like, Oh my God, I'm so excited for Chewy and decided that she would carry Chewy to most of the bars that day. Also, I love stuffies. And I love stuffies. And I love Chewy. Also the fact that you called them stuffies. Stuffed animals. What? Stuffies? Or people call themselves furries. And then they like to dress up. I am not a furry. Okay. We're going to leave this podcast going like, wow, who the fuck is Lauren? I am not a furry. If that's what you're into, I'm all about it. All about it. Cause she likes you, but she's not one of you. I don't want to be with you. And then content. This is going really downhill, really quick as expected. So Chewy, we can, he came with us to every bar. But here's the thing. Chewy's, Chewy looks a little rough. Like it's not like a new. Oh, he's wind blown. He's been in a Jeep. Yeah. He is. He looks like, Chewy looks like he's been on a bender for seven years, which actually is kind of what I looked like at the end of that three week trip. But let's start this with a really, really interesting one. What is your sign? Chanel. I am Virgo with the moon rising and Pluto settling into the sun. No, I'm just a Virgo. Well, no, you have the other things as well. No, I don't give a shit about the other thing. I'm being sarcastic because it matters none. That's a Virgo response. Okay. Yeah. So I am a Pisces and I'm married to a Pisces and my mom is a Pisces and everybody in my life has been a Pisces. A lot of people in my life, life are a Virgo. And so actually my placements, my other placements, pretty much all of mine are either Pisces or Virgo and which makes a lot of sense because there was like this huge just duality in me of like this floaty, dreamy, intuitive, chaotic person. And then there's also like the type A diligent, hardworking person. The Virgo. Yes. So it is, it is like a interesting and I asked you, you haven't done your, what's it called? Enneagram? No. Some people are like hung up on this thing. And that's like, I think that's the reason why I'm not doing it is because the people who are just like, Oh my God, what is yours? And I'm like, I don't give a shit. Yeah. I am me. Like that's again, why I have the sign question is this like, I don't, I am me, I have my traits. I, yeah. Yeah. They're just like fun. I just feel like it's like fun too. There's so many things out there, right? Like horoscopes, enneagrams. Um, what's it called? Living design, life design. Have you heard of this one? Um, maybe I'm sort of like, Yeah, no, it's, it's like, it's like design life, something, something with a word design. Yes. And it's human design, human life design, human design that, um, there's all these interesting things. I don't let us know if there's other ones that you guys know of or have heard of. Um, so now let's hit some heavy hitting ones. This is going to be fun. Okay. What are your pet peeves about each other? You go first. Oh, she knows like, Oh, I got a laundry list. Well, the first thing is that you don't like sushi. That's just like a really hard thing for me to grasp. It's my favorite food. And in fact, anytime I'm going to be with Lauren, I have to get a sushi fix before I hang out with her because she's so difficult in the fact that she doesn't eat sushi or like go to a poke bowl place. And we've got to, we got to eat meat. Got to eat chicken, beef. When the fuck do I order chicken bitch? I don't even like chicken. You exactly. So it's, it's beef. And I'm like, okay, so where are we going? What steak also we're going to go drop a bunch of dough at? I like seafood. That's okay. Okay. And then you know this and then I get food poisoning one time. She's like, what'd you have? And I was like, it's a V change. She's like, there you go. That's why you have food poisoning. That really made me mad. I mean, Hey, I'm just saying the two things kind of go together. And Lauren is a fast walker and I am shorter than her. So that's another one of my pet peeves. Is that really? Yeah. Like it's a casual walk for you. And then I'm like, Oh, I didn't notice that today you were slower, but like most of the time you're a lot faster than me. Okay. And so it's like a full on workout. Like my or rings like that you got to chill out. Um, and then also, yeah, I hang out with you and normally my order ring hates me. So that's the other pet peeve. A little chaotic, a little, a little chaotic. Hey, let's wake up really early. Hey, let's stay up late. Hey, let's go do this. Hey, let's. Just a lot of, um, a lot of chaotic energy. Yes. But, so, but I used to think like that I would need to like recharge after being with you and I don't have to do that anymore. Like that's not something that I like. I think that I'm just like kind of past that now at this point. Cause you're just used to it. I'm just used to it. Like I'm just like brought into your element and I'm just like, okay, we're in this wheel. Let's keep going. Let's just keep rolling with it. Literally that first one video that they just made. So, uh, first one put together like a compilation of bloopers. I'm going to try to get it and post it because it's literally so funny. And anybody who's been around me for like five minutes knows that this is like my stream of consciousness for pretty much at all times. There was like, I can do like a really serious take for like 10 minutes. And then I'm just like a disaster piece. And, um, you're like, this is why I can't hang out with you. Yeah. I'm like this 30 second compilation can sometimes be the entire trip. Or it can just be like a blurb in the trip and I never know what to expect. So I just have to be prepared for all of it. Okay. So never know. You're gonna, I gotta keep you on your toes. You know what I'm saying? So now you have to tell your pet peevek for me. Bro. Voice my mouth. I know. So I, um, get very easily distracted. If you guys hadn't noticed at almost 300 episodes deep, I get very impressive. 300 episodes. Yeah. I think this, this will probably be like 275. Dang. Yeah. Little pet on our back. I know that's crazy. Um, I know, right? So I've done a lot of podcasts between the podcasts that me and Celeste used to do the podcast that me and Paul used to do this podcast. When just like interviews. Your favorite format. Yeah. I've probably done like 600 podcasts, you know, like, and you've been on so many too. Yeah. So it's just like, it's, it's, I enjoy longer form. Um, also because I have all these trains of thoughts, it's, it can be hard to package it all into a cohesive thing, which is super impressive for people who can and hats off to you guys, but we all have strengths and that's not one of mine. So because of me being easily distracted and Chanel, and this is not just Chanel, this is other people too, but when we're together, obviously we're together a lot. We travel and we work together a lot. Yeah. When we travel, the reason we travel so well together is because we do all the same things like we wake up, we have some sort of morning routine. We have some sort of movement. We train, we eat similar-ish things. You know, we like similar stuff in terms of like what we like to do at night, but pretty much we like wake up, do some kind of activity, work, and then go do fun stuff at night. Like that's literally what we do. Yeah. But so we'll be together when we're working and Chanel likes to send voice memos, which I do too, we're videos, but she'll just do them. Like we'll just be sitting next to each other and she's just doing this. And I'm like, I just can't, I literally cannot focus if that is happening. Like I have to physically remove myself or now she knows, like, when we're at the office, she's like, okay, I'm going to go send a voice note in like the phone room and she'll go somewhere else because I literally, as soon as, like I just can't focus on anything else. It's like, if there's a TV on, I don't even want to be watching it, but I'm just like, Like I could record a voice memo and Jared could have ESPN on. He could be swinging his golfs upstairs. There are dogs that we bark in the doorbell could ring and I'm just still going. I can just keep going. I can do that if it's, if it's other stuff, but not when it's like right next to me. Like I like a lot of, like there's sometimes when I'm listening to things, like I'll listen to really like chaotic music and that allows me to focus or like when there's a lot of people like walking around or doing things I can focus, but not when there's like sound. As soon as there's like a lot of sound, um, like if someone talking like in my like area or if like the screen is like, I'm seeing it. No game over. So that is my pet. He loves Chanel, but now she knows and we've balanced it out and it's all good. Um, and then there was a follow up. It was like, what are your toxic traits? And so what's your, what is your toxic trait? Upper and lower case written like toxic treat. Oh yeah. I'm kidding. So, um, my toxic trait is probably that I am somewhat intuitive about people's emotions, but sometimes I don't necessarily want to get into an emotional draining conversation. Like I know that like that needs to happen at some point, but like sometimes I like have that little boundary with myself. Like I can't go there today or I can't be that person today. And sometimes I feel guilty about that. I saw a toxic trait. Hmm. I don't know. I don't really know how to answer that question. Then yeah. Okay. I mean, I wouldn't say, I mean, I guess it's toxic. If you like, don't say the follow up to that, like, Hey, I can't do this right now. Yeah. Or I get really focused on work. So if like, I haven't been able to do my work in the way that I want to do my work for that day, I get really stressed out. So you probably experienced that when I'm traveling. And so I end up kind of like shutting down. If, if like, there's too many emails that I need to respond to or too many clients waiting for me, like I kind of shut down. Yeah. So I, and I've tried to be better about that. Cause realistically, I can answer my clients within 10 to 15, 24 hour time frame, but I'm like, they just checked in. I need to answer them. And I'm like, knowing I'm starting to kind of like be more cognizant of that. But you've probably experienced that traveling with me for sure. Yeah. Definitely. I'm like, I gotta do this now. Yeah. It's not even just that. It's just like the, that kind of shutdown of like, okay, there's a lot going on. But I think everybody, I mean, just not, well, not everybody, but a lot of people can get like that, you know, and it's not abnormal to feel like overwhelmed with, with things. Yeah. Um, man, I feel like I have a lot of toxic traits, but I would say like one thing, like it's, it's so hard to like reel in as like, I get very obsessive over things. Um, like to like a, like stupid things too. You know, like I want to post this, like picture, but I need to move this and then it has to be, and then I'm like, I will spend five minutes on something that has zero relevance in my life. Yes. And then I'll be like, whatever. I didn't even look, I'm not going to use it. Yeah. Like I'll post something in like 30 seconds and I see you like fretting over it sometimes and I'm like, it's okay. Just post it. Oh no. I'm so like, cause to me there's like a design element to it and I want it to look a certain way. So when things don't look how I want them to, then I don't want to do it at all. Which again, for certain contexts, literally matters none. So I'm saying this as a talk. Like I'm aware of this. Um, I used to be like that with my Instagram. Like I used to want like when I was doing a certain look, when I was doing up and down photos and like adding white borders and it's even like, like a, like a boomerang. I'll be like, no, I didn't like how this one, it's just like an obsessive thing that I get and not even just with Instagram, just with everything. You know, like it's, I'm, I get very. No, that is important. It is important. Yes. Um, I like I can get very, um, two in the weeds over things and, and that has perks, but it also has a lot of downsides. Like I'm saying this in a way that like it doesn't matter. You know, obviously there is a time to be like obsessive over things, but I can get it. I know I get like that over things that are fucking stupid and pointless. So, um, what is the most random spur of the moment thing you all have done together? Um, Dallas to Austin. Yeah. We took a little one way flight and we were like, we're just going to do this. A little quick trip. This was last January. Yeah. Oh my God. Remember, and we, it feels like forever ago to be honest, but dude, right? We did the PEC in Dallas. Yeah. You presented. I did not, but you had your team there. And then I just kind of just, just like, I was like, I'm not gonna do this. I just kind of jumped into that situation. Yeah. We got an Airbnb, like a big Airbnb to do like content and so we flew in early to do some content. Um, and then like two days before my trip, Lauren was like, I want to go to Austin. Can you come to Austin? And I was like, you're out figure this out. So she made me fly Southwest. Oh, no, that's my other fucking pet peeve. Oh yeah. That is your pet peeve. You hate that I am so. Yeah. Southwest is the fucking tits. Anybody who works for Southwest who's listening, I love y'all. I love everything. Y'all will leave me bleeding and not even care about it. That shit was pretty bad. It was. I was, the blood was pouring down my hand and the flight attendant was like, I'll get to you in a second. As if that couldn't happen on Delta. Is everybody on Delta peach who works there? Well, first off, they give you a hand sanitizing. I'll call wipe when you would have, you want to put hand sanitizer on an open cut? That would have felt great. I don't care what it feels like. It would have cleaned it. It would have cleaned it. A clean freak over here. Not even acknowledging that I was getting germs into my open wound. Anyways, yes, that's another toxic trait of mine. I am Delta all day. I'm born and raised in Georgia. So of course that's what I grew up flying. But at the same sense, like they're the superior airline. Just face it. No, I don't think so. All right. But I would say that that was a sperm. We had the best time the two days were so fun. We went to industrious, which is the office, got to work there. We did like we had like the photo shoot of all photo shoots at Museum of Ice Cream. Oh, that's right. We forgot about that Museum of Ice Cream being there. It was so fun. We did that. We had good food, like it was just a good, it's just a really good trip. So like super inexpensive. You did the the Sonder Sonder. Yeah, Sonder was great. So think of it as like a Airbnb with like more. Well, more standardized. Yeah, like not as random as someone Airbnb can possibly be. Yeah, like an Airbnb might be like, oh, hey, you have like one plastic fork that's like missing like a prong. Yeah. Like, okay, we're just going to maybe give you sporks instead. Yeah, or not have toilet paper. Yeah. Honestly, Airbnb went so downhill. Like a few years ago, it was so nice. I rarely now stay in them because of. Like it's just it's just not even worth it. Yeah. Unless you're with a big group, then it makes sense, obviously. But rarely by yourself. Yeah. No, no, the Sonder thing was great. It was like a apartment. Yeah. A apartment complex that's specifically for people for short term, long term stay. They had, you know, full amenities. So it was just like there was a gym. Yeah, there's like a pool and then like, you know, OK, hey, you're going to get like these dining sets, you're going to get this. They have it all on their website. I almost booked that for Philly, but then I ended up finding like one of my favorite hotels for it, but I almost booked a Sonder for Philly. Yeah. So they have it's S O N D E R. So yes, we stayed there and then we went to like a bunch of fun, all the like cool golf bars and it was great. So that was definitely probably the most further moment. But I feel like a lot of our trips are kind of just like, hey, you want to go to this? OK, sure. Like, and we just kind of like we kind of check in with each other and like, hey, what are you doing? OK, well, I'll do that or you want to come to mind. And I actually feel like a big dick about the Philly thing now. Oh, it's fine. Yeah. It's all good. You didn't even know it was born there. I know, but I forgot you wanted to go there. Yeah, I know. We'll do it again if I like it. And I probably like I saw the Liberty Bell and it was just a bell. I haven't been. I mean, like I said, I was born there, but moved when I was really young. And I just feel like there's a lot of like really cool ass like museums and different things up there and like even like DC, like I've never been there. Oh, I like it. And I feel like there's a lot of that. And I think a lot of those museums are like free to which is most of them. Yeah. And DC. Yeah. How many heard is a big foodie scene? So if anybody could confirm DC is great. So yeah, maybe we'll do that. All right. Biggest fear that I'll never retire. Oh, whoa. I told you that just on our walk. Like I just don't think that I'm ever going to be okay with not physically working or fearing that I'll never feel like I've achieved what I want to achieve by the time I reach that age. Like it's going to hit me and I'm going to be like, frick, like I'm supposed to be done by now. I'm supposed to have accomplished what I want to accomplish. I'm supposed to be the vibe I got from that conversation at all. You seem like good with it. Well, like I seem like I feel like I'm going to have to be good with it when Jared's ready to retire and then I'm not going to like be there yet. Oh, got it. Okay. Or that, or that like I'm not going to want to or feel comfortable like monetarily wise to do it at a certain point. Oh, for sure. Yeah. That's retirement like scares me. I know we're like, all my, are all my ducks going to be in a row? Are all my financial situations going to be like settled? Am I going to be ready to just like collect money and not make money? Like that concept of just using money and not having money coming in. Oh, I don't think I'll ever, I mean, I obviously will work in a different capacity when I'm older. Um, but I really, I just envisioned myself always doing something. Like I'll be that like 65 year old personal trainer who just like shows it by your house and it's like, I'll take you for a workout. Yeah. Or I'll be like a, I'm just like, I'll be like a museum tour guide. Yeah. Or like, like I'd do some shit like that. I can see you working at like Sephora. Oh, that would be fun. I feel like there's probably like an age limit there. I'm not going to hire a 70 year old. Maybe. Maybe in, in that many years, they'll be all about it, but I can just picture myself doing something very like personable where I'm like talking about things that. And I think it has to do with our industry being a little ageist that that the aging process stresses me out because of how ageist our industry is. True. So that's like the root stem of that fear is like, I'm expired. Yeah, they're certain. I'm getting old. They're certain age. And then you just were like, Oh my God, I'm old at 31. No, but there's definitely certain industries where like the older you are, the more I don't want to say respected. I mean, I guess respect is one of those things or hopefully that is the case. Yeah. Well, who knows what this fucking industry, but that's a whole different podcast for another day. How often do you get hit on or flirted with in person? Lauren was like, like never. And I'm like, Oh my God, we have an entire night where you wore one shirt. And what did we call that shirt? That was Austin. That was Austin. That was Austin. What did we call that shirt? What a night. What do we like? Do we make like a free dinner shirt? I don't know. I've never done this. Well, I will never do this. Ever. She hates me for this. Yeah. Other pet peeve. Okay. So I was, I was a bartender, worked in the service industry, like my whole early part of my adult career. And if there's somebody at the bar who's intoxicated and just throwing money at everybody and trying to prove their point, I'm going to let them prove their point and just continue throwing money. So I made sure that myself and Lauren and the servers that evening that we were all on the same page and that these servers were going to make their money. And that we were going to make our food money or whatever. However that happened. I don't have people do this all the time. I literally was so, I was like palpably uncomfortable. Yeah. You like, I literally felt like my skin crawling. So just a background. So we're at this really nice. Super nice. What was the name of the sake of that place? It was so good bang at Perry's. Perry's that's right. You're in Austin. I know it's like a chain. It's like a small chain, but it's a Texas steakhouse chain. I don't think that's outside the Texas area. So we go there. We like sit in the kind of like bar seat. So we're like on a table, but it's like the more it's when the bar, yeah, like people were walking around. Yeah. It was bar and there, I'm just trying to explain. We weren't like at the bar ledge like eating. So we're like at this table and there's clearly a group of like what 10 to 15 guys in the corner. Like a business trip of some sort. Yeah. Some business situation you could tell like money just the way they're dressed, you know, like just loud. It was like a Monday and they're out, you know, balling up. So anyways, paint this picture and they're coming over and they're, you know, talking, okay, like no big deal. And then, you know, let's get you a drink. I'm like, okay, that's fine. Yeah. Right. I'm not going to turn down a glass of wine. Yeah. Definitely not want to turn down a glass of wine, but then they kept being like super persistent and then it was getting like very, very uncomfortable than the guy was like, mind you, we never got up out of our seat ever. Oh, I was like, I am not getting up. Even if I'm there, we made eye contact. I like made sure the server and I were on the same page because I could see her serve stand where she was like inputting our information with his information and all the food and everything was getting transferred. And she was like, I got you. We're taking care of this. I'm going to make my money and you guys are going to be good too. And I was just like, oh my God, I think it's because it was behind you. I could see her that all the servers were right behind your head and like I could see what we were, what was going on. Yeah. I mean, I know these people aren't going to like abduct us. I wasn't like worried about that. I just don't like when people have something over you. Um, and especially in a situation like that where there's like an expectation that's set and that just really bothers me. I think there's no expectation there whatsoever. There was definitely an expectation. No. Absolutely not. Cause we were never moving from our seat. No, of course we weren't, but that was what the goal of them buying us dinner would have been to go wherever they were going. Yeah, but we're the expectation. Well, we're in charge of our own destiny. I know, but it's still sit down. It's still stay in our place. I just don't like taking things from people. One of them. Anyways, I love that the server's not going to lie. Yeah. I'm kind of glad cause it was a very, very expensive dinner. So I'm like, Hey, this was a nice way to save like $300. But out with like over $100 a piece. Yes. Because we tipped them on top of the guys. So they made out everything was, everything was fine. Yeah, I was fine, but I was, but you can just keep wearing all of those shirts. That shirt was, I was a great, I didn't really didn't even think it was that great. But I mean, it's a pretty good bodysuit. It's a black bodysuit that was like 20 bucks on Fashion nolva. And I'm trying to think, do I feel like a picture in it? But it was, it was. Oh, I have a picture of you in it that night. I was like, that's what we called it. Free steak shirt. Free steak shirt. Cause I'm sitting across from her so I can see the shirt, obviously. And I'm just like taking a picture of the free steak shirt. What a night. Like, thanks Fashion nolva for my steak. That was a trip. Yeah. Sponsor me. So no, I don't feel like I get floated on in person much, but I mean, that was an extenuating circumstance. Yeah, but I don't know. Yeah, I mean, I, I'm not super flirtatious in person. I'm very reserved. So maybe I'm like you, I don't, I don't really know. Yeah, I'm very talkative. Yeah, you are so talkative. You will talk to anybody. We're like in line at Publix and she's like telling her life story. And I'm like, can we go now? I'm ready to eat this hummus. I'm not telling my life story. Sometimes. Okay. Anyways, Pisces things. Okay. Um, also a Pisces thing, like talking. That's why I mean Jerrigan along so well. My husband's a Pisces and they, but like, I don't even literally last time I was there together. How he slammed the door. Yeah, I did. I remember that. I was like, I was trying to pack for this trip that I agreed to go on. And it was like, we were doing back to back trips. And I told, I already, and now I will say I preface it. I don't like back to back trips. Okay. I don't like back to back trips. So I'm going to be really stressed out. Okay. When we come back to my house and I have to pack for another trip. So I did prepare you for that. I did warn you. I was a good friend. But yeah, but we made it and I definitely did slam the door on their face. We enjoyed it. We were like, we was up for like three seconds and then we just kept going. And I knew that's what would happen. Like I'm going to close the door and they're going to be like, oh, shit. And then they're just going to keep going. And they did. No, it's fine. Yep. Who are your fashion icons? Ooh. So I don't quite have a fashion icon. I have a like, uh, like a feel that I like try to emulate, I guess, in my fashion. Like I want to be like, I used to call it like bro chic, but I don't even know if that's like, I don't know. Is that politically correct? I have no idea. What? I don't know. I'm the fucking worst person. I asked. So like bro chic is this like tomboy, chic, like look, like it could be, I don't even know if the word tomboy is like, okay, to use anymore either. I have no idea. Um, why wouldn't it be? I don't know. Why don't you don't? Podcasting is weird because you're like putting words out there that people are then going to put in your mouth in a different way. Hence my fear of podcasting. I guess. But not too worried about it. Yeah. Tomboy chic. Yeah. So bro chic. So it's not really like an icon because I mean, maybe there is somebody who like emulates that, but I don't really know much about pop culture, but I will plug dressed in La La is like that brand that I've been shopping at recently. And it's like just there's some pieces that are super outlandish and like beyond what I would wear, but then there's some pieces that just kind of nail it. And I'm just like, Oh my God, I have to buy that. I have to buy that. And so it's become kind of like a weird thing, but I just feel like, you know, bro chic, I don't know who emulates that. So tell me who, and then I'll start following them and looking at their fashion. Yeah. I, when I got this question was, was good, but I was like, I don't, I don't know. I guess I kind of always joke. Like I have a goth chic is kind of like my look, which I don't know.  Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood Blood And I don't ever really wear anything that people, well, I don't know, say people be like, oh my gosh. Like, whatever I wear things that even if they are kind of more out there, it's still like, oh, this fits you. Yes. You know? So I don't really know either. Yeah, I don't know how to put it. But it's like simple, but then there's gonna be like a pop of something. Yeah. It's kind of what I go for. And I like timeless stuff that I can mix and match. Probably it's like a byproduct of just traveling a lot. I- That's what I was gonna say too, is like you and I both travel with just basics. Mm-hmm. And then we'll add little pieces. Yeah, if there's something fun we have planned for our trip, we'll like buy something or make something specific for that particular outfit. But for the most part, we're just moving the same pieces around. And what's the, it's like a math equation. Like when it's like n hypotrophic, not ever, exclamation point, what's that? The n math. And it's like exponential outfits being made with one thing. Okay. It's like on a, you know, the Texas Instrument TI-83 calculator, n with an exclamation point. Okay. I think of our fashion in that way. So it's like we'll pack one shirt, but that one shirt can go three and four different ways. Or these leggings, I can wear them in three and four different ways. Yeah. I'll bring two pair of jeans and then five tops. Five tops, yeah. And then, you know, a jacket and two flannels. Yeah. And you know, I might wear it, I might tie it. Yeah. It's always something. I think that is just a byproduct of doing- And exponent. What is that? That's going to stress me out now. Okay. We can look it up after. Okay. Okay. TI-83 calculator. Team Selena or team Haley? Like, I figured you would know this. I had no idea what this was all about. Neither. So like Selena, like, Selena, the movie, the Latin artist? No, no, no, Selena Gomez and Haley Bieber apparently have some beef on the internet. Oh. Okay. No, I have no idea. Okay. The only thing I know about Haley Bieber is that she has a skincare line and she's known for these chrome nails. Oh, okay. I didn't even know that was Justin Bieber's wife or that he dated Selena's husband. Oh, that's the beef is that they used to date? No, like somebody made fun of, like Selena posted something and then Haley Bieber, Daniel was telling me this. Oh. Something about she made fun of her on Twitter. I don't know. I can't keep up. But I figured maybe you knew more about anything relevant than I did. But as usual, we're the same there. As usual, what's going on in the world? I live under a rock. Especially with stuff like that. I'm just like so absolutely disconnected unless it's things that like people that I really know. You know what I mean? And then even then it's like, what's happening? I don't know. All right. Last of the fun, fun ones. Fuck Mary Kill. Oh, okay. Okay. Do you know who that is? No. Who? Yes, you do. Who? I'm gonna be saying his name wrong. Oh. Maybe I'm pronouncing it wrong. Okay. Ryan Reynolds. Okay. You know who that is? Yeah. And Jared Butler. Okay. Don't. I might need to know their movies they're in. Jared Butler. Sorry. I know Ryan Reynolds, but I don't, I mean, Jared Butler's in some action movie, right? He's like really known. 300? 300. Okay. Thank you. But you, do you know who that is now? I still need to show me a picture. Okay. Well, this is Idris Alba. I'm probably saying his name wrong. And what's he in? That's not ringing a bell when I look at it. Really? Yeah. Oh my God. I'm trying to think of the last movie that I saw him in. I think it was in Suicide Squad, which is what? I don't know if I saw that. I don't think I saw it. Okay. Well, if I just, can we just look at this picture? Can we do an IMDb please? IMDb. I'm like really trying to like do this quickly. Okay. This is him. But let's, it doesn't matter. Like, this is him. Okay. Okay. I mean, I'm going to go with Mary Ryan Reynolds. 100%. So. Okay. This is Jared Butler. Okay. Is this not ringing a bell? No, it is. It is. It is. Um, I just, I'm going to marry Ryan Reynolds and I guess I'm going to fuck Idris Elba and I'm going to kill Jared, Jared Butler. And I know, I know that's what you were going to, I knew that's what you were going to do because I don't really like, I don't know. You got to make me laugh. And like literally the only person on there that's going to make me laugh is Ryan Reynolds. Well, first of all, you don't know that. You didn't even know the other two guys. No, I didn't know the other two guys. So it didn't really matter. And you don't even know. Well, actually Ryan Reynolds is pretty funny. Yeah. He's hilarious. I'm pretty sure he's funny. Yeah. And I can't physically be with somebody who's not going to make me laugh. Yeah. Hence my husband. Yes. Yeah. Okay. Well, if you guys have ever listened to the podcast, you know that Jared Butler all day. Yeah. So there we go. We're not going to fight over him ever. No. Which wasn't, I wasn't worried about it because it was going to be mine anyway. Yeah. Literally I can. Everybody knows him from 300. Yeah. Because that's a pretty popular movie. But he's been in a recent one that I actually like better. Obviously. I just can't think of it. He's been in a lot. He's been in a lot of. He's actually funny. Yeah. He's funny. I should have given him that. Him in The Ugly Truth. That is who I would marry. So this is like a 2009 romcom. Really? Oh my God. A romcom? No, dude. It is the, I could literally, you like romcoms? This movie, I can quote the whole movie. So he, everybody's already heard me talk about this. We got to watch it. We got to watch it. It is hilarious. We have to watch Shrinking. Shrinking. We'll get there. From who's in that? One of these three? No, Harrison Ford. I don't care. Harrison Ford? We're not talking about that. I'm just saying. I'm letting you know we're watching that show soon. Okay. It's a show. You know how I feel about shows. I know, but we're watching it. So just deal with it. How many episodes? There's only like three. You're not that behind already. It's going to be okay. It's like, I don't turn my TV on ever. But you watch the Mandalorian. No, no, listen. I don't turn my TV on. I know. And then as soon, like Obi-Wan is out, like the time it comes out. I know. Well, the good news is you already have this network if you're watching all of that. And then, because it's on Apple TV. I don't have Apple TV. I thought you have Apple, you have plus. No, I don't. And then how are you watching Mandalorian and Obi-Wan? That's on Disney plus. That's what I mean. It's on Disney plus. Okay. I think. I don't know. There's so many. I'll figure it out. Okay. Well, anyways, Mary and Jared Butler, because that could happen anyways. I've already checked. He's actually, I think that would be really, he's a few years younger than my dad. So I don't feel as weird. You know what I'm saying? So it's like, okay, that's good. And you were questioning me when I was like, 60 is not really outside your wheelhouse. Wow. How do you think my dad is? Not 60. I don't know. Charlie Butler is like 55. Yeah. But he can still get it. Okay. Man, I don't know between, Ryan Reynolds is hilarious. I know. But, Idris is much better looking. He is. And if I'm only going, I don't need someone to be funny. If I'm only going to fuck them once. Okay. You know what I'm saying? So, Ryan, you're out. So you're going to kill, you're killing my, you're killing mine. I'm really scary. But I killed yours, I think, didn't I? Yeah. I did kill yours too. So that's funny. Hey, we figured it out. I'm just still like, can't believe that you know, I had to look this up live. Sorry, my bad. I literally thought that team Selena was about Selena, the Latin artist. Yeah. So I'm just old. Yeah. We're like, Selena the singer and Halle Berry, who's it? Anyways. Okay. So moving on. Moving on. What is 75 and how was it? So you, are you happy with the results? You look amazing. So I know I've talked about 75 hard a lot. And the reason I even added in here is because I wanted to let you guys know that next week, there was a whole podcast coming out about my experience with 75 hard, what it is, what it isn't. Cause I think that's important to talk about too. I think that is too. Cause I think a lot of people on the internet have very much misunderstand it. Yes. So all about that. And then I answered some questions that I got. So I wanted to add that in there to let you know that if you're listening to this, that you'll hear a whole episode about that next week. Favorite music to listen to while you work out. We are somewhat different on this. Cause I don't like things like like heavy metal or like tool or what other ones. I just know you like tool. I know that is not tools. Not heavy metal. But yeah, what is it considered? Just I mean, I would just call that like rock. I wouldn't call it like either or don't like rock. Don't like heavy metal. Can't stand it. I literally only want to work out to hip hop and rap. Yeah. Hardcore rap. Yes. Yes. Or like Odessa. I'm cool with that. See, yeah, for me, it's either like it's rock. Like I love pretty much any kind of, I mean, it depends on what kind of mood I'm in. You know, like there might be like, okay, I want some like really heavy stuff or some more like I'm feeling good. Yeah. You know, um, to me, like if I listen to metal, like it's very like metal can almost be like calming to me too. No, no. It's so funny. Like, like literally that song let the body set the floor come on and my anxiety level goes to 900. Again, I don't think that's considered metal, but yes. What is that then? It's like a type of rock, but like I'm talking like real metal, like very like methodical, like like we'll play some in the car and you'll probably know. Please don't do that. Okay. Um, so any kind of pretty much any kind of rock, but like the type is going to depend on like the mood that I'm in. Okay. Right. That's number one. Number two is going to be like hard rap, like just kind of like like heavier, but you know, like like a lot of. Yeah, I don't really work out to him though. What? So. Like the heavier setup is like something that's like, I'm like aggressive. So like whether it's like aggressive rock or aggressive rap, like that's more of my style for working out and then more stuff that's like. Anything. I would listen. Fun. Anything I would listen to in the car while I'm driving is what I would want to work out to see. Yeah. No, same, same. It's all the same. No, I have like, I can work out to the same things I listened to in the car. I also sometimes work out in complete silence. Same. I can do that as well. Sometimes I enjoy that. You know, like I'm not always trying to like, like I love having music on, but sometimes with lifting, I want to just be able to like focus on that part. And I mean, I'm not going to say I never listen to something like Jack Harlow when I lift or like Odette. Like I do like those things, but I find that when I'm listening to stuff like that, like especially like, I love, you know, like obviously EDM and house and like all that kind of stuff. But sometimes it's too up that I'm like, like I'm not focused in your workout. So I like that for more like cardio. Okay. So lifting is different to me than cardio. And, but it also again, it's just really depends on my mood. It's more like mood based, what I want to listen to. But I would never, I would never put, I would never be like, Oh, I'm going to actively put on Odessa to like lift. I don't think I would do that. If it came on, I'd be like, okay. And then if you guys know the, the big booty mixes from two friends, those are good. Yeah. Those are really good to lift you. So your birthday playlist, I think would be good to lift you. Yeah. But I have to be like, Oh, it's super fun. Yeah. Which we'll drop that in the show notes. Yes. Literally like it is a pretty good one. It's so good. But you have to like hip hop circa like 2000 and 2000. Yeah. 2000. You have to like it. You have to like hip hop from there. 2000 to 2012 is kind of like the vibe, but it's super fun. Basically it's every song that I was obliterating drunk to. Yeah. In my college career. So it's, it's like the perfect, I made it to where it was kind of like a pregame party, but also you could lift to like vibe. Yeah. It's great. It's perfect. So, but I, but so. Plus I think I lift to those kinds of songs because of the memories that I had from then or the lack thereof. Yeah. Yeah. I'm transported back to blackness. Yes. Like I'm just so blacked out that it was so fun. Yeah. That's pretty much where my brain goes. But yeah. See for me though, like I have to, it's a certain type of lift, I guess, you know what I mean? Cause I can find myself like I get in the music and then I'm kind of like dancing and like hanging out. And then I'm like, oh, fuck, I got a shoulder. Like, do you have certain songs that you would like to do like a PR to? Cause I do. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So I think that it's just like when stuff is too like either like dancey or like whatever, then I just lose focus. So that's where I'm more so like. And for people who are only listening, she is actually dancing in her chair right now. Yeah. She is. It's like, hi, in it already. So that's why I love that kind of stuff for like cardio. Yeah. Right. Cause I can just be like, I feel like you would hate like spin classes because they do the music for you and you're supposed to like go to the cadence of that music. And I feel like that would stress you out. Yeah. I used to spin a lot, but I was in high school. Oh, I don't remember. I feel like now it would stress you out. Yeah. I just like. Cause you have to like pedal to the beat of the music. And if it was something you're not into and like you can't. I mean, I would do it, but I don't know. I just think about it. I'm like, not that I would, I just have no interest. I'm like, oh, I want to go to a spin class. Yeah. Like I just don't have. Sometimes I get a desire to go to a spin class. Yeah. But I think I don't know why. So that I don't, I don't like it. I just don't ever really have the desire to go. It's gotten kind of expensive now that like Peloton exists. So like, I feel like a lot of the classes are raising their prices because they have less participants. So they want to make more money per head. Oh, okay. And so that's why I haven't done spin. But I like it. I used to teach it for a while. Yeah. I used to take it like religiously in high school. I was a psychopath. I used to be doing all the things. What are your unpopular opinions or hot takes on the fitness industry? Okay. This could be a whole ass podcast. Well, they're it's a just so that's my hot take. Oh, okay. We can go there. I already said it. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Go there. Yeah. I feel like the industry as a whole rewards the young and the upcoming. And that's always going to be the case with a lot of industries though. But I feel like the elder is less respected or like the more time under your belt that you have in the industry is getting less respect or like less accolade or like a coach can come into the scene and they don't have like me saying that I've been 15 years coaching or you saying you've been what 12 or 13 years coaching like it just like rolls off people's heads or brains. Like it just kind of doesn't matter. And I think it's so so wild and weird. Like I can't imagine entrusting somebody with my health and fitness who's been doing it for a year. Like I just I just I just that's just me. I wouldn't I wouldn't do that. But again I think I have certain health parameters that I know are a little bit more difficult to work with. So maybe that's why I wouldn't do it and I would want somebody with so much more experience and and what not. I mean every coach that I've ever had had more coaching than myself. And that's what everybody starts somewhere. So we all we all have to you know we all have to be the coach who only has two years or a year. But to your point I think that there is a larger percentage of people who see something new. It's kind of like that shiny object. Yes. Syndrome or whatever. Shiny objects and something like analogies. That seems like it shouldn't be the case when we're talking about coaching. Yeah. But it seems like it is the case. It is the case and it's just very it's a very interesting thing and this is not the down play because everybody does have to start and be new. But your point is that people seem to gravitate towards that when there is other options I guess you know which is just really interesting because we continuously hear the same types of messages and it's like why wouldn't you like hearing a message or maybe somebody did something. Yeah. Like like a client coming and complaining about certain aspects of coaching that were probably happening because someone was inexperienced and new but not attributing it to that. Yes. Right. Yeah. And then like the industry as a whole doesn't really talk about that. So I think that's a really good point. Yeah. Because there's definitely learning curves to being a new coach and I think a lot of times when I get somebody who says you know this coach just you know wasn't listening to me wasn't you know they take it more and internalize it when it's just the coach being a little bit inexperienced and not having as many clients under their belt and not have as many troubleshooting skills and so I do think that you know again everybody's got to start somewhere but as we talked about as well is a lot of people like to skip steps early on that some of the veterans didn't skip like training human bodies in person watching human bodies move physically and being able to correct and execute different training tactics with individuals and they're trying to kind of jump all the way to program design when they don't necessarily know how to tell somebody how to even do a pushup. So it's like and also talking to people and speaking and speaking and even if you're working online you are still communicating. You're still communicating and you still have to be able to recognize like patterns with clients and read between the lines and those kinds of things and a lot of people are just trying to skip all that together because they think oh I can work online behind my computer and never see anybody and it's like yes that's true and I talked about this at the PC presentation because it's so valuable to have in person skills all of those translate online. And good communicator skills. You need to be able to communicate with humans that aren't necessarily communicating with you correctly. You have to be able to get them to speak, get them to talk to you and have them answer hard questions. So a lot of times like check in questions will not be open-ended. There'll be yes no, rate one to ten and it's like no you got to get them to speak to you. And I was just like putting on my story today about a client who said this is TMI, this is TMI and I'm like no no actually because you said this and told me these things I can arrive at this protocol for you. I need to know the TMI, I need to hear those things and you don't have to preface it with this is TMI like I'm your coach. Give it all to me. We've heard everything and we need to hear those things to your point in order to make the proper changes. So I think that's a really really great point. I would say one of the things that bothers me I guess, hot take is that there is just so much sensationalizing of things. And I feel like this is particularly bad in the fitness and health and wellness space. Like particularly bad and people try to take complex things and break them down too simplistically. And the goal should always be to take complicated information and make it as simple as possible but not simpler. We don't need to make it simpler than it needs to be and we don't need to say hey if you have people aren't just flowcharts. We don't get to say oh you have this, okay well you got to do this. I mean to some degree yes but that's again where coaching comes in to be like alright these are kind of the principles that we're operating off of but then the individual variation is going to come from these weekly check-ins or however you're operating on a consult basis whatever it is. But that's where the human interaction is coming from. And I feel like- Talk about people being super dogmatic and I will only believe in this. This is the only way to train. This is the only way- And social media has made this so bad because people's attention span has continuously gotten shorter. So what happens is people are creating the sensational things because they're trying to get that attention and then they're trying to convince people of those things. And it's like hey your body is pretty complicated. Whether you want to believe that or not it is. And we can break this down. We don't need to make it over complicated. But we can't just make these little snippets and these hot takes and these 10 second things. You can only- I don't know I just feel like the social media has completely fucked up the space in that sense to where what is rewarded. So people are showing these crazy things and this is I guess a pet peeve which is related but sort of unrelated. People post these big accounts. They'll post these reels with these partner workouts. And it's the most ridiculous thing you've ever seen. It looks like an obstacle course. They're doing crazy stuff in this partner workout. And it's like grab a partner and try this. For what purpose? To die? Or to hurt myself? And it's like but why? I don't get that. But again it's a 12 seconds. It's edited great. It's great music. And I'm not dogging it's content like that because listen we make short form content with sounds and good editing. And that is if that's getting people healthier like I'm for it. But what that does over time is if that's only what's being shown then people are like oh well to get that body then I just train like this. I need to do this. And the other I guess another hot take, another unpopular opinion is coaches I think the other thing that this has done is it's completely shifted people's perspective of what dieting and maintaining body composition actually looks like. Because people are showing like oh look what my client did. They're eating 300 carbs and not doing cardio and look at what they look like. Bitch. First of all. Especially if we're talking about that. There's a lot of background information. Especially if we're talking about competitors. We all know damn well that that's not what happened. You did that for two days. This person was eating 40 carbs and doing two hours of cardio a day for the past 12 weeks. And now we're here. So blow me with this thing that you're trying oh I only did 10 minutes of cardio a week. Really? Oh that's interesting. Because I saw you on the treadmill. It's just like these things and what it does to either the experienced dieter. Talk about high diet age. The person with. They think they did something wrong. Normal genetics. The person who hasn't been training their whole life. It isn't a freak athlete. They're like oh my god why am I not losing fat like this. Yeah. Why can't it be that easy for me or why am I here? Because that's not the smallest percentage of people. And coaches will often times continue to perpetuate and they might not mean to do this but this is the client who allows them to do this. And you know I have to constantly remind myself you know yes this client allows me to share them so that's awesome. But what are my other clients on my roster think when I'm only sharing this person. So I will say from a coaching and marketing standpoint it is hard as a coach to get all of our bodies to agree to allow their body to be shown. But I think that as coaches we need to be cognizant of the bodies that we're constantly showing. Whereas a lot of times people like I don't show a body that's not on my coaching roster. I don't think you do it either. Like maybe like people like will reshare a body that they've had success with but they're not currently coaching. Oh no. Like a past client or somebody that's they're not working with anymore. No that's like a really common thing. Oh yeah. To me I would never want to do that. First off I wouldn't want the person whose body that is to be like jeez I'm not even working with you anymore. Like have you not had anybody new since then to be able to promote. But yeah that's a pet beef of mine is people doing that constantly and it's like kind of the same body over and over and over again. Or my favorite and I don't want to dismiss pregnancy and like postpartum and like losing postpartum weight and the importance of that. But I mean realistically like that that's going to happen a lot of cases when you have a client postpartum and then you know it's also not that easy for a lot of women postpartum. So like I it's a fine line for me on like how that's done in a in a well done way. And I have a hard time with that because I'm like is that success or just the body going back to what it was at before. Do you have a hard time even just showing just physical changes in general because there's a few things. There's so many things that go on behind a physical progress picture. Yeah and so I rarely do it anymore. I've kind of gotten away from it. Well there's a few reasons. One the people who are sharing a lot of that are going to be the more like the competitors right who are going to have the more extreme results. You know in the lifestyle. They agree to do it. They agree to show it. They're putting stuff out themselves a lot of times you know or they're taking pictures more regularly or they're better at taking pictures because they take them more like all these kind of their own social accounts. So they're fine with it. There's a lot of facets as to why people do that. But just in general it's just it's so hard because it's like there's so much more to the change here that we can't encapsulate in this physique transformation. And that's not to downplay the physique transformation but it's like I want to highlight the other things but it's really hard to showcase that on social media because people are just kind of like oh this is boring or I guess they don't know what they're doing. And it's like no that's the total opposite approach. So that can be really frustrating sometimes. We've been doing a lot of like we'll do a swipe and hoping the people swipe that they can read the context behind it a little bit more and instead of depending on them to read the caption we put like a slide about the context or showing you know different trends in their scale weight and how things have been achieved. And we've done more showing before the deficit and what progress takes place before the deficit. We've been pretty adamant about that. But yeah so that's like a weird like hot take that things are getting kind of fishy and then the industry a little bit is like progress photos and like health. I like now that people can edit like I don't put it past. I don't put it past. You don't think that if if the athlete is editing their own photos. I don't think that they would not edit their clients photos. Oh I didn't even think of that. Yeah. I know it's awful but I think it happens to me. You can change like even with me like I feel so bad sometimes when I see really good progress but the two photos that they've the different photos that they've sent don't like don't really show it like the lighting looks better in the one where yeah and then I feel bad. I'm like I'm looking at one with bad with worse lighting and here they are with better lighting so of course their body is going to look better as well. So even though it's like things go in my head as well. There was something else that was hot take that there's so many we could definitely do a follow up on that. What is something you've changed your mind about that you once thought was a game changer. So like you maybe use it all the time where you thought it was more important than it maybe is now. Well I would say it was progress photos the first probably 10 years of my coaching. I never put a progress photo up. It wasn't until I started building like I would put it on my story but I wouldn't make it an actual post and until I was building a team I was like you know there is value in this because it does allow somebody hopefully to see themselves in that client and so I do see the value in so that's definitely a hot take because it was took me a while to be able to agree to that to be like showing progress photos because it's I just you know I feel like there's ways that you can highlight things wrong or incorrectly or and I was always as the client on a former coaches roster and I always felt like I wasn't achieving anything that I was this lamb on a team of lions and I always compared myself to that coaches clients that they would post and I never got posted and I never wanted to put that on my clients either was like oh I'm not the one that gets posted about. That's so hard to navigate all those emotions. I'll do a console call with a client and they're coming over to my roster because they're like  I felt like I was not being paid attention to. I felt like I wasn't getting the right coaching because I wasn't allowing my progress photos to be shared. And I'm like, oh, that breaks my heart. Like you should, just because you don't want your face and body on the internet doesn't mean you shouldn't get coached correctly. So again, I've always been kind of like anti-progress photos because I also like didn't want, you know, I had those same thoughts as a client. Yeah, that is absolutely heartbreaking. Like when I hear that, I'm just like, oh my gosh, that just bothers me so much that someone would feel that way. I definitely had that feeling at one point. Yeah, man. I would say for me, I mean, there's a lot of things that I've had changed. Yeah, I was gonna say, that's, it was on topic. Of course, there's a million things, but I would say that I've become much more flexible with my approach. And I feel like coming up when I really started heavily coaching and was in the kind of group that I was in and that kind of evidence-based group, so to speak. And there's a lot of great things within that mindset and that community, but they can be very dogmatic in terms of, hey, there are studies on this. If there's not, then that's just bro science. Right, like that was kind of the prevailing thing for a while. And as someone who was in school and doing research, and that's just how your brain is focused to work. Now, I have a much broader approach. Right, again, the fundamentals are there, but that 20, 30% that is gonna be very, very client-specific. I am so open to a lot of things. And I'm willing to say, hey, I have a hunch based on this and this that this could work. Are you interested in trying it? And maybe it works and it's the best thing for that client and maybe it doesn't, but I'm much more open to trying different approaches and also not just being like, hey, here's the best way. It's like, pretty much, I'll be honest, almost anything will work. Like almost everything works. If the client believes it can work. Yes. So if a client is coming and saying, hey, I wanna try this or I'm interested in that, we can almost make almost anything work if that's going to help them with their adherence and their mindset around this change and all of that. I think that loops them into the partnership, what you're doing. So looping them in and letting them be a part of the decision-making allows them to have more buy-in into the decisions that you guys are making together. Yeah, that's a big one. I would say that that's probably been one of my biggest changes just in general, instead of being like, hey, no, this is kind of the way or like there's not really a study on that. Now I'm much more open to, yeah, well, this makes sense. For these, this checks out. Let's try it. Yeah, let's try it. And that's where there's gonna be a lot of individual variability. And I work with a lot of clients who are just like, they have a lot going on. Like I would say that, I mean, my roster is full of people who are just doing a lot of different things. So it's like, okay, we gotta navigate a lot of different waters. So I have to be open. I'm not getting the cookie cutter approach of like, hey, everybody on my team kind of does this. Like there's a lot of different things that are happening. So that would be probably the biggest thing. There's a million things we could talk about, but that's the biggest thing. Okay, quick one. Favorite and least favorite training movement. Oh, so favorite training movement. I'm gonna have to go with any shoulder variation of a shoulder press. I like the Smith Machine military. I like the neutral grip. I like the seated, plate loaded press. I just like shoulder press. Do you have a Viking press that every day? Yes, the standing press. Oh, I love those. Yeah, those are great. Yeah, that's it. Those feel so good. My gym is insane. I don't think there's a machine we don't have. I love that gym. Like I don't think there's a machine. I don't have access to. It's such a good gym. Well, but I would say that like there is, for every machine, there's another company that might make a better one that we have, but we have every machine. Yeah, it is absolutely stacked. It's such like a random gym. Yeah, it is a random gym. I love visiting you, but I also love visiting for the gym. Yeah, I know. A lot of people say that. It's great. It was like this hidden gym. And in Louisville, I tell people, oh, I'm a member at every athlete, and they're like, what? And I'm like, how do you not know about this gym? I mean, it's fine that you don't. Yeah, you're like, thanks. But I also really like the people who run the gym. Yeah, they're awesome. No, it's fantastic. Favorite would be anything, glute-related? Of course. Oh my God, no, kill me now. Obviously. I just love training glutes. I love, I just love it. So I would say probably any kind of hip thrust pattern, like variation. I mean, I'll be excited to hip thrust again. I love hip thrust. Favorite machine, like random machine, is the Nautilus. Leg press. The squat press. Or squat press. No, no, no, no, Cybex, sorry. Cybex, squat press. I was wondering, okay, Cybex. That's one of my favorite machines too. It's so good. I recently recommended that like three or four times to a lot of at-home clients too. I'm like, if there's one leg press you should invest in, that doesn't take up a lot of space for a home gym. Or Cybex. You know, a 45 hyper. I love a 45 hyper. Like just the Roman chair thing? Or no, the 45. Yeah, yeah, yeah, okay. Oh, I love those. With the Cypads, those are great. I love, love, love, love those. And those are great for a home gym. Least favorite. Fucking split squats. Fuck split squats. And we always, you always try to make me do the quad focus one and we're together. No, I hate it. And I do it, but I grumble. You think that what I'm making you do is a quad focus one and it's, it is actually glue focused. Okay. Anytime. The way that my quads are set up. I will debunk you, but it's fine. It's fine. My least favorite is probably going to be, I really just don't like a barbell row. I don't like doing it. I'll do a pen lay row. So random. I'll do a pen lay row. You like a pen lay row better than a barbell row? Yeah, I don't like, I just feel like I'm just flo, I feel like I'm flo, like it's floating. Like I feel like I have to like, it's just floating. And I just feel like it's kind of not giving me the most bang for the buck. Yeah, I feel like there's a lot that can go wrong. Yeah, it's so much that can go wrong. It's so easy to like tweak, but I don't know. I like them every once in a while. I feel like they're like a good. Or a renegade row gag me now. Don't like those either. Okay. Like renegade. But you like back, you like turning back. I love turning back. Like I'm just particular in what back movements I do. Because again, it's like a bang for your buck thing. Like which one are you getting the most out of? It's not a renegade row and it's not a barbell row. I hate to tell anybody that. Okay. Well, ready here first guys. Now you're not going to get that on there. All right. And our last question of this podcast. Okay. What is the hardest part of being a coach and owning your own business? Again, this is definitely a whole podcast. A whole podcast. This is a whole podcast. So what is the hardest thing about being a coach and owning your own business? I guess it could be and or or. Okay. So the hardest part about, we'll start with the hardest part about being a coach is being able to, what's the word I'm looking for? We're both very empathetic individuals. And so if we do have a day where it feels like every email that we open is like an emotional dump. And there's nothing that our clients can do to know that every day that they, or every person that checked in on the same day as theirs, what did that to us? But it happens. And I would say that that you just- It definitely happens in groups for whatever reason. For whatever reason. If it's going to happen at the first email I open up, it's going to be all the emails I open up that day. And as a coach, you have no expectation of what your work day is going to take on you in terms of that emotional toll. Like you just don't know. Like you have no idea and you have to, be able to disconnect from that. That's why I'm like really, really adamant now, whereas I used to not be about the end of my work day is now. It's 8.30, like I am not doing any more work past 8.30 unless it's an absolute need. And it's typically not the emotionally draining work. Like it's not a check-in. Like if I haven't answered you by 8.30, I got to be done because I'll carry that stuff into my bedtime. Like it will, I won't be able to sleep, I'll tell us in turn. And it's just, I think, because we're highly empathetic individuals. Like some people who are coaches, surprisingly aren't super empathetic and they can kind of just shut that down. So I would say that that's like one of my biggest challenges. It is so hard. And we want to give, we want that from our clients. I do, I want you to dump it on me. I need to know. We have to know that. I know, it's like we need it. It still is a challenge. Yeah, it doesn't mean it doesn't affect us. Exactly. And I would say that the more that I've done this, the better that I get at compartmentalizing. Like I've certainly gotten better at this. Because before it used to be like really, really crushing. And at some point you do have to detach because you realize, okay, this is spilling over into my other work and everything else in my life. But some days, like you said, it's just like everybody's on one. Everybody's on something. And those are the days where it's just, it really is draining. And that's where it's important to be able to set. Okay, like here are my boundaries. Here is when I work best. You know, everybody's gonna be different. Like I'm a morning person. If I need to do more work, I need to do it in the morning hours when I'm in a better head space. For me, I have to, I like doing stuff in the morning, but I have to do my stuff in the morning. Because that allows me to balance out. And if I'm not, no, not saying that I get to do it every day, but in a perfect world, and in a way that I can control it on most days, I will try to do that. Now sometimes it's not possible. Sometimes it's like, hey, you have two hours in the morning to get this done and you have to go to this other shit. Okay, I'm gonna work at the unideal time. It happens a lot. But if we're talking about an ideal day, I'm gonna do my stuff first, which gets me in the position to be able to handle that and navigate it much better. So yeah, I would say that that's probably the hardest thing. And that's never gonna not be the hardest thing. It's just the reality, but it still is hard. There's just, but it's part of our job description. And I would say is in terms of owning a business, I think that, and I never wanna say this because I feel like it comes off as like complaining and I never want it to sound like that. But sometimes I just feel like with owning a small service-based business, a lot of people don't take into account that you are the person who's pretty much doing everything. Like you are the person who, you're not a big corporation. No. Like it's me. It's me. When people don't pay on time or they cancel without giving an explanation. Or any notice. Or they expect things. Don't answer your emails when you're like, hey, I'm over here. Like I need to know some answers here. I see this, you know, and it can just sometimes feel like very like dehumanizing almost right where it's like people just don't understand because again, that toll that we take, like we feel all of those things. So sometimes it kind of feels like people like want to give or want to, you know, have a lot of emotional connectivity when they want it. And when they don't, they're just like, well, they have a big, but it's fine. Like it's fine. I'm just a drop in the bucket. And I'm like, you're really not like, you're not, you know, like you're not like I would like to hear from you. Yes. Can you answer my email please? I like, I never know how to say that without sounding like, I don't know what the word is, but I never wanted to come across in a certain way, but it is like, hey, it's me. But at the same time, like I'm also not like, I can't afford to just continuously chase either. Like I have so many moving pieces. So like if you don't answer my one email or if you're not checking in this week, like if I don't hear from you for two weeks, I might be like, hey, where you been? But I'm not like, we're all adults here. Yeah, I'm not on your house. Yeah, there's all like different levels to this. Also some people do need, like we all need a week sometimes. Yeah. Believe me, there's been times where I did not check in and I didn't want you to tell me I wasn't checking in either. Yeah, exactly. Like, don't tell me. I know I didn't. Yeah. So I want to give my clients that space too. Yeah, for sure. So I just feel like sometimes though, people just forget that like you are the person behind this and that, you know, like we're not Amazon. You know what I mean? Or like for you and I, because we're a similar like that we have, like we don't have a marketing team. We don't have a production team. Like we don't have some of the things that other teams may have. And we're literally like wearing that many hats. Yeah. Wearing as many hats as possible. Yeah. I can't even remotely rename all the hats. Yeah. We have a hat closet that needs to be cleaned out, but it's not going to be. Yeah. I mean, it's just, you know, when you're a smaller business, a smaller team, that's just. It's just the way that it goes. It's just the way it is. Like there's nothing I can do to change that. Yeah. And I just, you know, again, it's not a, I don't really know what the right phrase is. But I think you and I ultimately enjoy coaching too. And I think that there's people who are in this space to do other things with coaching and not coach. Like they want to use coaching as another vehicle for something else, which is totally fine. That's, but again, I think it's just different than how we operate too. Like our businesses are just different. Yeah. And I used to think I was wrong for like, like there was times two years ago where I was like, so I'm not supposed to want to coach anymore. I'm supposed to only want to mentor other coaches. And I'm supposed to like get into this whole like wheelhouse too. And it's like, no, I actually love coaching. I actually, yeah, like, yeah. Yeah. We're meant to, we're meant to be coaches. Yeah. Like we've pretty much settled on it. Like we, and I love doing other things just because I am somebody who needs to do a lot of different things mentally. But coaching has been and always will be my bread and butter. And then like, I always say coach and educator. So the education piece is obviously for my clients, but it's also like the other things that I do. Like speaking, writing, learning, whatever it is, sharing that knowledge, but that always comes second to coaching. Well, and I think that could also go into like the last thing that we, you know, what's hard about being a business now is that because of this perpetuation of short form content and highly entertaining content that it's like, we have to be coach, educator and entertainer. And this like entertainment section, I have a really difficult time with personally because that part of me exists and I'm good at it, but I can't be emotionally drained from coaching. So it's like, I can't put on my hat of being an entertainer, like on a reel and creating a script and like acting this out for a 15 second clip. If I just got through eight powerfully draining check-ins. Dude, absolutely. I always say like I can be, I can do all these things, but I can't do them on the same day. And I also need like, I need to do like check-ins and then I need like a, like a Woosa. And then so that I do. Maybe transition to something else. Yeah, and transitional work. And then I can do the creative stuff, but I can't just, I can't be like, hey, I got an hour. Let me be creative. No, the environment has to be a certain way. And that's why creative people, the way that they think, like they operate differently. So like trying to do all of these things is very hard. But like the entertainer level of coaching or like what the internet has created or social media has created for coaching is really, really stressful. And just like the level of editing. Again, some people are really good at editing, but it's like, like the high level of content, but it's like, is that coaching? So, and I always encourage people to look at people's content for, are you looking at their content because they're entertainment? Or are you consuming their content because you would actually pay them to be your coach? Like there are two different things there at play. And yes, somebody can disseminate really awesome education material and have a good entertainment value. And I love that for them, but they may not be a good coach. That doesn't always correlate. Like just because they have all the educational material, but doesn't mean they're gonna be the great coach. Absolutely. I think that is a perfect place to end. And this was so fun. And I feel like there's some topics that we could definitely do for like a full episode. We really probably should do a follow up. So comment what topic y'all liked us to go into. Speaking that into existence now, we're gonna do it. So where is speaking of social media our favorite place? Where drop your stuff. So you can find me on Instagram at Chanel Collette. And then you can also find me at audaciousathletes.com and my team and everything that we do there. Hell yeah. Well, thank you guys so much for listening. If you enjoyed this podcast, please share it. That is the best way that we can get this information out and that we can get the show to grow. For more information on our coaching services and everything else that we have, you can visit teamlococonfit.com. So once again, thank you guys so much for listening. Hope this was enjoyable and fun. And happy birthday. Hey. Hey. Thank you. So we'll talk to you guys next week.

=== FILE: Episode 277： 75 hard ｜ The impact of the 75 Hard Lifestyle [RiulKYCEXOU].txt ===

 welcome back to another episode of the Locofit Show, where we read a final healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and this week is a solo episode with me all about my experience with 75 heart. If you guys do not know about this program or what it is, I'm going to fully explain it, go through all the details, and also I wanted to answer some of the most commonly asked questions I had during the process, and last week I also put up a question box in my story and kind of again accumulated all of the frequently asked questions for you guys. In case you're interested in doing this, I would say that it's a pretty popular program. 75 heart is within this entire Live Hard program, where essentially it's a one year program broken up into four different phases. 75 heart, and then there's phase one, phase two, and phase three, and it goes throughout the year, and it's really a mental toughness and discipline program. So while there are different aspects of diet and training involved, it is not necessarily just for that. And I do want to come out the gate and say the first thing, because this was actually something that someone put in the question box that I think is really important to touch on. This is not necessarily a weight loss program. It is not. I think everybody has seen a lot of really intense physical transformations from this, and they assume that it is a fat loss or a weight loss program. It is not. You can make it a fat loss program if that is what you need or what you want out of the program, but you do not need to do that. And actually I didn't do that. So I'm a great example to be able to talk about this. So out the gate, I want to talk about this is not a fat loss or weight loss program. You are in control with what you want to do with the diet. And actually that's what I loved about this program. So just a little backstory. So last year I was working a lot on different, we'll just say, mental thing. A lot of my mental health, just really diving into a lot of different things in my life that required a lot of energy. It was very physically draining, although it was very mental in nature. So last year I kind of just gotten to this place where I wasn't training as much. I was dedicating a lot of this energy to other things, but then it kind of turned into like, alright, I'm not really going to train and then I don't really feel like training and then kind of getting a little lazy about it. Had some injuries, you know, just all the normal stuff, right? And when I really look back on it, you know, I was doing pretty good with my walks. Last year I really reincorporated doing daily walks and honestly timing them like you guys hear me talk about all the time. Timing them around morning and evening sun exposure. So I was still being physically active, but I was not really, I was honestly lifting like three times a week for like the whole year. For being real honest, okay? And I was not eating enough. So I have gotten to a place now where the last time that I've actively dieted was the end of 2018. So I have not dieted. My hunger is very regulated and I was just finding myself, you know, not really super hungry and just honestly under eating, especially when it comes to protein. You know, I'm somebody who would be like a self-proclaimed meathead, you know, I love training hard. I love eating high protein foods. I love all that kind of stuff. If you're not aware and cognizant of how much protein you're eating, it is very easy to fall below. And I was just honestly, for me, it's a meal thing. So I was only eating about three meals, so three protein servings a day. For me to hit an adequate amount of protein, I do really need to have four protein servings. So it's one of those things again, just kind of slipping, you know, some days it was certainly better than others. But just in general, training was pretty low. Food was pretty low. So my intention going into this was, all right, I'm going to start this on January 1st as a just kind of momentum builder for my year. Because I have a lot of things that I want to be doing this year that I have been doing this year. And I was like, this is going to be such a great kickstart to it. And it was like in this perfect, like serendipitous way that if I started on January 1st, which was a Sunday, then the last full day was my birthday, March 16th, which we're coming up on. I'm recording this on Sunday, which is the 12th. So it's pretty crazy. I was like, you know what, this is a sign that I should definitely do it. So to run through what is 75 hours, because there have been a lot of questions just about that in general. First, there are two at least 45 minute workouts per day, and one of them has to be outdoors. So that's number one. Number two is follow a diet. We'll get to what that means, but follow a diet, no alcohol, which we'll also get to, and no cheat meals. And this, I think, is where a lot of people get kind of up in arms, right? Because I feel like there's two types of people in the space, people who use the word cheat meals. Actually, there's probably three people, three types of people. People who use the word cheat meals, and they're doing that and they're using it in maybe a negative sense, right? They're using cheat meals in a negative sense. There's people who understand that word and they hear it, they're like, I don't really use it, but I know what that means. And then there's the people who absolutely hate that word and really get upset over it. So I would say that I fall into that second camp, right? I know what this means. I don't use the word cheat meal in my life. It's not a part of my vocabulary anymore. But the idea is that you're not being indulgent, right? You're saying, okay, maybe I don't really need this. And to me, having a cheat meal is much more about the mindset, which if you guys listen to the show, you know, that's pretty much the root of everything that we talk about. Like, you know, your mindset around food is what is driving your behaviors and driving things like compliance and adherence and overall success. And really your mindset and relationship with food. So for me, I understand what the word means in this context, right? Hey, don't go out and be like a fat fuck. Don't go eat like a fat fuck. Number one, don't be indulgent, right? So I was going to go into it with that mindset. Drink a gallon of water every day. Take a progress photo every day and read 10 pages of a nonfiction book every day. So I pretty much drink over a gallon of water. No problems. That was really the only thing on the list that was like, okay, check. Good to go. The progress picture, I was just taking kind of mirror photos every morning. I had a routine for myself because I was like, listen, okay, I want to make sure that I'm doing this and that I don't forget. So I would, you know, it was part of my morning routine in terms of like skincare, brush my teeth, take my picture. That way I was not leaving it until later. There was a few times where I did and man, I really hope nobody has access to these photos in this app because some days were rough. I remember one day I was actually in the office here and I was getting changed. And I was like, okay, I'm just going to take a like a brawn underwear picture. Oh, anyways, so I said an app. You don't need to use the app, but I just did as a nice reminder, right? It was like four or $5. So it was totally worth it. And there's also there's literal vacation reminders on there. So if you're concerned that you might be going to forget something, it's a really easy way to do that. So photo every day and then reading. I love to read like absolutely love reading. It is one of my favorite things like in the whole world, but I just kind of found myself, you know, I would find myself reading on certain days, right? But convincing myself that I didn't have the time to read on other days. And while 10 pages doesn't seem like a lot, if you do that every single day, right, that does add up. And you're really going to be able to get through a good handful of books. Now, it depends on what the book is, right? And I'm somebody who has now developed this different trait of reading multiple books at once. And I had done this before, but it really got magnified with 75 hard. But I think it's especially because there's different kind of moods and mindsets for different times when I'm reading, right? Like on the weekend, I might be able to read something that's a little bit more out there, a little bit more, just like making me reflect and think and ponder deeper. And then other times like during the week when I'm like, alright, really busy day. Let me just read something that's like pretty straightforward and like not so so in depth. And then of course, also, I was reading different sizes of books, which is hilarious. Like, if you guys know, Four Date Laws of Power by Robert Green, it is a very not only large book in terms of like length, but the pages are like massive. And I'm like, oh my gosh, so like that is very different than, you know, a different type of book. But anyways, I was reading many different books, but honestly, this has been one of my favorite parts is getting back into this. So again, kind of like this morning routine I've created, okay, skincare, brush my teeth, which lets, okay, I was already doing that. Don't need, don't want anybody misunderstanding that I was always doing those things. Take my picture, go downstairs and make my coffee. Always make a decaf with collagen and then read my 10 pages and then journal typically for, you know, either a page or whatever. How much time that I have that day is going to depend, of course, on a certain workday if I need to like get out of the house or just get right to work or if it's a weekend, something like that. So typically that would be my morning routine is getting that done and starting to drink fluids right away, which I typically always do. But for anybody who does struggle in this area, I know a lot of people who start something that part of like, oh my God, a whole like gallon of water. Like how am I going to do that? You have to start early. So for me, I would, as my coffee was brewing, I would actually make my greens. So I'd put optoregreens, optoreds, and then I've recently added hydration stick as well, which is just going to be an electrolyte stick. So I drink that about 16 to 20 ounces of water, depending on how much I put in there. I have some some regular water as well that I have my my coffee and I'm already like having the day kick started with all of that. And then in terms of the training, so what I like about this is that it's it's very structured in terms of like, hey, you need to do this, but it's also very open-ended to say like, you get to do whatever, you know, you get to pick what books you're reading, you get to pick the types of training you get to pick the diet that you're on. So for the training for me, so it's two 45 minute sessions, and then one has to be outdoors. So like I mentioned in the beginning, I love love love walking. Typically I would break it up though, right? So I would do usually my aim would be a daily morning and evening walk, at least 10 minutes in length. Sometimes I would only get one done, right, just because of the day and like different calls and things of that nature. So I would know, okay, I'm going to extend this walk. Usually I would try to get like 20 in the morning and then usually around like 10 in the evening. So me doing a 45 minute walk wasn't a ton different in terms of time, but it was because 45 minutes in one block is very different than 10 to 20 minutes in two different periods of time. And I know people are going to go, well, yeah, no shit, but I'm just saying it is something to consider when you're planning your day. So more planning of my day certainly went into this whole process. And then anecdotally, and you know, there is some scientific rationale behind this. I don't believe to my knowledge that there is any study on this, but I certainly felt different doing these longer walks in terms of just how my physique felt, right? Instead of doing, you know, two walks that maybe were the same length, doing one longer one. And of course, as we know, for fat oxidation, you're going to have to break down the chargoceride and then start to use the free floating fatty acids now for energy instead of having them reesterify back into your bloodstream. So all of that I know from a physiological basis could be why I'm seeing this. But again, just kind of an anecdotal thing that I'm going to be interested to play around more with clients and I actually have with some who are doing more cardio. I'm like, listen, I want to see if we notice any difference with longer sessions. So anyways, typically I would do a daily outdoor walk. When I was in Colorado, the only time I did, well someday I would do outdoor walks as well, but I would count my skiing as an outdoor workout, which was about like four hours. So definitely pushed past the 45 minute mark there, no problem. And for anybody who doesn't say that skiing is a workout, I'm a Florida girl who has skied three times in her life. So it was certainly a workout. And then for the second part, typically what I would do is I would I would lift there's sometimes a CrossFit like a cardio based CrossFit class that I go to. Sometimes I would do yoga. I use the Down Dog app. It's really, really great. I think it was like 50 bucks for the year. So I'll do that or potentially another cardio session. Right. So that would kind of be my second workout. So sometimes it might be outside because it might be doing another cardio session, but usually I would try to do something else. So the only time that that has been like a huge hindrance has been actually this past week, which we'll get to. So that's that's training, right? So two workouts. And then in terms of diet, follow a diet. So that is where the beauty of this again lies that there is enough structure, but you are open to determine what you want to do. So for myself, because I had been under eating and my goal was, you know what, I want to eat more and I want to be a little bit more on top of what I'm doing. So I had a protein minimum, a fruit minimum and a vegetable minimum every day. And of course I could go over that, but those are my minimum targets. And then I was actively trying to eat more. So again, this is not necessarily a fat loss program. And I have not really gained. I am the last time I weighed myself. I hadn't really made many changes actually when I first started. I definitely did drop some weight just of course with some of the added activity and my hunger hadn't caught up. So interestingly enough, now I am in a more normal hunger signal. Whereas before I was trying to eat more and it was such like, oh, I'm really forcing myself to eat more. Now that I have been doing this for almost 75 days, my appetite is much more regulated in the sense that I'm actually getting hungrier. So that's why I think my weight has come up a little bit, but I do feel like I'm at a better body composition slightly. So that was really exciting. Again, the reason I did this was not purely body comp reasons. If I wanted to have an absolutely insane body composition change, I could have and I would have changed how I did things. However, the point of this for me was mostly mentally to get back to myself. It was really nice to just kind of turn that like on switch again. Right. I first want to touch on one of the common questions is how close did you come to failing? And I would say that the overarching theme was I did it and I know I still have a few more days left, but I can confidently say that I'm not going to because it's never even been an option for me. And this is something that I have developed over the years through athletics, especially with competing in physics sports for so many years. It's this just kind of no options mentality. And, you know, people would ask me, oh, what day are you on? And I would have to look it up in the app because I really didn't know that I knew when it was over. It's over on March 16th. And there were many days that I was challenged, right? There were some days where I was physically challenged. I was very tired. I was very run down. The last thing on planet fucking earth I wanted to do was do another workout, right? But I did it. It wasn't even an option. It was just like, all right, I got to get it done. Number two, there were some days where mentally it was a really big struggle, right? Just dealing with some mentally draining things. Everybody has certain days and weeks that are a lot harder. And yeah, those days, it's just like, I don't want to get this stuff done. I don't want to train. I don't want to eat this food. I don't want to do these tasks. And then there were some days and weeks that were much harder with my schedule. So whether, you know, some travel or some family stuff or, you know, especially like the ski trip that I took, it was, okay, this is going to have to be a little bit more regimented. I get up at five. I do a work block. I do my reading and journaling. I go to my first workout. Then, you know, come back. I have to plan this food. I got groceries delivered, you know, so that I would say that the ski trip was probably the biggest plus. Probably the biggest planned trip that I had in terms of hitting all of the goals because when you're on the side of a mountain for most of the day, you know, you have to be much more cognizant of your food intake when I have these these targets that I'm trying to hit. And then also just the reality of getting work done and also getting the second workout. So that meant waking up early and doing all of my things. So I would say that there were some days that were hard. And then this past week, actually, so I went back to Jiu Jitsu last week and, you know, I hadn't trained, let's just say close to nine months, right? It's it's it's been a minute since I've been and I went and I went to class for an hour and then I rolled, you know, not for an hour straight, but I did have several roles. And, you know, most people don't think about this, but when you're doing Jiu Jitsu, you actually use your feet quite a lot. And in our normal life, we do like not like that, you know, so I used to have this issue when I would train where my foot would have this very weird flare up. It would be swollen to look swollen, feel physically awful, like waking up with middle of the night with excruciating pain and basically walking and doing anything is is hard for a few days to a week. And so Saturday happens, this is last Saturday. And then I wake up Sunday, I'm kind of feeling it, but you know, everything kind of hurts because I just did Jiu Jitsu for the first time, and I've been training twice a day, right? Kind of normal. So I do my stuff on Sunday and then Monday, I was like, oh no, like I was woken up in the middle of the night, like, oh, here we go again. And the only thing that I ever found to help that was complete rest, like I'm talking as sedentary as possible. I was like, well, this is certainly going to be a challenge with training twice a day. So walks were out, yoga was out, and lifting was going to have to be modified quite a bit. So all the things that I've been doing were quite a challenge. So I have a very, very old, like, janky spin bike, skin bike, oh my God, a skin bike, really old spin bike. And so I roll it outside and I did that for most of the week for my outdoor workout. And then for my second workout, I would lift, but I would just have to do a modified lift in terms of how much weight bearing stuff I could do, and really just the movement patterns and the total weight that I was using. So today finally is feeling a little better. I did do for my outdoor workout. I did about 20 minutes of a walk and like I broke it up, I did half of a walk and then go right on the spin bike. So I didn't just jump right back into it. But hopefully the next few days will be a lot more manageable in terms of all this. So as I say, all those things, I'm like, man, there really was like a handful of things that did come up. But again, I didn't even look at this as like an obstacle to not finish. It was just more so, hey, here's an obstacle. Now let me address it and handle it. So that is what the program is. And a lot of people were asking, okay, like, you know, what are the specifics? Is it accessible to everybody? It is accessible to anyone who, you know, understands these rules. It is completely free. I have coached several clients through this process as well, because of course there is a large diet and training component. So if somebody was interested in that, yes, you can use a coach or a coaching service like you could use our app, the redefine healthy app if you wanted to set your goals in terms of training and diet, and then you'd be able to follow that and then add in additional training and cardio as necessary. Or you can, you know, hire a coach for this. So it's one of those things that you can do completely free, completely alone, or you can have the support of, you know, of a team or with a coach. So highly recommend that if you're maybe even concerned like, well, I'm not really sure kind of how to navigate all this because it does feel like a lot. It could be a great thing to do. So hardest part. So I would say that the hardest part has just been not socially drinking. And I'm somebody who, if you guys follow me, like, you know, your girl likes a drink. She likes the whole, I love the whole atmosphere of like a cocktail bar and like the creativity behind it and like the fun behind it. And I love like just detail, I love the taste of alcohol in terms of, you know, wine and again, craft drinks and all of that. So, but it hasn't been like, so that's just been something where I'm like, man, like I would really want that, right? And I'm not saying that I'm a fun perspective, but it hasn't stopped me from doing things, still being social, still going out, still doing stuff. You know, it's just like food, right? And I've done this for so long in terms of my food and my diet that it really doesn't bother me, right? If I say, hey, I'm eating this or I'm not eating that or this is what my approach is, it doesn't really matter to me what anybody else is doing. If I want to be there, I'm going to be there. If I'm going to be able to make something work into my plan, I'm going to make it work. And if I can't, I'm still going to be there because I want to enjoy the social aspect of it. And so that's something that does take a lot of time to develop. And we have talked about that many, many times on the podcast. And I'm not trying to downplay it because it certainly is hard. The social pressure to do things or not do things is a really big challenge for people. But the best way to go around this is to have a goal that you're very, very serious about and you want to achieve. So for me, it was like, I'm not going to not do this. So if I want to go those places, I'm going to go and I'm just not going to enjoy a drink and I'm not going to eat in this way. Simple. I'm going to make sure that I get up and I do my training, even when I don't want to. So again, it's one of those things that it's just like you have to commit to it and that no options mentality certainly kicked right back on for me, which goes really nicely into this next question of is it sustainable? And I think besides the cheat meal, like part of it all, right, where people get all up in arms, I think that a lot of people hear this and see this kind of program and are like, oh my gosh, this is so unsustainable. Nobody could do this every day or they don't need to do this every day, right? And I would say that it more so comes down to to really what the individual needs, right? Everybody operates very differently. And this is something that I have accepted and learned and understood much more after coaching for 10 years and working with a very, very wide variety of individuals. Some people are wired different than others, right? I think we all know that. And of course, the goal is to be able to, you know, work on people's flexibility and work on their mindset and work on their long term results and their lifestyle and all of this. But that doesn't mean that everybody we can have that we can. We can have the similar goals like these are the things that I want my clients to have, but how they get there is going to look different for each one of them, right? So there are some people who would say that this is not sustainable. There's absolutely no way that someone could do this all the time. And I would say, no, there are people who can this would fit their lifestyle really no problem. And it would actually make them better. And whenever we're looking at things, we have to weigh out, okay, what is going to make someone better? What is going to make them worse? Like, are there more pros here? There are more cons here? Like, that is how we need to be viewing things. Is this adding to someone's life? Is it taking away from their life? And for certain people in different periods of their life, this could be adding to their life. For other people, this could be detracting from their life. So I would say that it really shouldn't be viewed at like as is this something that, you know, if it was a weight loss program, right? I would say no, it's not sustainable, right? And there are some people who do this and they go absolutely crazy, right, during the program. And for that person, I would say, yeah, it's probably not sustainable. But the idea of doing, you know, a lot of these tasks, right, I would say that for the training portion, you know, it can't that it's really the time component, right? Does someone have that much time to dedicate to physical activity? And I would say for some people, no, they don't. And for other people, I would say they don't not, they, how do I say this properly grammatically? They don't not have the time. I know that's not the way, but we're going with it. Do you see what I'm saying? They don't not have the time to do this because when, if they're not doing this, they're doing something else that's really bad for them. So I think that's where we have to look at individual differences. So if you're using 75 hard as a way to be absolutely maniacal about how you train and 2000% intensity and fat loss, fat loss, fat loss diet going crazy, going ham. Yeah, this is not going to be sustainable for you. But again, I think the mindset of I'm looking at this as a mental toughness, mental challenge, discipline building type of a program. Then yeah, I think that it can be sustainable in that sense, right? Same thing with alcohol, right? There's some people who stop drinking because they are an alcoholic and they are not able to function with it. Some people not aren't necessarily alcoholics, but they find that maybe they don't like how they act with this. So they find that when they limit it to very low amounts or they have none, but they seem to operate as a better individual. Same thing could be said for certain types of food for certain people, right? Some kinds of food can be a really, really big hindrance and problem for people. It's not just about the food. It's about everything else that happens with it, right? Or the other foods that happen alongside of that. So, you know, I would say, hey, let's get to a place where we can figure out how to balance all these things. But everyone is in a different place in their journey. So I would say if you're viewing this as something that is unsustainable in terms of how you're approaching it, then yeah, it's going to be. And I know that it can affect how some people, I've seen the back end of this, right? Where people do go really hard or then they start to view things in kind of this disordered way where they're like, oh, I can't do anything unless it's 45 minutes and this and that. No, no, no. That's where we've kind of created a problem, right? We can still view movement, right? Like in terms of a 45 minute cardio session, right? You can do cardio for 45 minutes or you can still go for a walk for 10 minutes and that's going to have its own benefits that are separate and different, but just as important. So again, I think it's, as always, it's the mindset behind it. And the unsustainability factor mostly stems from the amount of time spent with the two separate sessions and the one of them having to be outdoors. I think that that's really where it can be a struggle for some people. But like I said, there are some people who that would fit perfectly into their life. And if they, that time not spent training would be spent doing other deleterious things in their life. So those are my thoughts on it. I don't think that there's any one perfect way to approach this, right? There's good and bad of any type of program and it's up to the individual to adjust it in that sense. Now, not adjust it in terms of like, well, it says read 10 pages, I'm just going to read five. No, not like that. Or, oh, I only want to, you know, I'm not talking about adjusting this, but adjusting how we perceive it. So hopefully that makes sense. One of the questions or one of the common themes of questions was, what habit am I going to continue afterwards? Or like, what was my favorite part of this process? And I would say getting back into daily reading absolutely has been such a game changer. And these are all things that I know, hey, if I read a few pages, like that's better than no pages. But we can convince ourselves of these things like, oh no, like, I don't have the time to do this. And then it's like, I magically created the time to do it. Like, no dude, you were just lying to yourself, right? So this has been a really big eye-opener in terms of that's exactly why I wanted to use it to kind of get into this rhythm, get into this routine. So for me, now I know, okay, my morning routine is going to be, you know, again, skincare, brush my teeth, get ready, probably not take a picture, because I don't need that many mirror selfies on my phone, for being honest, because there's way too much down there. Do that. And then, you know, read and journal and I have that just as part of my morning routine, which I had done, right? But it was kind of like, oh, someday I'll do this, someday, no, I feel so much better when I do that first thing in the morning. It sets the tone for my day, it gets my brain thinking in a different kind of capacity. And there were plenty of times during this process that I didn't have the time, right? Guess what I did? I woke up earlier. I stayed up later. I got it done, right? So, you know, when we had a presentation for the PEC over here and I had to be over there early in the morning, I was presenting that day. So we had to be there early, you know, before it even started, of course, it was about a 45 minute drive from me. I needed to get ready, so like I could just show up, you know, I needed to like look ready and presentable and go through myself that morning. So I had to get up at like 4 or 4.30 and do my first workout outside at that time. Okay, I got it done, right? And then that night, I don't like reading at night, but guess what? I came home and I read and I got it done. So it's just one of those things that we have to say, okay, how do I create this as a priority for me to maintain this? And that certainly is the struggle of something like this, right? And I will say that maybe, I think when people use the word is this sustainable, what they're really talking about is the aftermath, right? Okay, day 76, what's going to happen now? And, you know, Andy talked about this a lot, but he would say if you're doing the program right, you know, you're going to want to keep a lot of these things in your life moving forward. And I think that the unsustainability part comes from when we're doing all these positive things, and then we just kind of stop all of them and then we go back to either our bad habits or just not doing anything, right?  it's certainly one of those things you have to be aware of, and I would say that for me, making sure that I am gonna stay on top of reading when I don't have something that I'm gonna fail publicly, right? Because I made sure to say, hey, I'm doing this, post about it, put it on my story, and I would not let myself not do it, right? Of course, outside of some outstanding circumstances, but like me not doing something because I didn't want to, I was not giving myself that option or that out. So I think that that is certainly the hardest part, right? So okay, I found that this routine works really great for me, but now I don't have a little box to check off on my app, or I don't have a little thing to say in the corner of my story, um, day, you know, 69 out of 75, whatever it is, right? So that is where I think it can become a problem, but that is where I think something like having done this for 75 days, you've gotten into a pretty solid routine, this isn't like, hey, we did it for two weeks, which can still be really powerful. I'm not downplaying any kind of short term goals that are actually really short term, but to really kind of make this more, make this stick, I totally, totally understand the benefits of this now, having something higher to subscribe to in terms of like, all right, I really want to make sure that I'm getting this done. So kind of stay tuned for some things that we might be changing in the coming months that we will be offering because this has given me some really great insights in terms of how we could leverage this mindset to help more people. Um, so a lot of questions around alcohol, and again, I think that that is just because the nature that everybody knows, like I enjoy drinking and pretty public about that. Um, I have people hire me because of that. They're like, Hey, I really want a nutrition coach who like gets it, like I travel, I enjoy having drinks, but like I want to be healthy and train and eat well and have body comp goals. That's why I want to hire you because you showcase that and I'm like, perfect, I get you completely. I do all of those things. So a lot of questions about that afterwards. And one of the questions in particular was, did this make me want to not drink afterwards? Absolutely not. Straight up, no. I am somebody who very much enjoys it and I do it in a social way. Now I'm not saying that every time I drink and with people, like I love a glass of wine by myself, you know, while I'm cooking dinner or, you know, reading or writing or working or whatever. There's always a social thing. But generally speaking, I do not fall into the category where I'm like, Oh man, like really need this right now because I need to escape or I need to. I'm very cognizant of that because I do know myself pretty well. And if I even feel like I'm kind of teetering on that edge, I will stop because I know, okay, no, this is, this is not good. But I will say it has made me aware of my drinking habits because like anything went just like how I was talking about in the beginning when I wasn't eating how I normally was. Well, maybe you just get kind of sloppy and lazy. Like, okay, I only want to drink during this period of time. You know, I only want to drink on the weekends or only once during the week, whatever it might be for you. I was realizing that it was just something that was becoming much more common. So now this has definitely helped me practice my restraint around that. And yeah, every time that I want something doesn't mean that I have to have it. Right. And I think that that was a really great exercise. This whole program was a really great exercise and a reminder of that. So no, it has not changed my outlook on drinking in terms of how it fits into my life. But it has certainly helped me display that restraint for myself and also just, you know, kind of go through an adult period of time where I'm not drinking. And obviously I've done that with the contest prep. But even in the contest prep, I would say my last one was about nine, nine months. Very, very intensive contest prep. I still, I mean, over the course of the whole prep, I probably had like five drinks right, like the whole prep. But there would still be a time where, and that was not because I couldn't have it, but more so because well, I'm not going to waste, waste my calories and energy on something like this. But again, I haven't done that in a very, very long time. So it was a great exercise in restraint and in discipline. And other things are not off, off the menu. So we'll just leave it at that. Take, take that however you want. It is not 75 sober. It's just 75 hard, no alcohol. And then lastly, the last question is, would I do this again? I've been getting asked this too now that I'm kind of finishing up. And I would say yes, I think it was a really great, I had a really great experience, you know, I would be interested maybe in doing it differently. Like, because there are so many different things to play with in terms of like diet and training. So I really could go through it with different, a different lens of like, Hey, you know, I'm really going to make sure that my training is dialed in for this for the next 75 days. Or, Hey, I'm going to really make sure that my diet is dialed in for these goals. For these 75 days. So it could be an interesting, cool way of also like approaching that. So yeah, never say never. I had a great experience with it and would encourage anybody if you've seen it. The reason I started doing this, like I said, I found myself in this space where I really needed something. Um, I've worked with first form and known Andy for many years. So I've, and I've known many, many, many people who have done it. But I never really had the desire to do it. I just, I just didn't, I didn't not have the desire, but I just didn't have it in me. And then something in November clicked inside of me and said, you should do something to have hard. I was like, okay. And then I was like, you know, I kind of thought on it for a few weeks. And I was like, man, if I have, I actively had this thought. And if I don't do it now, I'm going to be upset at myself and I know that. So that's when I committed to it. So you know what I'm going to do it. So right January 1st, Wham, bam, and it's been great. So it is day, let me look, see, speaking of, I like can't even remember. I know almost done. This is why the app is helpful. Today is day 71 on this recording. So just a few more days left. So yeah, if you guys have any questions, feel free to let me know. And like I said, if you are looking to do this, but want some more guidance in terms of nutrition or training, two options, you can either use our app, the redefine healthy app to guide you with either training or nutrition or both. There is an option for all three of those, or you can reach out for one on one coaching as well, and we can help guide you through this process. So you guys have any other questions for me? Please let me know. Send them to info at team will go fit.com and you can check out all and other information about our services at team will go fit.com. If you guys enjoyed this episode, please share it and I think that's all for now. Talk to you next time.

=== FILE: Episode 278： How Trauma Impacts Your Body ｜ Interview with Dr. Miletic [SSVSKd6CzMM].txt ===

 and alfalfa. Welcome back to another episode of the Locofit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and this week I am so excited for this interview, you guys. Oh my goodness. I'm joined by Dr. Miltec. He is incredible. We have never actually met in person. However, I've only heard him so highly recommended by my great friend, Victoria Falkar. She's been on the show before. It's been a while, but if you guys listened to her previously or have listened to other podcasts she's been on, she highly recommended him, just in general, and you guys do work together. And we got linked up, and I am just so excited for this talk on really all things trauma and how this stems, what problems this creates for clients, what does trauma mean, what does it look like, and how do we work past this. So first of all, thank you so much for coming on the show. It's totally my pleasure, Lauren. And give everybody a little bit of background on you. I know you have an incredible background and expertise. So just let's dive into that really quickly first and then we'll get into it. Well, like a lot of people I suppose, I can't separate the personal from the professional. So from a personal point of view, I lived a life where there was a lot of childhood trauma growing up and a lot of different things that I had to navigate and find ways to negotiate through and wind my way through and have learned a lot of great life lessons along the way from that. But that sort of led me in the direction of medicine. And actually very, very young, really young age, I realized just the impact of stress and how it actually impacts physical, how it actually impacts itself on our physical manifestations and actually disease formation and progress. So that was something that was intuitive, you know, super early on, wanted to go into medical school. At the same time, though, I was deeply involved in athletics and sports, and then got involved in Olympic weightlifting at about 14 or 15. And that became my prime sport. So fortunately, I could kind of use my training sessions in a way that I didn't have to take away from studies too much and be able to train at the same time. So from there, I, yeah, I was on the Olympic weightlifting team in Canadian Olympic weight, Canadian Olympic weightlifting team 1984. But coincident with that, again, you'll see these parallels. I started to read a lot about Hans Selye, who was one of the top researchers on stress and stress and how it affects our physiology, how it affects our performance, how it affects all the different aspects of who we are as individuals, our identity even. So as I was training, I was actually reading Hans Selye. So from there, after the games and we're completed, my focus had been athletics at that point, obviously, medicine, I didn't even know where I was going to go or how I was going to do it, but ended up doing a number of different specialties. And that included small town family practice, where we did everything. And we were doing from minor surgical procedures to deliveries to emergency room to running a small ICU, I mean, literally everything. And this was still in Canada, correct? Yeah, that was still in Canada. And what I found too, back to the theme was that just about, there were so many people that were coming from, for primary care perspective, or for fertility perspectives from women, autoimmune diseases to even frankly, heart disease and cancer and so on, that had massive sources of stress going on in their lives. So that got me super interested in kind of moving more into that, did a psychiatry residency in the US then, but that became, here the psychiatry residencies are almost all medical models, I'm sure many of your listeners know, come in and you get, you know, you meet the criteria for these different things. And if you do, you get a medication and see you. So I did learn a lot about the medical model and about neurology at the time. But that wasn't enough. And then I went on my own independently, got all kinds of psychotherapy work outside of the residency, work meaning training, got into my own therapy early on, and then training got a certification, certification of psychoanalysis, never practice psychoanalysis per se, but the training in child development and the impact of trauma and so forth, questions that aren't even addressed by psychiatrists. So I really got interested in that and how that sort of formed a narrative in the course of developing whatever the mental health issue was and whatever the physical health problems could be. And then finally, I guess to dot the I's and cross the T's on that, went back and did another residency in metabolic medicine. So I've been able to tie in sort of brain and body and all things physiologic with all things neurologic and psychological. So here we are. Amazing. And you have such a unique perspective, not only being a high level athlete yourself, someone who has dealt with traumatic issues yourself, worked through them, and then of course have all the schooling and the expertise. And it is so interesting still in my opinion that the mind and body is so separated in school. And obviously I understand we have to have specialties, right? Like if you are a surgeon, you need to be specialized in that, right? Like I'm not saying that everything needs to be like this whole cohesive unit, but I feel like at least the fundamental training should be more integrated in my opinion, because I feel like that would only make better practitioners. And I would be interested to see just with this surgeons or I guess resurgence or surgeons of how people are looking at the mind and body again. How that might change, medical schools moving forward, maybe not tomorrow, but in 20 years, is it going to look different because of how our understanding is changing? I don't know, I'm just very, very intrigued, like big picture, how that's going to move, because I feel like that would make much more sense from like a baseline perspective, and then specializing from there. Well, I agree wholeheartedly, obviously with you, and where things have gone, because, you know, the medicalization of everything has, it's obviously tremendous pluses breakthroughs in cancer, breakthroughs in disease and so forth. But unfortunately, that requires in surgery, as you mentioned too, but that requires looking through your own drinking straw getting is to be as great a cardiac or brain surgeon or whatever kind of surgeon you are, and then saying, okay, see you, but then not realizing everything else that led up to why you're on the operating table, and then what you can do to help the healing process afterwards. So I think that the medical system is finally starting to change at the level of medical schools. I haven't seen that going into the residency so much. Although there are a few isolated ones in the country that are starting to change and look more at it from your perspective that you're mentioning, but still 99% of psychiatrists and close to 100% of, you know, I know you've got a largely female audience, but gynecologists, I challenge how many gynecologists out there are actually asking about, okay, what are the stressors in your life? Even fertility people, they should be asking fundamental questions. What are the stressors? What's the state of your marriage? What kind of childhood experiences have you had that may have been traumatic or not traumatic? You know, what's your history? No one's asking that. And so they're not really putting into practice yet those principles that are so critical. It really is, when you take a step back, it is so crazy to think like we are not even asking these questions, you know, and especially in terms of the fertility stuff. And you know, I, like you mentioned, I do primarily work with female clients and female clients who many of them have fertility issues because, you know, it's a pretty common thing at this point. And, you know, that's not even in the discussion. And like, thankfully, you know, they are working, you know, with me or someone on our team. And, you know, we have, okay, healthy practices and habits and trying to focus on quality foods and movement and all that. But that's not even really part of the discussion. The discussion is, hey, you know, don't train strenuously right now and probably don't drink alcohol. Like, that's, that's it, you know, like, that's, that's the recommendations, you know, and it's, it's really, it's really just, and, you know, again, I'm not faulting everybody, I get it, like, especially in terms of like psychiatry, you know, like you have a short amount of time with people and, you know, obviously, most people are going there and they're assuming that they're going to be on some kind of medication. But there's just, there's so many things that we could, that we could try to fix, right? But all we can focus on is what can we do in our practices? And so let's get into trauma. And I, again, we hear this word all the time, I would say that there's been a big shift in the world of just mental health in general, right? But what is trauma in your definition? Because I feel like people hear this and they're, you know, not really sure how to conceptualize it. So before we dive into it, I want to really just kind of put a framework around trauma through your lens and your discussions. Yeah, I think starting with the framework is really critical, Lauren, because trauma obviously becomes an overused word once it's in social media. And then you hear the word triggered and then that becomes sort of even more of a hot button for everybody, even to have, even to have a conversation, oh, I'm triggered by this or that. No, not necessarily, your trauma is not being triggered necessarily, you are just being activated by something. And that's an emotion. So that's normal. That's very normal. Yes. And so whenever we overuse something from, from, let's look at one end of the spectrum first, whenever we overuse something, it can become almost an excuse, it can become a place to hide in and of itself. And unfortunately, I'm seeing too much of that happening on the internet now, where people are, you know, becoming these trauma experts and are using these catchphrases and these buzzwords and so forth. But really what that's doing to people is, in a sense, you're creating a self-victim hood in yourself. And because you're seeing yourself as a traumatized person or a triggered person, and, you know, in reality, you're taking away your agency to do something about the particular thing that's going on. You're giving up your ability to be stronger in the world because you've got a label for yourself. So you end up self-labeling in a certain way. But when we really look at what trauma is, and back to your other question, I think we can get much more specific about it. So, you know, the psychiatrists and the DSM people and the psychologists, they've, they always connected with pretty much a life-threatening event, and then it has to meet certain criteria, right? But much more useful is when we think about trauma is looking at something that was developed at Harvard called the ACE score, Adverse Childhood Experiences score. So what we're finding with that is the number of adverse childhood experiences, the greater the number of those, the greater the number of sort of, or the greater the possibility of physical ailments developing later in life, the shorter the lifespan, the greater the degree of sort of mental health issues as we go along, the greater the substance abuse, the greater the suicide risk. So there's a very positive correlation in that ACE score with all of these things that can become ultimately deadly. So that's from an epidemiologic standpoint. Now, what are we talking about psychologically and then physiologically? Well, trauma is something that happens to an individual in which their emotions become completely overwhelming. So I use the phrase too muchness. It's a state of too muchness where their brain cannot handle it. And then the other important piece is there's no one there for them. Since we're talking about kids to start with, there's no one there to explain the world to them to explain what happened, what's happening, what they're feeling, to give them some sense of being able to think through it. So their nervous system becomes overwhelmed and they literally develop a wound that stays in place. And we can talk about, you go into the weeds about the neuroscience of how that happens, but you're literally forming tracks and connections within the brain that I'm calling a wound, but are really neurological pathways that are holding onto the trauma. And then like people like Bessel Vanderkalken, Geborma Tay, and people like that are talking about that all because our brains are connected with our nervous system, all of that can get stored in our bodies. So a sense of being overwhelmed by something in which we're all alone in it, there's two, it's a sense of too muchness, emotional flooding, and it's going to leave a permanent and long-lasting impact. And then there's a need to either stay away from that, so there's an avoidance component, or else some kind of adaptation if that thing gets repeated over time, so that our personalities and identities actually form around the nidus of that trauma. So that would be my working definition, it's a little lengthy. I mean, I didn't expect anything less if we're being honest, so I feel like there's no real, if you have a really concise answer to that, I would have been more concerned than I would have been like, all right, this is kind of that Instagram psychology, I call it the pop psychology. If you guys listen to the podcast, you know, me and Rook refer to it as that. And it is so, it's so frustrating how I feel, and that is just the world that we live in now with the way that information is transmitted, that people like to take these little bites or this piece of information, and they share it in this way that, in my opinion, and I'm sure you agree, is more harmful, because now, like you said, you're self-labeling, and you're not saying anymore that I have anxiety, like you're saying I am anxiety, you know what I mean? Like I am my diagnosis, or not even, maybe it's a formal diagnosis, like I am what I read here, and oh my gosh, I line up with all these symptoms, and maybe you do, you know, but it's like, I go back and forth on, you know, is that, is that even helpful for a lot of people, right, like to have that label, so to speak, or is that, or are those labels even maybe creating that narrative for them and keeping them almost trapped in there, you know, and that's where I feel like social media can, and just short bites of information in this realm that is so nuanced and so detailed and so specific can be really harmful, you know, like I understand bringing awareness to things, and I'm all about, like, you know, we can't all digest, you know, 10-hour podcasts and read 15 books, like I get that, you know, but it's like, I don't know, I feel like there has to be something that changes, because I feel like it's only been, it's creating more harm than good. Would you agree with that? Well, I want to grab one of the things you said, because I, my opinion is really, really right on, and brilliant for that matter, because when things happen and when we develop certain feelings about ourselves, those feelings we can take on as reality, in other words, someone that might be afraid and have, let's just go back to childhood again, let's say they've had repeated experiences that have been frightening, I don't know, just pick an example, conflict in the home that they've grown up with, I'm just thinking about a patient I just had this week, but there's constant fighting going on between parents, the kids would be in the upstairs, but hearing this every single night, so they'd be afraid to come down in the morning, and that translated into, well, I'm afraid to go to school, and then, what did they get labeled as by the parents? Oh, don't be such a, initially a scaredy cat, don't be such, don't be so afraid, don't be so this, so the person ends up labeling and identifying themselves, they take that, oh, I must be a frightened person, and then they go to the next step is, well, that's part of who I am, and so you hear this all the time, right, that's just who I am, well, no, it really isn't, it's just what you've created because of the work in the environment and the messaging you got from parents. Fast forward a few years, and they go on, and they start going on Instagram and Twitter and places like that, and even psychology for that matter, when they start saying, well, you're, you're, and I don't know, an empath, or you're this, or you're that, well, no, that may be a part of how you feel about yourself, but that doesn't need to define you as a person, as a person, whenever you label something, you demean and diminish the complexity of that human being. Absolutely, and I've had to work really hard to catch myself, like I used to say those things, like about myself, you know, oh, I'm just this way, you know, and it's like, maybe that's true right now, right, and sometimes like being a certain way is a good thing, right, like it's a positive adaptation, however, there can also be those negative things, and you are keeping yourself in that, and that's where, you know, a lot of the, and I love, I love a good personality test, I love a test, I love, I love learning stuff, oh, how does this fit in, because again, it's creating this lens of how you can view things, but it's so like, you can't get attached to that, you know, you can't be like, I am this, plant my stake, and everything goes around that, and you know, I'm like, you know, I generally do not like confrontation, which I'm a very vocal person, I'm pretty, pretty loud, you know, people, people wouldn't think that, but there are certain situations that I very much shut down, right, but if I continue, continuously say to myself, oh, you don't like confrontation, you're not good at this, you can't stand up, you can't, I'm only further creating that narrative for myself to stay in that place, but that's taken, that takes a lot of work to rewire, especially like to your point, if all of this has started early, and there's not, sometimes for traumatic events, I think people can say like, this day, this started happening, right, but then there's a lot of times where you don't, right, like, do you see that where it's like, I don't really know when or why this happened, but it just, that's just kind of how things transpired, and then now, here we are, right, so it's one of those things that it's like, you have to really say like, okay, I'm, if I've been acting this certain way or living through this, this certain lens for five, 10, 20, 30 years, okay, this is going to take a lot of rewiring for me, and, but me, continuously saying these thoughts or keep, I'm keeping myself in this place, but would you say, so I know that we, we touched on this, we talked before the podcast, and what are some of the ways that you see this manifesting physically, because I'm so glad that we talked about this, because I've seen this in my practice, I've talked to Victoria about this, and now I'm hearing you talk about this, and it's something that I've noticed over time, working with clients, how a lot of issues manifest physically, right, but they are this, you know, the, the underlying issue is maybe more trauma-based or psychological-based or stressor-based, but it's manifesting physically, so what are some of the ways that you see that in your practice, because I think that that is, again, this is one of those mind-body disconnects, because people are just being, oh, you have digestive issues, okay, let's just look at this, and I'm like, yes, there are obviously people who have digestive issues, but a lot of people that I've worked with, after we, you know, fix a few things here and there with their diet, we still also need to fix all this other mental work, because that really seems to be the root, so what, what do you see in your practice? Well, let's just start with your example, Lauren, I mean, that's such a common thing, right, I mean, it's impossible to meet somebody that doesn't have a digestive issue of some sort right now, who has had one in the past, so, and I think you're, you're identifying something really important here, because even, even the GI physicians, as well as, well as coaching and so forth, what do we look at? We look at probiotics, we look at prebiotics, we look at diet, we look at timing of food, we look at the kind of food, we look at all, at all of those things, well, all of these things that we're talking about, about, back to your question about how does trauma convert into something physical? There's a cellular and physiologic basis for all of this, that's, the literature is full of, okay, back to the GI system. The GI system is basically an entire specialized tube that, like we were talking about with Florida, changes in its function. Every, listen, anybody who hasn't visited Florida, every hour you drive in any direction is a completely different vibe, a completely different time of person, so we got everything here. No, Lauren, I'm going to say this is only because of your creativity, but I'm now linking the GI system to Florida. So God, please cite me in your next presentation. So thank you for that today. So when we start off in the, when we start off in the mouth and in the pharynx, right, we have a particular kind of tube, the tube is specialized, secretes saliva, it's meant to move food along and move food along into the esophagus, and the esophagus has different cells in it. The esophagus works by peristalsis, moving food into the stomach, and we can go all the way out to a bowel movement with that, whereby each point along the way, the architecture and the musculature and so forth of that GI system changes. And what people look at is the interior of that. They look at the inside of that. They look at what's going on in, you know, is there a leaky gut? Is there a problem with the microbiome? Is there a problem with fiber and so on and so forth? But what's not properly understood, and this goes back to what we were discussing earlier about the entire sort of overall physiology, is that that tube is completely enveloped and surrounded by nerves and by blood vessels. So all the food needs to be moved along from top to bottom, but what's responsible for that are the nerves and the nervous system that connects that. So in other words, if we're feeling stressed and autonomically upregulated, by definition, we're not going to be able to move food very quickly in, first of all, swallowing can become difficult. We're going to feel full. We're going to feel bloated. We're going to have reflux. We're going to... So that's our nervous system impacting the functioning of that muscle. It's nothing to do with what's inside. Everything to do with a nervous system at that point. Following it along the line, though, again, if upregulation of that is actually going to cause an increase in peristalsis in the large intestine. So what happens? People get diarrhea. People get cramps. People will have urgency. People have these alternating constipation diarrhea. Okay, we call it IBS, and then we give medications and change the diet, but it's not really a dietary problem. Although there's a contribution to it, it's not causal. It's caused from our nervous system, and the way the nervous system is wrapping around this tube and signaling back and forth. So that's the easiest place to look at. And when we look at brain body sorts of functioning, what gets super interesting along the way, though, is long-term disease. So we're talking about a functional problem that can be fixed and that can be treated with your methods and some of the things that I might be able to do to help down regulate their nervous system. But then when we look at chronic illness, and again, I refer people to some of DeBourg-Matte's recent book, The Myth of Normal, where he goes into very, very deep studies with respect to some of women's health. I really recommend your audience read some of that because it looks like what we know for a long time is that women have much higher degrees of autoimmune and immune complex disorders, higher degrees of developing dementia, higher degrees of developing depression, higher degrees and all of the complications that come from that. And there's even some linking now in the studies with higher degrees of stress and trauma with things like certain kinds of cancer. We know that there's a very powerful influence on fertility periods, ovulation, et cetera, menarche, age of menarche, how people handle and how they're affected by the last part of their menstrual cycle, do they have PMDD or something such as that. So much of that is stress and trauma based now and the literature is really replete with all of that. We can now track trauma, its impacts on the nervous system that I was starting to talk about to get embedded in the brain with a response that's inflammatory and then a secondary response that's autoimmune where we actually begin producing our own antibodies against their own tissues. So I'm compressing a tremendous amount of information to try to get to your question and we can unpack that for hours literally. But that's the headline. There's many, many illnesses and diseases that are now able to be tracked back, scientifically backed, evidence-based that connect with trauma. Yeah, everything that you said just lines up again with things that I've just continued to see and this is not to downplay that there are actual digestive issues that need to be addressed. Absolutely. Same thing with hormones, right? There's a lot of hormonal issues that people struggle with that can be regulated through diet, training, supplementation, prescriptions, all of that. However, the same thing I see with hormones, I see the same parallels here, right? How someone is feeling physiologically and psychologically like sometimes can be just due to hormones but often it can be due to these stressors and not even just the stressors and trauma but also the stress perception. I'd love to get your opinion on this. I started to see this a few years ago. There's this book again, if you're a client or you've listened to this, you know. I talk about this book all the time. It's called The Upside of Stress by Dr. Kelly McGonigal out of Stanford. It really was the first book that opened my eyes to understanding that it's not necessarily stress. It's our stress perception. Again, these are things that I started to piece together from my own life, as being someone who's a self-described recovery nihilist and can be a little bit I come out of the abyss every once in a while but also someone who can have these kind of negative stress perception. I started to recognize that my clients who were struggling the most with gut issues and hormonal dysregulation were the clients who had negative stress perception. Again, these are things that you can't just work through right away but that having that awareness really is that first step. Would you see that as well, that a lot of times it's not even just the past trauma but it's also the acute how someone continues to respond or I guess that might be a byproduct of the trauma and that's just kind of how you're now responding and that's your default setting. Okay, again, I'm going to put a book on what you just said. So let's separate two things out. Let's separate it in an acute stress response. Right, so what happens in an acute or acute on chronic stress response? You have an up-regulation of your autonomic nervous system. You have an up-regulation of your sympathetic nervous system. You have an up-regulation of cortisol and I do just about for every patient now I track their cortisol for 24 hours cortisol and I match that to their neurotransmitters and we get a very, very good picture of what's happening with their neurotransmitter metabolites and their cortisol and whenever you have a real discrepancy in that HPA axis you're going to have multiple manifestations of it. So back to your point. What method do you use to track that? Sorry, I'm just curious before I forget. Yeah, so for many women that I'm following hormones on I use Dutch and the Dutch test and its different variations will do that 24 hour cortisol. However, that the Dutch is not as specific as something like the ZRT. The ZRT is much better at being able to show more precisely what's happening. But when you have cortisol that's so dysregulated you have to dysregulate the rest of your hormonal system. So what I'm seeing is  disruptions in growth hormone. I'm seeing this increases in inflammatory markers. I'm seeing disruptions in the pituitary functioning where the pituitary is putting out L-H-F-S-H in a cyclical, normal, healthy way. Why? Because you're going to have all of these interferences with stress and the stress byproducts that are produced physiologically with the ability of that HPG axis to properly function. So what happens? Estrogen and progesterone balance gets knocked off. Testosterone in women can be severely depleted, same thing in men, obviously. But testosterone is an underappreciated hormone in women and should be looked at more carefully, in my opinion. But then you start to see when progesterone gets knocked off, you're smiling. That's a whole different conversation. The clinics now with people, and I'm not against HRT or any kind of hormones whatsoever, but it is very scary what is happening there because I think people are recognizing the point that you shared, which is it's important, but people are not regulating enough where I've had clients come back and they're female clients, their test is 1, 2, 300. It's out of control. I understand that there's a process of we've got to figure this out and it takes time, but it's just the negligence and my opinion, I'll get my tinfoil hat on, but I'm like, are you just creating problems so now you keep these clients? Well, the answer is yes, unfortunately. There's too many bad actors because once they see something, and this is partly the internet, partly what we're seeing with nefarious physicians that are trying to monetize things that they know absolutely nothing about. Your testosterone is low. Oh, let's put in some pellets and you're going to come back with a 300. I mean, that's just completely irresponsible malpractice. And I'm so against the extremes that people use in order to monetize these things and they use scare tactics. They use all kinds of other things. Yeah, we can make somebody feel better, but whenever you're improving performance above a certain baseline, you're also really doing a lot of harm underneath by these stupid hacks and they're financially viable. So that's an extreme that's just a really unfortunate. Yes. So I think the broader point though is that whenever we look at stress, we have to be aware of the multiple manifestations of it and how it interferes with normal healthy functioning, how it interferes with allostatic balance, how it interferes with how the rest of us are functioning. Now, the other question that you're bringing up, which is also so salient is how does trauma impact that? Let's take that. Let's walk that back a little bit because I think this part will partly what Kelly's talking about, but maybe I'm not exactly 100% on this. But if we talk about a traumatic event, it's not just the event itself. You can be in a car accident and you can have multiple things happen within that car accident. Maybe the airbag goes off, maybe you're protected, maybe it's very scary and very frightening, but nothing happens internally. So what I consider trauma to be is not the actual accident itself as bad as it is as horrific as that may be, but the impact internally. What injury, what wound, what has it created, where has metaphorically the bleeding occurred, where has the injury occurred? It's the injury inside that, inside the trauma that then has to get scarred around and then adapted to, maladapted to quite frequently, sometimes positively adapted to though. And that injury and the injuries that come about from the trauma have a direct correlation with that stress response later on. Yeah, so it's kind of like it's almost fueling your, like the past experiences are fueling how you presently react, right? And that is creating further adaptations and it's almost becomes this almost, for lack of a better term, like a self-fulfilling prophecy, right? Like you have now, like this happened to you in the past and like now you continue to create and recreate this because of your thoughts. And this is something that I've been diving into so heavily again, just for my own self and then sharing this with clients. And it's really remarkable how we literally can change how much we feel just by like our thoughts, you know what I mean? And it really is everything, like our intentionality and our focus and like where we put our energy and attention. It's actually, it's kind of eerie, you know, like when like you can see it like so quickly like reflected back to you, like, oh my gosh, like I continue to focus on that, like again, positive or negative. And these things actually manifested and happened and were reflected back to me, whether that was an experience or from another individual. And this is something that I've been examining a lot for myself, like, wow, okay, this person was a reflection of what I have always been scared of. But I created that because of how I was acting, right? And it's like, oh my gosh, like, it's real, I am the problem, like, oh my gosh, it really is, like, it's me. And I think that we, you know, obviously, like, there, when we're talking about, especially not just ourselves, but other individuals and interactions, like, there is another person involved, right? And we can't discount how they're acting. But we can only control us and ourselves. And really, like, there are so many things that we create just from our own thoughts. And I guess that kind of goes into that almost like self sabotage idea, which I know in the world of psychology and psychiatry can be debated, you know, some people are like, no, that's not a thing, and other people really ride that. So just kind of curious, what do you, what do you think about that? If I were to say the term self sabotage, what, how do you feel about that? I want to go back to something you just said first, and then, and then move on from there. Because when we, when we take responsibility for something, it's so freeing. Now, there's two ways that we can take responsibility, right? We can take responsibility and beat ourselves up. And we feel bad about ourselves, and we attack ourselves and become self critical. And we developed this whole narrative of our badness, right? On the other hand, if we take responsibility and say, oh, no, I helped to create the situation with this person, I'm even helping to create this mood within myself or maybe even the mood in the other person, you take personal responsibility leads to freedom. Because that leads to your being able to make the change. If you put yourself and put the responsibility on somewhere else, if you, if you crawl into a hole of self pity, if you do other things like that, then you're doing the opposite. Who does that? So it's very, first of all, it's very, very empowering to be able to do what you just described. Now I'm taking your next thought along the line self sabotage. Okay, I'm going to get into the weeds a little bit neurologically if you don't mind for a second. So there, there's some really interesting research that's gone on in the last five years. The unconscious used to be thought of as some Freudian woo woo thing where people didn't really pay attention to it and so forth until the cognitive psychologist got in and started really measuring it. And yes, you can measure the functioning and the speed even of our unconscious brain. I liken it to a processing system in a computer. We're able to process up to 40 million bits of information per second in our unconscious brain for think about that number. And that includes, you know, sensory, it includes emotional, it includes bringing memories in, it includes information that we are just not consciously aware of, but that's how fast that unconscious processing system is. Consciously, we're able to process at the very most for four bits of information per second. That was so underwhelming. Yes. And then when you introduce bias into that confirmatory bias and that sort of thing, well that four shrinks to one or two, because then we want to shrink everything down to make it more understanding or more understandable, right? So we're really just telling ourselves stories about what's going on in our brain. We're playing catch up, telling ourselves stories and trying to catch all of these other things that are going on until we find more methods to be able to access that. But that's the life that we're living and we're living these sort of storytelling lives. And again, I know we're bringing up social media a lot, but that's how the influence creeps in. We bring it up a lot because it's that important. Like it's not that like, you know, like it's, it's actually, it's, I talk about this all the time and I think about this entirely too much. It is, it's honestly very scary to think about how much this has changed everybody's lives. And I mean, obviously, I guess the one solution is to just completely wipe it away, like take it away, but that's never going to happen, right? So it's kind of like, there's really no point in thinking that way. Obviously, there are some people who opt to not live in this kind of a way, but that's a very small minority of people. And it really is just like, I don't even know how we're going to be able to measure the impacts of this type of thing and how it literally is going to change society that has changed society forever and how it's going to continue to change things. Like I don't know where that's going to go, you know, like, like, is it is like the world just going to split? Like, all right, if you're, if you're in this camp, you're going to live over here, you live over here, you're like, right, like, are we just like, it's a very interesting thing to think about. And it is so prolific, which is why bring it up as much as you want, because those effects cannot be talked about enough. Like, I don't think people really recognize the behaviors that it creates, not only just the like, the information that's transmitted, but the compulsive behaviors that it creates. Like I've, I've done two sabbaticals, I call them, where I, because, you know, my business is largely online, right? Well, my whole business is online, and then I create social media content, like, which is the hilarious thing, but I'm like, I hate this. But I'll take these month long breaks where I completely delete Instagram off of, off of my phone. And within the first 24 hours, I mean, I must grab my phone unconsciously. I mean, and it's the first time I did it, I was like, Oh my gosh, this is, this is such a compulsion. It's not as much of an addiction. I think a lot of people deem it as an addiction. I find it's more of a compulsion, right, for a lot of people. And it's a, Oh, I'm uncomfortable right now. Let me grab something. Oh, I don't want to deal with this right now. I'll just self soothe, which is not soothing at all, but I need to distract myself from this lonely feeling or dealing with this emotion. And it's very, very crazy when you actually take it out of your life to realize how much it does affect things. So you can talk about social media as much as you want, because it is so valid. How it is changing everything. Sorry, I totally derailed us. That's so much. Not at all, because I think if we bring this back to mental health and physical health, what's really pushing social media is monetization and popularity. So people will take specific, this is where it gets really dangerous, people will take specific column hacks, I mean, hacks, interventions, whatever, and, and say, Oh, the keto diet, that's all you need to do and everything's going to be fine. Oh, just do breathwork and everything's going to be great. And okay, then you have, you know, X tens of thousands of breathwork followers because you're the breathwork expert, or you have tens of thousands of keto followers because you're the keto expert, we can go on and on. But these are only very, very, very tiny things that influence an entire organism and entire system and entire self. And it may not be the right thing for you. But because it's made to look alluring, you sort of connect with it, right? Oh, and then there's how many people want a shortcut, how many people want a quick answer, how many people want something simple? Most of us in some way, if we're given some simple answer, we're going to jump at it. But that all feeds that whole social media monster. So we're feeding these people that are providing the these kinds of contents without being able, it's very dehumanizing, we stop being able to look internal, we stop being able to find our true stories, our true self, our authenticity, our essence, all of that gets lost. And the further this goes down the line, the more distant we get from ourselves, the more alienated we get from ourselves. So what looks like what started off as a method of connecting and communicating is actually a method of self isolation. Oh, yeah, I would the stuff that's come out about like the loneliness, you know, just in general, like that, that is such a prolific issue now, you know, and that, you know, part of it is just kind of the way that, you know, our worlds are set up. But this digital, the digitalization is not a word of everything, certainly not helped either. But coming back to the self sabotage, thanks, I know I was the one who derailed us. So in terms of self sabotage, would you say that that's something that you find that a lot of people who maybe have had more trauma or had these more kind of, you know, this negative stress perception or this high amount of stress in their life that they create? Or how would you see that that kind of shows up in people's lives? Or would you just completely disagree with that kind of phrasing, I guess? That's part of why I began to talk about the fast brain and the slow brain. Slow brain. Self sabotage almost exclusively occurs beyond our conscious awareness. So for those that have a problem with the term, they're only thinking about some kind of deliberate and conscious self sabotage, which is not very often. I mean, that's very, very rare. I don't know that I've seen that a half dozen times in my career. But for the most part, we repeat patterns, unknowingly, unwittingly, and unconsciously, in which we're ending up hurting ourselves. So in terms of a broad definition, yes, that happens all the time. We end up in the same the same place. And then we end up saying, Oh my God, I'm in the same place again. How did I get here? This could be a relationship. It could be an ailment. It could be an injury. It could be some kind of whatever your case may be. How did I end up here again? But what ended up happening is you're unconsciously repeating emotions, thoughts, behaviors, and so forth that have been there probably for the longest time possible, maybe farther back to you can even remember where the root stuff just started and then develop over time. And that's how I'd probably kind of narrow that definition down. Yeah, that makes a lot more sense. And I like how you phrase that in terms of it is this unconscious behavior for the most part. Obviously, I'm sure there's an example where it's not, but I would agree that's probably why people discount it because they're thinking of these very over situations that just aren't really happening a lot. But when we get a little bit deeper, that makes a lot more sense. So we've talked a lot about trauma and just kind of maybe how manifests differently. But what are some ways that you would kind of start to work through this? Right? Obviously, the first step is awareness, right? People need to be aware, have the awareness that they're repeating these patterns or that maybe something's happened and they need to address it. But like once somebody has gotten that level of awareness, like what are some of the things that you would maybe recommend or that you would start to do in your practice to work through that? So first of all, always starting with the now, always starting with the moment that we're in. So if we continue with the thought that we had before about here I go again, or I'm stuck in something, or I can't quite get there, whatever that may be, the first thing I would bring to that is awareness. B, well, there's actually even a preliminary step, predictability. Predict that you're, if it's happened so many times, predict it's going to happen again. And it's okay that it happens again because we're not in control of it happening again. But the predictability allows us to bring awareness into that moment. So what does awareness mean? It means being aware of what are our thoughts, what are we feeling, what are our body sensations? And this is a very, very big thing that I took out of athletics and working with very high level athletes. We live in our bodies. What are our bodies telling us? So it's physical self-awareness. It isn't just this concept of mindfulness, like what are we thinking? It's what are we feeling from top to bottom? And if we can become aware of what that is in that particular moment, say it's we're about to face a hard decision, and if we find ourselves ramping up, that means that our amygdala and our Olympic system has kind of taken over the decision-making process. And it's going to become an automatic response then. We don't want that. We want to be able to make changes if we're going to get unstuck. So we're, we bring this body brain awareness into it. And then we find methods that you teach very, very well about settling our nervous system, doing some breath work, taking a knee proverbially that I say with my NFL players, just taking a break. And that can be something so simple in an office setting is going in and splashing cold water on your face, anything that just breaks that pattern of upregulation. That allows us to be able to bring our frontal lobes back into being able to be useful to us. So it calms our nervous system down. Now we can begin to think our way through. Okay, so that's, that's what we do in a particular moment. Lauren, with these sorts of things that I find most helpful. And then we've got all these other practices along the way that you, that we've talked about with the meditation, the tanks, the hot, the cold, sunlight, and all of those other things that can just kind of bring things down in general. And then we get into the the deeper parts of this. We get into how do we show up and become most authentic? How are we defining authenticity? So many of our layers of adaptation, we're actually burying what we, what our true selves really are. And, you know, there's one thing that says we were smiling about ahead of time, we were talking about, there's one way you can learn about yourself, but you there's only one way in to learn yourself. So understanding and being aware. And then following that being able to be authentic. The next one is, in my opinion, is, and this is one that may surprise some people is anger. So much of suppressed anger, especially the way women are conditioned. And that's another, I'm talking about as little girls to not show your anger, to not be angry. So much of suppressed anger shows up in illness later on. But anger is the definitive expression of being able to say no with force at that moment. So being able to bring that into whatever that whatever is going on. And then that could mean no, I'm not going to go there. No, I'm not going to have that drink. No, I'm not going to go and do something I don't really want to do to please somebody. But there has to be a hard no that you bring into your repertoire. However, the path to doing that the path to healing is really different for everybody. I never sort of provide a sort of a one size fits all because there's no one size. And there is no one person that we can that's effective for everybody else, right? So everyone's favorite answer, it depends. Well, you know what, I liken this a little bit to natural childbirth. And so stay with me for a minute, because natural childbirth has to unfold on its own. The same way that becoming aware of ourselves and finding out who we are has to be our own journey. And we have to go in and we have to go back. Wow. See, I gave you the Florida analogy. Now I like that analogy. So we just swapped analogies. That is so true, though, because I mean, think about how many times like if someone is, you know, we can see on the outside like this person should make a change, not even like for our own benefit, but like, man, like it would be so great if they would be able to change that's so obvious to us. And even for ourselves, like maybe we know, you know, kind of intuitively, all right, maybe I should be making some changes. But until you've decided to make that change, it's not going to happen. You know, I mean, like the individual has to decide like, all right, I'm going to go within. And I have to be the one who is ready to make this change. Like you can't force anybody to do to do that, because they might try, you know, okay, I'll go to a few therapy sessions, or I'll try this breathwork, or I'll do it, you know, I'll start eating healthier for a few weeks, you know, like it's like all that. But if they're not doing it, because they want to make that change, it's really, really hard to make any long term kind of substantial difference. Critical point in this conversation, because without commitment, there's no progress in anything. And I think most people want to get better, but then people have blocks internally. And this may be part of the loop back to the self sabotage part two, because how many people are actually going to follow through with, say a New Year's resolution, right? I mean, we're blocked to committing to ourselves. But those blocks are largely unconscious. And that's what we have to get to. Because if we know what to do, if we know what's going to make us feel better, if we know what's going to make us more successful, whether it's in relationships and intimacy and loving or work or whatever the case may be, even our own personal fitness, we have to be committed to that. But in order to be committed to that, we have to sweep away the blocks that are blocking our commitment. Absolutely, which is certainly the part that takes time, you know, which is why, you know, a lot of the people that I work with, and I'm sure you two have been, you know, self described chronic dieters, you know, and it's, you know, I've tried this and I've tried that. And obviously, there are undeniable metabolic and hormonal adaptations that are happening that do compound over time that make, you know, fat loss and achieving a body and health composition that you like, much more challenging. But I do think that a lot of it comes down to this really like embodiment of this commitment of like, no, like, I no longer want to be this type of person that goes back to, I guess, kind of the beginning, like, I don't want to shoot like, I, this is who the type of person that I want to be, right? And like creating that, that new identity in this positive sense, you know, I mean, like, this is the type of person that like, I want to be in like, I am this kind of person. So I make these kind of decisions. And that is how people are actually going to be able to sustain that change. So I know you, you know, have a an amazing practice, just kind of walk us through a few options that you've seen, especially in the realm of trauma that that would make, again, general, right, everybody's going to be different. But generally, what you find to be the most beneficial, I guess, for, for a large majority of people, kind of in this, this space. Well, I think this is where some of our work is complementary, because I too believe in the foundational aspects of things. So whenever anybody comes in, that's a new patient, I look at all of their labs, for example, I look at all of their physiology, I look at their blood labs, I look at their neurotransmitters, look at their 24 hour cortisol, and then develop, we develop practices that are very foundational, that are very sort of coaching based practices to get people because to get people healthier, because once people are able to get to become healthier, then they're, they're, they have an increased resilience of dealing with the tough stuff to come. So that's, that's kind of a very solid foundational place to start. But at the same time, I feel that people really are hungry for connection, don't know how to find real connection. And as we were talking about, it needs to be a safe connection. So they need trust, they need safety, they need to feel like I'm really present with them and I really care, because that's why I do this work. And that's why I, I mean, I really do care. And it's something that I put, you know, heart and soul into. And, but without that, you can't face the really tough stuff that goes on inside. So that's, that's how I start to sort of build the relationships. And then I begin to think about putting myself as much in the moment with the patient as I potentially can. And this is after, okay, so this, the other one is maybe in the meantime, as we're doing that work, we've also found some things that we can correct in their physiology. So we're doing that part. I'm not anti pharmacology, but I'm certainly not pro pharmacology, sometimes a medications needed, but only as sort of an adjunct, I say it's a sprinkling of seasoning at times of a medication has helped a lot of people. But as so that part is going on, but I'm working directly in a very different realm with somebody else. The next part I open up with them is the idea of compassionate inquiry. So so many people get angry at themselves upset with themselves, put themselves down, a critical and particularly with trauma, we always want to blame ourselves because, hey, we can't blame the people that we rely on and depend on to survive, right? So the natural fallback is to say, Oh, it must be my fault. And it must be my I must have done something. And people carry that with them. So instead of being self critical, can we open up a way to say, Okay, how can I if I make a mistake, if I say something dumb, if I make a faux pas socially, if I do something that were if I relapse with a drug or something of that sort, can I back off and say, that's really sad. Why did I do that? And begin to examine ourselves from a compassionate space rather than a judgmental space. And once you begin to layer these things on to into daily life, then different things will begin to happen. I also really recommend I know this is over talked about the journaling and getting your getting your thoughts down at the end of the day. In a way, pen and paper, not computer, because that the physicality of the pen and paper actually transmits more of your emotions through your hands than it does through a keyboard. So and you begin to see patterns in all of that as they come up. And then people will bring them in and talk about them with me. And then as we were talking about before, I began beginning to use ketamine, a fair amount to in order to begin to access that 40 million bits of information per second, the much quicker way, and be able to open up on things that have been buried that are unconscious and so forth. So I use that a lot now with trauma with patients, find that extraordinarily helpful. So the idea is to create kind of a narrative in a in a context in a nest of acceptance and trust, they begin to understand our we begin to understand ourselves and be able to understand and become much more aware we were kind of opening up spaces of enlightenment into ourselves as to why we're doing what we're doing. That then goes back to that idea of empowerment, we become more empowered and in control in our lives. So I mean, there's much, much more that goes into this. But I would say the general principles that's kind of speaks maybe to your question. Yeah. And I think that that's a really great breakdown because there's some things that like you said, it can start from the present moment, you know, what you're doing in that exact moment to practices you can do on a daily basis like journaling to then obviously the physiology and the behaviors and then, you know, maybe some some pharmaceuticals involved, and you know, potentially something like Academy and assisted therapy and all that. But all coming from that place of like acceptance and understanding and and really  and alimidiculocyte count. And that's one of the things that I'm really trying to figure out what to do moving forward. And I think that that's so great. And we could definitely feel like we'd need a part two for so many other things because this was so incredible. And I appreciate your time so much and I know everybody listening certainly will as well. So is there a space or a place that you would recommend directing people for either information that you've put out or your services, plug and share away? Much on Instagram, but the reasons we're talking about. I get it. So however, I like to blog. There's a lot on my website, the Militik Center. I've got a bunch of podcasts out there as well. And if people want to contact me, feel free through the website. And I'm actually happy to have either myself or a staff member if I'm busy, answer your questions within 24 hours and get back to you. I like to be very forward facing and very interactive with the people I'm meeting. So I'm pretty easy to get to. Well, I appreciate your time and attention so much. And I know everybody got so much out of this. So please, if you guys listening enjoyed the show, share it. Let us how we get our message across for any other inquiries about coaching or information that we have. You can visit teamlogofit.com. And I will certainly put your information in the show notes as well so people can easily access that. So once again, thank you so much for coming on and everybody listening, share the show and hope you have a great rest of your week.

=== FILE: Episode 279： 5 Losing Strategies of Relationships [GmfxgUFytc0].txt ===

 welcome back to another episode of the Look-O-Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlin, and this week I'm joined by Rick, our team mental health counselor, to talk about the five losing strategies of relationships. I feel like this sounds so serious, and I'm very excited to dive into this. And Rick is also gonna provide a bonus for the winning strategies. He was very pleased to tell me that. I'll give the bonus of the winning, like, okay, thanks, I guess. Kidding, listening, like, this is what I'm doing wrong. What do I do now? That is very true, right? There's like all the, far of losing, that's what I feel like it's like, the five losing strategies, like it's just, I feel like it's like an infomercial, but I'm excited, let's dive into it. Okay, so the five losing strategies in five winnings. I kinda wanna guess, but I don't wanna. Take a guess, what do you think? I don't know, now I'm put on the spot and I got nervous. We all know how you love to answer questions on your own podcast. Lack of communication, maybe that's one of them. Or is that too broad? That's pretty broad. What? But don't worry about it. We'll get into it. You're like, no, you lose. I mean, lack of communication, of course, is a bad omen within a relationship, right? I mean, it's not gonna help anything, but we'll talk about communication a little bit in this. So when we talk about losing strategies, oh, and this is Terry Reel or Terrence Reel. He's another relationship therapist, counselor. He's written books. You know, I definitely would recommend some of his material. I think he's pretty good when it comes to identifying certain things. In particular, one of the things that, you know, when I'm working with couples is understanding what some of the strategies are because we can fall into these patterns and some of the patterns can also be personality traits that we see in people. And so recognizing within yourself if you do some of these things, you know, that they can be harming the relationship and all of these strategies eventually lead to just, not necessarily breakups, but just very unhappy relationships. Hero, I don't wanna talk about it, I mean. Is that who I'm thinking of? Hero, I don't wanna talk about it. Oh my God, isn't that the only book? Yeah, yeah, yeah, and I'm trying to remember if he did. It's like the, you know, about the book on male depression. Yes, okay. I'm pretty sure that's him. I'm pretty sure. Don't quote me. I can grab my phone and look real quick. No, it's fine. All right, so let's just get right into it. Losing strategies within a relationship. The first one is being right. Oh. Oh. Okay, so what is being right? It's an overwhelming need to be right all the time. We've all seen this, we've all heard this in couples and in people we know. There is a need. And if you haven't, you're the one. Just saying. If you're like, I don't know anybody, no, it's you. Right. It's definitely you. Well, sometimes we've seen couples that like are just, they argue incessantly and the arguing is just about being right. It's like, I've got to prove my point. I'm right, you're wrong. I'm superior, that kind of thing. I would never do that. So I can't really relate. Keep like that. So in being right, this need is so strong that it kind of overrides all the other priorities of the relationship, right? When you sit down and you talk to somebody when they're not arguing, when they're not in the space, you're like, what are the goals and priorities of the relationship? And they're like, oh, it's this and build peace and like have a life together and a future and all these wonderful things. And it's kind of like, well, all that gets thrown out the window when there's an argument and they want to be right. And so the other person who is in the relationship, if you're always right, oftentimes what can happen is it leaves the other person feeling belittled and disrespected and completely undervalued in the relationship. And they really don't feel like the people that their partner values them or cares about their opinion or their feelings or their needs because the only thing that seems to matter is this feeling of superiority and being right. And very often being right doesn't actually change anything in the relationship, okay? And if you've heard me talk about this before, go back to some of our like managing conflict episodes. When I talk about there's two truths in a relationship, right, there's not your truth, my truth and the truth is somewhere in the middle. There's your truth and there's my truth and they're both equal. And so if you're always being right, you're ignoring and you're stomping on what my truth is. And you're basically saying that I don't matter. And I would say that, correct me if I'm wrong, but probably the two most common responses to this for the partner, right, like the other partner would be either it's gonna shut down and they're just gonna be like, okay. And just completely disengaged, just associate. Or that makes the other person really like on edge and wanting to also then be right. For really no other reason than like, well, if you're gonna attack me, then I'm gonna like fight back. So what would you say is more common and is there a third person? It depends, but like, again, this is where I feel like we're getting into a space where some of the material that we've talked about is starting to overlap. So we go back to Gottman, right? What are the four horsemen of the apocalypse? Complaining versus criticizing. Well, if we're arguing and I'm being right and I'm stomping on your opinions, the next horseman is defensiveness and it starts to make you defensive and you start to argue back. And what happens as a result of two couples arguing? Underlying feelings of contempt set in. I get angry at you, you get angry at me, and guess what happens? We stonewall, which means we withdraw from the relationship, right? This is kind of like paint by numbers at a certain point. You know, it's like, well, it's not paint by numbers in the sense like, once you're aware of what the dynamics are, well, now it becomes. It's like, it's not hard to see. It's hard to interrupt. It's hard to stop. It's hard to change. It's hard to communicate differently. It's hard to stop being right all the time. But, you know, people start arguing about whose view is more accurate and it just kind of fuels this like self-righteousness, this self-righteous indignation within the relationship and it does nothing to serve the relationship. And so sometimes it's like, you know, the simple question of, do you want to be right? Or do you want to be in a relationship that works? And this doesn't mean that you need to be like, walked all over and never have an opinion or anything like that. But there's a big difference of like speaking and like having opinions and having thoughts and being open versus like, no, I'm right. And it comes more so from that like, I'm winning and I'm gonna crush you kind of mindset, right? Like at all costs, doesn't matter. Like I'm going to win, so to speak, this discussion. And it definitely takes a lot of reflection because I feel like it's so easy, especially if you're someone who is just like, gets keyed up by other people to be like, well, I'm not just gonna sit here and take this. You know, even if you don't really have the right position on something, you're just like, well, I'm gonna be defensive now because you're coming at me, I'm not gonna sit here. So I feel like it's just a, it is a losing strategy for sure. Big loser strategy, biggest loser strategy. And it becomes, honestly, it becomes exhausting. You know, even if you're not in a relationship. Yeah, it's just like, you can look at a person who you know always thinks that they're right. And you're just like, how many times do you avoid the conversation with them? You just don't even bring stuff up because it's like, I'm walking on eggshells. This person isn't gonna hear me, so there's no use. And that's so frustrating as in a relationship or even as a friendship, you're just like. Well, it becomes exhausting and you just don't wanna deal with it. And so the relationship ends up suffering. You don't feel as close to the person, you just put like a way in withdrawing, et cetera. So that's losing strategy number one. Losing strategy number two is controlling your partner. Right, attempting to control your partner. Being controlling takes this kind of like a step further. A partner who becomes overly controlling when they try to perhaps change your behaviors, when they try to change your thoughts, when they try to make decisions for the relationship that match their own, right? This clearly starts to communicate to one partner that one partner doesn't trust their capabilities or the decisions or have really strong faith in what the other person is capable of doing because now I'm attempting to control everything that you're doing, right? There's no autonomy left for you and the relationship. There's just me, what I want and what we're going to do because I'm going to control every aspect of it. Yeah, I've never seen that work well. Like never in one, any kind of relationship, I've never wants to see that be like a winning strategy. No, no, I will say again, there's a balance, right? Like if somebody is in a relationship and like, let's say like finances is something that people struggle with, right? But let's just say one person is like a financial planner, right? So they're definitely going to have more understanding of like the markets, options, things like that. But it doesn't mean that you make the decisions and give that other person no opinion. You say, all right, like you can sit down and you can be like, look, even though this is my field and I know what I want to do with our money, like here's why I want to do it. And here's why this option or these three options are better than these two options. Like, and this is why I want to put it in, you know, these investments or these strategies or whatever. And so if the other person's like, well, you know, my dad had put money in something like this and he lost everything when I was a kid, you want to be aware of those dynamics and you want to listen to what your partner is saying. And so sometimes it's like, okay, are there other options? Like maybe you were saying this, but money in these three, can we do these two and then figure out a third option? You know, that's something that I would feel more comfortable with like maybe these are aggressive and I'm more of a conservative person and I want like to feel like our money is kind of safe. It's like, okay, is there some compromise there? Yes. And if you're the expert, find another solution for it, right? So sometimes we can fall into these patterns where it's like, oh, well, it's money, so they deal with the money. Or it's, you know, when it comes to parenting, they're doing all the parenting and because it's, you can kind of fall into these gaps. And so sometimes we have a tendency to stop talking and communicating with our partners and we become way too controlling. We end up making decisions for the both of us rather than having like a partnership where we're both talking, we're both communicating. And it's up to me to be able to explain why maybe these strategies are better. In whatever capacity we're talking about. Does that make sense? Yeah, so it's not even just like overtly like, oh, I'm going to like make sure that you don't go here and that you only speak to these people. Like the really, really extreme examples of control. And there's definitely a dynamic, like you said, like some people are just gonna be better at certain things. Like that person's gonna take the lead in certain areas of the relationship and then vice versa. Like that makes sense and that's just kind of normal. But there is like that kind of slippery slope, right? To where it's like, oh, I'll just handle all this. And then it's like, maybe it's working for a while, but then a few years later, the person's like, I haven't been included in this at all. And then it's like, well, I didn't think that you wanted to be or needed to be. And then those kinds of things kind of bubble up after a while, even if they didn't seem like they were maybe a big deal. And that's where I guess that communication and having someone involved in that like partnership makes sense. And also the partner can be like, cool, I really don't care. Thank you for telling me, but like, I want you to continue to do this, right? And then if they're totally fine with that, then it's like, okay, that's not a controlling, because control is one sided. Exactly. Yo's gonna say, if that's the case, if you're yielding control, if you're like, hey, do me a favor, you just take care of all this, great. Then it's not a control. It's like, okay, I'm stepping aside. I don't want to deal with this, that's you. So there's a difference in that. But controlling your partner can be both direct or indirect manipulation depending on how you want to look at it. And no one really likes to be controlled, right? And so being aware of if you're like that type A person who really likes to come in and make decisions, your behavior can be perceived as controlling, especially if you're not giving the opportunity for the other person to give feedback. If you're not talking to them, if you're not processing things as a couple, if you're not working together to create solutions together, right? You don't want to just be making decisions for the couple without that kind of communication. So here's the third one. I'm not like the edge of my seat, but it's like, I'm not even getting, I'm like, what are the five strengths? You're thinking which ones are about me? It's like a game show. No, I'm just like so intrigued. Okay, the third one. God, I don't have that thing of an ego, Rick. Jesus, I'm just curious. You did roll your eyes at the first one though. You were like, oh God. Oh, I mean, it's just kind of, it's funny. All right, so the kind of lands, but not really. The third one is what we call unbridled self-expression. Unbridled, unbridled. And I love that word. I'm gonna use this phrase now, unbridled self-expression. So what does it mean? It is kind of like this lack of restraint with one person's negative emotions. And they kind of just continuously project and display all of their emotions all the time. And they're just expressing themselves all the time in a very negative way. Does that make sense? Okay. It would be like an example. Because I feel like I get it, but just in case. Okay, saying whatever on your mind all the time with absolutely no kindness or respect. Mm, okay, yeah, I feel like a lot of people have experienced that. The tendency also communicates the overall health of the relationship is constantly susceptible to being upset, right? There's no real stability within the relationship. And it also shows that like the other person's feelings, take a back seat, right? If I express myself all the time with absolute no regard for you or in any kind nature, like there's, you know, you've heard people say like, with all due respect, like, and then they go on and they say their opinion, but they're at least trying to be somewhat respectful, but respectful, I'm sorry, it's early. But they're trying to be clear. Keep an eye out for hours at this point. Not, you can't use the early excuse. It doesn't matter, I can't talk early in the morning. So I can, I can. Strategy number six, interrupting. Yeah. Call Terry Reel at a chapter to his book. Here's an appendix that I wrote for you, please. But this is in the second edition. Yes. So this would be maybe someone who is highly neurotic, right, like a lot of negative emotion, a lot of volatility kind of in their emotion. And like you said, you're kind of now expected to like, just you're almost like dumping on people constantly, right? And that gets exhausting again in any kind of relationship, whether it's romantic or just kind of friendships. And, you know, everybody goes through different periods of time where like, life is really hard, right? And so sometimes you have to give people a pass, right? Like I know there's been times where like, I've been there for people where like, I'm like, I know you're just going through it. So like every time we talk, it's probably gonna be something crazy. And I know that I've also been that friend at some point. Because it's just like, oh my gosh, there's so much happening right now. And I just like, but I've realized it. And I'm like, oh, okay, like I was maybe acting in this way. And like that's not always fair for that other person. I always have to like hear that, you know, every time I'm around them or whatever. So it is, there is a level of awareness here that I think is super important. Because sometimes we don't really realize that we're doing this or, you know, how that's making other people feel essentially. But I'm a bright old self expression. I just love this term, even though it's a negative thing. Well, and to piggyback a little bit on what you're saying, I think there's a difference between recognizing when a person is in a situation, right? So there's situational times where these behaviors may present themselves, but we're talking about more or less a consistent pattern within the relationship, right? And you do have that where you're like, people will be talking in a room, right? About a topic. And then that person walks in or you're within your relationship and they just start blurting out their opinion. They don't care. And you're just like, oh my God. Oh God, here we go. And so you have ended up avoiding and withdrawing. And if it can be the same way, if it's your spouse or your husband or wife or whoever it is, it's just kind of like, I don't even wanna talk because all that's gonna happen is you're just gonna step over me. You don't care about my feelings. And so it just becomes this really toxic trade. Or you don't know what they're gonna say. And you're like, whoa, oh gosh. What's it gonna be today? It might be nothing, but it could be a lot of something. Yeah, and so what you begin to see is in these five losing strategies, sometimes they can very easily flow into each other, right? And so it's like, when someone always has to be right, right? That leads into them wanting to control what the other person is doing. And controlling what the other person is doing also means you're expressing yourself in these really negative terms and you have these kind of unrestrained displays of emotion that get to be too much for people. And these types of behaviors also indicate that that person's not really secure in establishing their own boundaries, let alone honoring the boundaries of their partners and having limits on this stuff. You really wanna be aware of what your own behaviors are. And some of this stuff can be very consistent with certain personalities. And so recognizing who you're in a relationship with is very important because some of these things require insight and some people just aren't gonna have that insight into their own behaviors. And so, you know, like you, this can be very daunting for some couples to really overcome. And it can be difficult for people to be like, for just the first one, like I'm right. And if I'm right, it's the better solution. How can I accept any other, like why would I agree to doing something that's not as good? You see where that comes from, right? And so it's like rational and logic, sometimes don't play a role in how to connect to a partner. And I need, I would like people to really understand that concept because when people start arguing, they get to this space of like logic and reason and it doesn't work that way. That's not how you connect to people. Yeah, okay. So the next strategy, the fourth one, is what we call retaliation, okay? Now, what is retaliation? Retaliation is basically, like how do I wanna put this? When an emotionally unhealthy person experiences failed attempts at managing the relationship through such behavior, retaliation becomes the next obvious strategy. And this is where they start to hurt the person. They start to offend the victim's position. It can be overt, it can be passive, it can be done in a lot of different ways. And so this is where, when we see the first three losing strategies, picking up speed, or if they're not able to control or manipulate the relationship in those terms, this is where it starts to get to. And when you retaliate against your partner, whether that's putting them down or offending them or making them feel like they're the victim in the relationship, you're not helping the relationship. You're hurting that person. And you're in fact, this is where real problems start to occur within the relationship. It starts to get torn down. It starts to, you know, arguments and fights and emotional disconnections start to become a real big problem at this phase. Yeah, that, again, I understand, but I wanna maybe have like an example. And of course, it's probably gonna, actually with that other part, I was thinking and it didn't come out right. Sorry, I didn't know, this is a rough one. So that makes sense, but what is maybe an example that we could give everybody listening in terms of, cause I feel like retaliation is a really like harsh word, which obviously this is a harsh situation, but you know, outside of some maybe really abusive situations, like most people are not gonna be doing things that are like super outlandish in terms of what we might think about in terms of retaliation. So like, I guess, maybe it's like an emotional retaliation tactic, like as an example. So an example might be, I'm gonna make you feel what I feel. Okay. Right? And so when you approach a situation like that, you're not, this isn't about understanding, this is about punishing you. And that's what I wanna do. That is so hard. Like anybody who's been in a tough situation like that, like in a relationship, you're like, I want you to know how I feel, like how you made me feel. But ultimately that doesn't ever change anything. There's a difference between- I'm still not getting it. No, no, no, you are. There's a difference between expressing to somebody through communication and saying like, look, I would really love for you to understand what this made me feel, versus me making you feel what I felt. So now there's a difference between me trying to elicit some level of empathetic response from you by helping you understand how your actions made me feel, versus I'm gonna make you feel what I felt. So this is kind of like two wrongs, don't make a right here. So if I was wrong, it's up to me to start to express that. And it's up to the other person to be open enough to receiving it. And the fifth one is going to be withdrawal. And so obviously this scene is shutting down and pulling away from the relationship. And so when we talk about the four horsemen of the apocalypse, which is again, Gottman, we get to the fourth horseman. Well, what is that? And so it's literally stonewalling. And stonewalling is shutting down, pulling away from the relationship, not communicating with each other. This is taking timeouts or reasonable distance. This comes from retaliation. Obviously when a person is intentionally hurting you, you no longer wanna be around them. Yeah, I will definitely say that this is absolutely one of the hardest things that I personally struggled with because whenever I get confronted with something, especially repeatedly, I'm just like, okay. And then I just shut down. And cause I don't wanna deal with it. And especially in a situation that maybe is more like highly elevated, unbridled self expression. I love this. I'm so gonna weave this into things. If it's a situation like that, then I'm just kinda like, mm-hmm. And this goes for any kind of relationship. Like I just don't wanna deal with it. And I obviously know that that's not a good strategy. It's quite the losing strategy, but it's what feels comfortable to just like completely disengage. And I know that there's a lot of people who certainly feel that way because it's just like, oh, I just would rather not confront this. And that's especially true when you're dealing with, like if one person is the more confrontational person than the other person is just like the more like, sure, but what's the opposite? Well, if you have one person who's a little bit more aggressive and the other person's a little bit more passive. And that can just be like the constant. And that goes for any relationship that goes for, you know, family relationship that goes for friendships. You kinda see that play out pretty, pretty commonly. Yeah, absolutely. So what are the winning strategies? No, I gotta know, no, I gotta know. Let's go into some of the winning strategies. And so the first one is, and again, this is kind of, you start to see where some of the treatment and some of the different philosophies of different people overlap. The winning strategies are going, they say shifting from complaints to requests. And if you remember from the Four Horsemen, they talk about changing criticisms to complaints. And so slightly different language, but like, so a complaint to a request is, to me, it's essentially saying the same thing. Like stop judging the person and start making more requests to the person. So in this particular strategy, he says, you know, learn how to speak and ask for what you want instead of taking what you want or being controlling to get what you want or, you know, start talking over the person. Like express your needs appropriately, make your requests specific, make them behavioral if you need to, but also make them reasonable. Understand that are you giving space and consideration for the other person? Okay. Step number two would be speak to repair with love and respect. Okay. And now this can be done a lot of different ways, you know, but so some of the steps for, you know, that Terrence Reel kind of identifies and some of his stuff would be contract with your partner to engage in a 10 minute dialogue or repair the conversation. We've done a podcast on, you know, managing conflict where we talk about repair strategies within arguments and discussions. Remind yourself that you love this person and that you're building a life together, right? We use these phrases a lot of times in the, in relationships that people talk about them and they're like, oh, I want to build a life with this person and I want to create these memories up until it comes to a point where you're building it together or you just having this person fit into your model. And so, you know, there's like this thing. Damn, yeah. Okay. So using the four steps. Everybody's talking all about that. Of the feedback wheel, he calls it. What I saw, what I heard. Feedback wheel, I don't like that. Feedback wheel. Four steps to it. Does it losing that? Well, this is what I saw, what I heard. Losing the analogy. What I made up about it, how I felt about it and what I would like, right? So you're, a lot of times, one of the keys to understanding somebody is being able to repeat back to them in some paraphrased version of what they heard. Now this can be done like to reflective listening or mirroring and we can get into what those techniques are maybe at a different kind of podcast. Yeah, that would be a really great one. Active listening kind of. Yeah. And I always try and encourage people and I've been on this kick more and more lately is letting go of the outcome. Oftentimes we focus so much on the outcome and not the process and not the journey of getting there that we lose sight of what the real goal is which is to build the relationship. It's not to win. And I think sometimes people are just stuck in this space where I've got to be right, I've got to win. Like I've got to feel superior and oftentimes that comes from a space of insecurity and inadequacy within them. But they'll never admit that because that would require insight into their own actions. So one of the other winning strategies, the third winning strategy would be to listen with compassion and this is what we talk about listening with empathy. This is being able to understand where your partner is coming from. This is why I tell people there's two truths in a relationship, your truth and their truth and they're both equal. I don't care what you say. You can tell me like no, they're stupid or they don't know anything and that says more about you than it does them. Their truth matters. So the objective becomes listening to understand the person, not just to win. You don't have to agree. I was gonna say like the big part of listening and understanding someone or trying to understand their perspective does not necessarily mean that you have to agree. And I don't know like where the world got off track that everybody thinks that we all have to agree about everything. And this goes again for intimate relationships. This goes for family. This goes for friendships. This goes for society. Not everybody has to agree with everything but being able to have a dialogue and be able to listen and be like, maybe I came into this with some biases or presumptions. But I'm gonna listen. We're gonna have a conversation. I'm going to hopefully ask some questions, continue the dialogue and then maybe we still leave and go okay, that opened my eyes to this or maybe I still don't agree but like, hey, we're cool. Like it's okay. And I think that that is so important. You can listen to people and still not agree with them. Can you do it respectfully? Yes. And so one or two of the little tricks of this would be acknowledge what you can acknowledge. Usually we don't disagree on the whole thing. No. We usually disagree on one or two or smaller steps within this process. And then give whenever you can. Remind yourself, right? Like this is the person that you're with. This is your home. This is your life. This is how you exist. This is not a person you're trying to conquer at work. Right? And even then, hey. This is the person that you live with. So compromise is okay. It's okay to find a middle ground with the one person you've chosen to spend your life with. So find that middle ground and acknowledge what you can when you can. So it's kind of like, okay, we can agree. We have these things in common. Great. What are the things that we disagree on? Now we can focus on just this part. Okay. Step number four, empower each other. Acknowledge the gifts of other people and what they offer and what they bring to the table. Ask what you can do to help that other person and deliver what they're asking for. Sometimes they can't.  concession to be made is that you just may be back down and allow this person to be right and take this in their direction. And what you'll oftentimes recognize is there's more than one way to get to point B, right? It's not always just your way, even if it is the most logical or reasonable or most efficient or, you know, it's kind of... Oh yeah, and that speaks to so much of what we do with coaching and consulting and counseling. Yes, there probably is a faster way, right? You could be like, all right, I'm sitting across from a client and being like, all right, if we were able to do these things in this timeframe, it would make your life a lot easier. But maybe that's not where that client is at right now. Maybe that's not... Like, while it's our timeline, it might not be their timeline. And so I think that it's so important, like, just in general, to recognize that through any relationship that you're dealing with. Because we can often have that... Our own thing that we think is the best. Because it might be. Like realistically, it might be. But that person has to also be willing to do that. So that goes for any relationship. Yeah, and, you know, 100%. 100%. The last step would be cherishing each other. Oh, cute. Right, there's the cute one. And so giving your partner specific positive feedback and appreciations daily, you guys have heard me say this. There should be a five to one positive to negative ratio within a relationship. That means, you know, when you're having, for some of the people who have worked with me or who have worked and understood the Godman, I think I've even talked about it. And I don't remember if we've talked about it on podcasts, about state of the union addresses and what that means. I guess we'll cover that in another one. Yeah, that sounds also equally as interesting. So what are these names? I've talked. State of the union. I know. I've talked about being able to, part of the state of the union address is sitting down and telling the person, you know, couples should have like a weekly meeting, basically. Kind of the state of the union, like how's, what's the status of our relationship. And in that process, you're going to sit down and you're going to talk about four things, four or five things that the person did that were really great. Like hey, this week, thank you for picking up the coffee. Like on Tuesday, you know, you made the bed this morning. Thanks Rick. I appreciate them. You really just wanted a little confidence. Like cherish me. Whatever it was that you did for the other person that went totally unrecognized. This is your spot to recognize and appreciate that individual in your life and what they do getting up early and making changes to their schedule, whatever. But hey, you know, nourishing the relationship, paying attention to the things that they do and building on strengths. And I feel like when couples argue a lot, what ends up happening is, is they're arguing and they get to a space where they finally stop arguing. And so what happens is the presence or the absence of difficult times becomes the stone or not the stone, the standard for a good relationship. And it's like, no, like just because we're not arguing doesn't mean that this is as good as it gets. Like I want to build in a space that is positive. And so again, if we're going back to that emotional account, bank account for the relationship, like every good thing that we do, everything that we recognize, little love notes, little massages, little touches, little quality time, you know, whatever it is, you're investing back into the relationship. And so what ends up happening when there is an argument, when there is a big deal, you have money in your account to take out and pay for that negative thing without going to zero. And you just keep building the relationship from a positive perspective rather than just the absence of chaos is good. Right? Yeah, that's better than being in the depths of the chaos, but we can get a little better than that. Let's set our sights higher than that. Pay attention to these strategies, you guys, if this is you and a relationship, like if being right and unbridled self-expression and retaliation, all lead to withdrawal, all lead to hurting the relationship and ultimately lead to separations and divorce or breakups. So hopefully you guys can, you know, these at least start opening doors and conversations and dialogue to have with your partner. Again, some of these can be very personality specific. And so you just really want to be, you know, persistent and patient with each other. Yeah, this is definitely one of our podcasts, like the last one we recorded on impulse control. So it's not something that you can apply immediately. And of course, depending on what the impulse is, there's going to be a longer timeframe, but generally speaking, like that's like a pretty quick one. This kind of stuff is going to take a while to unpack, right? Because you might be hearing this and might not even be really aware of how you are even acting in these ways. Right? Like that takes a lot of just introspection and like time and reflection. So like this is something if you're listening, you know, for yourself or for your partner or whatever it might be, like these, these are going to take some time to work through. This is not going to be like a quick fix, which none of the stuff we talked about, but some things are much faster to implement. Like change your environment. Okay. Can do that right away. And for something like this, that could certainly be a part of it, but it's going to take a lot of just unearthing to figure out like what is even happening? I guess first, how am I even doing this? How am I even acting? And that's kind of, that's a big process. Well, yeah, like when we talk about the stages of change, right? Like between the stages are like pre contemplation, contemplation, et cetera. The very first stage of change is if the person stuck in a space of denial, right? Essentially. And so with this, if a person can read these things or hear these things and recognize, yes, this is me, like they're out of that first stage. But if they're like, no, that's not me. Like we're stuck in that very first stage of denial. So getting somebody out of that stage is you can't produce any change if a person's unwilling to recognize that a problem exists. So the first idea is to get somebody to recognize that a problem exists and these are slightly bigger problems in a relationship. But if you're like, oh, I've been in multiple relationships, I've never changed anything and I'm hearing the same things over and over again and you possess just enough insight to be honest with yourself, then there's hope for you and hopefully the relationship. Yes. So for more information actually on consulting that people could work with you, this is obviously something that would be really wanted that. I'm like, I'm the thing of dying and I'm very nervous. Oh, look, I'm nervous. I know. Okay. So for more information to work with you, how can they contact you? Email, full circle therapy, FL at gmail.com. And for all information on our coaching services and our app, you can visit teamlockefit.com. If you guys enjoyed this episode, please share it. Let us the best way that we can grow the show and get the information out there. So thank you guys so much for listening and we'll talk to you next week.

=== FILE: Episode 280： Impulse Control ｜ How to better manage your impulses [l_MMoZFQBTA].txt ===

 Welcome back to another episode of the Locofit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and this week I'm joined by Rick, our team mental health counselor, and we're going to talk about a really interesting topic. When you brought this up, I was like, yes, actually, I love this, because, yes, like, now you guys are going to laugh when you hear about it, because this is something that I see... Struggle with? Rick's dedicating this podcast to me. No, fuck you, I'm pretty good in post control. Also, just FYI, everybody, if my voice is still a little on the fritz, it is because we had an amazing event this weekend, and notoriously, I always lose my voice. We actually had a move, we were supposed to record this yesterday, but I was like, hey, I am still struggling, like, this is not going to... So you get a little nice raspy morning voice from me, everybody, which honestly isn't that much worse than my normal, awful voice. But in any case, this is something that I see with clients a lot, and actually something that I saw when I was doing my research, and this has been pretty well documented, even in the eating behavior literature, which is an interesting kind of overplay between, obviously, what you do and what I do. So without further ado, we are talking about impulse control. I realize I didn't even say what we were talking about, and I was just hyping it up so much. So we are going to be talking about impulse control, and you are going to explain through more clinical lens, kind of more of the background behind it, and then we can get into some of the practical stuff as well. Sure. So impulse control is pretty common for most people. You don't need to have any real, like, deviant history. You mean lack of impulse control? Not just, I think in various aspects of people's lives, there can be, everybody can kind of struggle with impulse control from time to time. So this is a fairly common phenomenon. It doesn't mean that you are mentally ill or that you have some serious problems, and impulse control can kind of take many different shapes and forms throughout a person's life. And so sometimes it's just good when you recognize, like, hey, I feel triggered by this, or this is something that you recognize that you keep doing over and over again, like, what are some simple steps that I can use that you have to be aware of the steps, and so it starts on this real conscious level, and you have to make a strong effort. But once you are aware of the steps and you start implementing them, it does become a little easier. But always remember that ignoring or fighting against an urge or an impulse to do something is always a challenge. And so it's difficult. It's not something that, like, we become like some Zen master where nothing ever, you know, feels impulsive, whether it's to, you know, punch a wall or reach for a candy bar or your favorite food, you know, whatever it is. Like, we have these urges that kind of come over us. And so recognizing the environment that they're in can be a big part of it, where and when the triggers might be present, they're strongest. And then developing the skills to be as proactive as you can in managing it. It'll help. Yeah, I think this is kind of like so many of the conversations that we have. And I feel like we're kind of like fighting against, like, the current narrative of all these things. Like, you're going to have things that you want to be impulsive about, you know, and like, that doesn't mean, like you said, that you have all these, like, litany of problems. And this doesn't mean that just because you have a good handle on it, that you're never going to have those impulses ever again. Right? Like, it's going to come up with that. At least that thought is going to happen. So it's more about figuring out, like you said, the environment and how can you set that up. And that's usually where I try to start with clients too. It's like, okay, we can be reactive to whatever situation. But like, what can we do before you get to this breaking point? Because there was like five steps before. And you maybe hadn't recognized them quite yet, but we can start to figure those out. And then we can, you know, not get into this really bad situation. So there's like early defenses and then there's late defenses. Yeah, and they're like, oh, fuck, well, what do we do now? Okay, so the idea is that we're not scrambling to make changes based on those kinds of things. But it does take a lot of reflection and detachment to figure, okay, before step five, there was obviously four other steps. And what can I do? Environment is huge, which I'm pretty sure we're going to get to. And I'm going to stop ruining the intro of the podcast. I think talking about the environment is pretty critical. First thing I always ask people to do is to define what the impulse is that they're having a difficult time controlling, whether that's eating, whether that's gambling, whether it's arguing or drug use or drinking, whatever the impulse is. What is it? Like, what are we struggling with? And what are the benefits of you not engaging in this impulse? Right? Let's kind of define the goals clearly. Like, is this causing significant pain in your life? Is it creating other issues that, you know, might be happening at work and within your relationships, within you personally, your physical health, your mental health, whatever it is. Like, let's just get a good understanding of what the urge and the impulse is and why we want to change it. Like, what's the motivation underneath changing this impulse and this urge? Hold on. Before we go further, I really like the idea of defining it, which sounds so obvious. But I think a lot of times people are like, I have a problem with this or I don't have a problem with that, but they're not really able to articulate what it is or how it's affecting their life. So then they don't really, the magnitude of it maybe seems smaller. Right? They're like, oh, this is not a big deal. Right? And what is a big deal is different to everybody. Right? Of course, like how that, how you respond, how your environment responds. But I think that just by defining what the potential problem is, is a very under recognized important step. Because then you're able to really say, okay, I have a problem with this and this is what that means to me because we could have the same issue in front of us. Like, I have a problem with coffee, which you don't, but let's just pretend that for a moment you do, right? Whatever it is, like, I have a problem with this, but like, we're defining it differently. So like, until we actually do that, I don't think we can really recognize the magnitude of it. Would you agree with that? Yeah. And some of the interventions can be tailored or shifted depending on what it is. And so I like it because it gives a clear definition and every time we use vague language, it can, it, it's just easily to, it's, it's, sorry, it's early in the morning guys. It's easier to manipulate and to fall off track as opposed to when I specifically know something. And again, when we start talking about environment, like, if I know the environment that it's in and where it is and what it is, I can start to avoid and be more proactive, especially early on. Right. One of the things that I discourage a lot is putting yourself in a position where you have to challenge yourself like right away. Like if you have a problem with drinking, right, maybe not the best idea to just walk into a bar and order a drink and let it sit in front of you and test your impulse control. Yeah. Right. You're putting yourself in a really high risk situation. And so like, let's take baby steps with this. Like if we can identify where the triggers or the urges might be the strongest, it's like, okay, how can we work to avoid these potential dangerous situations at first and then work into it later? Does that make sense? Absolutely. Okay. The second thing would be obviously starting to identify once we've defined what the impulse is and why we want to change it. Let's start looking at some of the parameters around where and how the impulse is created for some people. Impulses can be like time of the day, like they wake up in the morning and they feel a certain way or perhaps like the sun is setting. So that part of the evening seems like kind of like, oh, I want this or I'm feeling an urge to do this. And what I want people to understand is cravings and urges are, you know, I'm sure there's a literal definition between the differences between them, but most people use them interchangeably. Like I'm feeling an urge to do this is also very similar to a lot of people saying I have a craving to do this. Right. But what I want you to understand is those urges and cravings are temporary. What I mean is they kind of have this evolution where they started a baseline and then you initially start to feel something and so they escalate and they get to a peak, but that peak can't sustain. Now, initially that peak might last for a while and which is what makes the urge very difficult to resist. Right. Because it's like intense and you're like, I want this. I'm craving this. I really want to give into it. And then when you're kind of timeline, that peak starts to drop and you eventually return back to baseline. And so one of the methods to start to get people to understand is that like this urge that feels really strong. If you can deny it long enough, you can start to get control over it and it loses its intensity as things progress. It doesn't stay that intense, especially if you get into the habit and the routine of denying it. And so that becomes kind of an important caveat. It's like, OK, I can test myself. One of the ways that we start doing that is like, OK, how long can you sit present with the urge before you act on it? Right. And for some people, that's like 10 seconds. Other people, it's like a minute. For some people that are like, I can, I can deal with this a little bit longer. And so the longer you delay, the easier it becomes to manage it. And when you know that it's temporary and it's only like it's got a short shelf life, it becomes much easier and more man. It is so interesting how it really does just completely drop off, right? Like something that two days ago felt like it was like the biggest deal in the world. Then all of a sudden you're like, oh, wait, I didn't even like care about that, you know? And it's funny. So I just finished 75 hard like we were talking about. I had a client who just finished as well a day after me and like, you know, she had been talking about like, you know, not anything out of control, but just wanting like a donut, you know? And then she was like, honestly, like, I don't even really want it. It was more like exciting to think about it. She's like, I didn't even have it. Like I didn't even really actually want it. It was more like, I'm finishing this up and, you know, I'm really excited. And it was even, you know, we were joking about this before, but like, obviously, everybody knows like I, you know, very openly talked about 75 hard. The hardest thing was not socially drinking. And this past weekend we had this big event. It was my birthday weekend, like all this stuff, like, you know, and I had a few drinks. Like I enjoyed myself, but I was there was no like, it's I'm going to get like, like, I don't know. It's just, it's so interesting. Like once you like get past a certain point of like that craving or that impulse. And this is not even like large scale future things. This is like, and even in the moment, like, oh my gosh, I got to do this like right now. Right. And then you like realize that if you don't, you're like five minutes later, you're like, wait, I didn't even think about that anymore. And there's like a sense of, um, that's the right word. Empowerment. I don't know, inner like strength that you get when you are able to, and I feel like deny has like a really negative connotation nowadays, but when you're able to deny yourself something and it is moving you in a positive direction. The fact that you're able to do that is very like, it's empowering, fulfilling, like confidence, but I'm not really sure what the phrase I'm thinking of. Um, or like the emotion, but there is something that's like, yeah, I felt that and my didn't have to have it. Right. Impulse sometimes can become habits. And it's difficult to break that cycle. And it's like, it's not so much that your body's craving it or that, you know, you have to do this. And I think sometimes we kind of get into these routines where we don't recognize that the impulse is just a part of our daily routine or a part of our habitual nature. And it's like, if I can create a new habit around it, I understand it on a deeper level and I don't have to give into it. And that is so powerful and again, very underrated. Like so many of the things you think that you're craving or need right now is just because habitually you have that every day at 12, 15, you do this, you know what I mean? And it can be silly stuff. Like even like here, right? They were at the, I'm pointing, which nobody can see unless you're watching. We're in the office and they, you know, they have like snacks and stuff sometimes. And now what they've started doing is like they have a whole glass canister of the peanut butter filled pretzels, which is like the super salty ones. Like all of my favorite things like salty peanut butter, crunchy, like it's the best thing. All it needs is dark chocolate, but thank God they don't have those here. Thank God. But it's something that's like, oh, I'm heating my food up. Like, let me just grab a few, you know. And it's so easy for that to be like, well, when I'm here, that's what I do. And even for someone like me who's hyper aware of these things, not like in like a disordered way, but I'm just very aware of what I'm eating and my surroundings. I'll have to be like, whoa, no, every time you go there to the kitchen, you don't need this. You know what I mean? Like it's okay to say no. But even that it can get into a habit in a few days. And then you're like, oh my gosh, like things like that really happen quickly. And that's a very small example. It's not like peanut butter pretzels are ruined in my life, but it's an example of something that's larger that could happen in that sense. Yeah, absolutely. And so sometimes one of the techniques that you can use into breaking impulse control is by changing the habits and the structure around it. So like if every day you take your lunch at 12 o'clock and you always go to the vending machine because you want something salty or sweet or whatever it is. It's like, okay, maybe changing the time that you eat your lunch. Maybe it's an hour earlier. Maybe it's an hour later. And what you recognize is by breaking the habits and the patterns around the impulse. Sometimes it's like, oh, I don't need that. Like for me, one of my things is I still like Coca-Cola, right? I enjoy a Coke and I like to have one at lunch. Like that's the time for me to have it sometimes. Not a diet? Are you like anti-diet Coke? It just tastes like shit to me. I can't stand diet Coke. I don't like any soda. So what about there's like, there's like all these like variations of them. There's like Diet Coke and then there's one Coke. No, hold on. We'll leave it at that. But there's also, please explain this to me. There's Diet Coke, which is the silver can, right? And then there's Coke Zero. What the fuck's the difference? It's like a red can, isn't it? Coke Zero is also... Coke Zero Zero Sugar, right? Yes, which Diet Coke also is. I don't know. Maybe the sweetener in it. Maybe the sweetener is different, but maybe you can try that Rick. I tried Coke Zero. It doesn't taste the same either. You're like, lay off my case. Let me have a fucking Coke. But the idea becomes if you can, if I've recognized that if I, to change the impulse to have one, by simply changing the time that I eat lunch, if I eat lunch an hour earlier, I'm like, I'm still in the morning. I can't try Coke, right? 12 o' one, yep. And sometimes if I get later in the day, and I've been good with what I've been eating and drinking, I'm kind of like, I don't want to ruin this. The day's almost over. And so you start to create different environments, and that helps by controlling the urge or the impulse. If it's especially an urge or an impulse that is really detrimental to you, sometimes that can help, just in helping increase your success rate. It's funny, I was going to ask, does changing the time of doing things, would that be a recommended strategy? I mean, literally you just said that to me. I was like, okay, perfect. And it's like, we obviously talk about, we want to create habits, right? We want people to create habits. We want people to reduce the cognitive effort in their day-to-day life so that they are making better decisions. However, sometimes, that's great for a positive habit, but sometimes when we're talking about breaking, maybe negative habits, we have to create more change, instead of being similar. So I think that there's a time for change in terms of maybe more negative behaviors that you are trying to work through, which is not to be confused with creating a schedule for positive behaviors. But that also speaks to the timing thing, speaks to why so many people talk about and recommend doing harder things earlier, especially when it comes to something like physical activity, when it's really easy to push that off maybe later in the day. But if, hey, I got up and I was active, whether it was like a walk or a cardio session or a lift, and then I had a good breakfast, now you're on the right foot, you're on the right path. And then to your point, okay, well, I've already done all this kind of all day at three o'clock. Do I really want to deviate now? Because I've already had these good things. But if you're waiting all day, maybe it kind of gets into that mindset of, well, it was kind of already a little bit off. So what's another this? One of the reasons I like the delay technique is because you tell yourself mentally, I'm going to have it. I'm just going to do it later. And so if you realize you don't really need it, and then you don't need it, right? Why? Because the urge is a spike. It has its peak and then it starts to come down. And so if like at noon comes around and you're craving something, you're itching for that coke, and you tell yourself like, okay, cool, I'm going to have it later. I'm just not going to have it now. And so you tell yourself like, okay, you're not denying yourself, like you're not resisting the urge, so to speak. You know, you're not denying yourself this thing that you say that you want or that you tell yourself that you need, which you absolutely don't. There's very few things in life that we need. You know, it's kind of coming from that irrational mindset again. But you just tell yourself like, okay, cool, I'll have it later. And you're delaying the urge. And so what it does is it's like, it's kind of like, okay, at its peak, I'm telling myself I'm going to have it. So I'm kind of satisfying that. But I give it a little bit more time and giving it a little bit more time, the urge drops. That peak comes back down to baseline and it's like, oh, it's now three o'clock. Do I want this? It's like, no, I don't need to. Like I'm really good on my water for the day or I've eaten, you know, a good meal. It's like, I don't really need that. And I don't need the energy that it's going to bring or the sugar spike or whatever it is. And so sometimes by delaying it, you're just simply saying, you're not telling yourself I'm not going to have it. You just say, look, I'll give into it later. But giving into it later doesn't, you don't need to because the urge, that spike has gone down. And so now it's more of a rational thought rather than like something you felt powerless over. Would you agree that like the, there's like a big social kind of change in the idea of denying things for yourself? I see this in our space quite a bit. Meaning that when people talk about having, you know, you could say denying or I would say maybe regulating yourself, right? To say, you know, I don't really need this right now. Some people would say like in terms of like, you know, food and beverages and things of that nature, that listening to that voice and saying, no, I need this right now because my body is telling me that. Right. So there's this idea of any kind of what I would call regulations that people would call restriction in like a negative sense. So do you see this kind of in anything with your space or not so much? Like just in general, I feel like there's a kind of a shift of like, no, if you want it and it feels good, you should do it. It's kind of the, the notion that I'm talking about. I mean, if I wanted it, it feels good. Like, isn't that what every addict wants to hear? I mean, at what point do you do you recognize that if what I'm talking about isn't harmful? Fine. Then I guess there's nothing wrong. Why are we trying to control the impulse? Right. Some people would say that it's not harmful, but it's like, again, we know like, I'm not asking about what other people would say. And I think this is the part and I think this is where some of this stuff gets a little too preachy for me. Is if you're working with somebody one on one, I like, I'm going to ask you, Lauren, I'm going to say, Lauren, is this a problem for you? Not what your magazine says, not what social media says, not what a thousand other influencers will say. Is it a problem for you? If so, let's talk about that. Like what is the problem? Is it affecting your work? Is it affecting your body? Is it affecting your relationships? Is it affecting your sleep? You know, where or how is this impacting you? Because sometimes we can kind of force ourselves into this. I don't know this like construct. Like I've seen what everybody else is saying. And so I'm trying to force myself into what their perception is. You know, you listen to a hundred other podcasts or these other people who are supposed to be influencers or experts in their field. And it's kind of like, I'm trying to force this rather than recognizing what is existing in my life. And so work on understanding and finding your own voice. Like how does this fit within your life? Not what other people say. It's not their life. You know, they're putting out content and that's fine and that's wonderful and it's probably going to help a great majority of people. But you know, if it's harmful to you and you want to change it, then there's nothing wrong with that. You know, I think there's certain things, sure, that we can take this to an extreme. It's like if you're telling yourself you never want to have another candy bar, right? Well, are you telling that because you're a diabetic and it can be potentially life-threatening? Or are you telling yourself that because you just want to lose weight for a while and you want to have a stricter approach and have more control over your sweets and not feel as compelled to eat crappy food all the time? So I think there's a scale there and I think you really want to evaluate it on an individual level. Absolutely. And that's why I asked because I knew you would say something along those lines. And I think that that is what is most important here, right? We're talking about how does this affect you? And this also goes for anything that we talk about, right? Like I feel like a lot of what we do, at least in my mind, is that we try to provide this like framework, right? So that people can start to think in these different ways on their own and we never want to be like preachy because there's one thing that both of us know there's a lot of different ways to do things, right? And I think that that is so, so important and that does get lost a lot, especially in these types of conversations. And especially on things like social media and platforms like that where there's these quick sound bites. And it's more complicated to explain something in 90 seconds than it is 10 seconds to be like, no, you should never do this. Right. Okay, well, where is the nuance here? You know what I mean? Like how is this allowing someone to think for themselves? How is this affecting their life? So I think that using applying any of this stuff through your own lens and what is that goes back to that definition. Like how is this a problem for you? How does this present in your life negatively? What are some of the upsides? What are the upsides of taking it away? Like all of that. And I think that that is so crucial and this messaging, I feel like it's kind of blurry now. At least that's what I see maybe in just our space. And I'll just leave it at that. All right, so let me get into some kind of concrete steps that people can take to control urges and impulses. Obviously the first one we talked about was delay. And again, going back to understanding your environment to a second step would be what are the environmental factors that are triggering this? Like are there people, places, situations? Like understand all of those things? Like are there certain people that trigger these reactions or these impulses? Are there places that trigger these urges or impulses? Are there situations that you might find yourself in that would trigger these urges or impulses? And so understanding people, places and situations is a really big component in being proactive and having a strategy. If I can't avoid it, having a strategy going into it. So delay, remember, remind yourself that the urges temporary and it will eventually fade. And if you can delay the urge, that's great. Understanding people, places and situations. One of the other steps that is very common that people will talk about all the time is what's called thought stopping. Thought stopping is a very traditional cognitive behavioral therapy approach. It's a technique that most people are very familiar with. And the idea of it is to interrupt the urge while it's happening by picturing a stop sign in your head. So if you're like, I really want to go do this. I really want to act on whatever this impulse is. You're like, all right, nope, I'm going to stop. Stop that thought right quick. Like stop and I'm literally going to close my eyes and picture a bright red stop sign in my head. And the reason I'm doing this is to interrupt the thought process. Right. You've talked about how like there's five steps. Well, what good is knowing the five steps if I can't interrupt or stop myself at any point in those steps. And so this idea of thought stopping is really important of being able to recognize and this is where defining it comes in. Right. Because if it's left as some ambiguous vague thing that I don't really know, it's very difficult to know when I need to intervene. So one of the first interventions is to thought stop is to close your eyes and to picture a stop sign. And you want to train yourself into doing this over and over again. If any of you have had therapists in the past, I'm sure you've heard some version of this. Like this is a very common, these are very well known and accepted techniques within our community to help people develop. And so by doing thought stopping, you're just kind of interrupting the urge. It's kind of like, even if it's at its peak, it's kind of like, we're just going to hit pause and there's like this line that comes through the middle of it. And it's like, oh, what is that? And so we're going to stop and focus on that for a second. The next thought that usually comes into play or the next technique that we start to use is what we call thought switching. Right. And so here's where thought switching again relates to how we're going to define it. So for example, like I have and I've had clients in the past to struggle with like sexual urges, right? And so one of the things that we'll teach is we'll say, all right, we're going to interrupt that thought and we're going to stop that thought. And why it's important to have a good understanding is so if we're talking about like a sexual urge, one of the things I'll have them do is I'll say, we're going to replace that thought with something that is not aggressive and not sexual. And so what is something that's not sexual? So they might be thinking, and some of them might be like, well, I'm going to picture football. I'm like, well, football is kind of aggressive. So let's not talk about football. You know, let's think about rebuilding a car engine or homework assignments that you're going to do that night. And so all of a sudden what they're doing is they've interrupted the thought and they're replacing it with something that is almost, that is a, not sexual, which is going to feed into the urge or potentially aggressive or whatever it is. So when you're switching your thoughts, it's important to switch your thoughts to kind of the opposite of what the urge might be, which is why defining it is really important and having go to strategies of like, okay, what am I going to think about when I'm feeling this urge? And what am I going to be doing in its place? Right? So these are two basic fundamental things that most people struggle with and are really good techniques to start to develop early on. Yeah, I think that's so great because it's not like, oh, I had this thought and then I'm not going to think about it anymore. And then your mind just goes blank, right? Like, like there, there has to be something else, like you said, to kind of change that or insert something new that you're thinking about. Because the chances of you having some type of urge and then all of a sudden just be like, nope, I'm not thinking about it. And then it like going away is probably pretty hard. And I would say that this obviously can be used in a behavioral sense, right? Like some behavioral things that we're trying to change. But also as I'm hearing this, even some of our thought patterns, right? Like some people have like negative thought patterns and like loops. This is also going to be super, super impactful because how like, of course, especially when you are so in your head with these thoughts, okay, hey, I'm stopping this, but now we need to refill that with something else because otherwise we're just, that's just going to be three seconds and then we're going to go right back to it. So recognize, okay, hey, no, I'm having this thought. We know where this goes. Okay, what else can I think about now in its place? This can go for behavioral things as well as just thought patterns and processes. Yeah, and the thing of urges and impulses is energy, right? That energy is going to exist. Where's it going to go? Right? Do I want to give the energy and urge into the impulse that I'm trying to avoid? Or do I give that energy in a different direction? Where does that energy going to go? And that oftentimes is identifying alternative behaviors for whatever it is that you're doing. Right? And so sometimes it can be making your hands busy. You know, like, it's just like, okay, I'm going to put my effort and energy into solving this puzzle. I'm going to do, I'm going to build something. I'm going to create an outlet for the urge for the impulse for the energy to go into that is healthy, that is constructive, that is not whatever is causing me harm or pain. If you've ever been a client of mine, you'd know that if you've struggled with any type of overeating tendencies, this is exactly, I use that phrase. Like, I need you to go do something lightly active, right? Like, I need you to, you know, wipe down the counters. I need you to go fold some laundry. I need you to go, you know, for a three minute walk. Doesn't need to be something long and obsessive. But I find that, and I guess I didn't know the background, but that makes so much sense in terms of looking at it as energy. Because anytime I've struggled with something like that personally, doing something that is lightly active really, really helps. And a lot of clients benefit from that. And it again, doesn't need to be obsessive, you know, but there's something to that. And then, like we talked about that impulse now just kind of drops off. And it becomes much easier to manage. So I love that. And so yeah, when you're adding a behavior to do with it, like it's not only delaying it, so it's allowing more time for the urge and impulse to drop. But you're actually doing something different. And positive. And positive. You probably have laundry default. You probably have a dirty mirror, I'm just saying. So listen, if your house is cleaner because of it. There's no dirty mirrors in Lauren's house. Because I have a lot of impulses, as Rick alluded to earlier.  and alfalfa-pyridine. So I trade one OCD for another. Just kidding. Nothing wrong with clean mirrors. Another kind of technique that will help people is what we call impulse or urge charting. And this is for those of you who enjoy writing. This is a really good thing. Sometimes I'll tell people to carry a little journal with them. If you can't carry a journal, like a little index card. And what you want to do, so like within your small notebook or your index card, you want to make a note. And so what you're going to do is you're going to stop, like when you sense the urge, you're going to stop immediately and you're going to pull out your notepad. And you're going to interrupt the urge and you're going to give yourself more time. So you're just basically going to write. So this is kind of like a different behavior. And so whatever the urge is, I want you to write out, okay, I'm having the urge to do this. And then I want you to immediately identify what the opposite is of that urge and do the opposite. Right. And so again, urge charting or impulse charting is like, okay, there's some people who just process better by writing. And so they're like, okay, I'm going to stop and I'm going to grab my pen and I'm going to grab my notebook out and I'm going to write down like what I'm doing. And so this is kind of like utilizing that interrupting space to stop myself before I act on the impulse. And the energy aspect too, because there is a small physical energy against doing something light. It doesn't mean you have to go run a mile, but just physically pulling out, you know, a pad of paper, writing it down. That's what daily marathon. Yeah. Oh my God. There's like, there was like this meme and it was like, every time you think about having sex, go for a walk. And then it's like the first video and then it's like some of it's like, I've been walking for three weeks and seven hours and whatever it's like this whole like I haven't stopped walking for two months. But yeah, I love the physical writing aspect of that because I do think that there we just take things more seriously too. I feel like when we when we do that versus, you know, doing pulling your phone out and putting that in your notes is better than not doing anything. Right. Like I would probably agree. You would probably agree that that's better, but best. There's not good, but there's better than fast would be probably physically writing something. Yeah. Anything that you can use to interrupt the pattern is really beneficial. And so even using the charting, I've had people pull out their card and they just start writing stop, stop, stop. And that's the thought stopping part. And then they'll act opposite the urge, whatever the urge is, like, and obviously you'll know what the urge is. And if you're doing your homework, it's kind of like, well, what are some, if I'm changing this, what are some of the things that I can do that are actually acting opposite of the urge? Right? Whatever that is. So if it's like, I want to cook a colo, I'm going to go grab an apple, right, instead or whatever it is. And so it's like, I want to cook fine, I'm going to grab an apple. And so you kind of temporarily interrupt and you pacify it with something that's completely different and healthy. Right. And so these next few steps I'm going to give you are more for what I would call like more of our dangerous impulses. Obviously, like eating and, you know, the urge to say something or to blurt something out is a little different than somebody who's dealing with more serious or potentially dangerous or threatening impulses, like, and that can be, you know, the urge to scream and yell at somebody, it can be the urge to punch a wall, it can be the urge to act, you know, in violent or aggressive ways or self destructive ways. And so one of the techniques that we kind of work to teach people that we call covert sensitization. And again, this is for more like deeper pathology kind of things, this is more severe. So one of the things that we have people do is engage and write out what your fantasy is in that space. Okay, like, and let's play it out. So you're going to write down like what the urge is, and I'm going to do this, and this is what that would be. And so you write out kind of what the scene would be, we call it the deviant scene, right, and get detailed as you can. And then what we want to do is, underneath that, there's two primary motivating factors for people to control or want to change a behavior, either it causes them pain, or it's causing somebody else pain. And so with covert sensitization, basically, what we're doing is we're allowing the person to write out what the fantasy is that they really want to do if it's like punch the wall or get up and beat the hell out of somebody or do something else. What they're doing is they're writing that out. And then what we're going to do is right below that, you're going to attach the negative ending that's going to come with you doing that. So if the negative ending is me getting up and assaulting this person, or the urge is for me to assault this person, the negative ending that I'm going to attach to it is I get arrested, I go to jail, I lose my job, I lose my family, I have all these really negative things that come from this. And so a lot of times what people struggle with is when the urge or impulse is so strong, they ignore the consequences of their behavior. Right. So the consequences almost become like this subconscious or unconscious thing that they're completely unaware of. And if we can draw attention back to what the consequences are and realize that the consequences are way more severe and long lasting than just the impulses, like the impulse is usually a temporary fix. It's like a feel good high for the moment. But the consequences of it have this like ripple effect that sometimes is very difficult to measure unless you're consciously aware of it. And so that negative ending is either going to be for you like, okay, if I act on this urge to go assault somebody, these are the bad things that are going to happen to me. The other side of that might be here's the fantasy of me acting on an impulse to go assault someone. What are the things that are going to happen to them? Like they might go to the hospital, I might kill them, you know, they might lose their family, they might lose their job. And so sometimes it's just about identifying what the motivating factor for the change is for that person. Does that make sense? Absolutely. And obviously, that like you said, this is gonna be for more serious things, but super important, like you're what you were talking about with the the consequences, like we often don't think of the consequences. We're just thinking of like that immediate moment, especially when we're so blinded during that like, like that agitated state of like, I need to do this, or I feel like I need to do this, that we're not really thinking of those consequences unless we know them. And that's why like planning that kind of stuff out, like, not only like, what are you trying to do, but what are you trying to not do or like have not happened? Like, what are you running like, away from in a positive way, meaning like, we want to get the hell out here, like we don't want to be going that way. And it's hard to conceptualize that until you've actually worked through it, like, who and what do I not want to be. And I think that like most people are not doing that, because it takes a lot of reflection. And it's also, it makes you really accountable, right? And then you have to you have to be wanting and willing to be accountable to that. And then that's like, Oh, man. Well, and all of these are baby steps. And trust me, when you have an urge to do something, it's really strong. And even if you're not downplaying that at all, like, Oh, just pull out my index card. And all of a sudden I get cured of this in a week. Like, no, this is especially when we're talking about these more deviant and aggressive and harmful things. Like that's obviously going to be very different than me saying, Oh, three days in a row, I got peanut butter pretzels versus Hey, I'm cutting myself. And I've almost died three times, like a little bit different. Yeah. And so many times too, once you once we're able to stop the urge one time, we can then come back a day later and be like, Okay, what consequences did we avoid? Right. And also what you'll notice too is the urge isn't as strong. Why? Because it's temporary. Right. And so it's like, Okay, I understand that I'll always feel intense anxiety. I'll feel this strong energy or urge to always want to do this. But I'm recognizing that if I follow these steps, I avoid the negative consequences that come with it. And that is more valuable to me in terms of understanding I have control. I don't have to give into this impulse that while it's hard and not ultimately what I want to do, I possess the ability to do that. And so sometimes, you know, this is where, again, for those of you that don't know, I used to work in a prison. And so like guys acting opposite the urge was very difficult for them to do. But oftentimes what we would do is we would dissect it later. It's like, All right, we're going to write it out, we're going to write what your fantasy is, we're going to act what the negative consequences are for you. And when you get them to do it, like sometimes you'd see them like pacing and fistballed up because they're getting ready to go beat the hell out of somebody. And it's like, Okay, like this is part of the process. And it's like, repeat what the consequences are. And they're like, Fuck you, you know, I hate you, I'm fine. But the consequences are this. And they do that. And it's like, Okay, great, you're aware, like, just this one time, let's try it, like, he's going to be there another week, he's not going anywhere, he's in jail with you. Right. So if you really want to beat him up, he'll always be there. But for right now, let's just try and walk away. And then the next day, they're like, I'm glad I didn't do it. Right. Why? Because now they're not on lockdown, they didn't get their sentence extended, or whatever it was. And so what you recognize is by being able to master the impulse control model, it doesn't make the impulse less intense, initially. But what it does do is it starts to give you a greater sense of control, where you don't feel as helpless. And if you feel helpless, you're more likely to engage in the impulse that you're experiencing. Whereas if you recognize like, Okay, I do have some control over this, and I can change this stuff, even if it still feels intense, you start to recognize that you're not helpless, that you have some mastery over it, and you start to utilize these skills. And so kind of the last thing I'll talk about is what we call the five steps of impulse control. And I wanted to go through each of the steps so that you can kind of see how we put all of this together. And so this is just a simple five step model to kind of follow. The first thing that you want to do is when you're feeling the urge or the impulse to do something, whether that shoplift or steel, something, whatever it is. First thing you want to do is sit and take a break. You're just going to sit and you're going to breathe for for as long as you can, I guess, if it's 10 seconds, fine, you're just going to take a couple of deep breaths and you're going to breathe because oftentimes what's also happening physiologically is that when we're feeling the urge or the impulse, it mimics anxiety very much, right? So our breathing can become more shallow and rapid. The tension in our body starts to rise, like our muscles start to constrict, we become so focused on what this is, like we kind of have that, you know, single mindset that sitting and taking a break and breathing allows oxygen to flow, it decreases all the physiological signs that we're feeling. The next thing you want to do is consider the consequences of what you're about to do, right? This is I'm sitting down, I'm taking a break, I'm breathing, what are the consequences of me doing this if I do this? And so that's recognizing what the urge is, the impulses and what the negative behaviors are or the consequences that are going to follow. The next thing you want to do, tell yourself to stop, you're going to stop that thought, how are you going to do that? You're going to picture a stop sign in your head. The next thing you're going to do is you're going to thought switch, you're going to go right to that technique, what is it that I'm, what's the opposite urge, what's the opposite of this urge? And I'm going to implement that step. And then the next thing you're going to do is get up and walk away. If that's walking away from the vending machine, if that's walking away from McDonald's, if that's walking away from another person, if that's leaving the room, if it's avoiding the situation that you're in, whatever it is, you're going to walk away. And what you recognize is sometimes physical distance can be very helpful when managing an impulse, right? If the person's not in front of me, I don't have to act on it. If the item isn't there or I don't have access to it, like it certainly is more difficult to have to go home, leave my house and seek it out versus if I'm in the presence of this, I can walk away and suddenly that spike begins to drop much quicker. I think those are amazing steps and such a great way to wrap this up. So definitely rewind this, you guys, if you want and definitely take notes on this, pull out your index card and have this written down. But like seriously, this can also be on the card or the journal as kind of a reminder when you're maybe first getting started with this, because I know, right, the five steps down. Yeah, as just a quick reminder, okay, this is what I need to be doing, because this is something that is small scale and large scale, right? Like this literally controls everything and it's so key and it can be applied literally to so many behaviors and also like I said earlier, those like thought processes and mindset that maybe people are struggling with. So this was a great episode. If you guys enjoyed this, please share it. That is the best way that we can grow the show and also share these messages for information about working with Rick. What is your email? Full circle therapy FL at gmail.com. And for more information on our coaching services and our app, you can visit teamlocofit.com and we will talk to you guys next week.

=== FILE: Episode 288： Panic Attacks [DEI6ZzcP8rI].txt ===

 welcome back to another episode of the Look-O-Fit Show, where we redefine what healthy means to you. I'm your host, Lauren Conlon, and this week I'm joined by Rick, our team on a health counselor, and we're going to talk about panic attacks. Yay! Everybody's favorite. Everybody's favorite. If you've had a panic attack, they are not great. And so first, let's just preface this. There's a lot of different terms and terminology and panic attack disorder and all these different things. We're just going to talk in general about panic attacks, right? And you would say that there are people who have had instances like this, who are not diagnosed with any of it. Like they kind of just come and go, right? That's pretty common. Yeah. It's not uncommon for people to have panic attacks, and I think what makes them really scary the first few times you have them is if you've never had a history of having a panic attack ever before or really even struggling with anxiety. If it develops, it oftentimes mimics the feelings of a heart attack, and people don't know what they're doing. They rush to the hospital, they get an EKG, they go through all these tests, and the doctor puts back and says, no, everything is fine. You just had a panic attack. So there's differences between panic attacks and anxiety attacks and panic disorders. And we're not going to get into all that because there's just subtle differences between some of those things. And I think most people benefit from just a general understanding of what is a panic attack and what's happening while I'm having one, and then how do I deal with them effectively? Yeah, because that's the most important thing is how do we identify what this is, right? It's not like a normal experience, and it is very alarming, especially the first time that you have one. And whether this is something that's recurring or happens every once in a while, having tools that are going to help you get out of it sooner rather than later or hopefully prevent it, it's going to be really key. But of course, caveat, if you are having very consistent recurring panic attacks, definitely stop listening to this and go reach out to somebody. This is really important. And this can of course escalate into other things. So this is something that's not just like happens every once in a while. Definitely need to get a handle on that. So see your provider. Yeah, you definitely want to, if you're struggling with these things, you want to have kind of a community or a support system to really help you. And sometimes medication is necessary, especially if they're severe enough, people need help. And I would liken medication to basically saying like, if something is so severe, you can't manage it on your own. Meditation helps bring it back down to a space that's manageable for you to develop the skills needed. It's kind of like, if your house is on fire, this isn't the time to learn how to put fires out, right? You needed to know that already. And so, you know, you need kind of professionals to help you in that space and whoever they are, you know, go get that help. Is it typically anti-anxiety meds or is it going to be something specific to like panic disorders that I want to wear? I would leave that up to the psychiatrist. I wouldn't, I don't want to start rendering an opinion on something that's, you know, way out of my scope. But I mean, I would imagine there are some medications that are going to be used. Anti-anxiety medications would be one of them. It depends also on what the psychiatrist also sees or hears in the evaluation. And so you can speak to your local psychiatrist or your doctor about that and see what they would prescribe. So what is a panic attack? By definition, most people would classify a panic attack as an abrupt surge of intense feelings of fear or discomfort that results from a feeling of being threatened or in danger. And what I want, I guess to preface for everybody is that every single human being experiences anxiety. We all experience intense feelings of anxiety. There are places and times where anxiety is normal. Like for example, if you have a big test coming up, it's normal to have anxiety before that. Oftentimes what makes panic attacks challenging and scary for people is that they're very unpredictable and they can happen out of nowhere and they can happen in familiar and safe places. And so this is what makes panic attacks. And there's actually like you can have anxiety, like future focused anxiety about having panic attacks because of the unpredictability of it all, which makes people even more scared of them. Yeah, because there's not always a correlation of like this happened, then I had a panic attack. Sometimes it's afterwards, it's like an after the fact kind of feeling, which is also very confusing because we're like, why is this happening now? Like nothing is happening right now. Like I'm totally fine. Why is this occurring? But yeah, that's definitely one of the reasons and I can see how that would create even more anxiety for people and be afraid of it. Like it's just like this never ending loop. Well, imagine you're driving down the street and you've never had a panic attack before and all of a sudden you start hyperventilating and you don't know why and you're driving a car. Maybe you have kids in the car, maybe you don't. It's scary. And so you like you pull over to the side of the road because you're thinking, my God, I'm having a heart attack. This has never happened to me before. And so it's this really terrifying thing. And that's where when you think about the feelings of being threatened or in danger, that's oftentimes what's triggering it in your mind. And so we're going to get into a little bit of how panic attacks start to develop in people. And I'm pretty sure most of the people in here have heard of what's called like classical conditioning. Okay, classical conditioning for those of you that are listening that might be a little unaware with that is like Pavlov's dogs is a perfect example of that. So what was Pavlov doing with the dogs? He was ringing a bell and right after he rang the bell, he would feed the dogs and he did this over and over again until eventually he would ring the bell and not give the dogs food, but he recognized they had been conditioned to salivate. So they associated and this is the kind of the keyword that I would use. It's more association. You associate experiences in your life with feelings and behavioral responses. Okay. And so if you look at Pavlov's experience with conditioning, let's say that that took a month to occur. When we have a traumatic event, that entire month gets condensed into one event and it's not always a direct correlation between what the association is for people. And that's usually where once they start therapy or they start exploring it, we start to identify like, what are you associating in your environment or that you're experiencing or that you're thinking that is triggering this response for you. Does that make sense? Okay. So I think like in the, if you were to look at like anxiety attacks or what constitutes an anxiety attack, there's like 13 different criteria and you only need to meet four of them. I didn't write out all of them. I'm just going to give you guys some of the highlights of them. Common physical symptoms of a panic attack would be increase in heart rate, rapid breathing or difficulty breathing. Like you can't catch a breath at all. Shortness of breath. Oftentimes there's chest pain and then mix a heart attack, which is the first thing that most people who've never had one start to think. They're like, I'm having a heart attack, sweating, chest pain, nausea. These are common symptoms, dizziness of panic attacks. So just generally think of what you see and feel with intense anxiety and a heart attack and you basically have the criteria for a panic attack, which makes them so wonderful for people. Right. And so it's also what if you've ever witnessed somebody having a heart attack or a panic attack, you know how debilitating it is and how terrifying that experience is for that person because usually what's going through their mind is, oh my God, I'm going to die. And that's generally what they're thinking. Like the most I can liken it to would be like if you've ever eaten food and you've started to choke on it and in that sudden instant, your breath is taken away and there's nothing you can do. There's just this level of panic that sets in really. Oh my God. What do I do? And if you've experienced that, that's the tip of an iceberg for what a panic attack feels like for most people. Yeah. That's the worst part when you can't breathe. Right. Okay. Some of the physical symptoms beforehand are leading up to that and you're like, all right, this could go either way, you know what I mean? But then that's when it's just super scary. It jumps off the chart. It just never gets easier. But I would say after the first time you've had it, you can typically pick up on those symptoms and be like, all right, this is not normal. You know what I mean? Like how I'm feeling is not normal. And then hopefully you might be able to catch it if you're able to change your environment or change your state because it doesn't just like, it does happen quickly, but not that quickly. Right. Like there are like steps at least, at least in my experience, but maybe not for everybody. Not for everybody, but that's part of the treatment model is like the first thing you need to do is educate yourself. Like, okay, this isn't a heart attack. This is a panic attack. And now that I know that I have these things like what are panic attacks? How do I start educating myself and developing tools and coping mechanisms for it? So education becomes kind of the first thing in helping clients recover from them. But as I said before, panic attacks can happen anywhere and at any time. And so I think sometimes one of the misconceptions or myths of a panic attack is that like, I'm going to have a panic attack when I'm in a dangerous situation. It's like, nope, you could be sitting on your couch at home in the safest place for you, which is generally most people's homes. And that's where a panic attack can strike. You can have a panic attack with your husband or wife right next to you. You can have a panic attack while your kids are in the car. You can have a panic attack while you're sitting at a baseball game. It can come on anywhere at any time. It doesn't have to be like I'm in a war zone or there was a car crash or something like that. And so I think sometimes people associate these things with like high stress or high chaotic environments. That's not the case. In fact, most people start to experience them in safe places, places that are familiar to them. And wouldn't you say that it actually probably is more along those lines, but it's in response to the high stressful situation? Right? Or no. What do you mean? Like the high stressful situation that you might be talking about, right? Like maybe somebody has dealt with that, but now they're having potentially the panic panic attack at a later time when they are in a safer place because like they've gone through that really stressful event, but now they're kind of like, you know, actualizing it and like materializing it. And then that's when they're feeling it. Or why do you think that it happens when they're in a more calm state? It happens. Well, why they happened and where and when or why they happened is kind of the mystery. The idea though is that the pattern that it starts to follow is the intrusive thought hits your mind and wherever that intrusive thought comes from, can be triggered by a lot of different things. You were to look at your senses, right? It could be something that you see. It could be something that you hear. It could be something that you felt. It could be something that you smell, right? Like for me, I was in a car accident when I was 17 years old. I'll never forget the smell of the airbag. Right? Every time I've driven by a car accident where an airbag has gone off, it brings me right back to it. And that was one incident in my life. And that was, I mean, like 30 years ago, almost. And so my mind has associated those things. And so you can, you can, it can be triggered by anything. And here's the thing. When you start talking about trauma, like if the panic attack is a result of trauma and you start going down these things, it's like, it could be, you recognize, why am I feeling uneasy with Lauren in the room? You know, like, I don't understand that like Lauren's safe to me. She's always been somebody who's safe. She's always been somebody that I trust. Why, why am I now starting to feel panic when I'm around Lauren? And you realize, well, the situation that you were in when you were in a car accident, the person next to you had really long black hair. And you remember right before the car hit you, this like black hair, like shooting everywhere. And so you're like, I don't, these are the weird associations that we pick up. Like your mind almost takes a snapshot of this like really insignificant moment of, or these like almost insignificant details, but are the permanent details that your mind latches onto. And you don't know why you don't know if it's a smell. You might remember like putting on your lip gloss before you did something. And now like that is the one thing that you remember or the person had a beard or they were wearing a particular cologne or you remember the feel of the grass, whatever that like into your mind starts to associate all these different textures and smells and feels with everything. And so part of the idea of getting to the root cause of the panic disorder or panic attack is to identify like, what are some of the triggers that are around this for you? And how is it being triggered? Oftentimes what I find is people are having thoughts about something that triggers these feelings. And that's what the intrusive thoughts are. So generally the cycle follows like this. I have intrusive thoughts which enter my mind like I'm in danger. That's the thought. I immediately start to feel the arousal symptoms. My heart starts pounding. I can't breathe. I'm sweating. And then avoidance features are either something that can happen in the moment where I try and run away from whatever's causing the panic or avoidance features can take shape later when I think like, okay, I do podcasts with Lauren in this building and let's say I was assaulted in this building. So one of the features I start to do is I start to find like a different way to go home just to avoid driving by the building. That's avoidance. Like there's a behavioral approach where you're like, where I wrote it down. Okay, a significant maladaptive change in behavior related to the attacks. So you're basically avoiding going to places or avoiding meeting people or avoiding certain situations or experiences because you've associated those with the panic or the fear of the danger. And so you're specifically avoiding them. Like I had a firefighter who was having panic attacks and he had responded to a terrible call where a family was burned in a car. And when we started working together, he was at a point where he was, he was like taking a really long way home so he could avoid driving by the Burger King because the Burger King had like, has that like flame broiled so it had like this chimney where you could smell burgers and charcoal. And it was too much for him. And so like that's a classic avoidance feature. That's what it looks like in people, you know, where they start recognizing I'm going to do things differently to avoid these situations. And, and would you say that that's a negative thing to do? Or is that something that someone should be doing or should do at a certain point and then take away the behavior, right? Like, because maybe in the beginning, right? Like I could see in the beginning, like right afterwards, right? I don't maybe want to trigger that memory. But a year later, that could become maybe more of like a maladaptive thing or what's the more clinical approach. There's so there's there's two kinds of schools of thought is actually a little bit more detailed than I was looking to get. But there's safety behaviors and then there's coping skills. Sometimes people will classify certain avoidance behaviors as safety skills. Like, for example, if confronting the trigger for whatever reason is too intense for me right now, or I don't have the ability or the community or the support. System to confront it. I look to avoid it. And so I stay in like safer places. I'm, you know, I might stay in my house a little bit more. But the danger becomes, and I've talked about this with coping skills. Sometimes the coping skills that you use and develop earlier in life or as a result of something that are designed to kind of make you feel safe. End up being the thing that hurts you later. So if I turn to my house and staying in my home as a safe place, well, I run the risk and this has happened where people become more agoraphobic. They have this fear of going out into the world because you've completely removed all elements of danger and your house is the only place that you feel safe because the rest of the world has now become a dangerous place. And so now we have a lot of work to do. And so obviously in an ideal world, you want the person to know and understand that they're safe and start to confront these things. So yes, there's times when safety behaviors are necessary and okay. But generally speaking, we want to get to a space where we can develop the coping skills to really deal with it. Does that make sense? Yeah. And then I guess depending on, of course, the situation is really going to depend on the timeline. Like obviously that was a very intense situation, you know, so it's like, all right, that might take longer for this person to work through that. But if it was something maybe smaller scale, like would you want to as a therapist, like increase or quicken the time course, I guess that you are moving away from those or no, it's just really going to be dependent on the individual. I want to meet the individual where they're at and I want to work at a pace that's comfortable for them. If you push too far too fast, you run the risk of them not absorbing it and either like that could be like we tried to take two steps forward and ended up taking 10 steps back. And so, you know, if the person's like Rick, I want to be back at my job doing this at this day in time. Like sometimes it doesn't quite work that way, you know, like when you feel safe, you feel safe. When you feel ready to confront it, you feel ready to confront it. And so that's basically what that is. And so intrusive thoughts or triggers again, think about your five senses that can trigger these things. You might see something, feel something, hear something that triggers the thought that says, I'm in danger. And the physical symptoms generally follow. Some of the diagnostic criteria for this would again be an abrupt surge in intense feelings of fear, discomfort, okay. That was come as a result of you feeling a sense of threat or danger. The next thing would be, okay, at least one of the panic attacks or at least your one panic attack has persistent warrior concern about additional panic attacks. This is more or less for like diagnostic criteria, which if you've had one panic attack, it's very, very normal. I want to assure people who have had panic attacks that or who might be having one now. That the fear of having another panic attack is a very real thing. I don't want you to discount that. I don't want you to think like you're somehow crazy or weird or something's wrong with you because you're like, oh my God, I had a panic attack. And now I'm not having a panic attack, but I'm worried about having another one, like totally normal. Like that's a part of confronting this. And so if you've thought that and maybe been hard on yourself for it, like take a step back and realize it's okay. And how common is this? Like with your clients? Yeah, that's why I wanted to do this because I feel like people hear stuff like this and panic attacks. That sounds so crazy. You must be completely like just defilitated. And it's like, this is something that is pretty common. And that's why when I asked you and you're like, yeah, you know, a lot of clients deal with this and of course it's going to be varying levels. But I do want to assure people also that this is fairly common and not to feel like, oh my gosh, there's something that's super wrong with me. You know, I mean, there are certainly strategies that we can use to hopefully improve or lessen the symptoms. But just knowing that this is something that happens, I feel like can sometimes be reassuring for people, especially when maybe you're dealing with it and nobody else that you know deals with them. And you're like, oh gosh, like, do I bring this up again or how do I bring this up or do I sound, you know, like, and then people always like to whether they mean to or not, they say things and you're like, okay, yeah, that wasn't helpful with things so much. So just knowing that if you've had one, the fear of having another one is certainly valid and normal. And also knowing that you're certainly not alone if this is something that has happened in your life. But we do want to obviously share some strategies to help you here. And like we said, if this is happening on a really, really recurring basis, this is maybe something that you need to not tackle on your own and need help with. Yeah. Professional help might be some of the support that you want to develop in a space like this. And then again, one of the other criteria is was a significant behavior change as a result of the attacks, which means again, you're creating a scenario where you're avoiding specific triggers places people situations. And then of course, we want to make sure that the panic attacks aren't being or aren't developing as a result of any medical or substance abuse problems. Or can't be better explained by some other mental health disorder. Okay. That's just general kind of criteria for most stuff. So I kind of want to get into just a few steps that people can start to take if they're wondering like, well, I've had panic attacks before or I know somebody who does. What are some things and what does treatment generally look like for somebody who has this? Well, first and foremost, the first thing we want to do is start to educate people on what panic attacks are and what they're feeling, what they're going through, the sensations in their body, the thoughts that they're having. It's to educate yourself because when it starts to happen, you don't know what it is. You don't know why it's happening. And that's really scary because we're always afraid of the things that we don't know or understand. And so the uncertainty of future and what you're feeling right now becomes very overwhelming. Okay. So the idea becomes the first thing we want to do is know what it is and start to educate ourselves on it. Like panic attacks are normal. I'm not going to die. And so right now what we're starting to do is starting to rewrite the script in our head. Right. Your mind has created a scenario where it's flipped from the world is safe to everything is dangerous. And so there's this interplay between learning again, what is a safe environment where feeling calm and relaxed is normal versus a dangerous environment where my feelings of heightened sensitivity makes sense. The problem becomes people start interpreting safe environments as dangerous. And this is where panic attacks start to develop out of. So knowledge is your ally in a situation like this. Number two, one of the things that I generally start to do is I start to ask people to start writing about their panic attacks. This is everybody's favorite step because they love talking about it so much. And they love when you say journaling now, you either get people who smile at you and they're like, Oh my God, I love journaling. Like, yay, I get to write. And then you get people who are like, fuck you. Why do I have to write? You know, I don't want to relive this part of it is having to relive it. Right. That's one of the things. But also just like there is something about getting those thoughts out that is so absolutely essential and powerful. And like I used to be one of those people who would roll my eyes so hard at journaling. You know what I mean? Like, I don't need to do that. I write or I think all the time. But there is a difference of honestly, there is a difference of thinking about something versus talking about it versus writing it. Like there is absolutely a huge difference. And writing one of the reasons why writing about it is one of the more effective ways is that when we start to journal, we start to access our subconscious. OK. And when you think about some of the connections and associations, your mind has made to whatever that situation is. Oftentimes people aren't aware of it. It's not on the surface. So you have to dig a little bit. This is where we start getting into the connections and the triggers and the senses and all these other things. And so writing about that is like it becomes this outlet. It becomes a way to access the things that you aren't consciously aware of. And so think about that from that conditioning perspective. Like the dogs didn't know why they were doing that. So you have to start to explore that space. And again, it's very cathartic to start to write about it, to confront it, to hear it. And ultimately, as a coach or as a therapist or really any practitioner, you can't help someone. And if you're just listening and you're doing this on your own, you can't help yourself until you actually know and truly understand the kind of why behind something that's happening. Right. And a lot of times like you, someone could come and say, Hey, I'm having a panic attack. Well, we could maybe make assumptions to be like, all right, well, here's probably some of the reasons why. But until you actually reflect your own experience to like, like, how would we know that? How would we know all those details and can't create strategies unless we actually know that? So sometimes, especially like this is not for a panic situation, but like, let's say a client situation with me. Someone will say, Oh, like, like a common situation, but I'll be like, I need you to like reflect and write on this and like explore these bullet points and these thoughts and then get back to me because I'm just shooting in the dark unless I have a general idea. I can probably nail about 80% of it, you know what I mean? But until you share and reflect more information, then I'm not going to be able to really give better strategies. And this also takes time, right? Like I'm thinking of a client situation where, you know, originally presented as one thing. And then over time, I was like, actually, no, like with more data, with more information, with more reflection from her, it's actually like this. And like, this is actually what the root is. But that took us months to figure out. And a lot of reflection, thankfully, in sharing on her part to me. But it's like, until you're ready to actually face that, like, just saying, Oh, I have, I'm dealing with some panic or panic attacks. Like nobody, even yourself is going to be able to help you. Right. And things evolve. You start with a hypothesis and it continues to grow and develop. One of the next steps that we start to teach people are breathing relaxation and grounding skills. Now, depending on where the person's at, you might teach these first. Okay. Because if a person is suffering from a lot of panic attacks or intense panic attacks, sometimes developing like the skills to deal with them in that acute situation is really important. Right. And so some typical breathing patterns can be a lot of different things. You know, I've seen people do like an inhale of four, hold for two and an exhale of four. For those of you who are Huberman podcast fans, he talks about the physiological sigh a lot, which is a specific breathing pattern where he goes to and hold for a second exhale. And that's specifically designed to reduce stress and return the central nervous system back to a ground space. So breathing techniques are one aspect of it. The other part of it is, remember a panic attack attacks you physically as well. So learning systematic muscle relaxation or body relaxation. These are important things. So learning skills to develop relaxing, how to do like, kind of tense your muscles and then relax and sink into a chair. Those are important skills. Grounding skills are also important. Here's why. I can explain this using two metaphors, and these are usually the two that I use. There's two parts of your brain, right? There's the brain that is using that you're using right now, which is like the neocortex part of the brain, which is the part that's responsible for all this higher level thinking and function. And then you have most people refer to it as like your reptilian brain, which is like stored in the limbic system, which is where your fight flight and freeze responses. And when you look at a panic attack, panic attack is a fight flight or freeze response. And so think of it like this. Think of it like the limbic system and the fight flight or freeze response is a light bulb that's off. And the neocortex is a bright light bulb that's burning. And you're thinking and you're doing this. Well, all of a sudden, if somebody runs into this building with a gun, your neocortex is going to shut down, it's going to turn off, and your limbic system is going to fire up. And that fight flight or freeze, so like one light bulb is going to close. And the other one's going to get really bright because now you're not going to be like, well, geez, did we record this podcast? Right? What's the editing going to be like? You're just thinking about survival. And so that's why it's stored in this space. Like this is the part of your brain when our ancestors were running away from animals or had legitimate threats. It developed as a way to keep you alive. And so I liken it to like when we start to use these skills, what we're attempting to do is the reptilian part of your brain is on because it's sensing danger. And by using specific grounding skills, what we're trying to do is like create a conflict in your mind where this one starts to like flicker and this one starts to turn back on. So you have to create a space where you recognize that what I'm going through, there's no real threat. My mind is thinking there's a threat, but there isn't one that exists. It's kind of like, you know, when you're looking through old pictures, right? And you grab one and you start looking at it and you're laughing and you go right back to that space. That's what your mind does. It pulls that memory from a year ago or two months ago and it pulls it to like right now. And so like grounding techniques, one of my favorite ones, you know, I've even talked about anything on the podcast before. It's five, four, three, two, one, five things that you can see, five things that are four things that you can touch, three things that you can hear, two things that you can smell, one thing that you can taste. And I will literally ask people to go through this, not fast, but I'm like, all right, look around the room and describe to me what you're seeing or seeing. So I'll look up at the ceiling and I'll see like sound panels that are black and have all these squiggly lines. I'll look at the black microphone that's in front of me. I'll look at the wall that has, you know, white and gray lines on it. You just start to describe what you're seeing. I'll start saying, what do you feel? So you start to feel your shirt like it's cotton, soft, right? My jeans are denim. You know, I'll feel my pen. It's like smooth rubber. And you describe these things. What do you hear? Close your eyes. Listen, like I can hear Lauren breathing in the microphone. You know, my heart is not to heavy breathing here. But listen, guys, I got some ENT issues. All right. Well, I need a microphone and your phones really pick up a lot of stuff. I think I have what's that thing when your nose is almost up. Deviated something. I think I have that. I really said, tell myself that to make me feel better that I'm for you so long. I just have a deviated. You know, but like AC ducks or kids playing outside or cars driving by, et cetera. So what you're doing with all these things is. When your limbic system in that five letter freeze response is turned on, think of it like a hot air balloon that's floating off into space and higher up. It gets the worse it gets because that's not reality. That's just fantasy that's up there. And so what we're trying to do is we're trying to grab like the rope that's on that thing and we're trying to pull it hotter.  naryar balloon, back down to Earth. So remember, your mind is going back and pulling up a memory that doesn't actually exist anymore, and it's pulling it to the here and now. And so your brain is thinking, well, this is actually happening now. But the reality is, what's happening now for most of us is what we can see, what we can touch, what we can hear, what we can smell, and what we can taste. That's what's real to us. So using this grounding skill, and by the way, there's like 1,000 grounding skills that people can teach you how to use. This is one of the more effective ones, because it can be done anywhere, anytime, by yourself. And so I really like it for that reason. And what it does is it creates that conflict in the brain between what it senses is danger versus what's real. And it gives you that space between breathing and relaxing and grounding yourself in the moment to be like, okay, I'm in control. Would you also recommend now granted someone's in a position to do this like safely, to like change their environment, whether it's like change a room or like go outside again, like if you're in the throes of a panic attack, maybe like don't get in the car, you know, obviously that, but like, if you're inside and you're like, let me go outside on my patio, or let me go into a different room, like, are those kinds of things useful as well because it's going to change their state? Yes, it can. We're all influenced by our environment, right? And so sometimes like walking outside, go touch grass. Yeah, it's not, I don't feel enclosed. I don't feel trapped. And that also kind of feels more real because you're like, okay, this is real. Like there's the sun and here's the grass and I can feel these things. Absolutely. Now, again, if you're like, you know, if you're able to do that, but I would imagine, and even if it's just a different room in your house, like, okay, down here, this was all happening. Let me go upstairs. Let me like wash my hands with cold water. Let me take a shower if I can stand up. Let me, you know, like those things I feel like can be really useful. I know the cold water thing a lot of people talk about too was like, you know, dunking your head in cold water, taking a cold shower, especially like behind your neck. If you got makeup on, listen, like people just put your head and put your head in a bowl of cold water all in the middle of the day. Okay, I'm not doing that, but shower if possible, you know what I mean? That don't have a fan attack because now my makeup is running everywhere. I'm going to have two. I'm just kidding. If you really need to do that, definitely do that, but it is a little bit impractical if you were a female who's wearing makeup, but I'm just going to leave it at that. If you have a cold plunge, definitely do that. But, you know, again, most of the time this is going to happen in a not ideal time, you know, so it's not going to be like, oh, during my morning routine when I'm already doing this, like let me just oops, I'm having a panic attack, right? Like it's probably going to happen at an unideal time. So you're probably not going to be able to stop everything, jump in a cold tub. I mean, that would be great if you could or you'd access to that. But again, the chances are, what are some things that we can easily do? And like you said, find a groundy technique that you can do, change your state, change your environment safely. I think that that is really helpful. Yeah. And then again, starting to address kind of the thought changing around what is dangerous versus what is safe, you know, and reaffirming that with yourself. Cause you're kind of rewiring your brain. Your brain got, your brain was working great. An event happened that traumatized it. And now we need to rewire it, so to speak. Um, and then the last thing, and this is, this is where sometimes having a professional helps is you start using exposure therapy techniques. Um, for those of you that are unaware of what exposure therapy is, it's basically baby steps in a nutshell. Um, oftentimes, like for example, if you have a client who's afraid of heights, okay, one of the things they'll do is I'll have them sit down, close their eyes, and we will create a visual image, like through talking of them, like getting in an elevator and going up to the fifth floor or something like that. We're getting stuck in the elevator like earlier today. Yeah. That was so much fun. Um, and what that feels like, and as they're experiencing anxiety in the office or in the session, you start, they start to use the skills necessary to calm themselves and self soothe. And more importantly, self rescue, having friends that you turn to, and all those other things are wonderful. But the reality is I want you people to develop the ability to rescue themselves in that space. Because sometimes it happens when no one else is around. Um, and so exposure therapy is essentially like, all right, we're going to start by talking about it and how do you feel about that? Great. And then, you know, you might bring in like a step stool and they stand on the step stool and it's like, how do you feel? They're like, I feel fine. This is kind of ridiculous, but okay. And then maybe you bring in a three step ladder and you have them stand up on that. And so now they're four feet off the ground. Like, okay, you know, like this is too much. Like I got it. So you back it off with three steps is too much. Go down to two, can you handle two? Two is great. And then we prepare and we just slowly work up and you get to a point where maybe they walk into a building and instead of taking an elevator, they take 10 flights of stairs. It's like, how do you feel? You walk up to the window. Am I good? No, this is too much. And so it's just a gradual pushing. Okay. It's not flooding. And I want you guys to understand that flooding is not helpful for most people. Flooding is where you just basically like push them into the worst case scenario and hope for the best. And their exposure to everything that they're afraid of is supposed to make them think that, oh, I was terrified of all this happening. And now I realize I'm not terrified because I'm surviving in it. And it oftentimes can produce more harmful damage. Like, you know, I liken it to the Indiana Jones snake pit. You know, Indiana Jones, the character was afraid of snakes. And there's like a scene where he gets dropped into a pit full of snakes. That would be, yeah, that would be okay. No, like that's like, I mean, that's kind of the premise of that. The idea would be though that you don't already have a preexisting fear of that. And now you're going to be thrown into that space. And so that can be really dangerous. So exposure therapy is just gradually exposed to the person. Hey, do you want to pay the tax? Go do that. Yes. Gradually expose them to the things that are dangerous or perceived as dangerous. And then help them manage it through that. It gets to a point where, you know, oftentimes the anxiety doesn't necessarily disappear, but it becomes manageable. You take it from that 10 where they're having a panic attack and it drops to a four and they're like, okay, I might be nervous. I might be scared, but I can manage this. And they have the skills to do it. It's like the whole thing with like heights, right? And people are like, Oh, are you scared of heights? And I'm like, I feel like I have a normal, healthy fear of heights. Like, I don't think it's normal to like stand on something that's really tall in life that you could possibly fall and like not be a little bit afraid, but I'm not like incapacitated to where I can't like take an elevator. You know what I'm saying? Like, so there's probably always going to be some level of like, like we talk about in general with like any kind of any mood, right? Like you're never going to have none of like no anxiety or like no depression in your body ever again. You know, so it's like, you might still feel a little bit fearful of certain things, which is about regulating like the level that you're going to feel that at. And then after you've kind of worked through this, right? And so now we're past the panic attack, like you're back to normal, which generally would you say, in my experience, it happens fairly quickly. Like it's kind of like a sort of quick turnaround time, but like how long just for people listening, like do you generally hear people reporting? Like the turnaround time. Look, I hate using the answer I'm about to use, but it's really on the individual because some people do the work like with such intensity and such passion. And then there's other people who just know, I mean, like literally the event, like you're having a panic attack, like, and then when does it go back to normal? Okay. Yeah. So you might feel a little weird for maybe a few hours, but like you will get back to it's not going to be like for six weeks, you're going to feel like this. And it's going to be, there's going to be the peak and then it's going to be kind of that weird come down and then you're going to feel back to normal. That's, that's what I was asking. But then so say you are back to normal, maybe not that day, maybe later in the week. And you can start to address maybe some of the intrusive thoughts. Right. Do you think that that would be one of the best things that someone could do is to when they're in a non panic state to actually start to address that, if they've noticed that, okay, like it's specifically around one thought or one type of thought. Is that really where they should be focusing their efforts? Yeah. Where and when you start to recognize the thoughts that are triggering it. I want you to write those down immediately, you know, and, and. Or even like the behaviors, right? Like the. What are my avoidance behaviors? What are my yep. Yeah. What could have contributed here? And then you start to see a pattern like, oh, every time I don't do this, then this, you know, happens easier. Right. Or every, cause it's not always like when we do certain things, it's also when we don't do certain things. And those are the ones that people like we always forget about. It's like not always like, what are we adding? It's like, what have we not done that we know makes us feel better? Right. It's that proactive approach to, to like stress is on the horizon. I can do some things now to lower my, you know, my, my stress levels. So this way when stress meets me. Then okay. Yeah. Or I can not do anything now and walk in there already elevated. And then when more stress hits, it gets up and it's like, it's so much easier to manage it when it's at like a six or a seven instead of an eight, nine or a 10. Definitely. So we wanted to go over this, you guys, because it is really common. Something that I've experienced many times. I know that you've mentioned many of your clients experience it as well. So we did want to, for lack of a better word, normalize this conversation and also give you guys some practical tips, because this is something that you may deal with in your life and we're all about being proactive and working through things in a very introspective way. So we hope you found use out of this podcast and some good tips. Or if someone in your life maybe deals with this, you're very close with, hopefully you can share this with them. But for more information on your services, how can they reach you for counseling? They could email it full circle therapy dot com. That's not the email. Oh, full circle therapy, FLH email. Way to go. Don't, don't send the first email. Send the second one. And for more information on all of our services, you can visit team lookofit.com. If you guys enjoyed the show, please share it. That is the best way that you can help spread our message. We appreciate you guys listening and we'll talk to you next week.

=== FILE: I'm going back to grad school ｜ Road to becoming a therapist [ZZ3gneyAkd0].txt ===

 Pfft. I have been thinking about how to open this video. I can't even tell you how long, but I'm just going to get right into it, and the whole point of this series and the direction of this YouTube channel is going to be me just putting things back out there and really trying to work on my overthinking, overanalyzing, overbeing perfectionist tendencies and just getting back out there. So hi, my name is Lauren Conlin. If you are new here, if you're a returning subscriber, whatever it might be, I used to post YouTube videos. Like 10 years ago, it's crazy, my first video was like 10 years ago, and I'm in a very different place in my life at the time of recording this. Tomorrow will be my first day back at grad school. I started my first grad program 10 years ago, so I'm actually back at USF, it's a whole full circle moment, which we'll get to, but this is going to be so different. My life is very different than it was when I was in grad school previously. I'm going to be in a very different program, and I'm just a different person, right? And the reason I wanted to come back on YouTube is I wanted to share as a 32 year old who runs a business and has relationships and a partnership and all of this stuff. I wanted to show what is it like to be doing all of these things and going back to school, because I know that oftentimes just documenting and seeing what other people are doing who are similar to you in maybe every way or in some ways is just nice. It's just, it's fun, it's enjoyable to watch, and if I can just help one person or really provide any kind of insights to what I'm doing or what I'm learning, that is what I want to do. And that's originally what this channel was all about. So kind of just back up, I used to post videos, if you guys are OG followers, you will remember these, but I used to compete as a NPC and then IFBB Bikini professional, and I started just documenting like my preps, right? Like prep vlog, this many weeks out doing this, and I used to just document everything. And oh, I went to a conference and here's what I learned. And what I did in 2015 was actually did a breast-og vlog. And I was just kind of going through the process again, just sharing everything, because when I was looking into getting my augmentation, none of the videos that were out there were answering the questions that I had. And so I was like, well, I'm just going to document everything. And I mean, literally the videos were me sitting down and being like, okay, so day two, I did this, day three, because I'm just a detailed person and I love knowing those kinds of things. And based on the response that I got, and still to this day, people loved those. And it's so funny because the production value was literally with my camera sitting on the floor in front of a Christmas tree. Okay, no lighting, just nothing that I mean, not like I really have a crazy setup right now. I have like a little desk ring light and a slightly better camera. So I don't want to pretend like I'm just like this, you know, top of the line production type person. But that's what I used to do on this channel. And there have been so many times that I've wanted to come back to YouTube and do videos that were either short and educational, or just kind of like sharing things. And I just felt such a resistance for years, like the past several years, I have felt this huge resistance just in general to sharing anything, particularly on social media. In my real life, I have done so much personal work, and I have great relationships, I have a great boyfriend, I have like just amazing, just my real life is just so great. But it has been so hard for me to share things on social media, and particular on Instagram. And I was like, you know what, with going back to school and with this program and what I'm going to be learning, I really want to just showcase some of these things, share some of the things that I'm learning, and also just like, how the fuck am I navigating all of this stuff? Because I'll be honest, I am a little nervous. Okay, I think I said it in the beginning, but I've been avoiding doing this video, because I wanted to, I was like, okay, maybe a few weeks out, I'll like, you know, a few weeks out also, like competitor brain forever, a few weeks out from starting school. Let me just like start documenting stuff. And then I just like, no, no, no, and just push it, push it off, push it off, push it off. And then I was going to on Friday, right, because we had an orientation on Friday. And then, y'all, I was so overwhelmed, realized how behind I am. So I came home and had to deal with like that kind of stuff. So it was not happening. But I actually think that it's, it's a great opener for the video, right? Like, here's the first video, and just kind of my thoughts going into this and really why I'm doing it. So I am going back to school to become a licensed mental health counselor. So LMHC, you guys typically would see this, or, you know, people say therapists, psychotherapists, counselor, there's a lot of different terms that people use, which to be honest, is pretty confusing for everyone involved. But the program that I'm in is the clinical mental health program at USF. And I will be doing the LMHC track, like that is the goal in the next, you know, five years, I will become licensed and be able to practice in that way. So I am so excited. Like, I have been for the past, I mean, probably since like 2017, really having a deeper interest in psychology and behavior and mindset. And, you know, things are just very different than when I first started coaching back in, you know, 2013, the industry is very, very different. And not only is the fitness industry different, but just people are different, right? Like everything is different than, you know, over 11 years ago, right, which is understandable. But I have gotten to a point where I personally feel like I have reached what I can do within scope to help people in the way that I want to, but I want to do more. And so, you know, like I said, back in probably 2017, I started, you know, researching more of these things and learning and integrating this into my practice. And I would say now, we have a huge emphasis at our company. And just with all of our clients and, you know, any kind of podcast amount or any content I create, there's a very, very heavy emphasis on behaviorist mindset, psychology, all that is just woven in there. So I'm very, very interested in this, but I've gotten, like I said, to a point where I feel like I really would like to take this to that next level. And the only way to really do that is to either partner, you know, with a therapist or a company, or to do it myself. And to be honest, I am very, very interested in this stuff. So I said, you know what, I want to do this. And I always felt like I was going to get a third degree. And originally, you know, I did the traditional track of like, do your bachelor's and then do your master's, do research. And then the next thing most people do right from there is go to do a PhD. And typically they'll do it in that same field because I've already studied that for at that point, six years. And I was just, I just couldn't do that. I didn't want to do that. I was very burnt out from school. And just in general, I just didn't really feel the calling to do that. Now, there's always been like an egoic part of me that's like, you need to get a PhD. Everybody you know, as a PhD, like you should do this, you're such a failure if you don't have this. And obviously, you know, not necessarily grounded in reality rational thoughts. But that's what like my illogical ego based brain would always be telling me. But I knew deep down, like, doing something just to like have a lot like have letters and to do stuff was was not a good approach, especially something like a PhD. But I always felt this calling to go back to school to learn more. And, you know, in particular, I love, you know, I love research, but I also really love working with people. And that's what I've been doing for the past over 11 years. And that is certainly not going to change. So I sat on this for a long time. And I kind of was like, Oh, you're just doing this because you think you need to think you need to. But it just was like growing and growing and growing. And I knew and I sat with it for long enough to know that this isn't just like a on a whim, I want to do this, right? So I applied to an online program, actually. And because at first I was like, well, I don't really want to be able to disrupt my regular life, like because I have so much going on and this and that in the business and traveling and speaking and, and all that, right? And then I just something about it was like, no, I that just doesn't seem right, doesn't sit right. And so then I started to apply to other programs that were in person based programs around Tampa. And I actually had thought too, do I want to go the clinical psychology PhD route? Do I want to go the mental health counselor route? And for a minute there, I even toyed with the idea of psychiatry. And I was like, going back to med school right now would just not really be for me. So anyone who's not familiar to be a psychiatrist, you have to go to, you know, the traditional four year med school before you specialize in psychiatry. So I was like, that just doesn't really sit well currently with what I want to do. But I really wasn't sure, do I want to do the PhD? Do I want to do, you know, the master's and counseling and take that route. So I was like, you know what, let me just apply. I'm just going to apply to four programs, apply to two PhD programs and two master's programs. And I was like, I'm just going to see what happens if I get accepted, if I get denied. And I will just have to make my decision then. And I kind of, I've always loved, loved, loved research. And since I did my original research with Dr. Campbell, I've wanted to do more. But I also recognize that as much as I love research, ultimately, my goal is to work with people, right? So I was like, if I would constantly feel this, this torn part of me, so that's why I said, you know what, just apply, see how it goes, and then you'll see where you get in. And I didn't get into the PhD programs for anybody who's wondering clinical psychology PhD programs are insanely competitive. And I certainly, if I wanted to really increase my chances, I would have applied many places, most people typically for PhD programs applied to like 10 plus, I just did two. But, you know, applied to those two applied to the two counseling programs. And I got into both of those at nolva Southeastern there. It's a mostly online program with some in person. And then the US program USF program is mostly in person with a little bit online. And I was like, you know what, like, my whole life is online, my business is online, a lot of things that I do just in general are online contents online. So like, let me just go back to school and really make this like a whole in person thing. And also just in general with learning the types of things that I'm going to have to learn for counseling, while I recognize that much of my practice will likely be, you know, distance or potentially telehealth, like all of that. Learning it, I really want to do that in person. So I committed to the program. And we had an orientation on Friday, and like, because I've been in, you know, I went to USF for grad school, but that was eight to 10 years ago, right? So things are very different. And I just roll up thinking like, all right, I looked a few weeks ago, nothing was online. So, oh, well, I'll just, you know, show up to classes and everything will be fine. Well, apparently, there's like this whole group chat, I've missed all the things like all the syllabi, I need books, I need a new student, like there's literally all these things that I was like, oh my gosh, I am so overwhelmed right now. But all good. I got it all sorted Friday afternoon. And just it was just like such a wake up call of like, oh, wait, okay, then going through all the syllabi, I was like, am I in like over my head with all of this? Like, how am I going to balance everything? Because not only am I starting this program, but I am relaunching my coaching mentorship program tomorrow also. Because why would an eye that's just how I roll. And this is something that I mostly have built out, you know, on the back end course, but there's still a lot to be done there. And I just started getting really nervous, like, all right, I have my roster of clients, and I have, you know, new clients I'm taking on and I'm doing this. But this is what I've signed up for. And this is actually what I'm really, really excited about. And to be honest, I do a lot better when I have like a lot going on. And it just what it does is it eliminates a lot of the distractions because you simply just don't have time for them, right? This is actually something that I see with clients all the time who either are currently physique competitors or any kind of athletic client in general, or they aren't right now, but they want to get back into it, right? When you are an athlete, and you have a competition, there's like this singular focus that you just kind of start to like, everything else just falls away that really is an important. And I have so many clients who are like, I just want to get back to that level of focus. And I'm like, yes, but it's almost impossible to manufacture that unless we create some other things like that in your life. Maybe that aren't, you know, as intensive as that. But anyways, now, Bramley, but if you guys are used to the channel, you know, this is really what these videos are. I am never going to be a vlogger. Like I just, I just can't, it's just not in me. I've tried for years and years and years. It's just, I just don't have it in me. And so a lot of the videos are going to be mostly just this might be a little bit of b-roll thrown in there here and there. But it's mostly just going to be me talking, sitting down and sharing different things. And the whole point of, I guess, like I said, either this series or really just like where the channel direction will be for the next few years is going to be how am I balancing everything? And, you know, what am I learning? What am I, you know, able to, you know, take from what I'm learning and apply that either, you know, to my life, to clients lives, how am I balancing everything? Because I know I am certainly not the only person I posted. I think when I got accepted, you know, a few months ago, and I posted about going back to school as someone who is, you know, older and I had so many people who were either currently in programs, they just finished them, or they're thinking of starting as well. So there's a lot of people who are in this kind of same boat. So I know that I am certainly not the only one. So also, if anyone is listening is, you know, in a program right now, or they just finished one, or you have any advice, drop it in the comments below, please, anything will be greatly, really appreciated. But for me, I knew that going into this program, it is so intense in terms of the amount of credits that I have to take. It is a 60 credit master program. And I believe that I will be doing a specialization. So that I'll have to take another class will be 63 credits. And then in the process, because this is a K-CREP accredited program, I also have to do two semesters of practicum. So basically, it's a class and then it's also 15 site hours per week. So for a total of like 300 of those hours. And then my last final semester is a 900 hour, sorry, 600 hour supervision process was like an internship. So I'll be basically working a 40 hour work week somewhere for my last semester. But because of how many credits it is, it is a like three to four classes per semester for six semesters straight, and then the internship, along with the practicum hours to so it is a very intensive program in terms of like the hours. And so this semester, I'm taking four classes, and it is a lot of reading and writing and projects and that kind of stuff. So I already have created a little mini schedule. And I know one of the things is I am very organized and very, like I like things a certain way, and I have like my list, and I have this and I have that, but I also can be very, very chaotic. And I'm kind of like this combination of both things. And I haven't really had to have a super stringent schedule, because for the past few years, my life has been very, very different, you know, I can work when I want, where I want, I have deadlines for things, of course, but I can do them on my own time, it can be very flexible, I have traveled a ton, you know, for business or speaking or just events, and also some for fun as well. But all of that is changing now, right? And I have very, very, I'm going to have a very set schedule in terms of when I need to be at school. I also won't be able to travel nearly the same amount as, you know, I have been, which is going to be a big change for me. So I set up a whole little plan in terms of like, all right, I'm going to try this for the first month, and then I'm going to reassess. And just like I would tell a client to do, right, like, let's try this for a few weeks, see if we love it, hate it, what do we want to adjust, but, you know, getting back into a consistent morning routine, getting into consistent training times and days, because I'm just have I'm going to have a lot less flexibility. And I know for myself over the past few years, because previously, when I was in my other programs, I was in school, running the business and competing, right? So I never really had to question, like, would I be making my meals? Would I be training? I have to do that. Like, it wasn't even an option to me as an athlete, when I got everything done, but I haven't thought like that in a while, because I haven't been doing that. And for the past few years, I've been working on my own kind of just like, personal journey and a lot of my own growth. So that kind of took a backseat, which is totally fine. And I'm very glad that I did that. But again, it's all just, it's all just part of it, right? Like, I have to get back into this routine and the structure and the schedule. So my boyfriend, Chris, he has helped me put together a training plan. So we have the training plan days. I have my other things that I'm going to do in terms of my cardio or my yoga and my walks and all of that. And so I'm going to start with this little schedule. I made it on canvas, I spent entirely too long creating this whole thing. One of those things that I love to do. It's just like a very satisfying thing, like, oh, I spent an hour on this that I totally didn't need to. But yep, check the box. It's pretty. So I'm going to start with that. And you know, some of the videos moving forward are going to be me like, going through a few of those things of like, Hey, this is what's working. This absolutely has been grounding me, centering me or like, Oh my gosh, this is not. So I'm really just making this first video to say like, here's a little background on why I'm going back to school, what is happening. And also, like I said, just kind of putting aside those like perfectionist tendencies, which to some degree, I will always have absolutely. And that's certainly a, you know, a great like super power for me in some ways, but it can also just stop me from doing a lot of things. And just the fact of like coming back on here to be like very like open and vulnerable about like, my struggles, like presumably that I'm going to have like in school or in relationships or just like in life or whatever I'm dealing with is going to be hard. But I also know that that is what is most valuable to people. So if I can help people, if I can teach people something through all of this, then that's really what I want to do. So yeah, I guess that's like the first recap. Hey, I'm back. And I was going to like think of like a series name or, you know, but this isn't really a series, this is just going to kind of be like my life. So if anyone has a good name for something, I love everybody loves a good name, right? We all love a good name. But I just wanted to put this up here. And I am definitely feeling a little bit nervous and on edge for the first week, but also like the good nervous, like I'm very excited. And ultimately, as nervous as I felt about some of these aspects, I know without without a question of doubt that this is the path for me. And that's why I spent so long really like sitting on this decision before I really made it before I really moved forward with it. Because I did not want to rush into it and I wanted to feel 100% like 150% about it. And that's what I do, right? There is not even a question in my mind that like future me is going to be doing this and integrating really, I want to be able to integrate like physical and mental health together in a very, very deep and impactful way. And I know that this next, you know, chapter of my life is going to allow me to do that. So as nervous as I am, I'm also very excited and also have this like sense of calm. So it's going to be interesting because going back to school now with the perspectives that I have, just as someone who is, you know, older, right, I've like lived more life, I've had a lot more experiences, but the work that I've done on myself as an individual, I'm very interested to see how that applies to school now, and just how I'm able to operate in a very different way than I used to. So, all right, I'm going to stop there so I don't keep rambling. But if you guys have any questions, drop them in the comments. If you guys have any suggestions for me starting this new venture, definitely drop them below because I would love to read and see all of that. And yeah, that's it. 10 years later, still can't intro, still can't outro.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.459982Z ===
