 polygaz polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg polyg Um, if you know, in a lot of the research studies they talked about that people just didn't think that they were being like more lazy, they just were. Um, so there's really simple ways to kind of increase your non-exercise activity thermogenesis. Uh, if you're going to run errands, you know, park farther away, take the stairs when you're traveling or you're, you know, at the airport or something like that. If you're like me and you hate escalators, you'll take the stairs anyway. Really? I hate escalators and I will try to avoid them at all doing housework and yard work. Uh, if you live somewhere that you can walk places, uh, take advantage of that. Definitely walk around different places. Uh, also if you are going to do a meeting or something, uh, or a phone call, you know, try to walk outside or just walk around, you know, sometimes I'll even be on the phone in here and I'll just walk around inside the house, uh, just to be active. And again, this is not, this is not cardio. My favorite way actually for neat, uh, just increasing activity in general is these 10 minute walks. Talked about them a little bit. Um, before different like stories and posts and I recommend them to clients as well. So, uh, Stan Effordain recommends these and Mark Bell talks about them a lot. So it got me and Ryan really interested. Those are two people that, you know, we respect a lot. So we're like, okay, they're doing it. We should probably do it. And, uh, all it is, is simply just a 10 minute walk, uh, ideally outside as part of, you know, nature and unplugging. Uh, and then you can kind of just, you know, be outside. But if the weather is not, you know, does not allow it, then you can either do it on a treadmill or just like inside your house. If it's big enough, we've done both of those things. Um, so literally all it is, is just getting up and moving after you eat. Um, this can also help too with digestion. And there's some research to show that it can help with insulin sensitivity with your meal. But for the most part, we're just trying to get it in for activity. And honestly, I just feel better after doing part of that. It's just the digestion thing. And, um, I've even done it when we go out to eat. Sometimes I'll just be like, Hey, let's go walk around. Um, and you know, it's just like, it's, it's silly, but it's, it's like a small little thing that you can do again, that are just going to get in some steps, get in some activities. Speaking of steps, that is a really easy way for people to stay on top of it. So, uh, they've actually shown in research too, that trackers are helpful. So whether this is accurate or not, I like to call this like the neat, uh, tracker, because it's not really, it doesn't really do a great job, honestly, Fitbit of tracking like training or anything like it doesn't track, you know, obviously exercise, which I'm not trying to have it track like my resistance exercise, but sometimes I'll be like, I'll have like a workout and then it'd be like zero minutes of activity. And I'm like, what? And then I'll be like packing around the house and it's like, Oh, you had a bunch. And I'm like, what? So again, it's more so for neat, I think. Um, and if I'm doing this, it's going to count it as steps, which I don't care because I'm looking at, I'm looking to get certain amount of units of activity that day. And you know, the age old 10,000 steps a day, I think 10,000, like if you get 10,000 on here, like that's pretty good. And I would say that use that as kind of like your baseline. So for me during prep, when we get very, very sloth mode or just any diet in general, it can be really helpful to be like, Oh, get your ass up. You know, you're only at this many steps today. You need to go do something. Right. And some days I don't hit 10,000, but for the most part, I would say that I do, if I'm resist, if I'm going to the gym and I'm, you know, just moving around like normal, I'm probably going to get that. Um, if I'm having an off day or something, it might be a little bit less. Um, but then sometimes that'll be made up by like food prep or, you know, like going to the store or something like that. So it's not that hard to get your need in you guys. Um, it's something that does take a little bit of planning. Um, but I do want to touch on that. It's not anything necessarily magical. So I'm not saying you're going to increase your knee and just drop a bunch of pounds. What I'm saying is that this is something that is a permanent kind of lifestyle factor that can be worked in that can help with future weight regain, honestly, is what in the literature, what I've really seen. Um, and again, this is not something that like, if you don't do it for a week and go, Oh, I increased my knee. Like this is something that you should probably try to do every single day just to have more activity in your day. And you'll likely be able to maintain your weight easier. Um, I am not sure like if I've looked at it directly with weight loss, but as far as the weight maintenance, the research looks at it pretty, you know, substantial. So when you're trying to lose weight, um, you know, obviously you're going to be in a calorie deficit and you may be in a, you know, just a deficit in general with training too, because you're doing more cardio and things like that to increase the deficit. Uh, and I would just kind of keep this as a constant. Like that is what I look at it as is like a constant in your life, trying to hit X amount of steps per day or trying to get in, you know, one to two walks a day. I say two is probably the best. Um, I usually try to get into, I don't usually get more than that. Um, but you know, obviously sometimes things come up and I like, honestly, I'll just forget and Oh shit, I didn't do my walk. But for the most part, trying to get like two walks in a day and just like do errands and park farther and doing things like that can really just kind of make your weight maintenance efforts better. Now, again, this is not like this magic thing. I'm like, Oh, you're going to throw in your, you just add your knee and you're just going to, you know, get to 8% body fat. No, you guys, okay, obviously not. But anything that can help, uh, with, you know, especially weight maintenance or like on the way up when you're trying to regain weight, you know, I really think that this is a powerful tool and this is powerful too, not just for a lot of times we think about like a competition or something like that. This is just for life, you know, like this is for every single person, like every person, no matter what you're doing can take a 10 minute walk. Even if you're in an office, you can walk around. Like I don't like you can do that. Um, or if you are in an office, good thing too. Like you can, you know, like I said, you can walk and talk or just, you can walk to like your coworkers things and emailing them. Like there's so many easy ways to increase neat. And this is just going to help in general with feeling better. Of course, you like if you, if you go for the walk after you eat, I feel better with digestion. Um, but just in general, like you're just going to get more activity in and it's going to be part of your lifestyle. So this is not like this magic thing, but this is just something that it can really flip our minds. Uh, part, a lot of this is just subconscious when you reduce it. So be on the forefront and setting up for yourself. Okay. I'm going to do these two 10 minute walks after my meals. Uh, and I'm going to make sure that I, you know, park here and you know, like whatever, just set something up for the week as like a goal. And I think this is, these are practical ways and really, really simple ways to just increase neat in your life. So thank you guys so much for watching. Uh, if you did not watch part one, definitely go watch it. It's full of sciencey stuff. This is just the more of the quick application portion of the video. So thank you guys so much and have a great day.