 So today's question is, can you spot reduce body fat? So today's question is, can you spot reduce body fat? And I wish I could cite a cool study, and tell you guys that there was a way to do this, but to my knowledge, there's not. I think every bikini girl would sign up for tie-in body fat spot reduction first. But this is how it works, you guys. So males typically hold more body fat in their stomach and lower back area, that kind of just like whole trunk region, whereas females typically hold more body fat in their glutes, hips, thighs, you know, lower body half. There are exceptions, of course, every rule, and there's people who vice versa, you know, hold up like guys who can't get their legs lean, and then girls who, you know, can't get their abs in. Of course there is that, but for the most part, that's what, you know, we see. And what happens is when you diet and you're in the proper calorie deficit through, you know, your diet and your training and your cardio, you're gonna lose body fat first in the easier areas to lose body fat in, of course, and then you're gonna get to the more stubborn areas. So, no, there is no way to spot reduce through resistance training. I wish there was, but it's just not gonna happen, you guys. It's gonna come off in, you know, how it wants to come off. And you're gonna have to probably go through several cycles of dieting and reverse dieting, you know, getting your calories back up, and then dieting again, because you can't just crush diet forever, right? And then your body will stop responding. So, don't give up if you're like, oh, I really want this area to come off, look at it the more long-term approach. Say, okay, in a year, what can I do instead of in these next few weeks, how can I try to rapidly get this off? Because most likely when you crash diet like that, you're gonna lose more muscle mass. And then even when you do diet, you're just gonna look like, bleh. You're gonna look not as good and not as shapely. So, take your time, look at things in the long way, but just know that you can't stop reduce body fat through resistance training.