 assidididdex.com.au.au. Hey guys, Lauren Conlin here. Lauren Conlin here. I, Phoebe Bikini Pro and FirstForm Elite Trainer. So, something that I think is really, really important when you're dieting is to stop stressing over the small details. And I know this is very, very hard, obviously. But it's something that's really important. It's going to slow down your progress ultimately. So first and foremost understand that there's going to be a lot of changes and that you're not going to really feel great everyday. But I think people will like freak out over one thing. Like, oh the scale went up a pound. Oh my God my weight loss is totally ruined. or like, oh, I feel a little bloated today. Like, I don't know what's happening. Or, oh, I'm a little run down. Like, it's the end of the world. Everybody has bad days. Everybody has great days. Like, there's some days where you wake up and you're just like, I look awesome. And there's other days where you're like, I look like a busted can of biscuits no matter what you do, right? And thinking like that continuously can really, really hamper your progress. Hamper, that's kind of a weird word, but it's really slowing down your progress. And so I think it's, you know, stop getting hung up on those things. Again, look at things in like a slower timeline, not just like day-to-day changes, right? Because things can really, really change. Okay, okay, how did this week go? And make assessments, okay? Do I need to make any changes? Do I need to just stay the course? And then look at it over the month. Like, how did things progress? And I know I kind of beat this into the ground like all the time, but really, and I think a lot of people know it, but we still get caught up. No matter how perfect things are, it's going to take time, right? And I think everybody's kind of understanding like quick fixes, like don't work, and they're not very sustainable, but people still want them, right? They still reach out and they're like, yeah, I understand, but then it'll be like a week or two and they're like, can we just do this? And like, why isn't this happening? And trust me, I get it. I've been there. I still get, I'm still there. Like, why isn't this happening right now? I want it to. And no matter what, if you maximize your training, your sleep, your food, your supplements, your everything, you're doing everything perfectly, you can speed the results up, but it's still not going to be fast. So that's really important to keep in mind and just kind of stop stressing over the speed of things and giving yourself enough time. Obviously, there's certain things that have a deadline, like a competition or a meet or a wedding or something, but giving yourself enough time so you don't kind of run into those stressors is really important. And lastly, don't compare yourself to other people that you know or especially don't compare yourself to people on social media. So this is very hard and we all kind of fall into this. If you have a social media account, there's been a time where you've been scrolling and you're like, oh, this girl has great life, great body, everything's awesome, and you don't see the fluctuations. Again, I think things are getting better and people are starting to understand that. I'm like, okay, this is like a perfect highlight reel and that's not reality, but honestly, you guys, everyone falls into that thinking. Like, this person has everything going great, but you don't know what's going on behind the scenes. You don't know what they're actually doing. You don't know what they're actually struggling with. Honestly, sometimes you don't even actually know what they look like because a lot of people will post certain pictures at really good angles and you see them in person and it's different or they're posting old pictures. So never compare yourself to what you think somebody looks like or is going through unless you actually know them. And then even then, don't compare your journey to theirs because it's going to look a lot different. Everyone's at a different stage in their journey and honestly, if you guys continue to stress over those details, ultimately, you're just going to slow down your progress. So stop doing that, please. We all need this reminder. I'm going to probably watch this video at some point and remind myself because we all need this. Thank you guys for listening. I really appreciate it and look forward to giving you guys more tips.