 Sn Snoringlele,uardinezle, Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, that's so good. So pre-judging went great. So many girls in the top call-outs. We're at finals now. So basically for the two-day show, you're looking at pre-judging. And then you have to be ready again for finals. And they don't typically judge finals, but you always want to be ready. Especially if you're in the first call-out. You never know what's going to happen. They could re-judge you. There's going to be a bunch of pictures, all that stuff. So setting yourself up for success for Friday night after pre-judging, which I know is hard, to then look good on Saturday is really important. And all of our girls did that. They had a meal after the show. They rested up. They got their tans redone. So everything's on point. I can't wait to see the results. And hopefully lots of good news. In fifth place, number 410, Jenna Potter. And winning the class, Lauren Dannemiller. And winning the class, Cassie Malone. Please forward and walk it back. Bikini overall champion is 463, Lauren Dannemiller. And winning the class now has been 19 now. This is like he wants to. This is like he wants to. Yeah. That was good. Here we go. Here we go. As soon as the camera went on, it was just like... Yo. So good. Oh my goodness, onion three. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right, y'all. So in typical Lauren fashion, forgot to film the last clip after finals. And then as I was going to film this, I ran into a bush tree, which is why I have water all over my shirt. Why am I like this? Anyways, why we didn't finish filming was because Lauren, Dana Miller took the overall for the bikini division. And things just got really crazy. And oh my gosh, y'all. So, so incredibly proud of her. And all the girls, honestly. So we had a really, really successful, I would say, 2017 nationals. Jenna took home fifth. So proud of her. She's been top five in two of the biggest national shows of the year. So I call that a great comeback year. We're really excited for next season. And then a few of Paul's girls turned pro. So Lauren, like I said, won class F. And then also the overall in bikini. Cassie won class H. And then actually Rachel won her figure pro card too in class E. So three pros. And then a few really close placings. So a few top tens in there as well. So incredibly proud of everyone. Oh my gosh, if you saw the footage, you know they all looked amazing. So I wanted to touch on this kind of topic for everyone. Just so the vlog was a little bit more informative. And not just, obviously the footage is great too. But I wanted it to be a little bit informative as well. So what does it take, honestly, to, you know, turn pro at the national show? What does it take to get noticed, to be in the top five? Honestly, you guys, there's so many things that come into play at the national shows. It's so unlike any other show. So there's, I don't know what the final tally was on bikini. But there was about 900, a little under a thousand competitors at the show, right? So at a show this big, with the bikini division specifically, there's so many girls. And you just have to be noticed, right? And how do you get noticed when there's so many competitors? One, you need to compete frequently so the judges recognize you. Just recognition in general is really important. It's not even about like, oh, they get to know you. It's just like, in general, like when you see someone a lot, then you're like, oh, I'm going to start looking for them, right? So recognition in general is really important. Two, making sure that everything is on point. And I mean everything. When there's a lot of people, you need to stand out in a positive way. So the tan needs to be flawless. Hair and makeup needs to be perfect for you. Everyone has a little bit different, you know, what looks good on them. But for you, your suit needs to be like, sparkly enough and a good color and like, in the right position. Posing, of course, is huge. Your overall just presentation. Like, Lauren won the overall because of her overall just presentation. She was very calm and collected and just really owned the stage. So all those things kind of come into play, you guys. And a lot of times it comes down to just a blink of an eye and they noticed you versus somebody else. Or they didn't notice you and they noticed someone else. And I know that sucks. And like, everybody wants to win. Everyone wants to get a trophy. Everyone wants to turn pro. But over time, consistently being at the shows, being in those top call-outs, and always making improvements is really the only way that you're going to turn pro. And that's how I did it. That's how all these other girls have done it. Lauren did four national shows this year. The year when I turned pro, same thing, four national shows. And obviously, like, that's a lot, right? So Lauren took two years off before this. She did all the shows this year. And then she's probably going to take a good time off, I'm assuming if I know her, before she steps on the pro stage. That's what I didn't do, which is what I should have done. But anyways, we live and learn, right? So making sure that you're in the position to be in that top call-out, right? So if you're not ready to, you know, place in the top ten, the top five, then I would say, you know, do a few shows and then take a good off-season, right? For my client Jenna, she's ready. Like, there's a few tweaks that we're going to make. But overall, like, she has the physique that they are looking for, right? She got third at USA's and fifth at Nationals. So obviously, we're on the right track. But that's why I pushed her so hard for Nationals because I was like, listen, like, we need to keep, you know, being there. We need to keep showing up. And that's what we're going to do. You know, we're going to take an off-season. Mentally, she needs one. Physically, she needs one. And we're going to make, you know, improvements. But then she's going to be right there. I know it. But if you're somebody who is maybe in the lower call-outs and you don't have the physique that the top call-outs are getting, then take an off-season. Like, there's absolutely nothing wrong with that. Everyone has to do shows. When I first started doing National-Level shows, I was not in the first call-outs. It's because my physique wasn't there. But I still got the experience. So I did a few, took some time. And then, well, for me, it was a little bit different because I changed divisions completely. But if I was doing figure still, I would have had to take a lot of time off in order to bring up those body parts. Clearly, I'm still not there. So I'm glad I made the switch to bikini. I always laugh when people are like, we used to do figure. And I'm like, mm-hmm. I know, it doesn't look like it, right? But so that's really what's important, you guys. Consistently showing up, you know, always working on improving and having really that whole package. It's so, so, so important. As soon as I saw Lauren this time, I knew she was going to turn pro. Honestly, just how calm she was. All the other shows, you know, she was a little bit worried about stuff and, like, overthinking it. Not at all, this show. Like, barely saw her. She was kind of in her room the whole time, just hanging out. And that's really how the top competitors are, you know? And it's okay if you're a little upset if you didn't get in the top callout. Like, that's normal, right? Like, if you're competing to win, that's normal to be like, oh, man. But don't let that hold you back. Go, okay, what do I need to improve on? Get all the judges' feedback and then start making those improvements now. Don't wait until next year. Don't, you know, don't get hung up about it. Just start improving right away. So I hope that was helpful, you guys. Hopefully you enjoyed the vlog and I know I had a great time. Oh, my gosh, this year was so much fun at Nationals. I love going there every single year. I just, and every year we keep bringing in better and better girls. So 2018, you better watch out. Okay, really awkward. I wanted to make that, like, really cool and it was awful. So 2018, we're coming for you. Thank you guys so much for watching. Hope you enjoyed. I said that 16 times because I always say that. Okay, bye. You can really be your mama's daughter. Cause I ain't tryna be nobody hero.