 Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes Barnes I can eat before, but then I'm like starving all day and then I can't really stay on track on my diet. So, you know, we have to kind of balance everything here. So for people who are training fasted, what I would a hundred percent suggest is on the way to the gym and intro workout is to have a blend of aminos and intro workout carbs. Once I saw that all the top prep coaches and people were doing this, uh, I was like, man, they're really onto something. And I've had really great success with this as well with myself and my clients. So thank you to Cliff Wilson, John Gorman, and John Meadows for talking all about intro workout carbs to me during the physique summit. And, um, I'm definitely a big believer in them now, especially if you're training fasted. So it's just a perfect way. Um, you can start, like I said, drinking it on the way to the gym and then finish the rest of it during your training session. And depending on how many carbs you have, you can titrate this to your needs. I would say most people would fall in between that 15 to 25 grams. Um, you know, maybe more if you're a bigger guy, of course, and then immediately post-workout have a scoop of scoop or two. Again, if you're a male of weight isolate and you can add intro workout, you can add carbohydrate powder to that as well. If you have the carbs to play with, again, just kind of depends on your nutritional needs at that point. Um, and then about an hour, 45 minutes to an hour after that, have your first whole meal. So that would be what I would suggest if you are training fasted and that's super easy. You can make all that the night before, just grab it and go. It doesn't take any time and there's no real digestion going on either. So some people don't like to eat before they train, uh, especially really early in the morning, understandably, because if someone doesn't feel good, so now you're getting nutrients right away. There's really no digestion required at all. And you're going to be fueling your workouts a lot better than if you were just to go in there without anything. So share this with a friend who, you know, has been training fasted too, and they're just kind of walking in there and drinking their water. This will definitely help you guys so much. Uh, and thanks for watching.