 Hey y'all! Alright, today's video topic is something that I get asked about a lot, or maybe not even asked directly, but kind of indirectly, it's either said, or maybe people just assume this, I'm not really sure, but off-season calories really do not matter for your contest prep. Of course, there's caveats here, but overall, even if you get to work your calories up to a high level in the off-season, that does not necessarily matter for your contest prep. any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any any there's most people in the middle. So for the hyper responders, this might be the case, but for most people in the middle, and then definitely the under responders, this is not going to be the case at all. But this does not mean that it is not important to work up your offseason calories. That's incredibly important for different reasons, but the reason should not be so you can diet on a lot more food. If you are listening to this and you are a physique based athlete and you are getting on stage for a competition, you're going to be achieving very, very, very lean levels of body fat. That is not going to be easy, no matter how we slice it. Like the end, it just kind of sucks for most people in different ways. Even if you are regularly dieting, like if you're just dieting and you're not doing a competition, if you're trying to get considerably leaner than where you were previously, which is usually the goal of dieting, that's going to be a challenge. And offseason, there's a lot of reasons why we should bring our calories up and it might potentially allow you to get a little bit leaner on a little bit more food, but that should not be the reason why we're focusing on the offseason food. And I'll tell you why. So in the offseason, we are trying to work our calories up and I call offseason anytime when you're not dieting. So a non caloric deficit period, whether you are, you know, reversing, which is like adding food kind of slowly over time, or you're just maintaining some weeks, adding some other weeks. Um, when you're not in a chronic calorie restriction, I'm calling this offseason. Okay. And when you're in that phase, there are a lot of great reasons why you want to bring your food up one mentally, it's going to be really nice to be able to eat food, enjoy food. Um, and also be able to be a little bit more flexible with your choices, right? So say, you know, you are, you were coming off of a diet. You're not really as flexible then just because of choices with lower macros or calories. Now you have more food, you can have a little bit more flexibility mentally. This is really, really nice. And you're just not in that chronic state of like hunger and like, when the fuck is my next meal? And because we all know that that's kind of where you live when you're in that, you know, extreme calorie restriction. So one mentally to hormonally, uh, your hormones will of course, uh, down regulate, uh, or upregulate for certain hormones when you are in a dieting scenario, which is why it's important to not chronically be too calorie restricted, right? So things like thyroid is going to go down. Um, you know, your leptin is going to go down. That's involved with satiety. Your ghrelin is going to go up. Your cortisol is going to go up. Your sex hormones are going to go down. So these are important things that we need to regulate. And if we're chronically restricting calories to a very low level, that's not going to be a good thing. And then finally having calories higher is really important for growth and recovery. So in the offseason, um, again, not dieting phase, the goal is to be putting back on lean tissue that you might've lost in your diet. Um, and if you are say a competitor or somebody who's just looking to put on more muscle mass, because who's not looking to get more jacked, uh, you are going to need calories to grow and recover. So that's really where the focus should be in the offseason at like, Oh, if I get my food up, I'll be able to diet on five more carbs. Like, okay. Like at the end of the day, like at the end of a diet, like, it's just kind of like, let's do what it takes to get there. But in the offseason, you're going to be able to use this food and push this food with your training sessions, with the intensity in your sessions. And then also with the recovery from those sessions, because that's how we grow is in the recovery period. So those are just a few of the reasons why offseason calories do matter, but not necessarily matter towards the tail end of a diet. Remember guys, if we're dieting, it's kind of an all in process, right? Like we're ready to go. We're physically ready, mentally ready, hormonally ready. These are all important things, which is why having a proper offseason is key in order to be able to go all in on said diet. Right. Um, but it is important to work your calories up in the offseason for the reasons that I mentioned. Hormonally, we want to be in a good place metabolically. We want to not be, you know, so suppressed. Uh, and just from a training perspective, you know, the growth and recovery process is going to be really key. Just intensity in the gym, intensity in your life, like having energy outside of the gym to do things like that's important. Um, and sometimes we can forget about that. Like when we are in that dieting state and then lastly, mentally, like it's mentally nice to be able to have a little bit more flexibility, a little bit more food, but do not go into an offseason thinking that if I work my food up and I'll be able to diet on a lot more, that may be the case for you. Um, and that may especially be the case if you maybe, um, dieted like super, super restrictively, like overly restrictively to the point where you didn't need to be that receptive. And then maybe now that you work with, you know, a coach or, you know, the, have the proper systems, like you have really good offseason and then you might be able to get a lot leaner on more food than you did previously, because maybe before you were kind of like haphazardly dieting or just like slash things from the beginning. Um, so there is room to improve that, but just know like those last few pounds, they're probably always going to be pretty hard. And unless our body wants to be there naturally, which it doesn't, if that's why you're trying to get there, it's going to be a real big struggle to get there. So just be able to understand that, um, and know that getting your calories up in the offseason is so important for so many reasons, but not just for the dieting phase. They are pretty distinct. They do go together, but make sure that you are prioritizing your offseason as far as, you know, training hard, being a little bit more flexible, you know, taking the proper time to like grow and also get your hormones, right? If that's something that got affected with your diet. So thank you guys so much for listening. Uh, I hope you enjoyed this. I know this is something, like I said, I get this all the time, whether it's a direct question or like an indirect question. Uh, this is usually like the big one for people. So thank you guys so much and have a great day.