 grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming grooming So for females in particular, there are so many things hormonally that can happen. And there's so many fluctuations that happen on a daily and even a weekly basis. If you look at over the monthly period, there are so many fluctuations that are going to happen based on hormones. And this is different for every single person. So that's one thing. Another thing is electrolyte balance. Like how much sodium, how much potassium, like is that changing a lot? So people's diets change very drastically and that can change the scale. Or, you know, fluid. How much did you drink or how much didn't you drink yesterday? Are you regular in the bathroom? Like there's so many variables that are involved with weight. If you only look at it like one day out of the week, okay, I'm just going to weigh myself on Mondays. You could have had a really weird Sunday or a really weird few days leading up to it. That would have led to a really high or a really low weigh-in. So when people are dieting, typically I suggest several weigh-ins for the week. You don't have to weigh yourself every single day. That can be a little excessive and become kind of a little neurotic. But I would say probably three to four times a week, you're going to get a better idea. You're going to have an average. Okay, how did the week go? How are things progressing? It's not just like one time stamp. So as a coach, I've seen all sorts of responses too with weight loss. So some people will lose weight in the beginning pretty easily and then they kind of plateau. Other people, we start dieting and they really don't see that many changes for quite a bit. And then the weight starts to come off. And then other people kind of just kind of go up and down. So I usually fall into that category. Like I'll lose some weight and then it'll be easy. And then I'll kind of keep going down. Then I'll kind of hit a plateau. And then it's always like this kind of up and down struggle. So everybody is going to be different with their weight, where their sticking points are. So realize that the weight is not the only thing. You're obviously looking for fat loss and not just weight loss. Use it as a tool. Use it appropriately. But don't get so hung up on it if the numbers change, you know, day to day or week to week. Look at it as a whole. Okay, did I change over this week? Did I change over this month? How are my goals happening? Not just like one day. What the scale looks like. Thank you guys so much for watching. Hope you enjoyed these tips.