I don't see less than a week away from the biggest show of the year. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Yes, we are live here at Heavy Muscle Radio. And no, I did not miss a week. People thought I missed a week. I had my kids this weekend, Chris. I'm of course here with Chris Aceto, the technician. He is not in Pittsburgh. Although it looks like he's in Pittsburgh. I thought you were in Pittsburgh. Trying to get You just were perfect. What happened to the spot you was sitting in? Now I can't hear you. I don't hear a word you're saying. Can you hear me now? Yeah, now I can hear you. I can hear you. I thought you were in Pittsburgh with that brick wall because that's like a typical Pittsburgh background. No, I'm I'm still in Maine, but we only have 45 minutes. I have to We got to talk and furious, Dave, about the the week. So, we don't need to know about anything else. Well, I have to People like to hear that. People really don't really care about bodybuilding. They want to know about like what we do, you know, like you know, your your real estate and my uh my I had a pie I won a pie eating contest. I actually tied for the win at the pie eating contest. I don't know if you saw my Instagram post. I took my kids to the blueberry uh fair here at the Lee County Civic Center. And they uh they talked me into doing the pie eating contest. I had to eat a piece of blueberry pie and you know I have a tremendous eating prowess unless you didn't know that Chris but I don't like to do at 57 I don't like to do like you know where you eat like 25 or 30 35 hot dogs I don't I don't think that's good for my digestive system but I'll eat a piece of blueberry pie you know what I mean and so I decided to sit down and do it I was competing against mostly uh teenagers so I was uh I guess I could have theoretically been in the mast's category But I decided to go into the open, Chris, and I uh tied for first and I won a $25 fairground gift certificate of which I probably spent $6,000 in in addition to the $25. The good thing is you spend six grand and you can get like a stuffed animal for your son for like two bucks. Yeah. Yeah. He had to throw 400 darts to win the the the one inflatable hammer. there. So, there's my Oh, let's pull this up. Don't say there is Chris. And if you have any left, we'll give you a spoon. Try not to break the bowl, please. Try not to break. There's a key word right there. Three, two, one, go. There we are. the victory for the other. You think he'd stick up and if you have any left, we'll give you a spoon. try not to break the goal. It was like my grandmother was running the contest there. So, I uh I'm undefeated in eating. I've done three eating competitions in my life, Chris. I'm undefeated. Uh in high school, I ate 165 vanilla wafers. Remember those little vanilla wafer cookies? Mhm. I ate 165 of them in 10 minutes. That was my first victory. This was back in 1986. My second eating victory, actually I have four. My second eating victory was in uh college. I represented my dorm in the pizza eating contest against all the fat kids. Uh you know they for some reason they think fat kids can eat eat uh faster than or more than the average person, but it's not the truth. I was a runner because I was like 140 pounds. I was star I would starve myself every day because I was trying to lose weight. So I was ravenous. I ate two and a half pizzas in in about like I think it was 10 minutes also. So I won that contest for the dorm and we won a pizza party for that. So I got more pizza and then uh I had I believe on Heavy Muscle TV show I did a a drinking shake contest and I drank the shake faster than everyone in the studio. So I have three wins and this was my fourth win. Even though it's a tie, it's still considered a win and uh so I'm I'm undefeated in eating. You're batting a thousand Dave. Yes. Yes. And I might retire on that on that on that statistic. I wanted my kid, you know, how like a lot of bodybuilders say, "Oh, I just I I competed again in the masters. I wanted my kids to get a chance to see me on stage. How's that going to happen for me?" So, I had to do an eating contest so my kids can see that I I can still uh I still got it. Chris, will you use the question? I still I still got it. But no, it was fun. It was a fun It was a fun weekend. My kids actually did an eating contest, too. Logan came in second. There was a There was like Logan's nine. The kid who beat him was like fif like 13 or something like that. So, he was all mad. And uh see the key, Chris, to the eating of the blueberry cake is that you have to lick the contain. You have to lick the plate clean too because if even though you ate the whole cake, my son ate the whole cake, he didn't get the he didn't lick the perimeter. And see, I licked the perimeter. That's why I was able to tie with the other kids. Personally, I would have probably put double the quantity into the pie eating thing because I think they it was too little. It gave the little it gave the young kids too much of a chance. If I would have had more volume, I would have been able to win the contest, I believe, outright easily. So, when are you leaving for Pittsburgh? I leave tomorrow. Oh, by the way, happy Cinco de Mayo. It's the fifth of It's the 5th of May and uh so that's cool. Yesterday was May the 4th be with you. You know that holiday. No, I don't know track because you know Trump's going to change Cinco deio to something more distinctly American in his opinion. Well, Cinco deio's today and yesterday was May the 4th. May the fourth is, you know, May the fourth be with you. Like the may the force be with you. That was a good day. That's a good holiday. And we got Cinco de Mayo today. And you know, I I was in I'm trying to think where I was on Cinco de Mayo once. I was in some Spanish country. I think I was in Spain on like a long time ago on Cinco de Mayo. And man, the food was nonstop. They know how to Spanish people know how to eat when it's when it's when it's a celebration. I'll give them that much. Tremendous food. I love Spanish food, too. Actually, I went for Mexico. I went to Mexican food this past weekend and with the kids and they're they're guacamole fanatics. You get guacamole for the for your kids when you go to Mexican. Um my kids eat guacamole for the you should know you're the fat guy for the healthy fats since they were like it. Yeah. The the guacamole nuts though. I I I had to take a phone call, Chris, while we were eating. I turned around, there was no guacamole left. And I got the big one, too. There the chips, you know, they dip the chips in there. Forget about it. They don't They don't eat their meal after that, but they eat the whole guacamole bowl. Chip chips. Guacamole is the best part. I know. I know it is. And I And I unfortunately didn't get it. It says unmute yourself. I'm not muted. Am I muted? You can hear me, right? Yeah, I can hear you perfectly. What is this guy What's the problem? All right. Thank you, Carlos G. It's a Mexican holiday, not a Spanish holiday. So maybe I was in Mexico then. Thank you for the correction. Are you going to give uh Derek 10,000k carbs worth of donuts before Pittsburgh? Um everything is on the table. Everything's on the How's he looking? That's I know everyone's asking, man. I'm getting a lot of people texting me. He looks great. You haven't sent me any pictures, so he must look really good. No, he'll he'll uh I he'll he'll be um I think right in that sweet spot, you know, where he was at the Arnold where he's big enough and hard enough. Yeah. Know because for everyone, right? Isn't that the the magic formula for everyone? Big enough and hard enough. Dry and hard. dry and hard as as Blackman would say dry and hard but sometimes you know you go overboard and you become too dry too hard or sometimes you think like hard enough big you know I've been seeing a lot of people tell me this also I'm going to give this guy some credit he's saying um Kriso will surprise us all and he might but I'll tell you why by why people think that when you look at Kriso's pictures the guy is so freaky looking uh and obvious Obviously, it doesn't necessarily translate on stage in terms of flow of the body. And that's what people don't realize. And when we sit in the front row there, we see that we see the difference because you see KZO backstage. He's probably the craziest looking guy of of everyone, I'm sure. He's tall. He's got cra his vascularity is nuts. He's like grainy looking, but you know, and he's got a really good physique, don't get me wrong, but his his physique doesn't flow as as as beautifully as like a Derek uh Derek's does. and even as Martin Martin Fitzwwater and I think that can you know bamboozle people so they see this freakiness in on his Instagram and I don't even think he filters his pictures to be honest he doesn't have to but it doesn't necessarily translate onto a a win on stage now if there's if there's no great guys in the lineup yeah he's going to he's going to dominate but I think in this lineup with the level of competition that we have I think that Krzo is going to have a little bit of trouble I'm still obviously he's a top five guy but I don't know if he's gonna be able to pull off a win here or any kind of dark horse movement. What do you think? Um I think that impressive. Um, but I would agree with you. Not so much that he won't look on impressive on stage. It's just this three, four. I mean, there's five, six, this the top six in Olympia level. Period. Period. Top six is Olympia level, including Yeah. But you see these pictures in a tank top. The guy looks like he's unbeatable. He looks like Mr. Olympia, you know, and then you see him on stage. And I mean, like I said, he's impressive and I haven't seen him, you know, in a whole year. So, I'm sure he's going to be more impressive than the last time he was out, but at the same time, you know, it's it's it doesn't, you know, let's see how it translates, you know, on stage in terms of the way his physique flows. I like I like the level of freakiness. I'm AI'm a mass monster freakazoid, you know, type of fan, you know. I like the crazy stuff like this. But you know, you're seeing gym gym footage. Ste, the best compliment Steve Weinberger ever gave me, Chris, back in the day was he said, "You know what, Dave?" He said, because you know, I've trained his gym. I was always ask him advice and, you know, how to get better. He's like, in a tank top, he goes, "You're Mr. Olympia." He's like, you know, Olympia, you were runner up three times to do. And that was a great compliment because even to have that kind of, you know, level of mass freakiness and and to have a judge of his caliber say to me in a tank top, you're miss that that that was my that was better than winning the Olympia for me because I knew that I didn't structurally have the structure to win the Olympia. But you know, that's a great comment. Kriso's Mr. Olympia in in a tank top. I mean, right. I mean, well, I mean, he's more impressive than anyone else. people have to walk on stage and when in a tank top I said in a tank top I said yeah I mean good I mean I don't think need to beat the dead horse that he looks great in a tank top I think anyone looks great I think I think Derek looks crazier in a tank top than he does on stage how's that so what's that well yeah he's he's big too I mean Kzo's tall and everything like that so in in like a tank top and shorts he's he's ridiculous looking that's all I'm saying But um I mean Phil Heath is was was incredible in a tank top too, but he also was Mr. Olympia. So and Derek was Mr. Olympia. So saying Mr. Olympia looks like Mr. Olympia in a tank top Chris is not the same thing as saying a guy who's seventh at the Olympia. It looks like Mr. Olympia in a tank top or a guy who couldn't even get his pro card like me look like Mr. Olympia. That's a bigger compliment to a guy who's not Mr. Olympia is what I'm trying to say. say that when I saw you at the first time I saw you, you were with Nasser at the Arnold Classic and you were tank top. Then he was and he was in a tank top. NASA was big know what year that was. It had to be 30 years ago, but you NASA were at a booth and you look better than NASA. You were bigger than NASA. You are NASA. Thank you. I'll take that as a compliment coming from the technician. For sure. So, it wasn't hyperbole when Steve Steve said you look like Mr. Olympia. Yeah. Yeah. No, you know what? It it I was very popular at booths because people, you know, when you go to when you go into expos and you're taking pictures with people, you want to take pictures with the freakiest guys you see there because it looks impressive in the in the pictures. And so, I I take tons and tons of pictures with people. So, was, you know, like I look, I always tell people, you got to find your niche. If you're if you want to be a bodybuilder and you want to, you know, make this like a living for yourself, you got to find what your niche is in this in this industry of ours. My niche was to be a big freaky guy, uh to be knowledgeable, to try to to try to take, you know, the complex, you know, uh concepts of bodybuilding and break them down in simplistic form, but I needed to look like I knew what I was talking about or no one was going to listen to me. And and that was my niche. Your niche was I'm gonna go as far as I can in bodybuilding because I love it. But then really my niche is I'm gonna I'm gonna you know Bob Gruskin's my mentor and I'm gonna become the next Bob Gruskin which you did. Um other guys Phil Heath's niche was and Jay's niche was Mr. Olympia you know and so everyone's got a different niche that they got to find for themselves. I was just talking to Aman who works for me and I was about the eating contest and I said listen if you can't eat a lot of food you're never going to be a big mass monster. You might be a classic guy, men's physique guy, but you you got to be able to eat. He's like, "How do you how did you get all that food down back in the day?" I said, "Because I didn't think about it as a pleasure. I thought of it as a job." And there was no way I was not getting this food down, you know? And so, you got to have that like mentality. If you don't have that crazy mentality, you can't be a great bodybuilder. And that's why most of the great bodybuilders out there, aside from the few genetic freaks who no matter what they do, they grow, they can do things on an extreme level. you know, and talk to any of them. You you you work with them. You know, ask Grego what he eats every freaking day. I mean, no normal human being could consume the amount of calories that he consumes every single day. They just couldn't do it. They would be like, "Oh, I'm too full. I I I can't do it. It's I'm uncomfortable." But he gets it down because that's what he wants to do more than anything. He wants to be a champion. Yeah. and whatever it takes to the at the end of the day. How many guys, Chris, have told you, "Oh, I can't do another show. I need to save it for the Olympia." You got Derek Lunsford who won the Arnold and now he's doing the Pittsburgh and then he's going to do the Olympia. I mean, the guy is un, you know, the guy's not saying, "Oh, my body is not going to be able to peak or I'm too tired. I got to rest." It's like these NBA guys today. You remember back in the in like Jordan's day where guys play they never missed a game. They they barely missed any minutes in the game. and they've almost played the whole game. Nowadays, these guys, they don't they don't want to play games. They're like, I only want to play three games a week. It's unbelievable, right? They they literally don't want to play every game. And then and then the fans get pissed off because I buy tickets for me for my son and me and my family to go and then the the star of the the game isn't even playing because he decided to take off the night because he doesn't want to play, you know, four or five games a week. You know, you can't if this is your life and this is your passion, you got to give a 100% to it if you want to be the best. That's all there is to it. There's there's no there's no shortcuts. Having said that, you told us you gave us the little sneak preview on Derek. Let's let's take a look at Nick Walker. A lot of pictures, videos have been coming out the last couple days, last week. Where does Nick Walker fit into this lineup in your estimation, Chris? Um, six or seventh. I'm just kidding. Know that he does. He's freaky. I mean, I think Nick Walker's I mean, I I think Kriso I think Nick Walker I think he's incredible. I think Bone is incredible. I think I mean do I think it's a shoein for Derek Lensford to win? My my absolute answer no and I'm coaching him. I just don't think that these shows are shoeins for anyone. I mean Arnold was supposed to be a shoein for Samson. It was not. And if we had been, you had asked me about the show, you know, I knew the way Derek looked running into the Arnold would ask me and the the fact of the matter is is I didn't really know how he was going to look until he got on stage. In other words, you know, the same thing with Nick. I don't know how Nick is actually or Derek is actually going to compare to each other until you see them side by side. And you've not seen you've seen Nick. I mean, Martin Fitzwwater standing side by side next to Derek Lunsford, but you haven't seen Nick next to anyone other I mean, you actually I take that back. He was next to at the New York Pro last year next to Martin, but he hasn't stood Derek and I mean look at that back last part. He looks phenomenal. So I people I don't think I don't believe in shoe wins and I don't believe um that there's guaranteed wins for people. I think people have to be at their absolute best and this lineup is so strong for so many reasons. Um, and it's it's an exciting show because we don't know what Nick's gonna look like. I mean, he's gonna look great, but we don't know what level of great, you know, so I mean, the pictures that you just posted up. He looks like 400. Yeah. And hard. I mean, I I mean that in a good way. 400. He looks gigantic. What do you think? Yeah. You know, I think that he's better than he was in the pictures that I saw leading up to the Olympia, obviously, so which were small. He definitely looks like he put most of his size back. Um, you know, it's hard for me to judge from pictures because, you know what, he's he's obviously in really good shape. He looks to be the hardest that I've seen him, you know, in a long time. Back to his old freaky form. He's definitely harder than he was going into New York Pro last year, which, you know, I thought he was a little off. I thought Martin beat him. I think he's harder where he needs to be. I don't know how it's going to translate on stage in terms of his flow of his body. You know, he's a little longer in the upper body than his legs are a little short. I don't know. I don't know how it's going to translate. This is a really good lineup, Chris. This we're talking about an Olympian lineup here. I mean, these guys are all great. And I I think it's going to come down and I hate to see keep saying the same thing on beating a dead horse, but I always say it's it's the Branch Warren phenomenon. I always I loved Branch's physique. I thought he had an awesome physique because he worked so hard for it. He had all this oodles of muscle, gnarly, veiny, grainy, you know, muscle, but you know, when you he he didn't flow as well as some of the other guys did. So, uh but he was always in shape. So, he would beat guys that probably should have beat him, but they just would be off. They'd be too flat. They'd be too full. They'd be too soft. And Branch wants somebody shows. I would never ever count Nick out. He's the guy that's always there ready to to to, you know, take advantage of the fact that that guys are a little off. He could absolutely win this show because of that. You know, I think it's a hard I I agree and disagree. I know your point, but I think at the I think low is going to be an important factor here because I think everyone is going to look great. Everyone's going to be big. Everyone's going to be hard. And one way to weed them out and who you first or second or third boils down to flow and relaxed that is where it is will be a showing for Derek. I'm not saying nice condition, but I didn't I didn't expect that like at the Arnold when I saw him standing on stage. The stance to me was better than uh for sure better than Samson. And I think Samson's stance in the lineup is ginormous. It has flow. It's hard. It's dense. And when they compare the two standard relaxed lineup, I never looked at Samson longer than I looked at Derek. So I think Flo is going to play a big role simply because I do expect the top six to be in their best looks. I don't know if it's going to be their best condition, but their best combos of size, conditioning, fullness. I think we're going to see that. That's why it's going to be uh it's the best show of the year. Period. Martin looks big. I don't know when that picture was taken, but it looks [\h__\h] freaky. You look at that picture. He's got a level of density I hadn't seen from him before. It's going to be a really good show. I'm I'm so exc I'm so happy I'm going to it to be honest with you. It's almost more exciting than the Olympia because uh you know although the Olympia is always fun, but this is this was an unexpected mid-season like uh show we get to to witness and obviously Nick Walker wasn't in the Olympia so we get the advantage of having Nick here. It's kind of a rematch between Nick and and uh Martin. We got Derek in the lineup which is a wild card obviously. We got Kriso we haven't seen in a year. So I mean there's a lot of great competitors in this lineup. You know, it's going to be a really good show. I mean, uh, if you had a if you I know it's hard to say who who do who do you have as your top five? You don't have to put them in order. I don't know the five that you mentioned. Five we just mentioned. Yeah. Yeah. Jim Manion's got to be really happy that he's got such a great lineup in the show. But, you know, he put they're putting up 100 grand. Someone's going to go home very happy after they win all that money. And uh you know at the end of the end of the day you as you say and I always quote I always give you credit for this. The money talks right? Yeah. Money money money. I mean you know bodybuilding show is you you will bodybuilders will go where the money is just like you know a real estate investor will go where the money is to be made. No matter fortune could be made and not saying they're making a fortune but if a fortune can be made in North Dakota people will head out there. stop building houses. It's true. It's true. Very true. Um, let me see what else I wanted to ask you. How's Good Veto looking? Because we I didn't even mention him in this whole I I noticed. Uh, he looks big, dense, hard. There's a reason I didn't mention him, by the way, because I wanted to I wanted to bring him up as as another wild card. It seems like a lot of people are not because I've been watching some of the other, you know, you know, prediction shows and people haven't really been mentioning him that much as if like he's not really he's like a second tier factor, I think, you know, or that they're not. It's almost like people are afraid to say this guy could win this show. And you know what? I'm gonna go on the record and I'm gonna say it, Chris, because I think that this guy has every tool in his in his toolbox to win this show, including beating Derek. And you know what the truth is? People are afraid to say it. You know why? Because he it's an unknown commodity and because they don't know if the judges will give it to them. So, no one wants to go on the record and say this guy can win the show. But I want you to and I know you're working with him. Where has this guy got any flaws in his body? What is he missing? I don't I don't really think he has flaws. I think that the the key words that you mentioned is unknown quantity. Um but to quantify the unknown, I'll ask you is you know what place did Martin get at the Olympia last year? Fourth. Yeah. How many points did Martin beat uh Goodto by last year Detroit? Very little. That was last year. Yeah. You know, how many pounds has Gabito put on since last year? It's like, no, I I look, I'm I'm as I'm one of the biggest fans of this guy. I think he's I think he's underrated and I think he's dangerous and I think that this could be a a factor that no one's calculating in here. Those are important factors to consider when like handicapping a show. He just came off the win in Arnold Brazil. I mean, you know, we weren't all down there, so I think it kind of got brushed under the carpet, but he was pretty damn good there. Yeah. And he'll be better here. I mean, so I mean, when you look at that physique, and I know like it's tough because you're working with a bunch of guys, but when you look at that, I'm I'm trying to think like, all right, well, where is he lacking? Like, why wouldn't he beat this guy? Why would why wouldn't this beat Nick Walker? In other words, his quads are too small. His quads are too small. They don't look small to me. Are you Are you serious? Are you being serious or you being physicious? I'm illustrating the obvious by sarc. All right. I'm I'm just saying. I mean, this this guy is like, you know, I I look at those legs. So, I mean, how does that how does Nick Walker beat that? The front double? I don't beat him on the front double. No. Where where would he beat him? Um, what pose does Nick Walker beat Good Veto on? Does he beat him on that pose right there? No. No, not the back lad either. Those are But those absolute strongest poses for everyone has a couple poses where the lights out in in the, you know, in the most muscular. That's a great shot for Nick, I think. Nick, does does Derek beat him in this shot? Der backspr. Does he beat him in this shot? Yes. Okay. But not by much. But not by much. I would say that because because Derek beats him because they have equal width, but Derek's shortness works as an that shot because you say like, I just can't believe it, Gito. You'll say like, I can't believe he's so wide on the back lat. You say the same thing about Derek and then you like say on such a short guy without looking weird, you know, like overdeveloped in the upper body. Yeah. the the the interesting thing about this show is going to be that a lot of these guys are are on the shorter side, right? That that they're going to match up pretty well, you know, with the exception of Kriso, of course, you know, who's taller. I'm telling you, right, good. It's going to be a good show. I mean, like I said, the matchups are great. Is Bonex in the show, too? Right. Bon in the show. That's Yeah. Yeah. thing. He they all all these guys are around the same height. It's pretty it's pretty it's pretty funny that um they got such it's like a lineup of like uh former 212 guys that have moved up to the open. Lee Lee Priest would have fit right into this lineup if he was Yeah, he would have. He would have. Man, it's a great call. He would have. Yeah, I that would have been a great I wish I could have seen him up there at his best against these guys. Hey, it's it's it's uh it's going to be an unbelievable show because of the lineup. Bottom lineup is, you know, you could have this show in it doesn't have Pittsburgh pro show, but somehow he got this uh lineup and we'll be talking about his show. It's going to be taking place this this coming weekend, May 10th and 11th. That's uh Saturday and Sunday at the David Lawrence Convention Center in Pittsburgh, PA. If you're going to be in the area and you want to stop by, uh Chris and I will be there and all the rest of the industry essentially. Jim Manion and Tyler Manion will be, you know, be kind of the promoters of this show and the tickets are still available. Uh it's going to be a great show. And uh where what hotel you staying in? You're never in the host hotel, right? I'm in a in a um I'm at uh uh Embassy Suites for a couple nights Tuesday. Oh my god. Move to an Airbnb after that. Oh my god. You with the hotels. I'll be at the Weston which is connected. I could walk out of my hotel down the elevator and I'll be in the convention center. I go for convenience. Chris goes for the least convenient air. I don't know why they can't figure out a way to get these. You remember the um remember the Arnold used to be hold at the double tree? They had those suites there. Used to put all the competitors up there. I thought that was great because you can make your you can cook in the in the rooms and stuff like that. I don't I I if I was a competitor, I would hate having to stay far away from these venues. I hate getting into a car and having to, you know, go for you forget something. You just want to be in the elevator. Okay. Meeting. Yes. Yes. Back up. That's it. No. I want I want ultimate convenience. Exactly. That's all I'm interested in. I only I'm only interested in convenience. You're right, Chris. 100%. So, but they have a a great They're going to have an expo at the show. This is something they never had before at the expo at the uh and that's why they're holding it in this convention center. I I don't know if this convention is new. I've never been in there. I heard it's a Jam was telling me about it. He said it's amazing. Jim told me, too. It's a really nice venue. And that's uh it's going to it's going to escalate this show, you know, because the people don't realize Jim Mann used to hold the Pittsburgh show every year because what he wanted to do was, you know, showcase Pittsburgh which is the home of the NPCB, right? So the show was kind of like just like a regular show and Jim never wanted to make it like a big monstrosity because it was just too much work and it, you know, he didn't really need it. But once Tyler got in there, his grandson, you know, who's now running things pretty much, you know, he he has a lot of energy and he wants to expand and I guess they got some sponsors. And so I I I look, I knew this was going to happen eventually. They he has to have a big show here. I mean, it he's he's the president, you know, of the NPC, IFBB. You got to have a a premier show in your own name. And so this is great that he's finally doing it. Once again, 100,000 plus there's an expo. And I'm sure we're going to have a see a million booths at this expo. I'll be there with you and Sid and, you know, we'll be doing interviews all weekend long. I'm g I know there's a lot of guys I haven't seen in a long time. I'm going to be in Pittsburgh, so we'll have a lot of meetings and stuff like that and and meetups and it should be a lot of fun. Um, obviously May is seems to be a very busy month because I'm going to be in at Dean Caputo and you know Dean Caputo. I'll be at his show in Streetsboro, Ohio the May 23rd weekend. And then of course we'll be in Alabama on June 21st for the Wack Pack uh event that we have there at that show that's taking place in Montgomery, Alabama. So there's a lot of little appearances we'll be making over the next couple weeks months once this uh Pittsburgh starts. Chris, the shows are every single week. Did you see that? Do you see? Did you see the schedule? Did we go over that together the other day? Last week. It's crazy. Three days and driving down to New York. Oh, you go right. You go right to New I was figured you would. I I The problem is I can't go to New York because I have my kids that weekend, but it's uh it's it's a crazy crazy Let's I'm going to go through it here. So, we got the Pittsburgh this weekend. The weekend after that, like Chris said, is in New York Pro. That's Steve Winberger show in T- neck, New Jersey. They have the Cal State the week after that. That's Tamer show. Uh they have a uh the Legion Sport Sportsfest the week after that. That's Chris M show. Toronto Pro Super Show is the week after that. The week after that is the MRO Classic in Alakante, Spain. And then the Dubai Pro, which is the following weekend after that. They're giving away 140 grand, first place for that one. And there's a show in China, believe it or not. I don't know if anyone's from the US is going to go to that one, but that's June 22nd. That's the same weekend as the Dubai Pro. So, that's a if you want to try to get qualified, that might be a good way to sneak over there while everyone else is in Dubai trying to win that 140 grand. The week after that is going to be the Flex Weekend Italy Pro. That's going to be June 29th. And then the Mr. Big Evolution Portugal Pro is July 6th and the following weekend in Portugal. And Chicago Pro will be taking Oh, is that Yeah, it is open. because that's July 18th. That's the weekend after that. Tampa Pro week after that. Tim Gardner runs those two shows. You got that Canada Natural Pro show on August 3rd. Texas Pro August 8th and 9th. That's Freddy Nu and Sheila Brown. And then you got Tupelo Pro. That's only Masters. That's the one. Yeah, that's that's only Masters. That doesn't count. But I mean, how many shows did I just list off, Chris? About about 10. More than 10 things in a If you can't qualify for the Olympia this year, you're doing something wrong, my friend. Well, Bonak may go to every show. So, he may You know what? At his stage of his career he's at. That's what I mean. I'd do it every I'd do every weekend, too, if I were him. Why not? You would have broke his record to say, you know who else should do every show? Who? Michael Kriso. Yeah, the guy is in shape all the time. He should hit every single show. He should just stay in the US and just go boop boop boop boop boop boop and collect his collect his prize monies because he will he'll win. He'll win most of those. And you know what? That's a nice that's a nice amount of chunk of change to go home with, you know. Yes, you're gonna have to pay they're gonna have to take taxes out, Michael, because you're you're an international guy. Ali Bal knows about that. But it'll be worth it. Trust me, bank that money, man. That's a lot of pro shows in a row there. Uh, I bet you we see him in a bunch of them. I don't I don't think he's going to do all of them, but you know, if Milos was around today, he'd do all of them for sure. Milos was or Sylvio Samuel, didn't he do every show one year, too? I think that was under the guidance of of Milos. He did every show. What about Derek? Would Derek do New York Pro if he wins Pittsburgh? Um, no. I think he just committed to uh Pittsburgh and Okay, it that's nice of him not to take away too many qualifiers from people. Well, you theoretically he, you know, you could win a whole string of them and take, you know, two or three qualification spots, right? Winning and we don't know who's winning New York. You know, that's the excitement of the next two weeks. Right. Right. Well, I think New York is going to be super exciting, especially depending on how Pittsburgh turns out just because you're going to get a lot of the whoever didn't win in Pittsburgh is going is going to go to New York. I mean, it's it's it's a no-brainer, right? I mean, you have to do that. I mean, Nick Walker has to keep going until he gets a a qualification. He's got to go back to the Olympia. So, if Nick doesn't win in Pittsburgh, he's going to go to New York. If Nick doesn't win in New York, he's going to go to California. You know, there's no way he can't stop. I mean, and if he does, I think it's a bad move on his part. Wouldn't you say? That was my point. You You just finish. Sorry. Okay. I mean, we don't know who's going to win Pittsburgh, but if Derek wins Pittsburgh, that means other people have to go to New York. And if other people go one big name is not going to win New York, and that means they got to go to Cal and and uh and on and onwards. I mean, do you I I mean, because I know obviously Martin's already qualified, so Martin doesn't have to like keep going. Her is doing New York and he'll give everyone in that lineup a hard time. Who is Sass Herardi? Oh, Sass. Yeah, Sass needs to qualify still. Now, obviously, good veto already qualified, so he doesn't have to keep going, but you're going to see Nick keep going for sure. Um, Bonak is, is he qualified? Bonak. Bonak's due New York. No, I know. But does he qu He qualify? He won that. What What show did he win? Um just recently. When did he win? Okay. Does it your ears like I said like Detroit four times. Oh, right. Sorry. Thank you. I'm I'm talking but I'm not listening. Chris, that's the problem. You know what? Your your connection's a little a little weird. That's why it's like cutting out every time you talk. But anyway, Nick is the guy who's got to qualify. So Nick is the one who's got to really keep going. No one else really needs to keep going. If Nick don't win Pittsburgh, I'm not saying Derek, you know, it's insulting to say Dererick's winning. I don't care if coach or not. Well, even if Derek doesn't, another guy could win. It doesn't mean, you know, Nick's not guaranteed. If you say Nick's doing New York, there's an assumption that the Arnold Classic winner. It's insulting to say that simply because I think all these guys are capable. I think Nick will do New York even if he wins Pittsburgh. What do you think about that? I think he he might have committed to to Weinyberg. I don't know for sure, but I think he'll be in in New York regardless. To be honest with you, if I was doing Pittsburgh, I would do New I think New York is such a good title, the New York Pro Champ, and the crowd is so great there. I would do it even if I won Pittsburgh. Why not? You know, they're back to back. knock out the two shows and that's it. That's I mean that's a nice chunk of cash, you know, people because people are afraid to lose. You know why? Yeah. They're afraid they're afraid of what silly fans will say about them. Yeah, that's a possibility. But if you if you if you you know convincingly win Pittsburgh, I mean, I would have to imagine the momentum is with you going into New York the next week. I know. But if you if whoever won one won one pit, you can win a by a point in uh Oh, I'm saying if you're saying if it's close, you're saying I got you. People People are afraid to lay it on the line because they don't want to lose because they don't want to hear what fans have to say about him. I'm dead serious. No, no, I think you're 100% right. I I think that people do worry about what other people think about them and that's why they don't do it. But I think it's foolish. won Pittsburgh, he went to New York, he got second place. And then they say, "See, in Pittsburgh, he'll never at the Olympia Pittsburgh." Yeah, I know what you're saying. It's endless. Yeah, it's it's it's a shame. I I like I said, if I was doing Pittsburgh, I would absolutely commit to New York in the very least. And then, look, if you have to still qualify, then then we could talk about other shows. But I think the Pittsburgh New York backtoback is is a guarantee. Look, when we competed in the amateurs, Chris, years ago, I mean, everyone did a show backtoback weeks, you know, you would do like a qualifier and you do the nationals, you know, and it wasn't until you hit like a high high level where you really couldn't go back and do regional shows anymore that you would have to only stick with nationals or USA. But, you know, when you first started, you would hit always hit multiple shows because it's it's like you you know, you're trying to learn how your body peaks and you want to really, you know, see from week to week and you seem to get a lot most of the time, you get better. So, I I don't see why these guys wouldn't hit two shows. I mean, it's they're right near each other. It's not like you have to travel very far to get to the other one. So, besides the fans weighing in on, you know, Dave Palumbo won New York and then he went to uh to Toronto and got third, right? Fortunately, the dirty secret is some, not all, sponsors do the same thing. Yeah. Dave wins New York. I'm just This is how it works. Dave wins New York. He goes to Dave Palumba goes to Toronto, wins them both, right? Uh the Empro. And then Dave's time his contracts up and they go like, "Well, you lost the Empro." How come these uh how come these Olympic swimmers will will compete in 16 events in the Olympics, but they don't worry about, hey, I won the first two. I'm not if I don't win the third one, they're gonna say I'm not as good. you know, they don't have like fragile egos. They don't they don't have uh sponsors that they have to live up to and be like 100% perfect all the time. And you know, and I don't know about those Olympians. Who you who are you talking about? I'm talking about like like guys like Michael Phelps and you know, these guys that would would compete in contest like 10 different events in the Olympics. I mean, which obviously when you do that, it actually takes away from the the events that you're strong in because you have to do a lot more qualifiers. It wears you down. It makes you tired. But they're so confident in their abilities that they're just like, "Screw it. I'm doing everything." You know, I don't know why we don't have that in bodybuilding because ever worried. To answer your question, part of it is in swimming, the fastest guy wins. In bodybuilding, it's like, you know, Dave, you lost a show, but I won last week. But we harder and your quads are drier last week, right? Cormier would do multiple shows. Flex did multiple shows back in the day that these guys weren't worried about it back. They did like a whole tour, you know, they did like, you know, sometimes after the Olympia, they would do the five or six European tours, but even in the beginning of the year, they would do like Iron Man, Arnold, and then there would be a show like Chicago the week after that. And they, you know, they wanted to collect the prize money. They didn't, and you know, they didn't always win every show, but it didn't, no one cared, you know. True. Well, no one cared. But now, you know, people do care, unfortunately. I think is I think what who cares is that social media cares and social media then starts, you know, fooing you and then people can't handle the the criticism is what happens. You prove my point, Dave. You won two shows forth at the Empro. And now everyone says like, "You suck. You suck." Yeah. You got all your flaw. They point out all your flaws. Do you have to uh get cracking, Chris? Yeah, I have a very important meeting I have to be to. All right. All right. Well, uh the reason I held this uh show on Monday is because like I said, I had my kids this past weekend. Next week, obviously, we'll be in Pittsburgh. So, we'll be back to the normal schedule. I won't have my kids that. And then the week after that, we might we might go to Mondays. We'll probably be going to Mon Monday mornings or Monday like around noon for the uh Heavy Muscle Radio Show just because of like I said, I have my kids overnight on Sundays every other week. But thank you guys for joining us this afternoon and uh Chris and I will be in Pittsburgh this week. Chris will be there tomorrow. I'll be arriving on Friday with Sid. And it's going to be a fantastic weekend. Congrat Good luck to all the competitors going to be there. And like I said, if any of you guys and your fans are going to be at Pittsburgh, hit me up. Let me know. Let's meet up. We'll take some pictures together, have a little bit of fun, and make it a really enjoyable weekend. For now though, we are out of time. And as we say every week here with Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. We'll see you in Chicago. We'll see you in Chicago. We'll see you in Pittsburgh. And see you next week.