The way I look at it is the Olympia should have any color backdrop it wants for the prejudging so long as it's black. I created species nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back for another installment of the Palumbo podcast. I'm Dave Palumbo, joined as always by my brother in crime and in lawfulness, in uh eating Thanksgiving dinners and Christmas dinners. John Romano. Hey, John. You know, uh what's interesting, you know, about today's I'm going to be going to Pittsburgh tomorrow, as you know, for the Right. Right. Right. Say hi to Jimmy for me. I will. I'll be out there with Sid and uh Chris Aceto and as you you probably saw a good veto uh tore a lat earlier in the week. He's had to pull out of the lineup and I know what people are probably thinking. I was thinking the same thing initially. I'm like how could a guy pull out of a lineup on a week out with a little lat tear but I guess it's it's uh you know you know how it happens. You know how when Dorian tore that that that bicep before the 94 Olympia and his whole arm turned, you know, red and bruised and that's kind of the way his lat is looking now because all that blood that was deep buried in there is now coming to the surface. If he had two weeks probably could get the blood out of there, but right now it looks terrible. So he's pulled out of the show. You never know what's going to happen. Every time you go to the gym, you know, and it's the closer you get to a show, the more just you just go, you just got to be so careful, man. It's it's AI look, I I had something similar. Not similar, but I had I had taken a shot in my leg. I I always said, don't ever take shots. I p shot in my leg and I must have hit AI hit a nerve. I mean, what are the odds, right, of of nailing a nerve? And my whole leg went into spasm and it this was six weeks out from the Olympia, not from the Olympia, from the nationals in 196, the one Jay Cutler won. And and I didn't think it was going to come back to normal. It took me the full six weeks to get it to look presentable. It was It was scary. It was annoying. I can't imagine having something like that happen a week out from a show. It's got to be It's a nightmare scenario because you spend all the time It is. It totally is. You know what's really funny is that almost every bodybuilder I know will say that, you know, they they that they knew that they were going to tear tear the muscle, right? But they just did it anyway, right? Ledo told me when he tore his bicep, he was close he was going to clothesline this guy. He goes, "I knew my bicep was going to tear. I knew it. But I just had to do it. work for the team, you know, or it's like the guy in the bench press, John, that he comes down with the weight and he feels a little twinge in his in his tric his pec, excuse me, and he says, "You know what? I'm just going to do one more rep and and that then he ter and that's the rep. He could have just stopped the rep, right? Right. Exactly. So, yeah, that's always the story of everyone's life." But hope, you know, we send out uh our obviously quick speedy healing. I'm sure I'll see good veto at the show. will probably be just sitting there, you know, watching the show. And unfortunately, he doesn't speak English, so I don't know if I'm going to get much of an interview, but I think he speaks like three other languages, but he doesn't speak English. He speaks Russian and he speaks Portuguese. Chris said perfectly because, you know, he lives in Brazil. His wife is Brazilian. He's from Russia originally. Wow. And you know what's weird? Usually they teach you English in Russia, right? I mean, Eugene spoke English when he came here. Not great, but I mean it was it was he spoke. A lot of them do, but um th those are very difficult languages. Portuguese is [\h__\h] impossible, man. I was there. You know, I speak Spanish, so you know, Portugal, Portuguese, kind of close to Spanish. Not right. Not even close. It's like very close to French, isn't it? More close to French. I don't know. It's a just a very difficult language, you know. And then, you know, of course, Russian is extremely difficult. Yeah. And what else does he speak? Uh, I think that's it. But, but I mean, two languages, you think English would be one of them, but it's not. It's one thing to speak like Italian and Spanish. They're almost the same, you know, but but it's it's it's another thing to speak from another language from a completely different, right, you know, region of Europe or, you know, or the world, you know. That's the one thing in life I had I had like a list of things that I wanted to do that I didn't know if I would be able to do because they were difficult. One was driving a stick shift, which I which I mastered. I was very happy with that. when I was in first grade, I thought I was gonna have trouble reading and I and I was mastered that. I became I was able to read uh and uh the other thing was learning another language fluently and I and I I I took Spanish for five years and I knew the words, I knew the grammar and and it's just if you don't use it and you don't speak it, you you just the only way I would have been able to do it is like my father did it. My father went to Spain. He lived there for a year. After two months of living there, he just started speaking it. He said immersion. I I lived in Mexico and got to spend a Mexican girlfriend that didn't speak English. I was fluent in like three months. If you you're good with my you just pick things up pretty easily and you're and you have a good like a photographic memory so you remember all the vocabulary. I would have I would have a little bit more difficult time. But I know if like you said if I immersed myself in it, I would learn it for sure. Well, I took Spanish in high school one year, one seme to sp Spanish Spanish 101 and that was it. Then I went to Costa Rica. I learned, you know, I So all of my then Mexico and Mexico a couple of times. So my Spanish is what call street Spanish. It's not out it's not out of the books. But I speak the way they speak when you and it's so funny. They tell me, you know, Yeah. We always know who wrote who learned Spanish from the book. No sayings, you know. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Like I I had this the Spanish teacher, Miss Mark Antonio. She she speak she spoke perfect like fluent Madrid, you know. Yeah. Y but it's but no but no one that the funny thing is is that the Spanish changes from country to country, island and island. It's it's all different. Yeah. Barcelona, Spain is so that that is is Spanish is crazy. Yeah. And it's very lispy, you know. They have a very thy sounding, you know, way of pronouncing the words. Similar Isn't that more Madrid Spanish? Because I went to Madrid. Well, it's like that. It's Castellian. It's like traditional Spanish. Spain Spanish. Raphael Santoa speaks like that too. Right. Right. Exactly. Katha, you know. And anyway, so um but you know the but like but even even region to region like in Mexico in in Portoarta they would use certain sayings that they wouldn't use in Guadalajara which is you know a three-hour car drive away. So, you know, like uh for example, in in Portoarta, the moms would and the dads would refer to their kids as mommy and poppy- w in and in Guadalajara, they don't even know what the hell you're talking about. They go, they don't they don't do that there. So, I mean, you know, then for in Costa Rica, a swimming pool is a pesina and in Mexico in it's in Alberta. So the words aren't even close, you know, saying like the difference between pond and lake, you know, I mean it's so, you know, you drag, you got to live there where you're intending to speak the Spanish you want to speak because if you don't, no one's going to understand what you're saying. Yeah. So that's one of my bucket list things I I just can't do. I know you speak fluent Spanish, so which is great, but uh yeah, I can't speak Spanish. I'm I'm a little I'm a little perturbed. I don't know if I'm at a point in my life where I can do it. Another thing I wanted to do is I wanted to be able to play the piano. I never really Yeah, that's a good thing to learn. But I'm I'm I want to go back to the stick shift. That's that's I'm glad you did that. I didn't want you to miss out on that. Do you know he he to downshifting and all the You know what I did, John? I wanted this BMW. This was back in 90 what year was that? 97, I guess. So, I was buy I wanted to buy this little the You remember that little M Roadster they made? Yeah, that one. The M1. Yeah. It wasn't M1. It was It was like the It was the M It was like the um the Z3, but it was the M the the motorsport version. The M version of the Z3. Yeah. So, it was like a six-speed. It was like And I loved this car, man. And And I wanted it. And I'm like, "So, you know what? I I took a driving like I hired a driving instructor to teach me how to drive the stick shift." And I after about like two lessons, I I picked it up and because other people had tried to show me and and they just couldn't they couldn't explain it right. This guy was so patient. Wow. He he you could tell the guy's been do was doing it for 20 years and he and he taught me how to drive the stick shift and I was like holy mackel because for some reason the whole coordination thing of using the left foot because you're not used to using left foot. It was just too much. I couldn't I I no one could explain to me. I'm a very I don't learn by feel. I learn by instruction type of thing. Well, it's a wonderful thing to know how to do. There's valet guys that can't park the car sometimes, you know, because they No, I bet these young kids can't drive. They can't do it. The Actually, the the Department of uh what they fix the roads, whatever. The Department of Transportation Yeah. line had a line of trucks up for sale outside, brand new trucks, and they're selling them. And one of the dudes works out at the gym, and I go, "Why are you guys selling all the trucks? Didn't you just get They're brand new. They still have the stickers on." He goes, "They're stick shift." Oh my god. go. He goes, "No one can drive him." I saw an interview with Mark Zuckerberg and uh I forget what show he's on that what's that comedian guy with the long hair? He's like a goofball. He's he's got a good podcast. He Zuckerberg was on there. So, he's asking he's like, "What you know, what kind of car do you drive?" He's like, "Well, you know, the people in Facebook kind of convinced me now I shouldn't really be driving. I should have people drive me around." And I kind of got bored. And so, I was I was fly I I learned how to fly a helicopter and I just thought, you know what, they they said, "You know what? I think you flying a helicopter is more dangerous than you driving a car. Why don't you get a car? So he's like, so he got this Cadillac, but he said, I, you know, I wanted a a stick shift. So he got like a six-speed. I didn't even know Cadillac made it. He probably had to take it from the Corvette. Or he probably had it custom made for himself. So he has like a six-speed um, you know, manual uh, Cadillac he drives around. Wow. I never I never saw one of those. I had that BMW M5, the the one they made in 2000, which had a six-speed in it. That was fun to drive. I'll bet that was Oh my god. Was that was Was that the V10? That was It was a V, it was a V8, but it was um but you know, it's a four-door sedan with a on a with a stick shift. It's just like it's like really fun driving that. The V a friend of mine had a V10 version of that car. I didn't like the V10 when they came out. I I Mercedes when they did that. I He had this he had this aftermarket exhaust on it. It sounded like a [\h__\h] Formula 1 car, man. You took me for a ride up. It sounded good. But the um but the V10 had no low-end torque, John. It was like It was like slow as [\h__\h] off the line. High RPM motor. High RPM motor. Yeah. Yeah. It was I think it was from their they they lifted it from their motorsport like you know they did for the from the racing division. They did. That was a racing motor. The block from the racing their new one. I my friend had has the M5 Competition. He we traded cars for like like a week because he wanted he needed to use my SUV and that thing had some pair of balls like 650 horsepower. It was it was a V8. It was it was you know I think supercharged. It was had a lot of balls. We we just bought a Beamer. Did you What'd you buy? The the um the M the M440i. Oh, that's a nice car. I like the 4 series. The 4 series is the nicest looking car I think of all. Yeah, we ordered it. They put it goes into production the 16th of this month. Yeah. beautiful. The F4 series M4 is even nicer but you know the M4 is like my wife will get into enough trouble with the Oh, it's not yours. It's her car. Okay, I got you. I mean, she drives it every day. I mean, I don't go anywhere. If I had to go somewhere, I drive it, but I rather take a motorcycle. I I don't like I don't like cars. I really want to get one of those Lucids. I told you I drove the one I told Yeah, that's that's pretty cool, too. Lucid has a uh an SUV coming out called the Lucid Gravity. It's It's got a third row, so I can put my kids all in there. It's It's a little It's It's not It's one of those like lower SUVs. They're not like because it's more aerodynamic, but the thing has got 850 horsepower. And you know those electric engines, they're super torque. Yeah. The torque on the Because it's instant on. It's Yes. Yes. The torque. It hasn't come out yet. So, I'm I'm I might order one just to have I I saw a um it actually passed me a um a what do you call it? Tesla, Cybertruck. I hate them. I think they're ugly as [\h__\h] You either love them or hate them. It's it's either the vision of the future and that's what cars are going to look like or you know this is it has no style though. It's so plain. There's nothing unique. You got to understand is it has to be able to be built by a robot. So you're not going to get these beautiful round curves and you know wispy lines. You're going to get stamp stamp stamp. Is that is that is that why it looks like that? Well, that's what this gigapress [\h__\h] is all about. He has he has to have these ma mammoth presses to squish the metal into like a shape that requires the fewest number of pieces to put it together. So, um I guess it keeps cost down, too. Keep Exactly. It keeps cost down. So, the more robots that can build the car, the fewer the people, the better because there's no paint, right? There there's no paint on those cars. No paint. So, you don't have to worry about that. You save the weight on the car and you save the the cost of the paint. Yeah. The environment, you know, all all that [\h__\h] you have to you don't have to recycle all that paint that sprays off, you know. Yeah. So, um yeah. No, it's it's really interesting the way that's going. And I do believe that in the future, not in very near future, electric vehicles are going to definitely definitely have their place in society. It's like that whole Boring Company project they're doing underneath Vegas. They're going to do it in LA, too. Oh, they're they're bor they're doing more of that. I told you I went through those tunnels. Yeah. The guy who was I rode with in one of them in one of the Teslas told me that the the project is long-term. It's going to cover the entire strip from the airport to the to the stratosphere. [\h__\h] Underground. You know what's scary though, John? You imagine getting stuck in one of those tunnels that I thought they were very claustrophobic. They're not big tunnels for for people to know what we're talking about. No, there's tunnels. There's a tunnel that connects the the new hotel, the resorts hotel where the Olympia is held with the Las Vegas Convention Center. And I'm telling you, it looks like a beaver [\h__\h] carved out these tunnels. They didn't leave one millimeter on each side of these cars to anything. They look like wormholes, right? Yes. Yes. They don't even go straight. They're like They're like Yeah. And they're lit. They're blue, neon blue and purple and yellow. Like you and your brother, you know, dug the the tunnel and you hit like a rock, but you went a little You veered off to the right a little bit and then you hit another rock, you went to the left. It It's unbelievable. They're They're not pretty tunnels by any means. I think they were. I think that was I I thought there was that was well executed. It was super It was really cool. And I That was the first time I ever rode in a Tesla. It's a good idea, but think about it. What happens if one of those Teslas gets stuck in there? How do they get them out of there? They got to they got to drag it out of there somehow. They'll figure that look look I'm sure Elon has thought about that. You know, he's smart guy. Does he own those tunnels or what? I I don't know. The the Nevada owns the tunnels, but he's he just got the contract Tesla to do it. Yeah. His company's making Swiss cheese out of it. Yeah. You know, the that you bring up that claustrophobia thing. I've had this issue and I I gotta share it with you because it freaks me out. I never have had an I didn't even know what an anxiety attack or anxiety when people say I had an anxiety attack, you know, I I can't even comprehend what that means, you know, in terms of their explanation until I finally freaking had one. Okay? And I'm gonna say this and it's going to cause me grief tonight, but I'm going to do it anyway because I want to share it with you. Okay? And I probably brought this up before about the dude getting stuck in the tunnel in the in the crack in the cave. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So, these guys are caving and they decide to throw themselves down this [\h__\h] crack that's like too small to fit a person and the guy ends up like upside down with his arm pinned behind him and he's stuck. He can't go up. He can't go down. He's stuck in there. No one can pull him out. It took him 17 hours to die. And then after he died, it took him another nine hours to yank him out of there piece by piece. He was so [\h__\h] stuck. Now, what was the last 30 minutes of that guy's life like? He was probably unconscious by then. So, right before he went unconscious, could you imag the cramps, the fe the act, the claustrophobia, pitch dark, you're probably peeing and [\h__\h] yourself. I mean with your every malady you could think of. It's your I couldn't even when you think about what that guy went through the last minutes of his life. It's like all right but let's let's people do that. How stumb you almost deserve to die if you do something that stupid. Okay. You almost deserve I think the guy had a death wish secretly because I I believe we all write our exit from this world like like a movie script. And this guy was done living and he's like, "You know what? I'm going to do something that people are going to talk about for for the rest of time. The dumbest thing you could possibly do. I'm gonna I'm gonna throw myself down a crack in the middle of a cave that no one can possibly save me no matter what." And for what? To see what's on the other side. Right. Right. assuming there is something on the other side. Nobody knows. So, he wants just telling you that I feel like there's a truck parked on my chest. Yeah, that's how it wigs me out when I think about it. And I will definitely not not be able to sleep tonight over that. But there was anyone else or was he alone? I No, he was with people. That's how we knew, you know, he they knew where he was and how to try to help him. They couldn't know. They tried ropes around him. They tried, you know, they tried to y they couldn't they could not un unstick him the way he was because it was vert part of mostly vertical. So he had his gravity was working against him, you know, but [\h__\h] man I mean do you have any kind of like you know I don't think it's a phobia but man it nothing has affected me as much as that story affected me. My father had this this this famous story he told about why he was claustrophobic and he couldn't go into MRI machines because he said when he was a kid they were playing with this there was this rug and his brothers he decided they were going to wrap him in the rug and he got rolled up in this rug. Oh god. They and he couldn't get out and his brothers were younger than him and he was screaming, "Let me out." And they thought it was funny and he was so traumatized like a mummy in this rug. thought he was going to die and suffocate. So his father finally came in and unrolled him. So, ever since then, he said he was traumatized by I don't blame him. I'm practiced. Right. Well, now think that is one thing. Think about what that guy David Blaine used to do. [\h__\h] Right. He would get into this box, you know, and they would put him inside the box inside a block of ice and they put him in Central Park and what would he be there for days? stays. Yeah. He would somehow slow his breathing down and and the mastery to be able to do that and not lose your [\h__\h] mind. You Well, you have to totally control your mind. You basically are putting yourself in standby mode. Yeah. I don't know how you could I don't know how anyone could could do that. I don't know, man. I couldn't do that. Think about it. If you if you at any point while you're inside that box start thinking about what's going on and and create anxiety in yourself, you're done. You're gonna die. you're going to die because they can't get you out of that box fast enough. There's and there's no way for you to even signal for someone to get you out of the box. Can you imagine and starting getting into that freakout mode and then you're hyperventilating and you're like you can't you want to kick it and you can't move and holy [\h__\h] getting buried alive has got to be the the the greatest like fear anyone could ever have. You know, anything with stricture the you know confinement pressure. You know, I'm okay in a control like I I can go into a tanning bed. I can go into an MRI machines as long as it's cool enough and you I know that I'm not really trapped in there, right? Um even when I did I did hyperbaric chamber when I I when I cut my toe off and they had to reattach it. I did about 20 sessions of that and that's scary because when you're in the in the hyperbaric chamber, they can't just open it up if you freak out because it's pressurized, right? They got to you got a little out of time. It would take 20 30 minutes to get you out of that thing. They got to slowly do it. So if you have any kind of claustrophobia, you can't go in this thing. But for me, it was fine. I could see through it. I didn't give a [\h__\h] I was tired. I would I would go in there and sleep in there for an hour. But uh but a lot of people can't handle it, they said. So I I I I could probably handle something like that that I knew I could get out of or knew that there were I was getting out of it, but to be trapped with crawling in a cave where you don't know where it's going leading to is is sounds like a very very uncomfortable scenario. Yeah. And and just insane. I mean, what are they going to put your name on a plaque? I mean, what are you guys the air conditioned guys that climb in these little attics in these little like, you know, that that's pretty scary, too. 100 degrees up there when they How about a scary climb? You ever watch those videos of those guys who climb the radio towers? Oh, I know. Those guys are insane. They're like 2,000 feet up up off the ground and they're and they're just like one, you know, ring rung after the next are just climbing. And there was another one that was really cool. the the the spire of the Burj Khalifa, the tallest building in in Dubai. It's this there's a tube in there that you can climb up to and there's a a hatch where like one guy can fit through. Oh my god. And you go all the way because there's a light bulb up there you got to change. Oh my god. You think they'd have like drones that could fly up there and do the light bulb changing for them? You know, you ever watch those some of the ones in China? These guys are like walking on the power lines in the ice. It's snowing and hailing. That's why they pay these Pakistani guys to go up there because every once in a while they lose a few of them that you know it doesn't and they send they'll send a thousand bucks to the family in Pakistan and have another one and have another one climb up. Some of these some of these construction projects in China, they're building these bridges across these gorges. I've seen those crane the crane is like two miles up in the sky. It's insane. This dude has to climb up there. I don't know how they do it. The what they're building in China, the architectural stuff there is is is absolutely insane. You know, I I hate to say it that we're so far behind everyone else, but we we really are. those bridges. If you can grab a shot of any of those bridges that they're building now, I mean, they span for miles across these in mountain. How do they cross? Yeah. How do they do that? I have no idea. The the the amount of Well, that's what what that's the benefit of having a country with, you know, almost two billion people in it is the pool of smart people is way larger than a country of 300. You still have to figure out how to do it. You know what I mean? I still I know it's a quantum amount. Look at that [\h__\h] Oh, that's that. No, that's that's real. Yeah. Looks like the Golden Gate Bridge, though. No, but this the the the some of those passes that they're No, I know you're talking. I mean, they got some crazy technology. Look at that. Yeah, down there. Those bottom ones. That's crazy. Some of that shit's nuts. Look, I I the the the Chinese Did you ever see that Chinese smart city? That's like Or that one. That one. That's the one. Yeah. And the one down there with got the bow in it. How come it keeps going back to the ancient [\h__\h] I don't know. Yeah, that one. That's insane. Yeah, there's some crazy ones there. Let's see what this one. This one's nuts, too. Yeah, they're in the clouds. They're like way the [\h__\h] up there. But they have some cities in China that that it's multi levels. Like they have like a gas station on the top of the building. Have you ever seen that like video on Instagram where the the kid is showing off the it's like a multi-level. You don't know where you are. You think you're on the like the roof of a building when you're actually on the ground floor. You think you're on the ground floor. You're actually on the roof of a building, you know? Wow. You've lost like your your re You can't even tell relevant like where you are. It's like you're not really sure after a while. You got to find that city. That's crazy. Crazy. There's some there's some amazing places in China. It's too bad they don't like us. Yeah. China. China, China, China. Maybe they do like us. It's just the government that's [\h__\h] up, you know. I don't know. All I know is the the lady I used to deal with for Get My Raws in from China is has become very um you know, we've become friends over the years just by talking to each other. But she's become very reticent lately. doesn't answer, you know, her or if she does, her answers are very brief, like very controlled, you know, they must be looking over their shoulder. Probably watching her. Yeah. Yeah. Try to find the city here. What about that thing they're building in in uh in in Saudi Arabia or wherever? The mile the the the line. The line. They keep they keep downsizing the project. It was Oh, yeah. I haven't seen any updates on that. I figured they maybe they gave up on it, but they're probably going to give up because I don't who would want to live there. Who wouldn't want to live behind the mirror in a desert? Well, I think that what they'll do is they'll probably give, you know, people incentives to go there, you know, just as it's almost like it's almost like having a fish tank, right? And and putting in like a bunch of animals in the fish tank and seeing how they fare in there, right? Yeah. Exactly. I I I think that's really the the the I think that's really I think that's what they're really trying to do is observe. How do people live inside this this little bubble? Can we keep them in there like, you know, for like 10 years, 20 years? How long will they last in there? Well, I mean, what's the purpose of living? I mean, you're you're you're stuck in this trench in the middle of the desert. You work on one end of it, you live on the other end of it. You go to your kids go to school in the middle of it, right? You never leave it. Your whole existence is confined to the to to the line, you know, this building. and or this controlled environment. You you could literally not even know there's an outside world and never leave there. Isn't that crazy? And be entertained, go to restaurants, you know, go it's it's all just like living a normal life only like why. What do you think about the fact that the Pope is an American now? That's I don't think it's ever happened. No. First time ever. Good. Glad we got a chance. Let's see if he doesn't hopefully he's not a liberal and doesn't [\h__\h] it up. But why do you think they picked him? What? Usually you have some insight. I don't pay any attention to this [\h__\h] Not just, you know, I had religion stuffed down my throat when I was a young Italian lad and and like the rest of us. And how how did an American get elected the pope? That's what I want to know. Yeah. I don't even understand. He probably didn't even speak Italian. It there's got to be some money involved in this, John. I'm telling you. Wonder if Trump had anything to do with it. Have you ever read that the I think it was it Angels and Demons or the Da Vinci Code or any of those books? The Da Vinci Code I read. Yeah. Which was the one where they actually do the the Pope. I think that might have been Angels and Demons. Angels and Yeah, that's good. Yeah. No, I but I I did read the whole story about how they how when the Pope dies, how they have to make sure they have to hit him with head with hammer to make sure he's dead. Right. Right. It's this special silver hammer. I wonder if the Beatles got it from there. You know, Maxwell's silver hammer bang because they actually got to whack the Pope in the head with the hammer to make sure he's dead. No, I know. It's true. Look it up. And there's another couple bizarre rituals that they do. And you know, after the conclave elects the pope, they they they burn some paper in the fireplace to make smoke come out of the the smoke stack. back and that's the that's when they that's when they when they Yeah. When they picked the pope, right? Yeah. That's the signal that they got a new pope that the whole city. Yeah. They can stay in that chamber. They How many all those are in there? Weeks. Yeah. They can spend all they can spend a lot of time in there, man. Till they finally pull someone comes up with a deal that's worth taking. You know, takes a lot of time to express all those the terms and conditions of all those deals. So, all right. So, let's let's talk some bodybuilding now that we got all our own personal [\h__\h] out of the way. So, Dan Solomon made a statement about a week ago that he no matter what, he doesn't care what anyone wants. Black backdrops, not we're not putting a black drop backdrop up for the Olympia, right? That was the remember he he said that. Now it it seems like he's going back on his uh on what he was saying and he's saying that well you know if if that's what people want uh we could talk about having a black backdrop for the prejudging. What what do you think is what do you think the motivation behind that is? Let me pull this up. I'm going to tell you what I I want to tell I'm going to tell you what I hope it is. Okay. Um you there is a delineation that's got to be recognized between entertainment and the contest competition. All right. The competition requires the most viewable detail of the competitors humanly possible. Yeah. So, if you got smoke infiltrating the the arena and you got neon lights and [\h__\h] TV c um you know, multiple TV backgrounds and all this flash and [\h__\h] you can't see the bodybuilder. No, wait. We knew that though, John. We've been saying this for five years. No, what I'm saying is what I'm saying is as as reference to what I think Dan realized is that people are who are going to prejudging are looking for that detail and the only way they're going to see it is on a black background. So give the people what they want. But just a week ago he said that they're not going to do a black background. I think ever my guess is he thought about it and this is I haven't talked to him yet yet about it. I will see him tomorrow in Pittsburgh and I will ask him personally. you'll ask him is that I think he thought I'll see if I'm right. And I think he thought about it and he listened to enough people about it and realized that for the be for the what this is what's best for the athletes honestly is if you look at it if you bear it all down pair it all down to the to the ridiculous this is for the athletes and it it it most behooves them right it gives them the best shot at being judged effectively if they're against a black background. So I think he realized that and and you got to you look man the athletes have to come first. You got to pay difference to the athletes. If you don't have no show uh yeah well I was you know a big advocator and I know Jay Cutler was too of not putting the guys on at 11 o'clock at night and we got a lot of flack and kickback from that. Of course Jay has a lot more clout in the industry and when he said I'm not going to prejudging because of it they changed they changed the I was rich in play for for two years. No one cared about what I said and every they changed the deal. Look, you know, Dan's got a tough job in that sense of balancing, you know, production versus contest in the way it's, you know, presented. And, you know, you got to make some tough choices. You know, the the black background is not the best for TV, but it's the best for the athlete. And that's just the bottom line. Yeah. Yeah. Like look, we've talked about this before, but you know what Jake Wood does for the Olympia is beyond beneficent. Okay? He is spending a fortune on this show. There's no way he's making back what he's spending because there's too many classes now with too many competitors that qualify for the Olympia. He's got to pay for all these people to come in, stay in a hotel room that's very expensive. Okay, we know how how much those rooms are at the resorts. We He's got to feed them. He's got to fly them in. Some of them are international. I mean, the the flights in hotel and food alone has got to be I don't I you and I won't don't want to know how much money he's spending on that. And not at all. I can promise you that. That could be probably over a million bucks. I would think easily. Right. Yep. And and you know the staff who's running the show too, you know, and you got to consider that you they got you over a barrel in especially in a city like Vegas because Olympia. People don't realize the enormity of the footprint that that spectacle takes up. And there's only a few places in the world that you can hold it, you know, that'll contain it in any kind of way that's, you know, agreeable to the to the to the public. So, even just finding a venue, they know that. And you're going to pay top dollar for, you know, for the for the for the one of a few places that that can hold it. So, look, it's it's a monumental undertaking no matter how you slice it. If I was holding it, look, two years ago, they had it at the um the Orlando convention center there. Uhuh. Yep. I I would I would leave it there to be honest with you. It had to be way cheaper there. There's no way it was more expensive there. It was It was very convenient. I know everyone wants to be in Vegas. I like Look, I like Look, even though I can drive through Orlando, I enjoy Vegas, believe me. It's a nice It's nice to be able to go to Vegas and have a good excuse to go there, but it's very expensive. And you know, at the end of the day, the Olympia can only generate so much income for, you know, you can only sell so many booths and so many tickets, right? Because the venue is limited by how many seats you got and by the by the foot the enormity of the footprint. Exactly. And the footprint like you said. So you you know what I I remember talking to Wayne Demilia about this years ago. There's only so much cash you can bring in. So if you if you spend more than that top limit of how much cash you can bring in, you're not you're never going to make any money. You're going to lose money every single year. So the only way to, you know, fix these problems with with how much you're spending versus how much you're making is is to lower the cost of what you're spending. And one of the things I suggested was number one that not every athlete gets reimbursed. It's not Jake. Jake is not their father. It's not the his the owners of his responsibility to have to pay for every athlete. I'm sorry. I think top 10 makes sense. If you place top 10, you get your your expenses reimbured. If you don't, you don't. And that's the way it goes. That's how I would do it. And that's still a lot of people he's got to fly in with all the divisions they have. Likewise, yeah, it's great to hold it at the resorts, but you know what? If resorts want to charge, you know, a million dollars for their venue and I can get Orlando for, and I don't know, I don't know what these things cost. I'm talking out my ass. But if you can get Orlando for half the price, then, you know, you you might have to compromise. you know, a little bit because the hype and hoopla is still the same. It's just we got to make money. You can't lose money every single year. Okay. And then you gota and then he's got to raise prize money, too. Because if the Arnold raises the prize money, he's got to raise prize money. So, that's that right there. That's how much prize money is he giving away? Over two million bucks in prize money, too. At least. Yeah. 600 to the winner of the Open. So, I mean, there's a lot It's a lot of money. And so I want to see Jake do this thing for the next, you know, 20, 30 years, you know, that he's around. And I know he's he says his kids are going to take over after him. So I don't want it to back out of the show and say, you know what, this is just a losing proposition at this point. I'm going to sell this thing off. So I think there has to be a compromise and the fans can't expect too much. And I don't think there should be that much pressure put on him and Dan to have to put up, you know, a show of the Academy Awards caliber because it's just not necessary, you know. Um, the Orleans, as much as I hated the hotel as far as being the host, the actual venue at the Orleans wasn't bad. No, the venue was nice. It was actually an old theater. It was kind of cool looking. Salvation Army decor left a lot to be desired. No, the the actual New Orleans hotel was terrible. Yeah, the hotel was awful. The venue, like you said though, the venue was brand new. It was beautiful. Yeah, the thing next to the thing was was the Mandalay Bay was it. That was the place that Yeah, that was They should have kept it there. But that is where it belongs. Look, the Olympia belongs in Vegas. It just does. Okay. And Orlando's not cheap either. There was something Let me throw a scenario at you. John Romano is going to run the Olympia. I'm giving you the Olympia for the year. You You've accepted the challenge. You got to hold it. Okay, you got to pay for it, but any profit you make, you keep. Okay, where are you holding it? It's a good question. I mean, I'm gonna I'm gonna shop for the best. Sean's going to Mexico to hold it. That's right. I might that may be, you know, another country may be the answer, you know, because costs are less. I'm going to I'm going to let me tell you, there's venues in Mexico City that will dazzle you. Blow your mind. I believe you. Okay. Blow your mind. And you know, we could have it there. You want to talk about half the price? There's no unions down there that are charging a thousand bucks a pallet to bring your [\h__\h] from the back to the front. You know, it's it's it's it's cheap. So, guys wouldn't have to worry about bringing their steroids. They could just buy new ones there. Right there. You don't have to worry about anything. We could actually you could actually have a you know how they have like these little stand like hot dog stands? You could have Jimmy running a hot dog stand selling manage rolls. What what I would do if I ran it is I would move it to place like Mexico City or similar. Okay. I' I'd find one of the monster huge gyms there that's got the auditorium, the hotel next door and create create an environment that is conducive to producing an a a competitor. And then I would back them up six months and say you got to come here six you got to sign a contract. Come here six months ahead of time and prep for the Olympia here. You don't move. You stay right here. There's the gym. There's the hotel. There's the, you know, Consuela is going to cook your food and and feed and make sure you got enough water and everything's take and then you just you just exist to be to to train, rest, and compete. That's it. If I had my way. Okay. So, because I'm telling you, you gota you got to think of there's there's a thought process that goes into the three pillars of what's important. the the the promoter's investment and his return, the athletes, you know, well-being and, you know, ease of competing and experience that they're going to have backstage and on stage and the audience. So, you got to make all three of them happy. And it's really [\h__\h] hard to do. So, you know, the the the athletes are always going to complain about the fact that there's no there's not enough stuff for them backstage. They got to lay on the floor. There's no there's no green room. There's no food. There's no this. There's no that, no towel boy, whatever. So, they're going to complain about that. The audience is going to complain there's too much smoke. I can't see. The lights are in my eyes. You know, the seats uncomfortable. Is the the the drinks are too much? Whatever. And then, you know, who's who's left is they're going to complain, too. So, how do you make all three? How do you make everybody happy and put on the show? I think the first thing you got to do is lower the cost, right? Because if you lower the cost, you can increase the stuff. That's my point I'm making. Vegas does not make sense. It's so expensive. Too expensive. Look, if you go to Qatar, they built 21 or something like that stadiums for the World Cup. They airond conditioned an outdoor stadium. So, you were sitting outside and air conditioning was blowing on you with a roof off the thing. It was outside in 100 degree weather with air conditioning. Wow, they can do that there. Think about how comfortable they can make a venue for for Mr. Olympia there. You know, we we've said this, we've toyed with this concept before, but somebody from one of these countries with a [\h__\h] ton of money has got to be willing to say blank check. Let's do this upright, you know, and and and for once and for all have the example of the what to shoot for, right? it I mean it would take the pressure off Jake because he can still have the production quality he wants plus a hundred times better than that and he doesn't have to pay for it nothing so he could take he could be a businessman say you know what like Joe Weider used to do I own the Olympia you want to c you want to have the Olympia this is what it's going to cost you I will you know let people bid it out whoever you want it Dubai wants it Saudi Arabia wants it ma make me an offer you know And yeah, you picked the I think he's gonna do the best job. And Jake doesn't have to do anything. He flies out there at like Joe Weider and he's he he sits in his seat. He has no stress on himself. Nope. And these guys put on the production of a lifetime like the Academy Awards. The athletes get flown out there. They put up in fivestar hotels. They have chauffeers driving them around. They got handlers. They got food. They got drugs. They whatever they need, they got right at their disposal. And guess what? They can give away a million dollars to all first place winners in every category. And the money is not a big deal because they got oodles of money there. It's it's it's the second most popular sport behind soccer in all these Middle Eastern countries. They'd be it would be like letting him put on the World Series of baseball there. You know, Dave, the problem that that exists is this. Nobody has sat down and figured out the formula that incorporates the maximum amount of money you can possibly make on the Olympia versus the minimum minimal amount of cost that you can incur to put it on. You know what? Versus the the reach that you can get by employing all means possible. These guys don't even want to make money, John. They don't care in the Middle East. That's the thing. I mean, no, you're talking about the guys to do it, right? No, I'm talking about is if if you were an investor wanting to invest in this or if you were Jake or whatever, you know, there you want to follow a formula that's geared towards bringing this from here to here. Formula is is a is is a formula for failure because you can't pay for all these athletes, give out the kind of prize money that you want, have it in the venue you want, and make your money back because it's too damn expensive. Does you you John, you're not you're you're not wrong. In basketball and baseball and football, they don't make money. They make money from selling tickets. Sure. But they don't make oodles of money. They make the money from the sponsors. Okay. CocaCola, Cadillac, BM, who'sever sponsoring the event, right? That's who's paying the bills. Why do you think Why do you think none of these top tier um purveyors go near bodybuilding? You think it's a drug mistake? Yeah, I think it's either the steroids or they think that it's it's a niche sport that no one really cares about. I'm really shocked that Red Bull doesn't get involved. But, you know, there's such a stigma on steroids that I I I have to believe that's the reason. We at one point at MD, we offered Harley-Davidson the back cover for free, right? Nope. Wow. And that's and that's a hardcore, you know, that's a hardcore type of uh Yeah. Harley I figured Harley-Davidson would take that in a heartbeat. You know, they said no. So weird. It's so weird. And what was their reason? Just no. No reason. It doesn't you know those [\h__\h] excuses they get doesn't fit within the our you know blah blah blah. You know some [\h__\h] college kid figured that out. Right. Right. Right. So given the fact that we know that this is the case that that no major sponsors are going to put up the kind of money necessary to to underwrite a show like this and the only people who will pull put up that kind of money are are a are countries that love bodybuilding which thank God there are some. Right. Thus the Middle East we're talking about. Okay. Even Brazil, right? Yep. Brazil for well they used to they like to inject a lot of [\h__\h] into them. But but I'm saying they they would that would be another country you probably could hold it in if you want. Brazil definitely. Yeah. You know, um I don't know if they would put up the kind of money that the Middle Eastern the the level of wealth is the wealth Yeah. not there. The the thing is if if if any of these major sponsors would pay attention to B, what is so different about MMA or you know any other extreme sport where you know there's drugs involved and you know bad boys involved and tattoos and facial hair and all the things that society finds nefarious. What why do they get you know big time sponsors and Red Bull and you know all of that? What what is it about bodybuilding that drugs? You said it. It's got to be the drugs. It's got to be the drugs. It just has to be because But at the same time, I I I don't think it's fair to pigeon hole bodybuilding as the only sport that's not worthy of support because of drug use. All the other sports use them. You know, why are they [\h__\h] with us? Because we don't we don't we don't deny it. That's why. No. You know why? Because we don't do anything. We pose, we don't do anything. There's no there's no discernable effort expended. That happens in the gym leading up to the show. When you're at the show, you're posing. It's a pageant. But I think if they went to the Middle East and held the Olympia there a few years that I think and they and it was popular and successful and it was and and and people made a big deal about it, I think that you would get maybe American companies to say, "Hm, maybe there's something we're missing here. It seems like this is awfully popular and and they're giving away millions of dollars and and and these athletes are like they look like, you know, gladiators, you know, from from the middle middle ages. I I I think maybe we maybe we can somehow like a clothing company can get behind it. Maybe we can get these guys in our clothing or maybe we can get, you know, these people to, you know, hold our, you know, products up in the I don't know, whatever companies they happen to bring in there. I I think that it has to we there has to be a a business model a proven business. It's like Blechman. Blechman would never do anything until it's already been proven. Then he's like, "All right, we'll do it better, right?" You know, so let them do the R&D. You have to show them that that there's a success possible with holding the Mr. Not always. I mean what? Well, is it depending proof of concept, John? You you take Red Bull for example. Okay. Everything that they promote is deathifying, right? You you can everything you from no matter what it is, you can mend up a little ball of blood and guts in the corner, you know, but bodybuilding's too dangerous because it sends a, you know, because of the drug use. I mean, you can walk on out on a wing on an airplane with no parachute and jump off into a mountain and grab a glider and go down the rest of the way on a mountain bike and and hit a ski jump and fly off with a kite and, you know, land on water skis and go under and go under a mountain. That's okay. All right. They're not taking drugs, John. They're not taking drugs. Testosterone. Oh, that's too dangerous. That's who the wings suit guy who flew through the hole in the rock this big at 200 miles an hour and not get pushed into a bird [\h__\h] you know. Yeah, that's promote that to kids. That's okay for kids to see to aspire to do that jump out of a air airfly fly through wings suit through a hole in the rock. Yeah, that's so it's hypocrisy at the highest level. But if one of these people, if one of these adver advertising agencies would be able to land that deal that gets a mainstream sponsor behind a bodybuilding show, the rest will fall like dominoes. Yeah. You got to get that first one. You got to get that first one with the balls to go in there and say, "This is [\h__\h] cool. I'm going to support this." Right. Right. No, I agree with you. I agree with you 100%. It's it's it's sad for bodybuilding, but you know, I want to see bodybuilding succeed. I want to see the Olympia go on to success. I want to see it make money for the people who run it so because they'll this way they can invest more money into it. And uh I you know I feel like uh the Olympia is like almost like uh what America was prior to Trump coming on board. It was like we we were going down the drain so to speak. And I don't want to see because at some point you know if you keep losing money every single year you're not going to keep doing it you know. Yeah. It's not fun. Um, so either you have to kind of find a cheaper venue in a cheaper place or you have to bid bid out the Olympia and let someone hold it. I mean, look what they did with the Olympia, the Masters Olympia. Yeah. Yeah. Japan is holding it there. Jake's not spending any money on that thing, right? I mean, Japan is paying for everything. I think that was a smart move on his part. Master Olympia. There's there's no shame in it. You still own the show. You know, you can put your you can put your face where Joe Weeders was if you want. I mean, you own the own the thing. You know, Aaron and PJ would have done that, right? They would have bought the in heartbeat. They didn't go to jail. They would have bought the Olympian. I don't know why Bader doesn't do it. Well, Bader has the um the Dubai tourism um place, you know, the the the office of tourism in in Dubai. They I think I believe they underwrite his show and they put up the prize money. So, little by little as he's proving to them that it's bodybuilding is is popular and the show is such a success. Now this year they're going from 100 grand from last year to 140 grand for first place this year. Next year could be, you know, 250 grand for all we know. So I think that he's doing it right every year showing that it's growing. But yeah, he could do the Olympia easily. I can guarantee he would be able to raise the money if he told the tourism board, "Hey, we're going to have the Super Bowl bodybuilding here in Dubai." It's it it's just it it's a staggering amount of money if you think about doing it the way we want to do it. like a million dollars first place for each of the division. 11 division. That's $11 million. Yeah. In just in first place prize money. But think about how that would raise the status of bodybuilding instantly. You'd need you would need a hundred million bucks. No, you need you'd need like uh 25 million. No, if you want to do if you're going to give a million dollars first prize to every division, that's 11 million bucks right there. That's so you got another 11 million probably in in second through fifth. No, no, you're not going to have that much. You know, you're not. But I think 25 million would do it. But who, you know, it doesn't even matter. It's it's it's paper. It's, as my father's friend Joe would say, that just paper, you know. Yeah. But if if one of the if you know when you when you're talking these people have hundreds of billions, if not trillions of dollars over there. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, the Olympia is a flea on a bull's ass. What do you think the World Cup in soccer cost? How about a Formula One race? They built the whole racetrack there. You know what that cost? Well, forget the race track. They built 20 stadiums for the World Cup. That cost Yeah, true. That's billions, John. Billions. Billions. Billions. So, even if it cost 50 million, that's nothing, right? We had the Mr. Olympia, the Super Bowl of bodybuilding here in Qar, here in Dubai, whatever. We gave away a million bucks to every winner. We gave away, you know, 500 grand, 250 for the next two places. You know what the truth is? They should probably Here's another way Jake could save money. I'd rather see them give more money to less people. Give top three. Just pay the top three prize money. Give that would make that would make it more more cutthroat, more competitive. Absolutely. Absolutely. Why do why do we have to give the 10 places money or five top five? Those top five give money or three. Three. The podium. The podium. The podium gets top three. It's like the Olympics. Gold, silver, bronze. Give out medals, you know, and give them money. Everyone else, see you see you next Tuesday, so to speak, right? Try again next year. Yeah. You're out of here. And uh that's that and that's way now that we have all these divisions that solves the the prize money aspect. Only pay the top 10's expenses. Everyone else, if you want to come to the show, you don't break the top 10, guess what? You pay your own way. You pay to play. That's how it works. That's how if the stakes are high enough, that'll work. Okay. If if if first place is a million bucks, that's going to work. If first place is 500 grand, I don't think so. Yeah, it still will work because people will say, "I want to go and I want to be in the Mr. Olympia competition." I I think tracks suit. You give them a track suit and that's it. If they don't if they don't place top 10, they pay their own hotel. They pay their own way. That's all. I just know that that part of the world has a propensity for elegance on a scale that we don't even comprehend. The venue would be gorgeous. Like the Academy Awards would be incredible. Yeah. Really amazing. And the athletes would be treated like royalty. Like I said, I'm sure they would have their own hand. I remember when I went to when I went to India uh when Sheru took brought us in there, we got to this five-star hotel there in in in Delhi and we all had our own handler. This guy's assigned to you. This one's assigned to you. All I had to do is call him up and say, "I need this or I need that." They went and got it for me and I was just I was just pressed there, you know. So when I tore my quad, the guy took me to the hospital. He stayed with me the entire time while they drained my knee and did everything. No kidding. paid for everything. It was It was unbelievable. It was It was Yeah. I mean, that's that's how you have to be taken care of. That that's first class, you know. And I think that um the only way to do that is really to and and there's nothing wrong with changing the business model. I saw my I was looking at my office the just today and I saw remember the Y cut back Blackman was pulling back in the day. For those of you who don't remember, John May worked for muscular development. Steve Blackman owned the magazine. We left, we started RX Muscle. We started covering all the bodybuilding shows around the the globe. I had a a network of photographers. We were bringing in a ton of advertising dollars, was paying for it. And then it started slowing down because the industry was the in the supplement industry kind of had a little dip, little depression, and people weren't putting up the money as much as they were anymore for the advertising. And I said, you know what? It's not worth spending all this money uh to cover all these minor shows. We're all my new business model is I'm only going to show cover the top shows and we're going to focus more on TV programming which we can do in-house and this is when YouTube started becoming big and I said you know I think that's the future right so we came out with all these new programs and Blackman calls up a Chris Aceto who's working for me who's been working for me since day one right and he says Chris you really should come over to MD and Chris is like why should I do that Steve he goes because RX muscles cutting back. Why cut back? It doesn't pay. You know, we're going to keep covering more shows and we're going to hire more people and do it better. Do it better. So, Chris sent me it was I think it was via text he sent. So, Chris sent me the text and we were laughing and making jokes about it for I remember it. Yeah. Yeah. The next five years. And I had Who was that the the guy who drew those um cartoon caricatures for MD? Oh, uh Lyman. Lyman. So, Lyman, I got in touch with Lyman and Lyman did a a caricature. I should I'll put the I got to put the picture up. I I have to I haven't shown it in a long time. Blackchman with a Dana Bailey puppet. Remember that? D He put Dana Lyn Bailey on the cover because he thought she was like the hottest thing and everyone was saying she, you know, you gota Dana and Bailey's. So, Blackman never put women on the cover. He put Dana and Bailey because he was desperate, right? And all these guys were bailing on him at this point because he wasn't paying anyone. Jay left, Jose Raymond left, Justin Compton left, Blackman. These were old people working for him at the time. And um so I I I had Lyman to this character. It's Blackman. It it looks exactly like him. And he's got this Dalin Bailey puppet on his hand and and it says, "Why cut back?" And there's a dump truck, like a garbage truck with Jay Cutler, Jose Raymond, and Justin Compton in the back of the truck like laying it like they're being parted off. And then there's a picture of Cedric McMillan running along the side of the truck like, you know, trying to trying to jump on the truck to get out of there. It's so funny. This character, where is it? I I'm gonna take a picture of it. I'm gonna put it online. Oh my god, I want to see. It's it the the the ca the the the ca how he captured Blackman. It was he was he was a good artist. Brilliant. Brilliant. Brilliant. I did a lot of work with him. We did a whole comic strip him. I know that called um was it called blue? Quadral blue. Quadral blue. Right. He's tremendously talented, but it was it was so funny. And you know, but the the message was that when you realize something's not working, which I realized it's the business model I had five years earlier wasn't working anymore. So I changed it and I went to something else and I put all my efforts and all my energy into the TV programming which is where the future was. I was we were the first ones doing TV programming. I mean you built the studio and you know we really put a lot into it and it paid off because that's really where the future was going. It wasn't going to be with going to every single show and covering because no one cared anymore. People only cared about the the busy shows and Blackman went out of business because of that. took him still took him a couple more years before he went out of business, but you know, 10 years later, he's out of business. We're still in business, right? And that was the slowest, longest, most agonizing death of any company I've ever seen. Well, he should have gone out five years earlier. He stopped paying people. They continued to work for him for free. So, I know what he should have done was sold the name. It was the oldest. I mean, I know I Dan Solomon would have given him a half a million bucks for it. Well, Dan would have sold Dan would have sold it for him, that's for sure. Yeah. Yeah. Well, either way, black e right now. It's worthless. It's expired. It's oldest long. We don't want the Olympia to go the same route. You can't keep trying to do the same thing over and over if it's not working. Right. The I mean, what Dan and and Jake has done for bodybuilding is is you can't even monumental great. I mean, between putting on shows during COVID when when there was no money and no sponsors to, you know, constantly upping the ante on the show and making it greater and better every single year, putting it in nicer venues, you know, bringing in, you know, the best of the best, giving away more money, 600 grand to the first place. I mean, they shouldn't Jake should not have to continue doing that if he's not turning a tremendous profit. And we know there's no way it's impossible for him to be doing that. So I think the business model has to change and you know I want the athletes to make more money but I don't want Jake to have to pay for it out of his pocket. It's not that's not right. Weer wouldn't do that. Right. Would Joe going to Yeah. But no, but we want some guy in Qar to do it. Right. We want someone not as long as it's not right the show to do it. Exactly. Well, the thing is who the question comes down to who wants to spend money on bodybuilding and not get a return. That's what it comes down to. There's a lot of rich people in India too. I got news for you. Pakistan as well. I mean there's, you know, there's We got to go to China. We can go to China too. China. Japan, you know. I mean, Singapore is very wealthy. I mean, you know, what's that where I went? Not Hong Kong. Singapore. It's like Vegas. It's like little Vegas in Singapore. No, no, no. It's not Hong Kong. Not Singapore. It's right there. It's uh I went there. We went there with RX Muscle. You didn't go, but I went with the crew. Oh, it's I'm drawing a blank on it. But anyway, the there's places you can go that that there's a lot of money, but I think the Middle East, as far as loving bodybuilding, the Middle East is probably the place. No, but what I'm what I'm saying is it's a lo it's a losing proposition basically is what what we're saying. It's it's cost so much. You know what, John? It's only a losing proposition if you feel like you've lost something by by holding it. If the people in Dubai hold it and they think, "Wow, we we are so lucky. We got to spend 25 million and promote our country and tourism and and this grand old sport that we think is the greatest sport in the world behind soccer. We got to promote it for only 25 million bucks. This is great. We did awesome. They're happy. Jake's happy. The fans are happy. The athletes are happy. Everyone's happy. That's a good investment. You're You're not wrong. And guess what? I bet you they could probably rig something up where they could drop a black backdrop down over the over over the stage thing just for prejuding and then they could roll it back up again. You know, they they easily could do both. You don't have to roll anything up. They could do it all electronically. Yeah, I'm just kidding. But yeah, I mean I'm sure we you could rig something up where you could drop a back black drop. Just a black screen. The screen will go black and then you turn turn the lights on after the bodybuilders are off the stage. Just do it with the TV wall. Right. Right. Well, look, Fouad Abiad had proof of concept in his show in Detroit. He had that black backdrop and it looked great. It makes a huge difference when you're prejudging these guys and you're going through deciding, you're splitting hairs. I mean, come on. I mean, the the top five in the Olympia, you're splitting hairs and you got to do it with the most advantage possible, and that's going to be with a black background. It's just the way it is. Yeah. Yeah. So, look, you know, uh the sport is ripe for evolution at this point, evolving to a new point. The social media component of our sport was un unquantifiable 15, 10 years, 10, 15 years ago. No one could have anticipated it. No one. And because of the social media component of bodybuilding now, I think bodybuilding is more popular than it's ever been because it's being promoted. We we think like we're we're we're we're because there's no magazines, it sucks. But you know what? Social media is is a magazine every single second of the day. Yep. The constantly changing magazine. Mhm. Uh and if you follow the bodybuilding, you know, channels, of which we're one obviously on Instagram, on, you know, Facebook, on Tik Tok, on YouTube, it has a niche of its own and a world of its own. And it's it's astronomically larger than it was when we used to go to the shows back in the 90s where they had magazine coverage only. It was a very small niche group. It's very different. very very different landscape. So, you know, the money's there, the the interest is there, and if a country or a venue wants to, you know, or if a person wants to really promote something, you got a lot of people watching you, you know what I mean? I think they're just not leveraging that that that commercial aspect of the of the show the way they should be. No, they're not. Like I said, that's what I said before. No one has created the discovered the formula that you need to follow to make this thing profitable. Yeah. And and I you know once they do not only profitable or attractable to something profitable like attractive to a Red Bull or Monster or you know some enormous Nike I don't think we're Yeah. I think we're thinking in the wrong direction. We're trying to beg advertisers who don't want any part of it to be a part of it. I think we have to find a different niche of advertiser. You know Yeah. So I think I think promoting tourism in Dubai is a way better shot because pockets are deeper and the and the and the return for them is much greater than just a return on a single investment because like you said they're talking about tourism attracting people to the country that that boosts their local economy as well Emirates Air everyone there right they could probably make a deal with Emirates Air to give a cheap ticket from like New York to 100% where it's wherever it's going. Some of these whatever hotel they decide to hold, you know, the the the competition in which certainly underwrite I think a lot of the rooms uh I mean I I think that if the right person gets behind this, it could be leveraged properly. Look, you know, and I and I just think that we're still thinking in 1990s thought when we're in 2025. And I think that's the problem. And once again, I am not by any means putting down uh what Dan and and and Jake are doing. I think and I I'll keep reiterating it. I think what they're doing is phenomenal. Stellar. They saved the sport for sure. Hercul. They made it grow for sure, but they shouldn't have to pay the Jake Jake should not have to Yeah. No, Jake should not have to lose money. That's exactly right. And he's not going to make money back by putting out a magazine. No. He's he has he does not have the leverage point that someone in a country like Qatar would have that's trying to promote has an ulterior motive. Jake has no ulterior motive. Look Vince McMahon doesn't hold the WWE Wrestlemania events. Okay. He bids it out to cities. Right. Right. They pay the cost of WrestleMania like the World Series. It's like any of that [\h__\h] They're they're putting up all the money. All all that all that Vince is doing is bringing the talent, right? So Jake goes there, he brings the talent, the judges, and then they pay him to to to host the hotel to host the show and pay for all the athletes. So it it's actually so much easier for him. Why would I wouldn't even want the headache of having to push put that show on. Yeah. His whole most of his headaches would go away. the the liability would be transferred to the the other guy and he he just he would get he would make money. No one's a better salesman in our industry than Dan Solomon. Send Dan to the Middle East and he'll find you a person with very deep pockets. I can promise you that we'll put up a lot of money. There's no doubt. I think something that you're on to something. And on that note, we're going to wrap up another edition of the Palumbo podcast. Thanks for joining us. I'm Dave Palumbo with John Romano. We'll be back next week. We'll do a nice big wrap up of the Pittsburgh Crow. We'll talk about who emerged victorious and what it means for the Mr. Olympia competition later this year in October. For now, see you next time. Bye.