I knew this guy once who was taking 20,000 milligrams per week of testosterone. Sounds insane, but he was doing it. You want to know the story? Stay tuned. I created species nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition Products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RXT television, rxmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. whatever is on your mind, bodybuilding, non-bodybuilding, via diet, training, supplementation. Of course, this week is the first ever Pittsburgh Pro with an open class competition. So, really truly one of the most exciting contests of the year. One of the most hyped and highly anticipated contests of the year. Dave, myself, Chris Aceto will be there. We're going to arrive Dave and I are going to re arrive there on Friday. Chris is already there, but we are going to have wall-to-wall coverage. Obviously, we're going to have our own preview segments live from Pittsburgh. We're going to try to grab interviews with some of the top competitors in the open, in the classic physique. Um, this is going to be a truly truly epic show. And then, of course, uh, prejudging, men's open, classic physique, men's physique, the they're going to have the men's segments, the men's competitions on Saturday, females competitions on Sunday. Obviously, we're going to be there for all the men's divisions and we're going to have live coverage on our YouTube channel and of course on our Instagram. So, if you're not following us on Instagram, official_rx muscle. We're going to go right into the questions. The first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo experience app. First question, I'm currently on contest prep using test probe master tren ace windstrolab clen T3 Novadex. Not using MK-677 or HGH. Lately, I'm experiencing a lot of water retention, especially around my ankles. I'm also using 150 mg potassium per day. Any reason why this is happening, and what would you recommend to fix it right off the bat? It's a it's a pretty nice it's pretty long list of drugs he's on, you know, which could certainly be the cause of of the the fluid retention. I also don't know how many grams of carbs he's eating a day. You know, orals especially, you know, I heard the tyrannabal mentioned in that list. You pro I would probably get rid of the tyrannol. I mean, you're on so many other drugs. There's no reason to be on on that litany of of that many substances. Get rid of the orals. The orals tend to hold water a lot in the ankles. Also, a lot of guys are on their feet all day. You know, they stand for their job and or they're just, you know, they're on their feet more so than, you know, the average person might sit at a computer desk. And then some guys are sitting at a desk and not moving all day. And a lot of times the water will pull in your ankles. Uh, usually when you're on a low carb diet, you don't really hold much water, but you know, if you're eating some carbs and you're taking drugs that cause fluid retention, like, you know, he says he's not taking GH, but but definitely orals can cause fluid retention. I would get rid of the tyrannol. See how that works. Um, I wouldn't start banging too much potassium because you're going to throw your potassium levels off and and that can be dangerous. So, did he I think he said he was on a blood pressure med, too, right? Didn't he say he was on Leinipil or something like that? No, no, no. Uh, no, he didn't. Nobody didn't mention that. Um I would like Yeah. Potassium. You mentioned potassium. Okay. But I'd love to see what his what his blood pressure is too because if it's a little high sometimes that can cause a little bit of fluid to to leave the uh the blood vessels in in the in the lower extremities and cause some fluid retention. So there's a lot of different reasons. Get off the orals number one. And try to if you're on your feet a lot, you know, try to sleep with your legs up. You know, you might even want to wear if you're on your feet a lot. I tell people this all the time. They they look weird but but they work. Compression socks. You can get them in like CVS, you know, get the black ones. The black, you don't need the white ones that look like you're an orthopedic patient. The black ones are kind of cool. You can wear them right up to your knees. And I'm telling you, you'll have no fluid in your legs, you know. Uh I usually consider when I tell people to try them, I tell them to take them off at night because if you're sleeping at night, you really shouldn't need them. Uh unless your ankles are huge when you go to bed at night. I have a feeling it's just a little bit uncomfortable. And I, like I said, I've seen this before in some competitors. Also, you might want to check, you know, get some blood work done and check your creatinine levels. Make sure your kidney function is good. But more than likely, it's from the orals and probably being on your feet too long and or sitting too long during the day and not moving around. Second question, again, these first two questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Uh, this question is about increasing metabolism diet-wise as a natural athlete. Says he wants to build muscle and get in good cardio shape. Mentions Tabata cardio specifically. So I guess the question is increasing metabolism as a natural athlete in terms of a diet perspective. I heard the word the tab of cardio that I I think it's horrendous. It's like from I have a a friend of mine who does it. It's like you do like 40 seconds of like int or 30 seconds of like high intensity cardio and then you do like you rest for like 20 seconds and you do 40 and you do like different like bouts of this stuff for a bodybuilder. It's the worst thing you can do. You're not going to increase your metabolism doing this. You're going to just lose muscle and you're probably going to just be miserable. Just do steady state cardio. Okay? you when you do steady state cardio and your heart rate is not too high, you're burning exclusively body fat, stored body fat. When your heart rate gets a little too high, you dip into carbohydrate metabolism because your body can't generate ATP, which is the fuel the body uses, the muscles use, can't generate ATP quick enough from fats. So, your body has to switch to using carbs. We're not trying to burn carbs. You're you're trying to you're trying to lose body fat, right? So, highintensity cardio, even in spurts like the tablet cardio does, is not really going to is not going to solve your problem. It's going to make it worse. As a physique athlete, we're not really trying to get in cardiovascular shape. We're trying to look good. That's that's the main thing that you got to really focus on. Um, obviously, you know, spiking your metabolism every once in a while. If you get a little stagnant will help, you know, if you're on low carbs once a week, you know, throw a high carb day in there or throw a cheat meal in there. So that there's different, you know, it's hard for me to give you a definitive answer because I don't know all the variables of what you're doing, but there's no secret cardio that's going to help. Oh, I shocked my metabolism doing this tab of cardio or doing this, you know, CrossFit. More than likely, you'll get hurt, get injured, and that's what we don't want. Don't start doing kooky crazy stuff. These two questions are really good. I get a lot of really good questions sit on the Dave Palumbo Experience app. And for those of you who are first-time viewers of the show, it's an app you can download from the iTunes store or the Android store. It's $29 a month. You get me as your coach in your back pocket. You get access to all my writings, all the videos I've done in an organized fashion. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum, so you see everyone's questions and everyone's answers. It's a tremendous learning experience. I used to love reading Muscle Media 2000 back in the day because Bill Phillips would have a section where he would do a Q&A, Dan Duchaine would do a Q&A and you learn so much because a lot of times you don't even know what questions you don't know the answers to and then you see someone else asked the question and you read the answer and you're like, "Wow, I just learned a lot of information and that's what goes on on the app." And then I do a Q&A video just like Ask Dave here. It's an extra one every single week for the app members. So for 29 bucks, you get a lot of content. You get a workout every week. You got access to all my cycles on season, off seasonason, uh, pre-contest, beginners, advanced, women, men. I I detoxification protocols, everything's in the app. It's a great resource. It's like a library for true, real information that's accurate, and it's constantly being evolving and growing every single week as we add more content to it. So, uh, I want to thank you guys because I have a lot of, uh, people that subscribe to it and a lot of, um, you know, loyal customers that have been on there for years with me. But, um, I think once you try it out, you're going to see, holy mackerel. Um, for $29 a month, you can't beat this. And a lot of people can't afford coaching, and this is a great way to have access to me, you know, right there in your phone. So, thank you. Before we go to the rest of the questions, our friends at Titan Medical, Dave, have a sale this week. 10% off all weight loss therapies and that includes uh which we discussed last week as well as Slooh PP 332. Yeah. Um our good friends over at Titan of which Shereice is one of the owners. Her and John own the company and there I love them and she's going through some medical issues right now. So I want to send out my prayers and um everything to her. I know she's going to come out of it great. We love you. uh you know we only wish you a quick and speedy recovery but they're offering yes a nice little uh discount on some of their therapies over there especially the GLP-1 agonist therapies which I know a lot of people are looking to get into and you know what the problem with those these GLP ones is people are going to their doctors to try to get prescriptions for them and they're just not available they they're so overprescribed that they don't have inventory of the stuff and the stuff is expensive so if you want to get a nice deal on them where you're going to pay a reasonable device and have uh access to actually inventory that exists. Head over to titanmedicalcenter.com. Contact them, tell them Dave Palumbo, RX Muscle Center. They'll give you a nice discount and you can get right on these therapies. You know, there's so many of them. There's the Ompic, there's Monaro, and the new one that we talked about last week, which is the triple therapy. Yep. Yeah. So, I mean, it's it's a it makes the whole process very easy. And I have a lot of uh clients that I work with who have had just problems with cheating on their diet. They just they have a busy schedule. They they're always hungry and and you know what? These therapies really help them stick to their diet. They're still eating their five meals a day, but they're not cheating anymore and they're getting great results. So, here's a an ability to have access to these therapies at a reasonable price and they're actually in inventory. So, give them a shot. Give them a shout out. So, again, 10% off all weight loss therapies. Titanmedicalcenter.com. Mention Dave Palumbo Rxmuscle and they will hook you up. Let's go to the rest of the questions from our Instagram page, Facebook, uh, YouTube community page, all of our various social media outlets. Um, question that you teased at the top of this show. The longest you seen someone who ran testosterone indefinitely. I've heard stories of guys running 400 to 500 mgs for 20 plus years without a break and wanted to know your opinion on that. Yeah, you know, I mean, obviously we consider 200 milligrams per week replacement therapy. When you're on like 400 milligrams, 500 milligrams, that's really kind of like a like a lowgrade cycle, even though you're not really cycling it because you're stay staying on it. Um, for most people, they don't have any side effects from it. So, you know, testosterone, long acting testosterone is not toxic to the liver, um, or anything like that. um it could raise your blood pressure which you have to be that's something one of the variables you have to watch out for. You have to watch out that your your red blood cell count doesn't get too high and your blood doesn't get too thick. So you might have to donate blood on a regular basis. You want to make sure your blood pressure doesn't go up. If you're checking all those variables and they're all normal, there's really no negative to it. Um I don't think that you really need to be on that much all the time. Um, I would rather see you do 200 milligrams a week if that's your replacement dose. And then if you want to like, you know, maybe every, you know, eight weeks, bump it up for eight weeks, you know, to 400 milligrams. Um, but for a lot of guys, they can do a higher amount and they just don't have that ne negative side effect. Um, it's when the the dosages start getting really high. I mean, I I'll just throw it out there. I just thought about this when Sid and I were talking about this off camera. I he said, you know, what was the most, you know, milligrams you ever saw like a guy use per week? You know, because you hear these crazy numbers like the pros use 5,000 milligrams a week of testosterone, which I think is insane. You know, when I would go to,200 milligrams of real testosterone, that is, I would feel terrible. So, usually I kept mine at 1,000. But there are guys for sure that using 5,000 milligrams. I knew a guy who actually used 20,000 milligrams of testosterone a week. That's right. I'm not not 2,000 20,000 milligrams a week. He was very good friend of mine too when I and I told him I said, "You're crazy. You're going to die." He did it for like two months. He He would sweat just walking from his car into a restaurant. I thought he was going to die. His his blood god knows what his blood pressure must have been on that stuff. The sweat that would come off of him was was was it was scary. Like he had to actually carry a towel around with him and and and pat himself off. And he said and I said, "How do you feel?" He goes, "I feel pretty terrible." He goes, "I'm strong in the gym." I said, "Yeah, but I said, "Why would you want to feel terrible?" You know, he must have had that steroid flu from that many milligrams a week. It was just I said, "Where are you putting it all?" He's like everywhere. And he didn't look that good. You know, you would think, "Oh, he he's huge." He wasn't even that huge. I think he was just, you know, I I know he was overtoxifying his body, but there are people that do crazy stuff like that. And you know what? When he came off finally, he listened to me and he came off of it and I made him go for blood work four weeks after that. And you know what? He had no side. There was nothing wrong with his body whatsoever. He had nothing, you know, abnormal. His heart was good. His echo cardiogram checked out. You know, blood pressure went back to normal. And it just goes to show you testosterone really is not toxic to the body. It's just not good to be on excessive amounts of it because you do get side effects while you're on it. But it was all reversible because it's not really a toxic compound. Now, if you had taken 25 anroll a day, you know, for two months, you probably your liver would probably be in some pretty bad shapes. But uh because testosterone is not liver toxic in that sense, it doesn't it didn't seem to have any permanent effects on them. But don't go try that experiment. It's just one of the crazy things that I've witnessed in my life in bodybuilding. Question about training chest in particular. How to target more chest on pushing exercises while minimizing the front delts taking over the movement. M you know I struggled with this when I first started because when you go to the gym and you start bench pressing you know everyone wants to see how much they can bench press right and that's just a normal that's just a normal thing right because you see guys in the gym do inclining you know or bench pressing 405 and that seems to be like the magic number if you can bench 405 you get what's called street cred in the gym you know I I I remember back in the day everyone was saying we should make shirts that you know, you know, 400 lb, you know, bench press club or, you know, then there was guys that wanted to do the 500 lb bench press club, 600 pound, and then, you know, same thing with squats, you know, the the 600lb squat club. So, there there's a certain level of acceptance you get from your peers if you can do that. The problem is that people wind up cheating. They'll do anything that they can to get the weight up. And the way you cheat on the bench press is you roll your shoulders forward. And when you roll your shoulders forward to push the weight up, you're using your front delts. So, what it does is it fosters bad habits. So, every time the weight gets too heavy and you're benching, you roll those shoulders forward and then before you know it, the you're really not lifting more weight as your weight goes up in the in the bench, your your shoulders are doing the weight and your you're you train your chest wrong. Now, if you if you prevent yourself from cheating and you keep those shoulders back and keep that those pecs up when you bench and you stop when you can't no longer do the, you know, the reps with good form. In other words, right before you start cheating, what you'll do is you'll train your body to only use your pec muscles to move the weight. And then once they start getting developed, because now you're really just only focusing on the pecs, and you're not allowing yourself to use your front delts, your chest will start getting stronger and bigger. And then all of a sudden, you'll be like, "Oh, this is easy." And you'll realize that the pec muscle is a much bigger muscle than the front delts and much more powerful. And that's why you can start going up in weights and lifting weights, but you have to kind of retrain yourself to to the bench press the proper way. I see it all the time, guys. I tell them, I said, "You're using your front delts, you know, and sometimes they they they ask, you know, what they should do to fix it." And sometimes they're like, "Oh, that's how I bench." I'm like, "All right, good. That's why no ch that's why you have no chest." So, uh, form is very important. It's the same thing with squats and the same thing with back movements. If you cheat just to get the weight up, you're really not working the muscles that you're looking to work. You're just ego lifting to try to say, "Hey, I can do this much weight." But no one really cares how much weight you have. They're more impressed by how you look, especially in bodybuilding. So hopefully that helps. Uh question about clen and dosage. Any difference in taking only doses of Clen? If I increase it by 20 mcg at the time, sorry, till I reach 80 mcg, it will make any difference in results. If I split it following your protocol, I can perfectly manage the ADM mcg without any side effects. I'm 7 weeks out. You want to always space out the dosage of clenbuterol. So you take 20 and you do 20 every every couple hours. You don't take it all at once. First of all, it'll you're not going to have it you want it working all day as a fat burner. You don't want to take it and then have it work in the morning and then by afternoon it's not doing anything anymore because it's run its course. The second reason you won't do that is because when you take clamutrol in higher amounts, what it does is it drops your blood pressure. Okay? Because it opens up the vessels. When it drops blood pressure, okay, and the more you take in one dose, the more it will drop your blood pressure. Your heart then has to beat faster to kind of keep the pressure going because your blood pressure can actually get too low. And if it gets too low, your heart beats faster to maintain pressure. So now you're getting rapid heart rate. You think it's happening from the clenural. It's not happening directly from the clamural. tapping indirectly from the clenbuterol because you're forcing your body to beat, excuse me, you're forcing your heart to beat faster because your blood pressure dropped. If you space out the dosage of 80 milligram, 80 micrograms per day and do 20 20, now you're never really dropping blood pressure significantly at each dose. Uh, and by the time the next dose kicks in, the other dose is kind of running its course already. So, you're getting even fat burning throughout the day, and you're not dropping blood pressure enough to actually raise heart rate. And that's the key. I see people they're they're on 120 micrograms of clenutral uh per day. They're taking 60 in the morning and 60 at night and it's just and they feel terrible all day and their blood pressure is up and down and their heart rate's beating out of their chest and they're like, I can't take this stuff. It it affects my heart too much. I'm like, it does. Cluterol doesn't have an effect on the heart. It it doesn't have any beta 1 receptor activation. The heart doesn't have beta 2 receptors. It has beta 1 receptors. Ephedra stimulates beta 1 receptors because it's a it's a generalized beta aagonist, meaning it stimulates beta 1 and beta 2 receptors. Cluterol is only beta 2 receptor stimulation. It doesn't have any beta 1 receptor stimulation. So, it doesn't make the heart directly go faster. If your heart is beating faster, it's because your blood pressure dropped too much and your heart has to try to keep up. So, don't take your cluterol all in one dose. take a question about um cardio and I guess uh training in terms of you know what will or will you help your legs or take away from your legs. Do you think all your years of low long slow distance oxidative training is what made your body particularly legs extremely vascular and unable to store fat. My last couple of contest preps, I did three to four hours of cardio a day. And since then, my legs have the most vascular they've ever been. Even in the offseason, they can't they cannot gain fat. Now, all I got to do is 30 minutes a day and they look the same. Well, once you build that vascule in your body, it's never going away. I mean, I still have it already. I have veins everywhere, you know, my arms, my legs, but I I was very vascular in in high school before I even did anything excessively, you know, athletically. So, I think a lot of the vascularity is genetic. Uh, in other words, how superficial your veins are, how many veins you have. My father had a lot of veins in his arms. I remember he didn't I didn't really notice too many on his legs only because he wasn't that lean, but his his arms were always very vascular. So, I'm sure I take after him in that regard. And um they were thin obviously, but as I body built, I was bodybuilding and I got bigger muscularly speaking, the veins grew in size, which made them more impressive looking obviously. Um I do think that running, you know, the long distance running increased um blood flow to my legs and probably created a lot of neovascularization, meaning new new offshoots of the veins and arteries to provide blood at a at a much greater rate now. So maybe I have more veins because of that, but I don't think I I don't think the level of vascularity I have is is necessarily due to that. Now, it's funny because I've had like, you know, cardiac caizations where they go through your groin and they go up into your heart, you know, to to visualize stuff. And the doctor, and I I probably told the story before, the doctor told me that he actually gets lost in my veins because, you know, usually people have a set amount of veins that they can and they know exactly how to get up to the heart through the groin. I have so much neo so much new vessels grown in there and probably a lot of bodybuilds have that that he actually gets lost in my blood vessels because he doesn't they all look different and because think about it even and mine are much bigger in size so normally you say all right the big ones are where you have to go that's the route to the top you almost need a GPS to get through my veins and my body so uh he he was laughing he's like yeah it took me a while to get to your heart he goes I kept I kept going down the wrong the wrong pathway like a rat in a maze so but yeah so there's definitely a level of new blood vessel formation when you not only just run and do a lot of aerobic activity, but even just squatting. Think about what the oxygen debt the muscles are in when you're squatting 600 pounds. The body saying, "Give us more blood supply, you know, make it more efficient so the body grows more blood vessels in there." Great story. Rich Gaspari told me, you know, he got a cardiac CT scan and they said he had a a complete blockage of one of his uh coronary arteries, but he never had a heart attack and died from it because his body actually developed, you know, collateral circulation around it. Like his, in other words, from bodybuilding, his body knew, all right, we got to grow better a better blood supply to the heart because he needs to pump this blood to the body. And it actually saved his life, you know, probably which is crazy. But ath you know putting your body in oxygen debt and training on a regular basis definitely helps with the uh delivering blood to the muscles more efficiently than the average couch potato. question about testy and you know we have uh a lot of people that have questions regarding Testalyze dosing testy protocols and I guess you know sometimes comparisons to PCT as we have you know can it replace a quote unquote traditional PCT if I'm coming off 6 to 8 weeks just to clean out also do you think bumping up calories to slightly above maintenance all I think this is totally you know what that's a totally different question stick to the original question. Testalize replace a traditional PCT if coming off 6 to 8 weeks just to clean out. Okay. Um yeah, if you're very suppressed, um what I like to do is I like to turn the testicles directly back on right after that that cycle's over. So HCG does that better than anything. So HCG mimics the pituitary hormone luteinizing hormone. And what it does is it directly tells the testicles produce testosterone. Now, that doesn't make the testicles stay on, but it it makes them start producing testosterone. Now, when you stop the the HCG two weeks after you start it, you know, because you're only going to do five five shots of it for two weeks over two weeks, um it'll stop again. Okay? But the initial turnon is there. So, now you got the testicles doing something. Now, what we want to do is turn on the pituitary and the hypothalamus. That's why we do the you know either like Nulvidex or or Clomid because that blocks estrogen receptors in the hypothalamus which then turns on those other hormones the gonadotropic releasing hormone and then luteinizing hormone and now your body is is working again. So it's like a it's like we're we're it's two it's a two-step stage. First turn on the testicles then get the pituitary and the hypothalamus working. Testalize is great because it optimizes your natural production by number one reducing estrogen a little bit. So it flushes extra estrogen out of the body. Less estrogen, less pituitary and hypothalamic shutdown. It also reduces DHT production. So a lot of your testosterone can convert to dihydrotestosterone, which is not what we want, especially when we're off when we're off cycle. We want to make sure that the testosterone that the body is producing stays as testosterone. So So um Tesla does both of those things. Reduces estrogen, decreases, uh the production of of What did I just do here? sorry, reduces the production of of DHT. Um, it also directly stimulates testosterone production in the body. So, it's a good adjunct. So, if you're on a heavy cycle, I like to start with HCG for two weeks. I like to do two weeks of novidexclomid and then during this whole time period stay on testy and then continue tesily in the off period so that your estrogen is kept low and your DHT is kept low and your testosterone is maximized. Now the question is can you just do the Tesla and not do the other stuff? Yeah, you could if that if you have no access to the other stuff. You can. It won't be as effective. Okay. And it might take a little longer to turn your body back on because you're not gonna it's not like a shotgun approach you would do if you take the HCG, but it will work. But you have to be a little more patient. So a lot of people combine the two. But if you don't if you have nothing else and you can't access HCG or or novexclomid, then by all means, I would recommend taking three pills twice a day of the test flies. It'll also prevent you from having any kind of hair loss or acne and stuff like that because it keeps DHT levels really low. And that's why I give it to teenagers a lot of times. A lot of girls and you know 13, 14, 15 years old. I give it to boys in same age range. It it really stops the acne because in kids that are that young, they have a surge in in DHT production that and in kids that are vulnerable to that, I was one of those kids. Uh you break out a lot. Some kids, they're they're they don't produce a lot of DHT or they're just not sensitive to it and they don't get acne. I know bodybuilds that were on tons of gear and they never broke out and that didn't produce one pimple their whole life. That's just genetics. But yes, you can use it. Will it be as effective? No. When it's combined with HCG and and or no, it works the best. But yeah, I would keep it in there for sure, especially while you're off. We get a lot of questions about whether we would interview someone and I'm not sure if maybe over the last 10, 11 years we've been doing this if you've ever had him on. Bill Phillips. Have you ever attempted or thought of having Bill Phillips on the show for an interview? The man was a legend back in the 90s with the EAS supplements and the Muscle Media Bodybuilding magazine. Also, the steroid book that he had seems like it would be a very interesting interview. Yeah, you know what? That's probably one of my uh interviews that I would love to get that I have never gotten there. There's a small list of people. It's like Arnold, Bill Phillips, definitely two of those people. I had Sean Phillips, his brother, on and Sean was, you know, his right-hand man at EAS when they ran that uh and Muscle Media 2000 when they ran the magazine and the uh supplement company. So, I got a lot of the good information. I should we should probably pull that interview and replay it because probably a lot of people haven't seen it. It was It's probably been over 10 years that I I did that interview and Sean was great. I you know, maybe even get him back on. Sean is really good on camera. Uh Bill is is kind of hard to nail down. I don't know what the problem is. It's really really hard. I know he he had a really bad time with COVID. He was in on a ventilator. He almost died. I mean, he he looked like he was on his deathbed when they pulled him off that ventilator and he luckily, thank God, you know, he recovered and he looks like he's doing fine, but I Yeah, he's he's very uh secretive. He doesn't really you don't really see him very much. I have reached out to him in the past. Maybe I should try to reach out again. I'd love to get him on because the guy is, you know, probably a wealth of knowledge and I, you know, I I was like a a religious disciple of his. You know, I read every word he wrote from his anabolic reference guide updates to the the anabolic reference guide book that he he did. I probably I probably know the book better than he does. I've read it so many times and that was before I ever took a single steroid. read that book that many times. And the Muscle Media 2000, you know, uh, magazine was kind of like an extension of that, uh, on a regular basis. And he had so much great drug information in there and just real good information. There was no inaccurate stuff in there, which is what I really liked. And this is, remember guys, this was before the internet, so there was no access to any information. So this was like my source of a lot of stuff in addition to what I was doing on my own and figuring out. But yeah, I think it would be a tremendous interview. I I would if anyone has any good context for Bill I'd love to reach out to me let me know. Take one more question. This is a question you have been asked before but it was years ago and it's about your children and whether you would ever encourage them into going into bodybuilding. So I think there's a difference between encouraging them meaning guided them to bodybuilding or also if they were to come up to you hey daddy you know uh Logan wants to get into bodybuilding. What would you tell them and why? Yeah, I don't think I would actually encourage like I'm not gonna like I wouldn't say I want you to be a bodybuilder. I'm not that's because I don't look my father never told me what to do and I and I really admire that about him because it probably you know every parent has an idea of what they think their kids would be good at and would want to tell and direct them into doing. And he never, you know, he never did that. Even when I told him I was leaving medical school my third year, he didn't say bad idea. He said okay that's just you have to make your own decisions in life. So, I really respected that about him. So, yeah, I would never tell my kids what to do. I might make recommendations to them and if they say yes, then great. If they say no, then great. It seems like it's I being a parent as long as I have, it seems like the best strategy is to let your kids come to you and say, I I'm interested in this, you know, what do you think? You know, because if it's if they're the ones who come up with the idea and then you guide them, I think that's a better way to be. So if like you know like I know Chris Aceto I don't think he pushed his kids towards bodybuilding but you know his fared his one son just took a liking to it and started doing it and and got into it and then Chris obviously is not going to like turn his back on him and say don't do it like you know Sergio's dad did. So then Chris became you know his his uh you know his coach essentially and so I think I would do the same thing if my if my daughter or my son said hey I want to compete and can you help me you know with my diet and my of course I'm going to help him. That's I mean that's what I do for a living, you know, but I'm not going to force them and try to because if I say to them, you should really go into bodybuilding, you know, then then they'll absolutely do the opposite whenever I tell them that's what kid that's the way my kids are at least. So, um, do I really want them to go into bodybuilding? I'd like to see I think they could do other stuff. Um, but if that was their passion and they loved it and they really, you know, it caught like like Chris's son, I would absolutely make sure that they did things the right way. I think they would have an advantage. You know, they call, you know, they say like the stars in Hollywood, their kids are Nepo babies, like they they they have access to, you know, getting into movies much more easily. I would imagine that, you know, if if you know, like Chris, if if if his son my son or or my daughter wants to get into the industry, I have a little bit of an extra, you know, in than they do because I've been doing this for so long. So, obviously, it helps when you have a parent at home that knows, you know, everything there is about a certain subject, you know, but it has to be my kids's idea. I wouldn't I wouldn't discourage them if they said that that was what they were interested in, but I necessarily wouldn't try to, you know, push them into that industry either. And that's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. Reminder, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. We're going to have loads of content from this weekend's Pittsburgh Pro and of course now as we progress into the thick of the contest season and of course everything else that we have on this channel, Heavy Muscle Radio, After Hours, this show, Ask Dave, um Dave's the Dave Blumbo podcast, and all the other little segments, Dave's rants that we have on this channel. Subscribe, hit notification bell. You're not going to miss any of that or more that we have on this channel. Again, we're going to load up a lot of content on our Instagram as well during the live portion of the contest. So, if you're not already following us on Instagram, it's official_rrxmuscle for Dave Palumbo. I'm Sadique Farooqi. We'll see you next time.