This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the 2010 NPC IFBB Fort Lauderdale Cup here in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. I'm here with Aaron Chewbacca Singerman. We're about to do the final wrap up here of all the festivities tonight. Aaron, we are standing here on the red carpet as the event is being unwinded and and folded up. Just several hours earlier, Kristen Negrroni and Shannon Day, our promoters here tonight, launched the festivities right on this moment. Let the games begin. Yay. Yes. Let me ask you a question. What was your impression of the first all women's competition that you've ever attended? I I thought it was great. I I thought it was really cool to see all the women all the time and uh we had fun, right? There's nothing wrong with going to an all women's competition. That's what I always say. And especially when it's in great uh weathered Florida, Fort Lauderdale to be exact. We had a busy weekend. We've done a lot of things. A lot of entertaining activities have gone on. You met my high school friends from uh from that I grew up with. They gave you a lot of insights to me that I might not have wanted anyone to know. But I'm about full disclosure. Uh we been we're sitting at the press pit uh down in front stage right there most of the night. We had Nathalia Melo second place uh at the Ms. Bikini Olympia serving us bagels. Uh and she had some unique ways of preparing them. Yes. Uh we asked for a bagel and uh she actually did uh do what Dave requested and licked both sides of the bagel for him and uh it looked like a very tasty bagel to make the cream cheese stick a little. Yes. And it was very fun. It was actually a great time hanging out with uh Natalia. We hung out towards the end of the show the whole time. And uh just cool girl, cute personality. Very cute person. Aaron, you know, it's funny because uh you know, usually when you go to these shows, you really don't enjoy yourself as much as far as the food goes. You have to wait to get out of here to go eat. But you found a booth here that had sweet treats. We found they had it's called sweet cheats and they had cupcakes and they're they were delicious, dude. They were gourmet cupcakes. Yeah. And they were not good for you. So I enjoyed them thoroughly. Well, the expo was good. I had my species booth set up here that run by Big J1. Uh it was a success. I I think that that the girls did a phenomenal job here. I got to tell you that, you know, uh I have to take my hat off to them because I know this was a lot of work and they really made the women feel like they were spoiled. I think that the production value of this show for for a show like this was really was really high. You know, they had to if you we're sitting back, you had the big screen so everybody could enjoy a close view and opening ceremonies was phenomenal. The opening ceremonies for were phenomenal. You could tell that they put a lot of effort and work in this. Just a thought with the red carpet and and the the backdrop here and and the us taking the pictures and they had a photographer taking pictures. It was really neat. It was a neat event. It was like a Hollywood event and the girls were all dressed up. They came in with their gowns on and their dresses and, you know, as opposed to the sweatsuits we normally see. So, the girls were dressed up and made up before they came in, you know. Let's talk about the competition in the women's bikini event. Uh Kristen Negrroni's daughter, Nicole Negrroni, who just finished uh third at the M bikini Olympia, the very first one ever. This is her hometown. She came in here and she won this event rather handedly, I'd say. Yes, she definitely did. She's a cute little girl and she uh I wasn't surprised. You know, she was the favorite coming in and she won. She's no longer 18 years old, though. She's 19 now. 19? Oh, well, I still liked her. I thought that she, you know, has probably the smallest waist I've ever seen on a on a on a bikini competitor. She's tiny. She's got to be like 95 lbs. That little girl. Oh, she's cute though, right? Very cute. Very cute. Not We could say that from a perspective of an athletic uh uh I guess perspective. Yes. strictly uh educational or something something like that. Something like that. Yes. Yes. Uh you know, Nicole, in my mind, I I said to her, you know, I don't understand why how you can continue dieting the whole year. And she's like, I just love the structure of the whole thing. Yeah, she's uh I know she's supposed to take a test. She said, uh tomorrow or something like that, Monday, she's got a big test or something like that. So, yeah, she fits it in. And uh obviously she enjoys what she's doing because uh she keeps coming back and winning. She certainly did. And you know what, the surprise of the night was probably second place finisher in the pro bikini, Justine Monroe from Canada. This is her pro debut. She won the Canadian Nationals over the summer. She comes in here and, you know, almost wins this event. I I really liked her. She was my uh my one of my new favorites. So, yeah, she was she's very very nice. Pamela Anderson lookalike. She actually reminds me a little of the uh of the Russian of the Lithuanian girl uh Ja Roier. Yes. Yes. Yes. Zil. It's Ja. Okay. Jill. Yes. She She's uh I I I was honestly I was jealous. You were interviewing her and I was like, "Man, I I would like to do that interview." Very very attractive. Let's talk about third place finisher Natalie Myrright from France. She did an interview with me and and and she speaks very well. Yes. Okay. Well, that's good. Yeah. Paris, France. They had a very international uh crowd of competitors here. I was surprised they were from all over the world. They did. And I think I think Natalie Mur is going to move up in the rankings rather quickly next year. She's got a great physique also. So, look out for Justine and Natalie. Let's talk about the women's figure division where uh it was a pretty controversial and and tough fought battle. Crystal Richardson repeats as champion. She was first place here last year and uh she beat a nice field of uh of competitors. I think there's like 30 something competitors in the field. A very large uh field and and you know she was the favorite going in. She placed fourth at the Olympia. So I don't think I was surprised uh by her her doing well. You know I think she was the favorite. So you know Aaron they they closing the lights on us. This just shows you how hard we work here. You know that we we stay until they kick us out. Shannon and Kristen leave and all of a sudden they turn off the lights on us. Where are they when we need us? Let's let's talk about who I a girl who I thought was possibly going to win this show. Uh Ava Cowan. I thought she had the most complete package. She's got a tiny waist. Her physique looks great. Conditioning was good. Hair and makeup beautiful. Um what do you think uh cost Ava this competition? because I I thought that, you know, while Crystal might have had the momentum going into this, I thought Ava's physique was just phenomenal tonight. I agree with you. I think that Ava, you know, she she was obvious in Dallas last year, she looked great, or I guess it was this year in Dallas, she looked great and, uh, that was what I preferred. She was more muscular and harder, and the judges told her, you know, that that's not the look they wanted. So, uh, she is, Last week in Kentucky, she, uh, she brought a softer look and this week she kind of brought something almost in between. So, it was uh kind of a that's what I of all the way they're really turning off the lights now, dude. We're like in the dark now. Uh I I thought that uh this was a good look for her and I wouldn't have been surprised if she would have won. Um but I think the momentum that Crystal Richards has or had is big enough to overcome that and she still looked great. So, I I thought Ava uh did deserve the win here tonight, but Crystal Richard was a great champion. Let's talk about third. Candace Keane has won two competitions earlier in this year. She wanted to re-qualify. She did it in Kentucky last week. She came in third here again tonight. I interviewed her. She seems happy with it. She wasn't disappointed. And I I thought maybe she was a little disappointed. Uh do you think she just did too many shows? I think she probably was disappointed, you know, cuz I I think that um that she I think that she thought by the by the way that the callouts were made that she thought that she did a little better and I think that she really really wanted to get a third win by the end of the year. Um, and so, but was she I think that I think that, you know, this was this was a good a good thing for her. She re-qualified twice. So, how can you be upset about that? You can't, but you know, once you win, you obviously want to continue winning. Let's talk about the fitness overall here tonight. Ky Baines wins the second year in a row. Uh, not many people know who she is. When you look at the uh the footage I'm going to put up of this routine that she was doing, she had a basketball and she was doing some contortionist moves with it. She did some unconventional uh fitness moves that a lot of us haven't seen. And now with the new fitness routine uh criteria being 70% of your score being the routine, only 30% being in physique, Kizzy really had a dramatic advantage over the uh second and third place finisher. Now Nicole Duncan probably had maybe uh maybe the second or first best routine. I don't know who had the best routine of the night. Uh she seems to always come up a little short, no pun intended, because she is a little on the short side. Do you think that um what who did you like for this overall here tonight? Okay. So, so my opinion on on this was that uh uh Ky is that how you say her name? Ky Ky was um as far as her routine goes, she was very not Izzy. Ky said Ky. No, I know. I know you have the Jewish on your mind. I don't want you. Whatever. Whatever. Okay. So, I I think that her routine was very unique. So, uh as far as uniqueness goes and the level of c creativity, I was very impressed with it with the ball and some of the moves she did was was pretty awesome. But to me, what makes a really good fitness uh routine is energy and being upbeat and keeping a a fast timing and energy. And I saw that with uh Tina. And so, if it was if I was going to pick one to win, I would have probably said Tina for her fitness round. Wow. You know, I have no problem with Kizzy uh winning for the very reason that you just said, which was that the originality was there. Duncan's routine was probably the most technically correct. All the girls seem to have slipped a little bit up in the routine because of the the oil. The stage was a little oily. Uh, from what I'm being told from the girls, uh, Tina Durkin in third place, without a doubt, has the best physique on stage. I actually told her she should move to figure because I think that, uh, she'd be very dangerous in that realm. I know she likes doing the routine. This was the best routine she's had to date. Uh, yet she comes up in third. I believe if the criteria was still 50/50, she would have won this competition. Yeah, I think I think that that uh, it would have she would have been a lot closer to winning for sure. So, it was a great night tonight. the bikini competition won by Nicole Negrroni, 19 years old, Crystal Richardson repeats as the figure overall champion tonight. And in the fitness division, Kizzy Veains wins her second in a row as well. Congratulations to all the champions. And thanks uh for all the help with the RX Muscle staff, Ally, Greg, you, Aaron, Dan, Ray, and all the other people that have contributed to making this possible. For now, Aaron, we're going to go eat a little bit and go party. Go to the afterparty. All right. I am Dave Palumbo with Aaron Chewbacca Singaman, rxmuscle.com.