I'm standing here with the new Miss Figure International Champion, Candace Keane. Last year, we thought you were gonna get it. It wasn't to be. You came back better this year. I didn't even know it was possible. and you beat Aaron Stern in the reigning Miss Olympia. Talk to me about the emotions you're going through. Um, I'm still letting it sink in. I don't think it's hit me yet. So, it feels amazing right now, but I kind of I've been like like a a month ago, I said, I'm going to I'm going to win this show. And I kept telling myself, I'm winning it. I'm winning it. And I said it last night on the pregame show. So, like I kind of already prepared myself, but it's an amazing feeling. Like it's I know that there's a lot of sacrifice involved in doing this, especially at the level that you're doing this and for the length of time you've done it. And I know you've given up a lot to get here. I mean, is it a relief? Yes, cuz you Yeah. I mean, it feels I Okay, my goal is to take the next big title at the end of the year. We know you want the Olympia title, but let's talk about this title. Let's take one at a time because this is a very big title and you beat the Miss Olympia. So that's something that you you were worried that might, you know, you might have trouble doing. How does how did that feel when you heard Aaron Stern third place? It's like a shocker kind of, you know. But did you know you win that? What's that? Did you know you won at that point? Yeah, it was like And then I was just waiting for, you know, a confirmation after second was called and then I was like inside. It's You didn't cry on stage though. I thought you were going to I thought you were going to go there. Arnold started. it in, but I didn't, you know, I didn't I think Arnold let you off the hook. He cracked a joke. Yeah, he was being a little humorous there. Were you nervous when he was interviewing you? Kind of a little bit. You know, it's Arnold. So, but yeah, it's cool. Talk to me a little bit about things you've given up over the years that maybe people don't realize cuz people think it comes easy to you because you've really had a relatively easy career in the sense that you've always done well. Maybe not as well as you wanted to, but you've also sacrificed a lot. Well, social life, you know, you can't go out to clubs or even restaurants cuz you want to eat or drink or just go and have fun, but you have to be away from that because, you know, temp you live a very Spartan lifestyle. I know. So, Spartan Spartan meaning very uh, you know, no, you just have to be really structured and, you know, disciplined and and that's not a problem for you cuz your goal, you see the goal. Exactly. So, it's just, you know, I've been doing it for the last few four years. So, just a habit. What advice do you give to people out there who may be frustrated with their placings and and and they want to quit or they want to just go out and party and say, "Fuck this." Don't quit because if they say right before you reach your goal, that's when you quit. So, just don't quit. Just keep going because you will get there if you just keep pushing and don't give up. Is it true you're going to defend your New York Pro Figure title? Yes. Wow. And you're going to be I hear you're going to be going up against Nicole Wilkins there. Yes. And a very uh a very happy Heather De's who is second to you here today. You guys are going to have a rematch. Yeah. She's right over there. I see her. And the both of you are going to be appearing this entire weekend tomorrow and Sunday at the Species Nutrition booth. So if you want autographs or pictures with Heather, just show up. Yes. Or me. Show up. Anyone you want to thank out there? Um you. Species nutrition. Um Jam Manion, my manager. the IFBB, Jimmy Body, my coach, uh my friends, family, fans, Tammy Marie for the awesome suits, and uh just, you know, everybody, supporters. I love it. Everybody is great tonight in Candace's World. Catch you tomorrow at the Specy Nutrition booth. I want to also thank you and wish you a very happy birthday. Uh you're 22 years old today, right? Yes. How import How impressive is that? Winning on your birthday. I mean, that's a great birthday present. It is. And that's all I've you know, that's all I wanted was to win the Arnold on my birthday, and I did. You did. Chuck Zto's birthday is today, too, except he's a little older than you. Well, it's a good day. It is a good day. First, what else can I say? Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.