standing here with Vera Mallet, our women's figure overall champion and new IFBB Pro here at the 2013 NPC Junior Nationals. Uh I saw you a couple like a month ago at the NPC Junior USA. You were sixth place out of the placings and now you're in the winner circle. Not only in the winter circle, but you're in the overall winner circle. Tell me what you did. I just I'm still amazed it hadn't sunk in yet. Um the most important thing that I did because I had to travel from Memphis and I actually drove is that I actually took the time out to get some rest and not stress out about the whole thing. Just bring your best body that you could bring and take it from there. Well, a lot of people would have panicked. You know, if they would have seen sixth place, they would have said, "Well, I'm going to keep going hard. You took some time off and took a little break." Who gave you that wisdom? Wisdom? My boyfriend actually gave me that wisdom. Yes. And it worked. You listened. Most of the time you girls don't listen. Don't go, Leo. We do. Listen. He's probably going to be looking at this one as well. He's going to say, "I told you, right?" I know. Yes. He is going to say, "I told you." When I saw you at the Junior USA, I it was evident that you had the structure to to win. You know, that was no doubt. Obviously, the judges wanted to see better conditioning. Yes, they did. And I gave them what they asked for. How much cardio were you doing these last couple weeks? I really don't do a lot of cardio. just um 30 40 minutes or something um every day and that's pretty much it. How'd you get the that little bit of fat off that was kind of stubborn? Bit of fat. Actually got some rest and continued with the cardio. So you think you just were burnt out? I was I was burnt out because this is actually my fifth show this year. Ah, I needed to get some sleep. What shows? What? Give us the list of the other shows. Actually, I did the uh Atlanta Sea Board, the Atlanta USA, and then I did the Junior USA and now I'm back here. And you won the first two, I assume. Yes, I did. So, so you got a pretty good streak going. Yeah. One misstep. Well, that happens to everyone. That's right. What Who would you like to thank out there? Oh, mom, of course. I would love to thank her. I got I got my curse from my mom and my boyfriend, of course. His name is Michael Ferguson. He's an actual physique pro himself. There you go. Two in the family. Be really hard. So, it paid off. Is there enough physique pro to go around now? I mean, both of you being in the house. Uh, yeah. Congratulations. Thank you, Ver Mallet, our figure overall champion here tonight in Chicago, Illinois. Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.