Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here with Sadique Hodzik, our men's physique pro champion here tonight. You're getting a pose. That's the only pose you're going to get to hit because you can't hit any on stage. You won in New York. Yeah, man. What a great feeling, bro. So, my hometown crowd. Uh, now I got a first class ticket to the Olympia. I'm call my flight agent. So, uh, you know, next show is September. Man, I can't wait. It's a dream come true. You know, when you walk out on stage, you look so confident yourself. Some people don't like it. I know you, so I know you're not that's not the way you are in person. You just, that's kind of like your gig. But, uh, is that part of the act? Uh, I think that's part of, uh, personality, poise, and stage presence, what they're looking for. So, if I come down there, you know, like everyone else, and just walk out, you know, hit my pose, you know, what sets me apart? There's not much, you know, so you get about 30 seconds, so I might as well, you know, show them something, a little personality from me, you know. So, uh, I don't know. The fans like it, I like it. People don't like it, you know. I'm sorry. I'm winning. You are winning. Now, you're one of the bigger men's physique competitors. Do you like the move to the to the bigger guys? Cuz for a while, they were going for the tinier guys. What's crazy, man. Last year I was competing at 179, that stage weight. This year I'm coming on stage at 190. So, I think a few of the men's physique guys, they heard about the Olympia, they got excited, you know, we didn't miss any meals, we slept more, you know, we trained harder and, uh, we all came in bigger. So, I was going to say you you train, you man acted, too. You both of you train very hard in the gym and you guys train like you're getting ready for the Mr. Olympia bodybuilding. Yeah. Well, that's you know, we train at Big Steve's gym, uh, Beth Francis powerhouse and scid. So, you know, it's no BS when you get in there. You know, you got to throw some weights around. You know, you got Kevin sweating. There's always sweat dripping off. You look like you're you've done 400 sets in there. Yeah. Yeah. Well, it's not. You know what I really do is I spritz myself in the bathroom. Oh, I see. You know, I just I'm all dramatic in the gym. So, you cut your hair? I did slightly. What's What's that? Is that You're trying to, you know, keep a little more clean cut. I don't know. It was a little bit too wild. So, uh, trimmed it up a little bit. Tiny bit. But, uh, the long hair is staying. It's coming back in September. What's What's next for you? The Olympia or you going to take Are you going to do a couple more shows? Olympia. Olympia. So, uh, Olympia will be my next show. In the meantime, I'll just uh you know, just train, go back on my diet probably Monday and then uh you know, I'll see you in the gym. You always do. See you there all the time. And uh you know, get a training video with you. Let's do it, man. Let's do it. It's been a while, bro. My man Johnny over here behind the camera. Johnny Styles loves to shoot you for some reason. I don't know why. Johnny's the man, bro. Cuz we have fun, man. We'll get you on the TV show, too. We got to get you now that you're a champion in New York. Talk to me a little bit about people that might have been instrumental in this win to you. Um I just want to thank a bunch of people. Uh first of all, I want to thank uh JM Manion and uh team uh FMG. So I just signed with them last. Congratulations on that sign. I appreciate that. So if you guys don't know, um they have a team of men's physique athletes joining the bikini and figure and you know they have a whole bunch of women that are just great in the sport. So you're one of three. I'm one of three men. Yeah. That's doing well in the sport right now. Thank God. He's only signing three to start with. So that's a pretty big honor. Thank God, you know. So that's a blessing. Uh I got to thank Steve. Big Steve at, you know, be Francis. If you haven't trained at, best gym on East Coast, you know, best gym I've ever trained at, actually. Um, I want to thank Muscle Egg hooking me up with all my egg whites all year. And, uh, you know, my coach Cash, he's always got planned for me, coming in better in every show. So, uh, you know, those are my shout outs, man. And shout out to RX Muscle for always interviewing me. Appreciate it. Thank you, Sadique Hudzik, our men's physique pro champion here tonight. Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.