All right, this is John Hansen for rxmuscle.com. We are at the first annual MPC Natural Sun Coast Classic. This is my first show out here in Tampa, Florida. And we're here with Marcus Harris, who was the men's physique winner. How you feeling? Oh, feel great, man. Feeling euphoric, you know. Um hard a lot of hard work paying off. Um good training in the gym. Uh big up to the powerhouse gym. Right. But feeling's great. Feeling's great. Okay. Seemed like you were one of the most ripped guys up there. Yeah, I tried my best, you know, uh with a stringent diet and and uh just dedication to the gym. It all worked out. How long you been training now? Uh I've been training for about eight years now on and off, but eight years. How long did you diet for this show? I diet about eight weeks out. Eight weeks. Really? Only eight weeks? Yep. You were ripped. I appreciate it, man. So, what was your diet like? Did you really suffer or was it pretty good? Not too much, you know. uh pretty kept my protein pretty constant high and um man manipulated my carbs as the weeks chopped down or whatnot. But um just the gym and and the high protein diet sticking to the to the fastpace uh metabolism. What's next for you? Eating. Eating. Eating for sure. But uh got two more weeks. We have the uh Tempe Classic. So that's the one you're going for? We're going for the Temp Classic. All right. Well, congratulations on being the first winner of the Natural Sun Coast Classic. I appreciate you coming out. Feeling great. Thank you. Congratulations, man. We're here with Eric McGee, the Mast's men overall winner. How you feeling, Eric? Feeling great tonight, sir. Thank you. So, uh, tell us a little bit about yourself. How long you been competing? I've been competing about 15 years. Really? And this is my third show. Third show in 15 years. When was the last show you did? The last show was the 2008 Hurricane Bay Typhoon. No kidding. So, you came what what made you come back? Well, I was working with a figure competitor that I trained and she was my inspiration to come back because we were in there busting and she was like, "I need you backstage with me." And so, in order to do that, trainers, y'all have to compete, get in the show to be with your girls backstage if you do that. Right. So, that's what I did and that was one of the inspirations and plus it gave me uh that fire to get back into it cuz I had been out of bodybuilding and I slowly got back into it. Didn't think I could get back into it but it happened. So, how old are you now? I'm 45. Was it a big difference now coming back 6 years later? Yes. The biggest difference was the training smarter. Mhm. Instead of harder cuz the body will let you know. Yeah. Right. Yes. Yes, cuz the body the body has wigs and pairings. Yes. Okay. All right. Well, congratulations on being the first winner in the Mast's men division. Well, thank you, sir. All right. We're here with the figure overall winner, Alicia Thorne. How you feeling? I'm pretty excited about tonight. You looked excited on stage when you won. Thank you so much. I've been looking forward to getting this sword. I've been working hard for it. So, how many years you been competing? I've been competing for the last three years. Um, but I've been trying to um build and that for six years. Um, and uh just really enjoying it and the fact that I'm natural makes even sweeter. Yeah. Um, especially, you know, just there's a lot of ways around it, but um, I believe in hard work. Is that why you wanted to do this show? Cuz it was a natural show. I did and I I'm so glad that you have brought a natural show to Florida because there aren't that many. Yeah. Your first overall win. Yes, it was, as a matter of fact. So, after six years of training, it was your Yes. Yes. Yes. How did that feel? Very good. Very, very good. I'm so excited. So, long road to the top of your family. That's a long road. Yes. Congratulations. What What's next for you? Um, I have in two weeks I'm going up to Chicago to do junior nationals. Oh, okay. Great. So, I'm going to go and try and play my hand up there and see what happens. All right. Well, best of luck to you. Thank you so much. I appreciate it. Thank you. I'm here with Toby McMullen, who was the Mast's figure overall winner. How's it feel? It feels phenomenal. It feels very surreal. Um, but I very, very exciting. One of the best days of my life to be honest. Really? Yes, definitely. This is something completely out of my comfort zone. I've never done anything like this before and it was a phenomenal experience. Was this your first show? My very first show. Oh yes, definitely. You were amazingly conditioned. Thank you very much. We worked really hard. My coach really helped me to uh get my diet right and and train hard and heavy and stick with it and keep up the intensity and I did and it paid off. How long did you die for? We did a 10-week prep, but um I was very well conditioned prior to actually, you know, doing the prep, so it it wasn't particularly difficult. Um we just kind of dialed it in, made some tweaks, and brought it to the stage. Wow. Well, you look fantastic. Thank you so much. Thank you. It was a wonderful show. I'll definitely be back. Thank you. So, what's next? What do you think? Well, that since this was my first one, this was the as far as I had planned. So, um I'm going to have to look at the schedule and make some decisions, I think, about what's going to be next. But I loved the stage. So, yeah. I have to thank you because you really promoted this on Facebook. I mean, for the months leading up to the show, you were always putting stuff on there. So, thank you very much. No problem. I was really excited to be a part of it. It was a great event. Okay. Thanks, Toby. Congratulations. Thank you. All right. All right, now we're here with the men's overall winner, Richard Alco. How's it feel, Richard? I'm feel good. Great. Also, I'm very happy. No, I wasn't thinking it's going to be like this, but it's kind of big show that I don't even imagine it's going to be and I'm really happy. Right. Yeah. Now, I know you, Richard, from Chicago because when I used to live in Chicago, I promoted shows out there and you won one of the shows out there and you traveled all the way here to Tampa just to compete in the show, the very first one. Yeah. This is my first show as an MPC natural and I kind of happy that you are the one hosted again. Feel like I feel free like okay it's already know that this is how it's supposed to be. You know the rules then I'm feel free to compete there. So I'm really happy. Yeah. Well I think you were the most conditioned guy up there. You're one of the biggest. You're originally from Nigeria, right? Yeah, I'm from Nigeria. Yeah. When did you move here? I moved here 20 2010. 2010. Okay. Only four years ago. Yeah. 4 years ago. Okay. I'm a personal trainer back home and I continue to personal training here too. Okay. How many years you been training now? I've been training almost 19 years training. Yeah. And in addition to bodybuilding, you're a powerlifter, right? I do bodybuilding. I do powerlifting. Just to prove to people that this game is the same game depend how you want it. What are some of your lifts in powerlifting? What what's some of your best lifts? My best lift uh I would say because I good on deadlift. Mhm. I would say my deadlift is the best one for now because I can naturally deadlift 620. Okay. How about squatting? My squat is not really good. So I can squat like 600. Yeah. With NAP. And how much do you weigh? I weigh 187. 187. 187. Yeah. When I compete at 187. I compete 181 class. And today you were under 170 lbs. But you look amazingly big on stage. Thank you. But today I weigh 178. So which is 178. Okay. 178. So okay. So uh what's next for you? What do you think? Uh my next show depend how people give more encouragement because I don't like people to say I can do it then you will do it. Then we say oh my god what happened? You you already see you're going to do it. But I like people to motivate people to motivate people like oh this is the game this life routine you can do it. Let's do it. Do you like to prove people wrong? Yeah. like let's do it. I don't like to do it alone. I like people to follow me. Let's do it. So, not like it's my only game, right? It's people game. You have a lot of size and you're very ripped. Do a lot of people doubt that you're natural. Yeah, a lot of people doubt me. A lot of a lot of people thousand people doubt me. I'm not natural being that natural people doesn't lift so much and be a powerlifter be a bodybuilder. So, I'm trying to tell them I'm a competitor natural bodybuilder natural professionally powerlifter. But you've been doing this for 20 years almost. Yeah. I'll be doing it forever. Yeah. So, you're not, you know, it's not like you're just somebody who's just taking drugs and Yeah. Yeah. So, I'm trying to tell people too, it's not something you just wake up one day, they say I can bench press 360. It's lifetime. It grow with you. Right. That's all. Yeah. Well, congratulations. You look fantastic. Thanks for coming out and supporting my very first show out here in Tampa. And we wish you all the best of luck in the future. Thank you. Thank you so much. All right. for Richard Luc. This is John Hansen for rxmuscle.com at the first ever MPC Natural Sun Coast Classic.