at least two years. He's big. He's actually pretty hard. Even Victor's legs look big here. There's so many guest motors. These guys only get about a minute each, but they'll be back out together. He's looking nasty, hard, and huge. Baby branch pecs are so thick that they almost look unreal. The legs looking big. Conditioning is there. Look at the glutes and hands. Back is big and thick. Just holding a small layer of water which will be gone by next week, I'm sure. I'm not sure if he's going to pull out. He looks like he's ready for it. He's huge and he's hard. His legs are enormous. This crowd has never seen anything like Big Ramy here. delts back huge. Holding a little water, but his conditioning looks like it's right on. Tremendous side chest pose for Big Ramy. His pecs are like slabs of like uh of iron hanging off him. Ramy has one of the best backs in bodybuilding. Certainly the biggest. Woose and Hamsky look like be a little tighter. I'm sure that's what they're worried about coming New York time. If Romney's going to defend in New York in two weeks, he'll definitely have to come down a little bit from here. But the crowd loves big freaks, and this guy's the freakiest of them all. Big Robbie playing up to the crowd. He's loving the reaction he's getting from this Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania bodybuilding audience. He's still doing it. Still looking great. Obviously not in contest shape here, but still looking tremendous. You never know. This guy's almost 45. Dexter's got his own supplement line out. Been spending a lot of time promoting that. What one of the best back double buys in the business. Dexter Jackson is a Mr. Olympia. He won the Olympia one year beating Jay. He'll always have that title to his name. He looks like an Egyptian warrior. He looks He's right out of a a comic book or a video game. The most freaky guy here tonight without a doubt. Ronnie may have been the biggest, but Kai is the freakiest for sure. He looks good. Kai's in very good shape here tonight. You would almost think he's ready. Ready for a show, but he's not. He's staying lean. Only Kai can wear this out to pull it off. He's got to be 300 lb. His arms look like they're about 25 in. His legs are tremendous tonight. He He's actually has surprisingly very good conditioning here tonight. I was I was swearing 6 weeks out from a show. Obviously, this is Phil Heath's offseason. He's not he's not in training for the Olympia yet, but still looks pretty good. looking bigger than we seen him. When you see him next to Kai Green, obviously Kai Green, the freaky conditioning and size. Uh but when it's when they get on stage next to each other, it's it's a completely different story, obviously. Yes, Kai. Kai looking to to battle it out with Big Ramy there. Kai Green is just so impressive. Everything pops in this guy. If I were Phil, I wouldn't even want to stand next to Kai tonight. There they go. They're going to come down into the audience now. It's just pandemonium in the place. Kai Green jumps up on stage. I don't even know how he's so agile at that weight. He's break dancing up there. Putting on a big show for this Pittsburgh audience. There he goes. He's on his head. Kai Green, were you expecting to see that? I don't know how he balances himself. I think Romney's going to come and go on his head now. They're going to duke it out on stage. The two freakiest guys in the auditorium tonight. Big Ramy and Kai Green. Maybe Kai can teach Ramy how to stand on his head. Kai Green loves the comic book poses here. I think Ramy looks like an alien if Kai Green's the Predator. But I think Kai Green really showing up Ramy here. I'm almost more impressed with Kai Green here, which is amazing cuz Kai's not getting ready for anything right now. Romney obviously bigger, but Kai just so freaky impressive. The like we can't we can't get enough of these guys. These guys have been posing for a long time. I got to tell you, they got good endurance. Better than me. Kai, look at that back on Kai Green. Ramy just freaked out by it almost. I think he's almost intimidated. I would be and nobody No one can't be intimidated by that back. I think Kai actually is blowing Bert Ramy away from the back there and Ramy's got some back on him. Phil's at the podium there. I guess he's just they don't want any part of these guys. These guys are all getting ready for show. So, all right, Kai Green really the the the personality of the stage here tonight. The most impressive