Dave Palumbo standing here with Chris the technician of CEO. here at the Tribeca Performing Arts Center in Manhattan, New York. And the New York Pro prejudging is now history. Chris, uh, one of the most uh, uh, complicated New York Pro prejudges we've ever seen because this particular show had a great stack lineup, but everyone seemed to be a little bit off. All the favorites, Lo, Biki, Big Ramy, uh, even Juan Mela and John Del Rosa were not at their best. Uh, but it is a four-man show, or so it seems. And you know, uh, a lot of people are thinking that Big Ramy is going to come out here and, uh, with the victory despite, despite him being way way off in conditioning from what he was last year. Yeah. No, he's at the end of the day, uh, he's still he's he's the biggest guy on on stage. How much do you think he weighs? [\h__\h] dude. 290. Yeah, maybe 290. You know, he's he's the biggest guy and he's put together 100% the right way. So, it's not like a big guy who's out of shape or off, who's got some structural issues. He's got the natural flow to the body. He's got the the right, you know, squareness to the torso, the legs, small waist. So, even though, yes, uh, he's too heavy here, he's still very dense and muscular in the muscle shots and it is a bodybuilding show. And anyone else, you know, he's not competing against mass monsters like him. So, by default, you know, I would have him first place. Yeah, I I think I have to agree with that. by default, but you know, he's first place. Well, you know, it's very hard to judge a show where everyone is off a little bit because then you kind of look for looking for who has the least flaws, and that's not a good way to judge a show. The best way to judge a show would be who has the most positives. So, I think you're right. I think Rammy with the size, uh, the freakiness, the shape and proportion, he's really not missing any body parts. And I think you can say for Juan, he's missing, you know, legs. Uh, maybe you can say for bike, he's missing conditioning. And Del to me, John Delar Roza was the guy who really had the most complete package of that top four group. And you know, if I was judging, I probably would would be really edgy towards giving him the number one. Although looking at Ramy's mass, I just it's very hard to to dismiss that. Yeah. You know, I I I thought it would come down the last call. Uh I thought to Ra Ramy, his mass, and uh Del Roza, and I thought Del Roza was in better condition than him, but and has a nice flow to his physique like Ramy, too. They have similar physiques in that they flow. Um, and they're both, you know, thick guys. I I I would just probably defer still to Ramy solely because of the some of the shots he's really got a lot of muscle where you go, "Wow." The hands on hips, most muscular is very impressive. He's amazing. And the abs and thighs, the only thing that he doesn't have is a big gut. He's got great abs. For a guy who's not in that great a condition, his abs his abs are amazing. From the front, he was he was uh tight enough to to to put the show away for sure. And even on the side, he was tight, quote, tight enough. It just be behind all the critics, you know, meaning people who want to see him at his best, ourselves included, you know, we're going to pick that apart. And, you know, you got to attribute some of that, of course, to being sick and and still not being able to bounce back from where he was. I thought that Juan Morell had probably the best conditioning of that top four group, but I felt that he was he was down. He was very flat. I thought I thought his legs looked small. Uh, structurally, obviously, he can stand next to Ramy, but he looks next to Ramy to me, he's missing. You can see what he's missing even more so because Ramy is so complete. Yeah. No, I I I think the the the the knock-on one is the legs and uh the front double bicep, you know, it's out of the it's just there's a shape issue there and I think it has to do with the sweep to the thighs. But um uh you know, he was I thought he was flat um and he's been in better condition before and you know, I just uh I know that he's he he he should feel good that he was able to get that last call out. Yeah, I think that uh you know he's beaten Del Rosa before obviously in Brazil. I I I thought Del Roza had enough to beat him today, but you know what, you can make a case that maybe Del Roza was not as hard in the back the lower back area. Juan did have good conditioning. They're they're very close to these guys even though they don't really look alike structurally. Uh I think that uh you know it's going to be a close second third and I think Lionel Biki who could have won the whole show had he come in shape especially with Rammy being off gave up a hu huge opportunity here and I think he's lucky to get fourth and he's doing that exclusively on his structure. Yeah. You know I I don't think uh I I don't think we're going to see a comeback for Biki this year. Meaning he traditionally gets worse as the year rolls on. He's not one of these guys who gets better because some people get tired and their body starts to fall apart on them uh when they do a lot of shows and other people they just keep getting better and better and he he doesn't have that or he hasn't proven that he's he can't do that. So uh here he was in Brazil you know without a doubt in his best condition ever and are we 3 weeks away and he's just you know he should be better by all means but he's worse. Yeah he looked like a glazed donut from Dunkin Donuts chocolate glaze. Let's talk about Guy Sister from behind. from behind. First of all, I wanted to just say hello to all the live viewers out there in RX Muscle Land. Uh this is a live uh wrap-up. So, in in essence, we really can't make any mistakes. Everything we say is being scrutinized and and and dissected under the microscope. Guy Sister Nino in the 212 class to me really showed me that he's for real. He won last week in Dallas, but this was a tough lineup. Aaron Clark was a guy by all rights, you know, who could knock out Guy Cino. And I think sister brings such a great level of conditioning with fullness to his physique. They re I think he I think he edged out Clark here who looked better to me two days ago when I saw a picture of him. Yeah. No, I I I I I thought when I I I thought Guy would had the potential to win. Um I think it just came down to being able to get him so that he could maintain his condition and just not shrink away through the torso. Um and that was feed him a lot. Yeah. Feed him in a lot. And um you know you Dallas was last week. You know there's not much you can do in a week when you're already you know trying to hold. So uh surprisingly I I thought he got maybe even a little sharper this week than last week. He might be. Yeah. And and it gives his body the extra oomph to be able to get by Clark. And Clark comes in a little flat from behind. You know I was talking to Pete Scaliz the owner of Gear who who who you know sponsors and we were both saying that you know two days ago when he sent pictures to me I saw he had crazy sliced glutes on stage here today. They were flat. They really weren't showing any any definition. I think that's really what pushed Guy ahead of him because I think Clark has a little bit more muscle than Guy. If you think about it, guy turned weight uh pro as a middleweight. Clark turned pro as a as a heavyweight and Cistino really looked better than him today. Yeah. No, I I I I thought that if Guy could be in the mix, you you know, you would because he's he's he's he's like a pitbull, you know, he'd he' just uh tough it out. Yeah. He'd tough it out. And they, you know, the this show was probably the hardest. This show in compared to many shows in a long time, the the the the head judge just kept on mixing people up, mixing people up cuz it was very close. It was close and in both classes and you saw people, you know, get better and fade and but uh it was a it's a tough show to judge. Bite to Abaspor who looked like he didn't want to get on on stage in Dallas. Really, he was almost too aggressive on stage. He was kept moving up. you were screaming from the audience that he was moving up too fast and he was he was like pushing his way closer to guy which which I liked it actually added a little intensity to the to the show you know by himself this guy is the champion when you put him next to I think guy and and Clark's structure is a little better yeah I think Balto by himself looks like he can't be beat and when you get him next you know what I think to use your word you you get bamboozled by his vacuum and you get bamboozled by the the deep separation and the mass but when you put him next to someone, you say like, "God, he still needs that like oomph to to and he can still be a little tighter." Yeah. And he he just uh surprisingly, you know, he doesn't or didn't measure up in the is it the conditioning department, but I don't know. There just I just next to guy and Clark, he wasn't as good. Does he look smaller or No, he looks bigger than them, but I think his maybe his waist is a little wider than that. Yeah. I mean, I I I don't think you're right. He bamboozles us with the front double body with the vacuum because it makes his waist look tiny, but next to guy those guys, he's not he's a little wider at the waist. He's a little shorter torsoed and he's he's a little shorter in height, I think. Yeah. But, you know, it's still a great showing for him. It was a great 212 pound class. Someone made the comment, they said, "Wow, the 212 guys are great." Because we had Curtis Bryant really ripped in the show and other guys in great condition. And I keep saying, you know, the weight class makes these guys forces them in shape. Forces them to be in shape. Yeah. Well, Juliana Malikarnney looks like she'll win the women's physique division. Ashley Cwasher seems to be in the lead in the women's bikini, although I don't know where that came. I don't really, you know, see it because I think that she's not really in the best shape of her life. In the figure division, uh we looks like Camel Rodriguez and Jen Strobo are are vying for that title. And in men's physique, uh it looks like Sadi Hodzik may take out Jason Poston who's won the last couple shows in a row. I really I I got to take my hat off. Sadi did a tremendous job with it bringing in that conditioning. He's got a phenomenal phenomenal body. His stance is absolutely fantastic. And I I think what puts him over a little bit is his back thickness, the lower back. He's width too. Yeah, width thickness. I heard Poston was having a lot of problems. You know, being a type 1 diabetic, I heard he was having trouble carbing up. You know, when you get dehydrated as a as a diabetic, it's hard to absorb carbohydrates and he was having some problems the last couple days. So, that could be a problem cuz I saw him in the studio 2 days ago at the Heavy Muscle TV show and he looked phenomenal. He was hit bodybuilding pose. He was it was almost too good. Johnny was showing me the pictures and I thought I was thinking, God, I don't think the guys that I know who are in the show in the bodybuilding are as peeled as I don't even think he needs to get any any drier than he looked at that show. Flatten out trying to get He might It might especially with the with the insulin requirements he has. He probably should just stay a little fuller. Yeah. No, he I I think full he's probably a little bit better because he he keeps the pecs which makes the waist look even, you know, the taper even better. Well, we won't know who's going to win. These are all speculative uh decisions on our part. Stay tuned to the live playbyplay a little later. And our final wrap-up that will air live here on live stream. For now, I'm Dave Palumbo with Chris the technician Aceto for rxmuscle.com.