But let's do our final wrap-up and impressions. Chris, this is the the 50th anniversary 2014 Mr. Olympia contest. Phil Heath is now the fourtime Olympia champ, narrowly defeating Kai Green for certain and Shawn Rooden for that matter. Um, who is the most impressive or the most improved bodybuilder in your mind of the night of the entire show or just in the two in the open men? Uh, that that's hard to say. I mean, uh, when you get to a certain level like where he sat, it's not that easy to be much better than than you have. He wasn't the best he's ever been, was it? He wasn't the best, but I don't think he was far off. And and tonight, he probably was in the category that he was the last couple years to win it. Um, was Shawn Rhoden the best most improved, Chris, of the night? Unquestionably, he's the most improved bodybuilder of the night. Um, I mean, he he improved from the Arnold uh to here. He improved from last year to here. So he beat Dennis Wolf. He beat Dennis Wolf which was a big, you know, important step for him because Dennis is the reigning Arnold Classic champion and Dennis Wolf was expected third last year. Yeah. And he was expected to challenge here. So you know for for for not only for uh uh Roden to be able to improve but to be able to get the important first call up. Remember there was only three in prejudging. The first three that was like you know the judges drew essentially drew the line that these are the top three guys. Do you think the judges just when they looked at Rhoden, they just said, you know, we can't give it to him? The hype was so much for Kai and Phil, Kai and Phil, Kai and Phil. That was it. They just weren't ready, it seemed, to give it to a third person. I I think I I agree with you. I think when you leave this show, the scuttlebutt would be, you know, the inside scoop would be Sean, you are right on the edge, more so than Kai is right on the edge because even Jay Cutler said it, right? Yeah. He said he, you know, he was at prejudging and said that uh, you know, he's right on Phil's tail. Albeit, he said Phil was very flat in prejudging for Phil, which I agree with. Uh, so, you know, it it's, you know, I think he might be the guy who would be chasing surprisingly next year Phil more so than than Kai. Uh, Lonnie, um, Phil Heath, um, when we see the final scorecards, do you think the the decision will be unanimous? Yes. And do you and do you think that Kai Green will get unanimous second place votes? That's even something that I'm debating because I think that Rhoden was very close to him in prejudging. I'm going to say no. That second place was not unanimous. Uh walking around the expo today talking to a lot of fans just getting their their opinion. Boy, they were really high on Shawn Rhoden. Just the beautiful shape. Uh you know, he battled. We we looked at that prejudging last night. He's going pose for pose with Phil Heath. Do you think that once Rhoden hits the European tour, I know Kai Green's going to be at a couple of the shows, that Rooden could possibly, you know, walk away with a couple victories almost like with the way Kevin Levrone did, uh, you know, one year when he went over to Europe. I think it's going to be interesting to see how Kai respond to this loss. I don't really think you guys thought that Kai thought he was going to win. Phil thought he was going to win. I don't know if Kai really thought he was going to win. I don't know what George Farah was telling him, but we're we've seen this before and we thought it may be real close and the champion comes out with straight ones. Uh, that's going to be interesting. I'm going to keep a close eye on th those European shows. I think Rhoden will probably stay in shape longer than Kai Green. And I'm going to go with Rhoden uh for those wins. Will will Kai self-destruct after this or do you think he'll keep it together enough to to to compete well in Europe? I mean, I don't think he'll self-destruct, you know. I think he'll look good on on the tour. I mean, he might look better on the tour because I mean, I thought in prejudging that Kai Green was extremely flat for Kai Green. And if you're not sure, all you need to do is go back to Pittsburgh and see him look enormous, but not Mr. Olympia conditioning, but there's too much of a difference between Pittsburgh being 300 lb and in good shape and whatever he weighs here. the amount of weight that he's dropping, it's not translating that much improved condition. So maybe if he eats, who knows, he could improve on the tour or, you know, he might have water issues and just, you know, implode. What about Dennis Wolf? Can he be a guy who explodes on that tour if he fills out? I think Dennis is very dangerous on the tour. Um, although traveling, you know, some in a lot of big guys, it dehydrates you and he might have trouble staying full, you know, with these. Remember this is the first tour Lani that we've seen where we had not weeks apart but days apart. We have Arnold Europe on Saturday on Wednesday the following Dubai. I'll be there and so with Johnny Styles and then the following uh Saturday you have Prague and then Sunday is San Marina. I remember the the old days going back a couple decades where they used to do it. They had those like three or four shows in like a week. Yeah. So it's kind of going back to the old ways. So uh I don't know. It's going to be tough. I I think the three guys that we've talked about are obviously I think he can go anyway. I don't if I look at the results and I saw Shawn Rhoden wins, I'm not surprised. If Kai Green wins, I'm not surprised. If Wolf wins, I'm not surprised. Is Dexter Jackson the most consistent bodybuilder in the history of the sport? Possibly. I I think he's the most consistent bodybuilder in the to be able to do it so many years. I mean, we thought Shawn Ray was consistent. Uh he how many years did he do the Olympia and place top five? He was in the top five 12 years, but most of the time Shawn only did one show, right? Dexter Jackson's done way more shows and he's gone till 45 years of age. I mean, that's an impressive, you know, uh I guess statistic. In November and uh he's done like 70 pro shows and I think it makes a difference. You notice how he's waited where he just did the Olympia the last two years how good he's looked. Well, I think now he's going to, you know, stretch it out a little bit. Yeah. Well, and uh I would say he's probably because of the length of time that he stayed in the game. Other people were retiring earlier. They're going longer now. I'd have to say the Blades probably the most consistent of all time. Branch Warren finishes in the sixth place spot after a ninth place finish last year at the Olympia. He won the Dallas Europa Super Show. Obviously, he's dealing dealing with injuries. uh a good appearance from, you know, Branch's body does not look like it did a couple years back. Um what what's your recommendation with Branch? And did he deserve to beat Big Ramy tonight? No, I don't think he deserved to beat Big Ramy. Uh I I I just struggle to make the justification for him. I mean, they're they're both, you know, in decent condition. Neither are in great condition. Ramy's got an enormous amount of more muscle than him. More flow, better legs, and that's his calling card. So, uh, you know, I'm not, you know, too convinced that Rammy was, you know, I'm not the deserving winner player six. You know what's interesting, Lonnie? Big Ramy is the only competitor in the history of the Olympia that they use his nickname when they announce him for for his final placing. You know, his name is Mom Dub. use it too if he ever does the Arnold because how do you pronounce that? Mu Albu. Yeah. Yeah, he's good. Yeah. You notice that they actually called him Big Rock in seventh place. That's why there's like, you know, it's hard to pron I don't even know if he knows how to pronounce his name. It's tough. But I agree with Chris on that. U you talked about the most improved. I guess you got to look at Branch Warren too in a sense because he was ninth last year. He was ninth. Everyone thought he was through. He came back and won a show, not the strongest show. And he did get six. Whether we think he deserved it or not, he got six. He improved three places. Eighth place, Victor Martinez. If you're advising Victor Martinez what to do now, what what do you suggest? Uh to that he he needs to he's he's too heavy here. He's too heavy here. Um, which you know, the danger is, of course, coming into a show like this. It's it's easy to get trapped into I have to be bigger. Uh, because there's a lot of big guys, right? Uh, but I think he still has the the flow to his body that at a lighter body weight when when his lower back is in, his glutes and hams are in, I think he would have moved way up in this lineup, you know. So, I think he's just competing a little bit too heavy. Um, so the advice would be to come down and wait. The best uh, youngest competitor in the lineup, Steve Klo, might be one of the most impressive upcomers, I guess you could say, in the sport, the new guys who are going to be the new guard eventually in five years from now. Uh, Lonnie, do you see him moving into the top six at some point in his career? Well, after being ninth this year, I think it's feasible uh, with, you know, the proper improvement uh, that I expect him to have. He's a smart guy, a fireman, you know, he trains hard. Uh, what does a fireman have to do about being a good bodybuilder being smart? Because he's steady, you know, he's dedicated, you know, he's he doesn't miss work. He's got a job. That That's true. He does have a job. Yeah. And he is a smart guy. I've known him for a lot of years. He used to expedite the junior cow. Actually, I knew the junior cow was going to come back into this conversation somewhere. He actually did. He came in from Texas when But I think, you know, he was sixth. It's easy to say, "Yeah, he could be in the He was ninth. Can he be in the top six?" I don't know. You got some people coming up next year. Uh the Compton kid is awful good. What about the guy who won the North American? I think he's the youngest guy ever to turn pro. Dallas Macccarver never really proved to he hasn't really fizzled. No, he hasn't handed out yet. But you know, Cedric McMillan, I I I really liked him after this year's Arnold. Cedric probably was the best guy not in this lineup, I would say. Wouldn't Would you agree with that, Chris? And will we see him at the Arnold? Obviously, he'll be at the Arnold. Juan Morell finishes in that 10th place spot. Terrific accolade for him to finish in the top 10 at the Olympia. And I think that, you know, he's a guy who's we're going to see in the future who's improving. You want to show this year, the Toronto Pro Show. He was a controversial second at Klo in Brazil. So, you know, here's a guy who's on the upswing as well. And I I think that the talent pool of the Olympia this year was was pretty good. You know, we didn't see the best Phil Heath we've seen. We didn't see the best Kai Green, but I think the the guys underneath them were pretty impressive. And obviously the 212 was a very fought uh closely fought battle. Flex Lewis retaining his title uh narrowly against Eduardo Korea who arguably could have unseated him this uh on this night. Was that a bad decision in your part on your opinion? You know, it it's um it's always hard to say what a bad decision is. I mean, it's not like Flex Lewis looked terrible. He looked good. I I just think that he's was not at his best. He was very vulnerable and you know this he's never had to stand next to this type of duard career and this type of Joseé Raymond. So he was you know in between a rock and a hard place. I mean he was not the most ripped. He was not the most dense. He was not the most hardest. So at the end the the you know the the idea put forth is that his balance was better. Lonnie, will uh will Flex Lewis, you think, stay in the 212 division next year? It's interesting you asked me that. I was just thinking about that because at the Arnold, which they added the 212 this year in place of the women's bodybuilding. He and I were talking uh backstage and he said in two years he was going to go up to the to the main event, but after seeing this here tonight, do you go up to that to the I don't know. I I think that one of the problems he's having is that he he has to take like Chris said, come down so much in weight that he can't make the weight without sacrificing his physique. Maybe he'll be better, bigger. I mean, you can make that argument which which seems logical, but at the same time, Eduardo tried to move up. You know, he weighed in and and he didn't do well, so he moved down. Henry's tried it and Henry told Jose, you know, I'm never gonna try it again. I mean, he's tried it at a few smaller shows. And you know what happens is Henry gets goes up against somebody not only too small, but just somebody who's like 5'9, 61, and then you know, he just kind of looks like the odd guy out. True. Well, my question is this. If we can envision Lewis at his all-time best, what maybe last year, how would he have done in the open class tonight? Wouldn't have made the top six. Wouldn't have made the top six. Absolutely not. Made the top 10. Yes. Would he beat Kuklo? I think he would have made the top six. I think he would have beat uh I think he would have beat Branch Warren at it his look last year. You think he would have last year's look beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat big big big big Grammy who's seventh yes it be I would like I that's why you know Jerry Scalesi made the comment I would like to see the branch let me throw something a fantasy call out there. Wouldn't you love to have seen Flex Lewis against Phil Heath in a final poseown? Not that we needed the show to last any longer, but no. Why? What? Just for the hell of it, that wouldn't be exciting. No. Why not? The Flex Lewis here. Yeah. There's There was no comparison. But why wouldn't you? I would love to see the 212 champ and the open champ down at the end. Why not? It doesn't doesn't hurt. It's not. It's Well, the Flex Lewis of last year. Well, even to take some pitches together, the winner, right? Take a double front bat spread. Well, yeah, that'd be okay, I guess, if you want to go to 1120. Congratulations to Nicole Wilkins on her fourth Miz Figure Olympia win. Uh, for now though, we are getting very late here at the Luxor Hotel in Las Vegas, Nevada, 2014. Lonnie, the official time is 11:16 Pacific time. I'm Dave Palumbo with Chris the technician Aceto and Lonnie the Swami Teper for rxmuscle.com.