Scitec Nutrition. Premium quality products. State-of-the-art look. Uncompromised ingredient quality. Our products work and taste good. www.sitecnutrition.com. What's up, RX Muscle? This is Cedric McMillan here at my own free will. Okay. Brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. We're interviewing this guy here. uh he's a little bit famous in the bodybuilding world named Dave Palumbo. We're here at the 2015 New York Pro. They had it out here at T-neck, New Jersey. Kind of a change of venue from, you know, years past and everything. Uh but definitely we were here. We're going to do a little wrap up of the men's open class, uh top five. So, uh basically, we're going to start out, uh Dave Palumbo, what did you think of the new venue they had here for the New York Pro? Well, you know, I I told Steve this is the greatest venue. I'll tell you why. because it's easy to get to. Parking is free. The hotel is cheap for the competitors to stay in and and it's bigger and I think that that's important. I think we needed a bigger venue. I love New York City, but it's expensive and you can't really get enough room. You can't find places to park. This is the place to be. I for one like more of the theatrical or the theater setting versus, you know, a ballroom setting. Uh but I I believe it gets the job done as well. It's tough in New York, Cedric, to find a place that's not cost prohibitive. That's what people don't realize. If we were in South Carolina for instance, we could get a theater and you could get a great theater probably. Right. Right. Yeah. And it wouldn't cost much either. Yeah. Okay. So, here we looking at the top five here. We had fifth place winner, Gregory. Well, let's talk about the winner first of all because it was a very tight competition. I want your opinion on this too. Juan Morell verse Victor Martinez. Victor Martinez the veteran. Juan Morell the up and cominging guy. He's been second here a couple time and second last year behind Big Ramy. Morell comes in. You know, I really had Victor winning after prejudging. I thought Victor had a little bit more wow factor. I thought he had a little bit more detail. And then I changed my mind at night because I saw thought Juan came back fuller, a little harder. I think uh to me Juan Morel's biggest deficit is the fact that he doesn't present himself that well. Um I think that that was why it was as close as it was. If he had presented himself as good as Victor did, I think it would have been hands down Juan Morell. Okay. All right. Well, definitely you're not going to like my answer here because I could not choose between the two. Um, you know, you very indecisive though, man. Listen, you can look at you can look at two bodies and you can point out weaknesses on each of them and point out strengths on each of them. Uh, I can definitely tell you that I love how streamlined Juan Morel's physique was from top to bottom. However, I loved how developed and how mature Victor Martinez physique was. You know, when they do their back poses, Victor Martinez had more of a 3D look, whereas Juan Marella had more of a streamline, wide across the top and narrow waist. And I really I'm a fan of that as well, you know, and and I was trying to pick apart their body parts together and it was like honestly it could go e I would be satisfied either way for me, you know, being a Victor fan from a long time ago, Victor Vaughn, I would have been happy with that. But, you know, with Juan Morell winning as well, you know, with his great symmetry and structure, I was satisfied with that as You know, when I was watching them posing at night, man to man, I said to myself, you know, it's interesting because who would have ever thought Victor would be the the older guy on the circuit and I'm saying, you know, is this his last best show? How many more shows he got in? And then I see Juan kind of surging. This is the best he's ever been. You know, I worked with Juan for many, many years. And I told Juan, I said, you know, Juan, one day you're going to fill out that frame and you're going to be unbeatable. And you know, he used to get mad at me because it was never the year I was telling him that advice. Now I saw him backstage. I said, Juan, you did it. you finally filled out that huge frame of yours and you're the best you've been and I think that's why the judges rewarded him. It looked like Victor was a little upset with the with the decision but but I really can't say you know that you you can't really you know give doubt to anyone. I see Jim Manion there uh who who head judged the whole the whole night photo bombers. Listen listen uh Jim Man's right here. I'm gonna say this in front of him. He worked the [\h__\h] out of those guys. Mr. Emanuel, we're speaking on, you know, one and two, Juan Morel and Victor Martinez, and, you know, you guys having to switch them up and keep letting them pose to kind of figure out what you thought cuz it was so close. What do you think about that? Well, that's exactly what the judges wanted. It was uh I think it was a one-point swing after prejudging and the evening show. We even now we don't usually score the pose down. We do 50% in the morning, 50% tonight. We do the confirmation round. And Steve even suggested that we even bring him back out during the pose down and score him again. Look at it. But a tough deciding factor. You think I would probably say hardness? Yeah. Conditioning. Victor could have been tighter. Yeah. A little bit in the back, I think. But I mean, he was then I liked him more from the front. I like one. It's It's just It's a matter of what the judge likes. Definitely a tossup. Toss up. Okay. So, yeah. Well, you definitely I never saw anybody get worked like those two for a long time. This was I mean I I don't think I've ever seen a first call out where there was only two people called up. Uh it's been a while. Yeah. So that was I mean it was definitely them two and everyone else. I think it was you and Dexter Jackson. So look here. So definitely um my judging skills and Mr. May's judging skills is the same cuz it was a toss up for me and it was a toss up for him. So yeah, Dave Palumbo don't know what he's talking about. I don't like to give them both first place cuz they're both it's like it was it's like as Ronnie would say it was like apples and oranges. Like just a matter of who you like. All right. Thank you, Mr. Eman. All right. You're welcome. Good luck in Brazil. Thank you very much, sir. Okay. So, we going to move on to uh third place now. Let's go. Max Charles, your boy from Scitec here. You know, this guy might arguably have the best upper body in bodybuilding currently on the circuit. It's a shame that his legs seem to lag behind the upper body, but if you notice, his legs improved, but his upper body improved just as much. And I think people are still seeing the discrepancy there. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Um I can tell you you know once he came on and uh joined the scitec me and him talk I listen when I seen this guy you know my problem is sometime I turned into like a fanboy when I see somebody you know and I'm just so impressed oh my god I love bodybuilding and and looking at him I was so impressed with him man you know and then his personality too you know we kind of mesh really well so I gave him a few tips you know we were talking about leg training I was telling him some of the difficulties I had what's the Cedric McMillan tips yeah I'm not I'm not going to tell you I'm not going to tell you but anyway you're holding out yeah but anyway Inquiring minds want to know. No, no, they don't. All right. But anyway, I give Are you a squat? Do you squat for life? Yeah. Yeah, definitely. But anyway, I gave him a few tips to try and he said he loved it and he said it seemed to be working for him and I was very, very, very impressed. Uh, I went to the room to see him and I said, "Hey, man, lift your knee up. Let me see the separation in your upper quad." You know, cuz that was a place he was lacking. And things split right up. And I was very impressed with him. You know, a lot of times, and I I was telling him this sometimes when you first come out, you do your first couple shows and you get hit with a tag, right? We'll call it the hashtag. You know, you can hit with a tag like, "Oh, he needs to be harder." Or, "Oh, his legs are smaller." Right? And, you know, it takes a long time for you to be or it takes something very drastic to erase that tag from you, right? You know, cuz I can remember when Shawn Rhoden first came out, you know, we did the first couple pro shows, you know, and uh, you know, me and him both, you know, working working on conditioning and stuff. who did a Dallas back in the day and nobody would ever think Shawn ever had a problem with conditioning, you know, now, you know, because he was so made such a drastic change in 2012, you know, and and now he was able to erase that tag. So, I think for Max Charles, when he comes out or before he even comes out, you already have in your mind, oh, his his legs are going to be so when you look at him, you try to justify what you already thinking without giving him a fair shot and looking. Good insights. Very good insights. Henry and No, fourth place. Um, you know, the guy is not the biggest guy on stage, but he might have the biggest structure and his lines flow beautifully. Kind of reminds me of the Cedric McMillan. Yeah. Listen, he stood up on stage and I honestly now, you know, I don't know when the last time you've been to an NPC show, but doesn't he have the shape of a light heavyweight or or heavyweight, you know, with the way his structure is, you know, he looked like Shawn Rhoden when Shawn Rhoden turned. I love his physique. You know, his chest and his shoulders are very full. You know, he had a good small waist and everything. Yeah. Yeah. And a lot of, you know, nowadays, man, you know, it seems like they're calling for, you know, the standard that they want or the way they want guys to look would require him, you know, to try to work on making himself a little bigger, you know, making himself, you know, look a little more bam. You know what I'm saying? And he's got a good structure to build on. That's for sure. And I think he's got a good future if he adds the muscle in the right places, uh, and takes his time doing it because I think that, you know, that waist is teeny tiny and that's never getting big, that thing. Yeah. Listen guys, don't try to beat 300 lb in a year. Take your time and let your let your physique develop. Don't try because listen, you can you put on these 30 40 lbs in a year and all of a sudden you look amazing and I'll give you 5 years before your body's burn out, you know? So you can do that or you can take the route of Dexter Jackson, Tony Freeman, and you can still be competing when you're 50 years old. Do you want to compete when you're 50 years old? Definitely. I I listen listen me and Sean already talked. We going we're going to do bodybuilding until we're done with that and then we're going to switch over to physique. You probably No lie. No lie, we're going to do that. You heard it from Cedric first. All right, let's talk about Greg Atoy in fifth place here. Rounds out that top five lineup. You know, I I think Atoyan's got a lot of muscle and and I was always a fan of his, but you know what? I I I feel that he's got those lumps in his glutes bother me a lot. I know he's got scar tissue in there for many years, but it's very distracting and and I I I personally would have had a few other guys ahead of him in this. you know, for for for fifth place, uh I was looking at um Clarence Device, you know, between Clarence Devis and uh and and Gregory, you know, going at it for to lock down fifth place, you know. So, but they went more with with Gregorian, you know, you know, you can't really knock them, you know, the judges, you know, they know what they're doing, but uh I I definitely uh favored Clarence's physique over over Gregori a little bit. If Clarence would come in in shape, it would be like lights out. I mean, this guy would do really well. I and he, you know, he looked, he started as a 212 guy. He's a legitimate open guy, but he comes in off every single time I see him. One time here in New York, he was perfect. I've never seen him duplicate that. If he I think what's happening is the judges are marking him down because they know what he's capable of. If he came in, Clarence, you listening coming in shape and the ch the placings are going to completely change. Well, I got to I got to stop you there, Dave. And the reason why is because people say the same thing about me. And one thing I one thing I'm certain of. I bet you he's giving it everything he's got. I think he's cheating. Right. I I I think he's giving it. I hear you cheat. I thought you heard you were at the breakfast buffet today. Caught you. Yeah. Today was my eat day. He told me you eat day. No, he told me you were cheating. He was very upset with you. No, he didn't. Yes, he did. No, cuz he told me last night to increase my carbs and eat today. So, I don't think he meant for me to go to the Yuki buffet and stuff your face. Oh, well, he didn't give me no ramifications. So, Chris, yeah, he he didn't give me no parameters. Look, he's he's blushing now. Even though he's black, I still see it and I'm sweating. Okay. But definitely one thing I will say about Gregori is through throughout all of, you know, the things that he been through, he's still competing and he's still coming and he's still trying, you know. So, so I tip my hat off to him for that, you know, for still coming out here and placing top five at a strong New York Pro show. We have to tip our hat to Juan Morell here tonight. He is the champion of New York, his hometown. Congratulations. It was a long time in coming and uh you know, I think that there's going to be great things to come for Juan in the future, especially for the Olympia. Yeah. And uh what I want to say is you guys have to be honest and say that I am a better interviewer than Dave Palumbo is. Right? You see how extreme his eyes are? You see how he look like that? And I'm more chill with it, right? I know y'all like that more. You make me look like amateur hour. Cedric, if I can only get you to hold the microphone a few more times, we'll be great. Okay. This is Cedric McMillan, Dave Palumbo for RX Muscle, brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. Thank you.