This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm standing here with Chris the technician Aceto and we're here at the 2015 New York Pro. Chris, the prejudging just wrapped up here in T-neck, New Jersey, and it looks like it was a battle between Victor Martinez and Juan Morell. motto on motto. I don't think I've ever seen a first call out where they only call two guys out. Neither have I. And uh I I love when Jim Manion's judging just because I think he's a great judge. And I, you know, it may seem seem quote unfair to people, but it was a battle between those two really. And I love the idea that they just pulled out two and said, you know what, we want to see two and then they put them back and they said, we want to see you again. They were clearly the best. I mean, there wasn't it was like those two and then everyone else. Uh, we knew it was going to be a battle between Victor and Juan Morel. It would have been nice if Rammy would have been in this lineup, too. But I think they were very evenly matched. I think that Victor and Juan matched up size-wise, symmetry-wise. I I I felt, you know, I scored each pose, you know, for one or the other, and at the end, I came out with Victor on top, five poses to three. But how did you score it? I I I I don't even like Juan Morellin. I'm just kidding. Uh, I I had him winning. Um, I thought I I I was really impressed with his improvements. Um, I've been so overly critical overly critical in the past of his legs. I thought he brought his legs up. I've been so overly critical of his back uh the lack of density because he has a lot of width and he's a tall guy and he brought the back thickness up. I think that dramatically improved his uh his aura on stage. And for me, it's the first time that I've seen Juan look filled out on that tall big frame. And I frankly, you know what? I never really thought he could fill that out to the point where he could what I thought outmuscle people, including Victor on the most muscular, for example. I thought he was spectacular on the most. I definitely gave him the most muscular, but I just thought that Victor had him on like the back double bicep. I thought the front double bicep. I thought that Victor outposed him on the side poses, which Juan really should have won because he's got that great side leg. You are right. I do feel that that that one made some major improvements from last year and probably on his body three or four pounds is is a major improvement because it looks so much better and bigger but I I I had Victor edging him a little bit and I don't know what the judges were were leaning towards because they really didn't give any indications. Yeah. Well, you know what I asked you have to prejudge and who you had and you had Victor and I had one. So, I'm going out and putting the finger in the wind and trying to find out like a poll from people. Um, and you know, I I ask people, celebrity bodybuilders, you know, people who have Dexter and Roden, what And I say, "Who' you have first?" And this is how close it is. They say, "Well, who' you have?" Cuz they don't want to lay it down and, you know, it's hard. It's a very close contest. Now, uh, who did the, uh, the man that made you wear this shirt have in first? Uh, Dennis the Menace gave me this shirt. Um, why are you wearing that, Dennis? in this shirt because apparently one of the gurus who's the most well-known liar in the sport uh said that he's best buddies with DJ and DJ immediately texted me when I was getting my ear operated on uh last week in Maine and said he he wanted to kill to to beat up George at one time. So I said, "You know what? Uh DJ, you and I are actually better closer support from Yeah, we are actually we agreed we are much much much closer than he and George are. So he said, "Why don't you wear my shirt in New York?" Cuz I can't make it. The first New York pro that DJ couldn't be here. Wow. So you got the you're representing. Let's talk about the 212 which you know someone very well because Guy Sister Nino really impressed the hell out of this audience and me because I can't believe he came back with so much muscle on his body yet with the same level of conditioning we saw from him last year and really a lightweight. He didn't weigh a lot, which is shocking. He looked huge. And you know what? Guy is just one, as you know, one of these guys who he has a mental defect that just makes him retardedly focused on a bodybuilding show like this. And he's actually been focused on it since last year where he got second in a close call. Um, so here he is 365 days later hopefully, you know, in the lead spot after prejudging. And you know, I I work with Guy, but 85 to 95% of what guy accomplishes is due to Guy's work ethic. Oh, I know that. I I've worked with him when his early part of his career. The guy is no one works harder and is more obsessed with with bodybuilding and training than he is. No, no one is. And we fought and we can say that defiantly. There is no one else. And we fought uh coming into the show like 3 weeks out, two weeks out, he said, "Dude, I'll do two hours of cardio. you know, I don't eat any carbs at all. And it's like, you know, he would make me get excited and say, "Yeah, okay. Stay on two hours and stay on no carbs." I'd be like, "Wait a minute, guys. Stop confusing me." So, he he's a hard worker. He'll do whatever you say. Um, and he showed up today. I I think it's his by far best. I think it's his best. And and he needed his best here because Kim Johan from uh Korea came out of the woodwork. You know, I I made a joke about it on the TV show. I said, "I can't believe anyone would come that far and not look that good." And I didn't know what he looked like, but of course, he made the trip for a reason because he is that good. He could be the next Hideay Yamagishi. He um he has clean, fresh lines on every part of his body. Um he everything changes when he hits the shots. You know, he's not the biggest guy, but you don't say that when he's in the comparisons with people. Um I I I was so impressed with everything that he brought. His level he compared well with guy very well and he he had a level of presentation that was rivals people who have been competing you know for five straight years as a pro. I want to make one statement. I know we have uh we got to wrap this up but uh the women's physique division Chris the girls were so big here. I felt like I was watching women's bodybuilding again. Has the women evolved to this point again? And it seemed like the judges rewarded that. you know, I I I opted out to to to really make concrete decisions on what I was seeing, which and and and was watching your playbyplay because like you uh I see it the same way. I was shocked by the level of density, hardness, sometimes graininess of some of the competitors. You know what? If you did a screenshot, if Johnny does a screenshot of what was winning three years ago, two years ago, and today or just the level of the depth of the I think Dyna could have stood in this lineup. No. And there was a lot of good, you know, there was a lot of as much as there was a lot of for me almost too much muscle for the class. There was still a lot of like crazy cap delts with crazy Vtapers. Um I liked Ayanna Carroll who won last week in Orlando and she's going to probably have to finish in fourth place here because you got Michelle Cummings who won the NPC nationals. as a bodybuilder, as a bodybuilder who's going to looks like she's going to win here. And I mean, she's got a ton of muscle, beautiful shape, but if I was judging bodybuilding, I'd say, man, she's the bodybuilding champ. But I I was very surprised of the size of the girls and that the the judges were rewarding that. Yeah, that's why I said, you know what, I was surprised as well. I think I need to sit back a few more shows and digest where is it going because um to me there's a danger gang of just you know a tipping point where you just here we are again full circle like and saying okay everyone's too big a gang everyone's too hard a gang what do we do next we don't want to you don't want to encourage all the other girls to say oh I got to go get bigger now and harder so um we'll see how it pans out a little later tonight for now though I'm Dave Palumbo with Chris the techniciance rxmuscle.com Go.