Heat. Johnny Christian Styles here for rxmuscle.com. I got to say my full name when I'm in a Spanishspeaking country. I'm here with the mechanic. The mechanic almost the mechanic as he's known here in Barcelona and Spain, Chris. I don't know how technician translates. No, mechanic is like a mechanic. And a technician is a technician, but apparently we've encountered fans that call him the mechanic. So Chris, we just finished wrapping up the Arnold Classic Europe, Spain. And um the blade Dexter Jackson comes here and once again he's right now talking to Arnold as we speak to you guys and wins the show. What were your first initial thoughts on Dexter? Um I thought that Dexter was uh fuller this week through his most muscular. I thought he was fuller through the back double. Um and then everything else I thought was on par with last week. Meaning his condition was really good this week, it was really good last week. his legs seem both weeks to be equal, which you know, my knock is that they don't they're not separated um compared to some of the other guys in the top four or five. Um but this is a bet a better version of Dexter, I think, than came to the Olympia last week. At at a minimum, he was more aggressive this week than he than he was in pre-judgment last week at the Olympia. Yeah. usually in Latin American or you know Spain. Victor Martinez is as we know from Dominican Republic and he speaks Spanish and people love him here that he gets a grace. He crowd goes crazy over him. But on this night the one and only Big Ramy was the talk of the town. Not even on prejudging, not even in prejudging but on the night show when he came out everybody went absolutely crazy. Yeah. You know, Ramy here was um you know, the knock was that he was too flat in prejudge and then he was like, you know, full and you know, closed hard at the Olympia and and here he was probably like 3 lb more than he was at the finals there. But on his for for whatever reason, 3 lb on him shows up as like 12 for some, you know, he just looked really full and um you know, it is a knock against Dexter. you know, you use these like phrases not to knock Dexter, who's one of the probably, you know, one of the top three bodybuilders of all time based on his accolades, what he's what he's been able to do in his career. I mean, it'll never be repeatable. um when what he's still doing in his career. You know, he's beaten the best in the world. Uh but tonight, I just thought um that Ramy had just way too much muscle density, uh roundness, fullness, overpoweringness to not be called a winner of a show of this caliber. Right. And in third place, we expected Shawn Roden to win, but William Bonak comes here here and switches places. The crowd did boo again uh when Shawn got fourth, but between them two, it was it was comparable each and every time they went in. Yeah. I mean, I I think you know you you you probably some some you you probably can make arguments for a Dexter, Bonak, Rhoden call out because neither of them can dominate each other at least tonight. Certain nights some can, but neither of them can dominate each other. the the the interesting thing is bone neck carries always a film of water. Um but when he flexes there's so much you know striations in the pecs and shoulders and arms it doesn't matter. You don't see it. So while he looks filmy in certain areas when he's in his pose he doesn't. He looks like you know granite hard and he's got uh more back thickness than both Dexter uh and Sean. So and he's probably got a better side chest in terms of thickness than both of them. has the difference between those three is Williams lines, they're not bad at all, but Dexter's got prettier lines and and different lines and I think more etched separation. Same thing with with Shawn and Shawn's a taller bodybuilder. So sometimes your eye comes to him. That being said, you know, you could I I feel flip a coin on, you know, those three um in terms of where they would place in the show. After that, you bring, you know, once you get away from those four guys, you get Ry Winkler, who's just uh like a poor man's uh version of Ramy. In other words, you know, he doesn't have the back that Ramy has. He doesn't have the the leg sweep, but he's got wacky legs. Uh he struggles with leg separation from the front, but sometimes his hams and glutes are peeled. He looked great here. He looked great last week. Um he's just butting his head at all these shows against the rodents dexters bone you know that people who he carries more weight and more muscle than but he's just put together differently. I mean, there's some there's some some shots clearly that he's just absolutely insane on front, bicep, side, chest, and then some some of the shots as you get through the comparisons, um, you know, you start to pick away a little bit at, you know, where genetically he gets hurt. And that's what it is. You know, it's just like the flow to the body. After that, Josh Ladawitz shaved his head like you. Um, and uh, it I I thought Josh was almost a, you know, a 100% repeat of last week in the best condition that he probably possibly can be in at this point of his career. The fullest that he can be at this point in his career. If he had tried to come in fuller, uh, it wouldn't have been a good look. We would be saying, uh, you know, he's got to be, you know, tighter. If he tried to come even tighter, would be saying, uh, a little bit flat. So I I think he he came in to the best of his ability. Um and you know it's just a matter of I think time where you know he's he's going up against the bone uh you know rodents dexters but then in front of him also he's got super freak uh and that's what he is. Roly Roelly is just retardedly freaky. And Roly did a backflip which was just just insane you know could flip. Now, now we can die in peace knowing that Ruy Winko could do a backflip. And we were there, you know, on on stage. We were not at home critiquing or doing anything, right? We were like up close and personal. We saw everything. Yeah. We saw everything. And for the internet keyboard, you know, nationalists/generals. Here's what happens at these shows. This show, people were in tremendous condition. I thought Roly Winkler, tremendous condition. Josh Lenonowitz, tremendous condition. Dexter peeled. Rhoden peeled. Uh the little Kai guy, William Bonak. William Bonak peeled. Uh keep going down the line. You could go out of the top six. People are peeled. We'll post pictures up for whatever reason and people look like cloudy soft and people say, "Oh, they're way off. Nobody can diet anymore." You know what? Let's put that [\h__\h] to rest. You know, because I was at the Olympia last week and then you see some pictures and people even Phil last week I was there in in Rogue 2, you know, to me he looked peeled and full and then I look pictures and you look at yeah he's peeled and full but not like the impact of right here. So sometimes pictures don't transmit what's going on. And I know video doesn't because people, you know, look at videos and say, "Oh, this guy looks peeled." And like, well, if you're there, he's like a marshmallow, right? You know, whereas even on a video or uh, you know, in print on the internet, Dexter's probably detail just not going to show up like it actually really is in real life. So, uh, I get tired of guys people saying, you know, these guys don't come in shape. It's like, why don't they diet? you know, they are dieting and and and the one the I have two two criticisms of the show, by the way. They I hope Ramy I hope Ramy didn't lose on the on the on the posing Arnold because uh I because the music was screwed up for Ramy. The routine was screwed up so he didn't Ramy's Ramy's music got screwed up. Oscana Gina's music got cut off. People got screwed up. Victor Martinez, I believe it was it was screwed up. There was there was problems. you could tell. And um it's their first time here, but I'm sure the production had some type of issue with competitors, dude. And and as an industry, as people who want to support bodybuilding, you know what? If if if we didn't have Arnold, if we didn't have bodybuilding, guess what? You would not have bikini, men's board shorts, all the millions of divisions. the guys who are breaking their ass who got six place here got $2,500 and I can't just leave a show and like applaud a $2,500 sixth placement. I mean phone bills these days are $200 every single month to bring your car in to get your brakes checked is $1,000. $2,500 to to it was Rolley to or to Josh Lawitz. uh you know if if if it's it's it's a struggle. It's a struggle to be able to pretend that um it's a reward. I'd rather see him give him just a bigger trophy and uh you know a cruise and and a congratulations over $2,500. So all in all, uh tremendous competition, a lot of depth. They moved the Arnold from Madrid to Barcelona. I was so tired. I actually didn't know I flew into Barcelona until I said, "It looks different." And Sean wrote and said, "This is not Madrid." That's a true story. So, yeah. And we're here. We're here in in Barcelona for the first time ever. The expo was was nice. It was It's nice that we have a hotel next to the expo. We can walk over. No exhaustion. No, you know, no extra festivities. They went from the prejudging right into the finals and was over with. Should we speak Spanish? I can't. Yeah. I may go to Miami and I still but that um thank you to all the guys on the forums. Guru Hans was there putting pictures helping us out. Dave Palumbos at home helping us out too. Thank you Raphael for the press passes. Yes, IbV President Raphael Santoa gave us some VIP tickets. We got in. We could treat it nicely and it's it's one more for the books. One more for the books onto Kuwait. Um and uh that means that Dexter's got to go on to Ramy's home turf, right? So, uh we're gonna when we when we fly in, Johnny, you and I are going to rent camels to get to the hotel and we'll go visit Beter at his at his castle. It'll be interesting if if Rammy lost here and in Vegas and he got some major booze and the crowd went crazy. Some crowds of the today event even threw stuff at the judges. Um it'll be crazy to see what happens if you lost in Kuwait. Um it's it's going to be you know what it's going to come down to a two person call out again. That's the way it's going to break down. And and uh you know maybe there'll be a different panel of judges with different opinions because ultimately uh you know I I can fight with this person, you with that person and it's our opinions and that's the the the the struggle with the sport that it's people's opinions. Um but at the same time it's it's it's um it is what it is. We're not, it's not track and field where someone runs a faster 100 than someone else and and ultimately uh you know people have different opinions of perception perception illusion yeah of what it is you know it's nice to come from an Olympia I think we can all agree Phil Heath dominated that show it's nice to come from to an Olympia and just go like yeah first you know you can pick first then it doesn't matter everyone else anyway because they're all really good but um when shows are really really close like this one you know the good thing is it creates a lot of controversy I mean, as I'm sure, you know, all the social media things are going to be explosive. And before we leave, make sure you watch our channel. We got Kevin Levon. We put in the plug. Put in the dirty plug. RX Muscle. What is it? RX Muscle YouTube channel. You can sign up. We got Subscribe. Subscribe. And we got this week, we interviewed uh Dennis Wolf, who said he didn't like me. Uh, and I said, "No, I don't like you. I love your physique." Uh, I was kidding. And uh but he did say that. And Cedric McMillan playing me and I play Cedric McMillan. And we interviewed Kevin Leone who's uh going on to 2017. He probably thinks he's going to win the show next year. Probably. Probably. So for Chris the Mechanic Ace, I am Johnny Christian Styles signing off. Lendo Adios Barcelona Espña. Take care people. Adios.