Dave Palumbo here with Chris the technician as we're here at the 2016 New York Pro Championships just let out and the blade Dexter Jackson notches up win number 25 just one win away Chris from 26 from 26 which is the record held by Ronnie Coleman. So I thought it was Leon. No no no Ronnie Coleman 26 wins. Dexter will be doing the Arnold Classic next weekend. probably get the 26 win and uh that'll be a monumental thing. Now, we couldn't technically uh by definition interview Dexter, but I do understand that there was some uh casual conversation overheard. Yeah, we were just trying to get him on on on camera, but I think he's locked up with uh Morty Development. I was surprised that they still giving out contracts to to lock people up. So, he's locked. Guy is locked. We can we're gonna go have dinner with Guy and we're gonna get all the scoop except we can't uh let's see if we can let's see if we can listen in on what's going on. Maybe we can get Dex's girlfriend over here. Gail, no. She's under contract, too. She's under contract with Beta Bai. Yeah. She's on part of the camel crew. She's on the camel crew. All right, let's talk about Dexter Jackson winning this show because it to me it was a controversial win in the sense that I didn't feel that Dexter was at his best. That's probably why Dexter doesn't want to interview with us because he knows I'm going to tell him he wasn't at his best. And I think you would agree this wasn't the best Dexter Jackson we've seen. I thought Ry Winkler was tremendous uh here. Might have been the best Ry Winkle we've ever seen. Was this a was this a bad decision or was it just a controversial decision? You know, I I I think it's, you know, I wouldn't say it's a bad decision. I think what you have here is uh Dexter Jackson coming into the New York Pro. It's not the Arnold. It's not the Olympia. And I think he might have treated it that way. I thought in prejudging he was extremely vulnerable to, you know, meaning he was he he seemed really not offexo but just, you know, didn't have a lot of pop and didn't have the crazy condition, grainy, nasty, gnarly, cuz what, look, he's not the biggest guy on stage. He doesn't have the best shape on stage, but he's his graininess is so enticing to the eyes that when you see that, you you just want to give him the win. And I think that's how he wins. That's why he got the nickname the blade. Obviously, he wasn't the Blade here tonight. He was a good Dexter Jackson. Um, I think the door was open. I felt that Ruy Winkler did enough to step through that door and knock Dexter out. I felt that his most muscular poses, his lat spreads from front and back, even his side poses were very very dominant and I felt that that the Dexter was vulnerable to him. Yeah. You know, I think we got a two things happened. You know, the prejudging seemed quick. We didn't see the, you know, the people come out and do the mandatories do a lot of movement of different people in different places in prejudging at the night show. uh Dexter twice for extended period of times was right next to Roly or Roly right next to Dexter and Roly had tightened up a lot since this morning. He was having water uh some water retention issues this morning. He had better color tonight. And you know, if you're a muscle purist, it's hard to deny the monstrosity which is now become Roly Winkler. I mean I mean the camel crew did a great job on Ry. I got to tell you. I give shout out to Bader and and the camel crew because Ruy Winkler was was just when he hit that most muscular hands together most muscular. I I mean I've never seen anything like that. Have you? I mean that that's Dorianesque. You know he I I I think it's far more thick than Dorian's ever been. You know it's like Nasha times three. You know he had an unbelievable most muscular unbelievable side tricep side chest. The back last spread was tremendously impressive. He had the best triceps of all time. He had the peeled glutes and hands tonight. Um, so those are, you know, marquee shots for him against, you know, a New York pro looking Dexter versus, like I said, an Olympia looking Dexter. And, you know, I don't think anyone could leave. I I think had Rolley got the nod that no one would I think the audience would have gone crazy because when they called Dexter out, no one really went too crazy. And I I think that the dynamic would have changed going into the Olympia because Rolley getting a win over Dexter makes it mandatory almost. Cedric getting the win over Kai Green. Yeah. So, u you know um you know it came down to you know the unbelievable mass of Roelly versus you know a little bit more detail that Dexter had and uh I probably would have given the nod tonight honestly to uh to Rolley. I would too. Uh let's talk about Victor Martinez third place. I was a little miffed by that uh decision. Now Victor had some great poses. I think what would impress the judges here about Victor was that he got all his size back that he lost. It took him a long time to do that. He looks Victor-ish. Yeah. Dare I use that phrase, fullness, roundness. Um I didn't see the conditioning that he had when he worked with you in the 2003 Night of Champion win. But but I saw flashes of Victor and I think people got excited about that and I think that's what landed him in third place. Well, sometimes you're judged versus what we saw last, you know what I mean? And you know, it seems that at this show he made a real solid jump in terms of volume, size, and and that's apparently what he was rewarded for because his condition was, I would say, you know, it was Yeah, it was average. It was had, you know, certain times like prejudging under the right light conditions, you'd say, "Oh, he's looks good here." And then, you know, his conditioning reminded me of the conditioning he was bringing to the stage before he met you. And then when you started working them, you took him to another level. And that's when he kind of started decimating the competition. So if he has that muscle back and he can somehow find the formula, whether I see he's trying to go to the camel crew possibly or he calls you back or or he finds the right combination to get that conditioning back, I think with the new muscle he's got, I think he he could be dangerous again. Yeah. No, I I think that um this look because it's bigger far outweighs what he looked like at the Olympia where he was downsized. And I think that downsiz and just killed him at the Olympia last year because, you know, he could have fallen easily, you know, way out of the range at at last year's Olympia. And, you know, here we are 16 17 weeks out and he's got more muscle coming into the show. So, he he may be someone to look forward to surprise in September. Max Charles finishes in that fourth position tonight. Just absolutely mindboggling from the front and sides. I mean, the guy's got so much muscle in that pecs, uh, delts, arms. I mean, even and he's got a small waist, great abs. His ab thigh shot is among the best about of big guys. His front legs really came up. I don't know what the hell he did, but his you went said he went from going doing eighth of range repetitions, eighth of an inch to doing quarter range, which is 100% difference in terms of muscles. Maybe if he gets to half inch reps, we might actually see some serious muscle. But no, seriously, Max Charles very impressive tonight. uh from the behind conditioning needed a little bit of work, but I think the extra volume from the front and sides worked for him. Yeah, you know, he's a work in progress. You know, he had a win last year, qualified for the Olympia, looked, you know, spectacular in Ohio. I think he was tighter in Ohio from in the back, but had more leg mass here and more freaky upper body side shots here. Um, and it's just a matter of, you know, finagling. I mean, but I can finagle. I mean, I I know exactly what he needs to do. He just needs to get the back in and and if the legs are up now, you know, if they can hang around and bring the back in, you know, he's he's going to he's going to win shows this year. Steve Klo finishes in that fifth position. Uh we were impressed with him at prejudging. Uh I thought tonight he he he didn't have Yeah, he faded a little bit, but you know, he's got the the uh he looks like he was over carb to me. Does that does that sound right maybe? Or was he just not tight enough? I don't think he was um because he looked hard. I mean, he had strided glutes, but he just he had like a little bit of a water somewhere that I don't know where it was. It's in the pecs, shoulders, and it's in in the back, or rather the shoulders, bicep, tricep area, and in the back. And he had more of it tonight than prejudging. So, um it looked like they were trying to push him up in in in the prejudging in the standings and and I think tonight he came back. He fell back down. Yeah, he fell back down, but still winds up ahead of Juan Morell who's out of that top five placing. And of and probably the most overlooked bodybuilder of the night was Nathan Dasha who was second at the Body Power Pro behind Roelly last week. You know, one of the things that happened was they didn't do uh individual posing at the prejudging and I think the judges just didn't know who he was and even I talked to some of the judges and even Jermaan said that he he was overlooked slightly. So uh Nathan is going to be heading out to California for the show next week. I think that this guy could possibly win next week and qualify for the Olympia. No, he he's'll have a good shot next week. Tremendous talent. Yeah, he's got good flow, good balance. I think he just needs, you know, the only knock I think I could see really is from behind he needs more density. Yeah, more density, more thickness. But from the front, you know, he opens up on the front bicep. He's got small hips, small waist. He's got big ground pecs. He's got good side shots. He's got the glute ham tie in from the side. Put 20 lbs of muscle on since last year, you know, since he's been hanging out with the camel crew out there. Say, you know, that's that's camel crew for you. That's that's Kuwait. Everyone wants to know what's in everyone's applying now after we I asked Beta what the application process is. Victor put in his application right away and he was accepted. Yeah, I think he was accepted. No, he's he's already on Instagram having accepted beta flying to Kuwait tomorrow first class and uh he's going to be driving a rolls around, you know, Kuwait City and he'll go relax on Beta's yacht in the afternoon with Rolley and the gang. Yeah. Yeah. Guy Cenino wins the 212 class. Uh dominates. He repeats his champion here tonight. Uh absolutely terrific. He had a wedding last night. He had his tuxedo on and he came to the room to pose for Chris, right? Yeah, he texts me uh he I I had seen him the day before. I said, "Hey, you look great." And he said, "I'm on my way over." I said, "For what?" He he came from the church uh on the way to the the reception, tore off his like thousand tuxedo. It was drenched with protein underneath and ruined. And he posed me. I said, "I told you great." And he put it back on and took off. Well, he won. And uh it was it was a good sacrifice, I guess. Congratulations to the guy. um in the classic physique division. What a battle between Darham Charles and uh Arash Rabbar. And Arash wins again. You know, repeats his victory from the Pittsburgh a couple weeks ago. And uh he's got to be a guy to look out for at that Olympia, Chris. Another another guy you got in your stable. Yeah, he is a camel. He's a Persian camel, which he told me there's two humps. Persian camels have two of them. But he's not part of the camel crew. No, he's not part of the camel. I'm a part of the camel crew. Did you know that? I got my official t-shirt. I didn't get my t-shirt. I have one for you. It's a medium. Uh I told him you might need a small, though. Okay. Well, you know, so long as I'm part of the team on the West Coast or the Western Hemisphere version. Um, he he looked great. You know, he's he's uh it's an exciting division. Great battle though between him and Darren. I mean, you really they really matched up well, I thought. And we'll see them at the Olympia obviously matching up too. I think that's going to be the one-two battle. Obviously, Sadik Hodzik also will be in that mix as well. You got the the movie star. Who's the guy Danny Hester? Danny Hester who's qualified. Yeah. Well, I think Daddy's a little a little old I think. Yeah. Well, there's more. I'm just saying I think that Arash has got to be the guy to beat at this point. Stan Stan works with Kick and, you know, which means, you know, he's got a a guru in his corner, which anything can happen the next season, 16 weeks. You know, true. He can come in peeled and full and, you know, any he's a he's an ex bodybuilder, so you know, he's got enough muscle and he's winning shows, too. Speaking of uh freaks, how about Chenique Grant moving from figure to women's physique in a a week a week's notice. She practice Olympia. She practiced opposing like for like 6 hours like the night before and she wins here tonight. I mean I I know you love her physique. I love her shape. Uh obviously I'd like to see her put a little bit more size on, but she's she could be dangerous in 20 weeks at the Olympia. She uh would she beat Juliana Malikarnney? No. Uh but she's she can be in that first call and be very competitive in it. And because I mean someone told me she's been training like what? She's 20 years old. Yes. She's been training like 18 months or something. So you figure there's, you know, four months to the show. That's a quarter of the time that she's been training. She could radically, you know, she was a gymnast and she was an athlete and a track athlete also in college as well or in high school, I should say. She's she's 19. She didn't even get to go to college yet. She's so young. She's like, her and Cody Montgomery could go hang out. They can't even rent the car, go drink together. That's That That's right. They're uh I mean, two of the youngest IBB pros ever. Britney Campbell wins the uh figure division here. uh she places seventh uh at the Phil Heath Classic behind uh Candace Lewis and she comes in here and just dominates, comes back better. Congratulations on that win. In the bikini division, we had a a a really tough battle, Chris, because uh you know, the bikini division is one of these divisions where people change hands every time you see a show. Yeah. I've seen Angelica Texera innumerable times whether it be at Bev's gym on stage and I've interviewed her when she was an amateur and she's finally come into her own and she's got the pro victory here that's going to give her tremendous momentum going into the Olympia. I I think uh you know she could place high in the Olympia. I mean there's going to be so many people in the Olympia. That's the one category where you know men's classic you might have nine guys or 212 you might have you know 12 guys. In the bikini you're going to have you know how many? 22 25. George Brown wins the men's physique, repeats his champion, looks phenomenal. We just had him on live with a week ago. So, uh that was good uh good guessing on our part. And I just want to tell everyone out there that, you know, congratulations because this was one of the best, deepest New York pro lineups we've ever seen. Steve Weinberger once again puts on a tremendous show. It's always great to have Jim Manion, you know, in the house judging as well. And uh it just makes this seem like almost like a little mini Olympia. You know, everyone who's anyone was here in New York. And Chris, it's always good to hang out with you and we get to go home and do a radio show now and three in the morning. Till three in the morning and then you can get to drive back 100 hours to Maine. Yeah, I'll drink coffee and be on my 1920 uh Mercedes. Yeah, the one that John Ray hates. That's right. Well, for now we are running out of time. Let's go get something to eat. I'm Dave Palumbo here with Chris, the technician of reporting from the New York Pro 2016. We'll see you next year.