Hold on. Hold on. Barack Obama said, "I have to talk to you real quick. Real quick, real quick. We want to know h how are we going to how you going to how you going to cure healthcare? We need the the budget. The budget the budget the budget budget. the last man, the last interview. It's fitting that I'll be the last man standing. So, um, you know, all I have to say is Chris came over today. And he compared me the way I look to a giant mansion. He said, you know, when you go in a mansion, you go in the closet and say, "What the is there a bathroom in the closet for?" He's like, "That's you right now. There's too much going on." I just ran into the hardest guy in Columbus, Ohio, John Mountain Dog Meadows. Uh, you've been posting a lot of pictures. Kai Green's posted no pictures, but you've posted mo more pictures for everyone out there and you're looking ridiculously hard. I like to post pictures because honestly, I like to put pressure on myself and I put a lot of pressure on myself this year cuz I did post a lot and I have a lot of people to support me too and you know, it's a small way for me to give back to them and say, "Hey, look man, you're not wasting your support on me. I'm busting my butt. I'm working hard. I think I'm going to surprise people tomorrow. Um, all these guys are great. They're all awesome. They're all multiple show winners, but um, I think I'm going to surprise some people tomorrow. Standing here with Jen Shrobo, who's looking awesome. I I love when when the women dress nicely at these meet and greets. The guys always wear baggy sweatpants and the women always look that you're always in great shape and you're always like all made up and and hair and everything. Is that important to you? I think it is important. It's important to show everyone that we are more than just a big BUN on our heads and sweaty girls in the gym and that we um are still women and have fun and like to look nice. You're a competitor that that has worked her way up the hard way and it's like just when people think you're done, it's like you just you move up to another level, win another show and and and move up the rankings. How do you what do you attribute the fact that you keep improving whereas a lot of the girls that you came up with are already all out of the sport already. They've already stopped competing. Well, I don't know what happened to them, so I it's hard for me to speak on them, but for me, it is truly a lifestyle. And when you make it a lifestyle, you can continue to improve your body. You have more longevity because it's not something that's a a drastic life alter for a couple months and then back to something like normal. You know, this is my normal. And so, you know, people say, "Oh, you're in prep now." But in a sense, it's no different than my average week. You know, I go to the gym, I train, I eat good, and I still have a life outside of it, too. And I think keeping balance really makes it worth it. Standing here with Evan Santa Pani. Uh Evan, this is going to be one of the more competitive Arnold Classics we've seen in a number of years. You've been in the last several and some of them have been weaker, some of them are stronger. This is a deep lineup. Obviously, Cedric McMillan back from last year. Kai Green entering this. Uh Josh Lardoitz off, you know, a big uh year. Uh how do you feel going into this year's event knowing that, you know, the competition is stiffer? I feel good. Um, you know, this is it's it's bizarre. It's the first time I've ever competed where I don't feel stressed at all. Like I have no I don't know. I don't know if it's Somebody said, "Well, maybe you feel really confident." I said, "Maybe." Or maybe I maybe maybe it's a sign I don't care. I don't know. Whatever. Um, I feel really good. I'm I'm happy with the way that I look. I I took a little bit different approach this week and I decided to start the carb up early and I'm right now I'm a little, you know, a little bloaty, a little watery, but I'm super super full. You guys got two days to still. Yeah. So, I mean, I feel um I feel good about it. Um, you know, I know that it's going to be super competitive. I mean, look, do I have any realistic aspirations of beating, you know, a an on Kai Green? No. Uh, you know, but uh but you're a guy who comes in when you're you're always in shape. you always beat a lot of guys that people don't expect you to because of the conditioning level and I think Branch Warren someone like that too. You know, you you you always show up on time with the right level of conditioning and obviously filling up a little early this time could obviously make that your fullness issue that you sometimes have, you know, maybe go away. Yeah, I think it I think it could be the right kind. I I feel a way that I feel and look a way that I don't usually look the week of the show and I think it might be the way that I need to look and feel, but we'll find out. I had to stop and talk to our good friend Heather De's. We were just looking at You got to show us that bicep, Heather. For a figure competitor, you might have the the the most uh I think you have three splits in your bicep. Well, I'm Three is better than two. Yes, three is always better than two. The more the better, right? No, you look leaner than I've ever seen you. Is this going to be uh the best Heather D's we've ever seen? Yes, it's definitely better than last year. And I thought last year was a good package, so it's going to be the best. I'm here with the tank, Charles Dixon. You almost rolled me over just now. You're looking I think you're starting to get wider than you are taller. Is that possible? That's very possible. Very possible. You might be the only You and Anthony Clark might be the only human beings that are wider than they are tall. I think I think I'm about 5'6 wide and 52 tall. You're going to be Jose Raymond. That's a game plan. Charles Dixon's looking like smoking Joe Frasier, right? With the beard and everything. You you going to shave that or you keeping that? Oh, I got to keep the beard, man. You got to fear the beard. All right. you smoking Joe Frasier here. He's going to steamroll the competition. Stay tuned. We're standing here with Josh Lonardoitz who had a terrific 2015 or at least end of 2015 and a good start to the season. Second place behind Cedric McMillan. You beat Branch Warren. You got to be on cloud9. Yeah, absolutely. You know, uh I was hoping to win uh but you can't win them all and you either win or learn. You never lose. And uh so I've learned a few things and coming in this week I want to come in better and it's going to be you know a bigger event to come in better at. So lesson learned. Standing here with Miss Fitness Olympia Oxana Gisha and I have one question. I'm all I'm interested is your routine. What's the theme of the routine this year? Well, I think uh some of you guys already know I'm was inspired by Michael Jackson and I just honor it to do performance Michael. You're going to do Michael Jackson music, huh? Yes. Wow. I can only imagine. Oh my god. You going to moonwalk? Yes. Really? Wow. Was it hard to learn all those danc if Carpet does does let me do it? I'll do it perfect. Yes. But I'm so excited because of this routine. And it's total different guys than you saw me. It's going to be so much fun. It's just total different me. It's not Bali. It's not Joker. It's Yeah. We just going to This is just going to be fun. This might be your best ever, huh? Who knows? Who knows? I don't know. I love it. I I can't wait to watch. When When I told to my mom that, "Mom, I'm going to do Michael Jackson." She said, "Finally, this is you. This is you." So, yeah. Let's see. Let's see. And uh give me one Give me one move. Just one move that you're going to do in your routine. Take us out. One move. Just one move. All right. There you go. The original giant killer, David Henry. Here, David, after, you know, we did that interview online with people been looking at pictures and people been texting me, uh, David Henry looks like he's for real. I mean, you you scared a lot of people. Well, you know, I I didn't uh didn't pretend that this was not happening. You know, I put in the work just like everybody did around here. So, tomorrow should be evident. Jose Raymond even admitted. He goes, "You're his biggest uh threat." I said, "Maybe you're his biggest threat." I said, "You know, it could go either way on that on on the the whole threat thing, I guess." But but you know, you are the only Mr. Olympia in the lineup. True. But I'm I'm coming to win the show. That's that's that's all I really got to say about it is I trained just as hard as the other guys. But it's it's one of those things that it boils down to we're all training hard, but look at the genetics and how we're put together at the end. Is Kai Green still got it in your estimation enough to come in here and win the show? Based on the physique that I've seen him carry along the way, I think he still has a will. Mhm. The mindset is number one. So, let's just say based on his body type, he can win. Do you think as you got older and as you you did more and more Olympias that it got tougher mentally or physically? I think both. Yeah. Um because you come very critical of yourself. You don't have someone to aim for and you always critiquing yourself. So I think a little bit of the physical and the mindset definitely played both both parts. So 50/50. I'm standing here with Justin Compton. He was third place last year, although controversially in my book at least. Uh you skipped the Olympia this year or in 2015 I should say. Um preparing for this show. Was it a good move on your part? I think it was. cuz I think, you know, the physique that I'm going to bring is going to be very much improved. And I'm satisfied with what I got. You know, I'm going to be a few pounds bigger and, you know, a lot crisper and tighter. So, I think by taking the extra time off, it allowed my body to mature more. And, you know, basically, I feel like I put together a better package this year. How old are you now? 27. People don't realize that you're you're not even, you know, 30 years old yet. And they're they're already rushing you onto the Olympia stage. I know. I know. I'm standing here with Justin Compton. He was third place last year, although controversially in my book at least. Uh, you skipped the Olympia this year or in 2015 I should say. Um, preparing for this show, was it a good move on your part? I think it was. I think, you know, the physique that I'm going to bring is going to be very much improved and I'm satisfied with what I got. You know, I'm going to be a few pounds bigger and, you know, a lot crisper and tighter. So, I think by taking the extra time off, it allowed my body to mature more and, you know, basically I feel like I put together a better package this year. How old are you now? 27. People don't realize that you're you're not even, you know, 30 years old yet and they're they're already rushing you onto the Olympia stage. I know. I know. So, um, was it a tough decision because I know a lot of people wanted to see you there and, you know, it's for you it's a personal decision, but it's hard sometimes when the fans feel disappointed. No, I really I mean this sounds selfish to me, but I don't care about like, you know, that type of stuff because I have to do what's best for me. And every time, you know, a lot of people tell me they're disappointed in this, this one, and that. Then when I sit them down and I explain my reasoning, I'm like, "Well, think about it from this perspective." And then they understand you're not 35 either. It's not like your best years are not behind you. Yeah. You know, I'm hoping to continue improving. So that way when I do go to the Olympia, I make my mark the first time out. Sure. Sure. So if you will you be at the Olympia this year? That's a question. I'm pretty confident. We're going to do it this year. Okay. I'm very confident. Yeah. How do you Now, how do you feel going into this line of knowing Kai Green's in there? Is that does that kind of encourage you to work harder or does it like, man, why does Kai Green have to be here? Uh, no, he definitely made me work harder. I mean, because I know I don't know if you want to consider him second in the world or not considering he didn't do the Olympia, but you know, his last showing was second at the Olympia. So, he's not a nobody. He's not a brush, you know, somebody I can just brush off. So, knowing that, yeah, it definitely made me work my ass off for it. Yeah, if you beat him, obviously that's a huge huge feather in your cap and uh your stock goes way way way up. Um, what will you do after this set of shows? Do you feel you're going to shut it down to the Olympia after this? Um, no. We're going to be doing the Arnold Australia in two weeks. Um, yeah, two weeks from tomorrow or two weeks from this weekend and then from there, I don't really know. I mean, it just depends on how this weekend plays out and depends on how I feel. Where do you think you'll be weighing up on stage? In the mid 250s. I'm here with the waistless wonder, Latoya Watts, Miss Olympia. How do you like that intro? I like that. You've been practicing that. I have been practicing. Yeah. I love it. I'm still in it. That should be your t-shirt slogan. The wasteless wonder. the waist. Oh, maybe Jerry Beck can draw a cool D a cool like superhero like Yes, like this one. Let me see that one. Yeah, I love the silhouette he drew. That is pretty cool. But I think it should say wasteless wonder. Wasteless wonder #W. All right, you won the Olympia. Now, obviously this Arnold title is is the next on your uh itinerary or bucket list, so to speak, that you haven't won. Uh this obviously uh the defending champion, Camela Rodriguez, will be here. Uh, but you did beat her at the Olympia, so uh you have to be the uh the girl to beat, so to speak. The girl to beat this. How does that feel? Is that a pressure? It's a little bit of pressure, but it's all fun. I mean, Camela looks great. All the competitors look great. I actually saw him today at the uh athlete meeting. So, it's just whatever happens happens. I'm excited, though. I mean, who is the most dangerous competitor in your mind to you? Uh, I would say the most dangerous would be me. Well, I mean, aside from you. Aside from you, I cuz I'm only focusing on me. I'm only focusing on what I brought. You're Miss Olympia, so you don't have to worry about anyone else anymore. They got to worry about you now. Well, it's not like that. I mean, there's room for all of us to be successful. But I'm excited. It's just going to be fun. I placed fourth last year, so I'm just looking um looking for a better placing. Hopefully, the judges can see the improvements and we go from there. 30 seconds with JM Manion. You always get all the predictions right. Men's bodybuilding. I am going to say I'm drawing a blank, but uh I agree. Who else? Justin Compton. Juan Morell. Give me I'm going to say Justin Compton. Oo, that's a That's a That's a real bold one. I like that. 212 division. Jose. Okay, that's a good one. Fitness. That was easy. Fitness. Um, Oxana. Yeah. Yeah, she's in it. That's easy. Figure. Figure. Lator. Bikini. Janet Lion. I like that pick. I like that. Okay. Menus, can I pick two? Oh, you want to hedge your bets? Okay. Uh, let's see. Cuz it's to me it's between I I would say on paper it's between Jason Poston and Ryan Terry. I agree. And who do you think is gonna get the nut? You're the Swami now. The new one. I'll go with the with the Brit. Really? Ryan Terry. Ooh, Justin's going to be pasted that one. Uh, women's physique. Jason Post, excuse me. Women's physique. Oh my god. 54 women. This is a tough one. Yeah, this might be your toughest prediction of the night. This is the toughest one. Jeez. I don't know. I just I just That means it's really up for grabs. I just know this that that Batman's going to win in Batman v Superman. So, we That's That's my prediction. I predict Superman. I predict Batman.