Hi, Tracy Hes here, IFBB Pro. I am here to be the host today of the NPC 2016 UPC championship. Amazing numbers today. The physiques are absolutely amazing. The judges had their hands full. We will see you shortly. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Well, here we are, Craig. Another successful show. What are your thoughts going on today, Sh? Just a wow. I mean, it it was a great event. The biggest uh turnout we've ever had for this event. And uh I'm tired. How long did you prep for this show? Um, you honestly you are going to laugh at me. I got back June 6th. I did this prep in 27 days. I was 196 lbs and I'm 174 today. Oh my goodness. Boy, do I wish I could do something like that. I've been prepping since February. I did the Pittsburgh Championship in May and then I did um the Valley and then I'm here about actually closer to 20. So an extra two weeks about 22 weeks. Started a process 4 weeks ago. I was playing football at the time. Getting tired of not having any opportunities come my way. How long have you been prepping for the show? About 5 6 months. Total of 16 weeks to get here. I'm down 58 lbs. This is now a total of 21 weeks. Wow. You've been on a while. So, you ready for some? Yes. Well, I've been competing since March now, so I've been like competitions and competition. Yes. This is my first show. Look at this. her first show walking out with overall. I did the Maryland two weeks ago and I won the middleweight. Oh my goodness. My first overall win. This is my fourth year. I'm a bikini girl that certainly I love to keep it a secret, but since I'm here lifting and training for over 20, probably a little over 10 years. And tell everybody how old you are. 54. Most people did it in their 20s. I started in my late 30s. You know what? It's never too late to do I think it's better to do that. You're more disciplined. See a lot of new faces consistently keep coming into the show. Everybody kept saying the same thing. They love They love my blue shirt. No, they like my dress. It's my first show ever. This is your first show. Tell me what you think. What do you think about the show? I love it. It's a local show. I like to come out and support the local competitors, judges. This is my first time down. And look at this. I love these shows up here. They're the best shows. Best people. I've been over to Beth Francis area, Metropolitan area, Lehigh Valley. They really take care of us here. And I really want to thank you guys and I have a great time here every time I get on stage. I love the experience. I actually came here with another girlfriend was doing the Lehi show and I loved how it was ran. It was so organized. Gary Ud implemented that we had Friday night check-ins which makes our show on Saturday run so smooth. So, it's a national format is how we try to run our show. What is some of the misconceptions that I think people have about bodybuilding? I think they think the hardest part is the workouts that we do in the weight room. People think you have to be in the gym for 10 hours a day. We don't train that hard. People just don't understand the diet. They don't understand the regimen. You don't eat anything. And actually, I tell them it's the opposite. You got to eat six, seven times a day. I think people think that this is a hobby and it actually becomes a lifestyle. Training 5, six days a week, 7 days a week. I really do think we put a lot of work into our body. We done nail. We're going to move on to another show. We're going to take the rest of the year off and pick a national show for next year. Really consider master nationals in two weeks. Oh my god. Yes. Yes. The gold classic October and November. I got to go for ball probably and have a nice big long bulk all winter long. Mast's nationals in 12 days North Americans. So you have some cool down time to get only 14 days just to relax and actually can't get you filthy. You got to get my diet right maybe in like a week or week or two and then get my conditioning on point and walk off to the masters nationals in two weeks. From there go any kind of food I see. My man, it's been a short. I just want something sweet. I'm a sweets lover, so I'm saying maybe like a sundae or like um a brownie. Something brownie or Oh, you deserve that brownie. A double burger. Oh yeah. Probably some mozzarella sticks. Oh my lord. Maybe a brownie with ice cream. Careful now. Don't mess it up here. A steak and a baked potato. But some bread and a salad with it. would be flounder stuff with crab meat of all things. Oh, no more fish. A diner and then ice cream. Or actually, no, maybe ice cream and then ice cream. I think you should have some ice cream. I'm not your train or anything, but I think you should get on the boat and go up to Pittsburgh because you said that. I just might. I just might. Let's shake hands. I think you going to go. Okay, you want to go. Do you have any advice for new competitors coming up in this business? Number one thing is if you have a coach, listen to them. Don't don't go by what you see in the mirror. Don't let anybody tell you no. Even if you're not genetically gifted, nothing substitutes uh for hard work. Never compare yourself to the next person because it's always just going to bother you. Well, just do it. I mean, you don't know until you try. I had a lot of doubt and and fear coming into it, but you know, you got to face that cuz you never know. As long as you step on stage, you're always wet. Just get up off your tail and do it. Heat. Heat.