All right, Johnny Styles here with Sylvia and Daniel Fletcher, my Aussie. You know, congrat you know, you know who he is already. He's he's like he's like we're really good mates here. We're all mates. And we just wrapped up day number one here in Melbourne, Australia, where, you know, we saw Justin Compton, Kai Green, and the one and only Cedric McMillan. What were your thoughts on that first call out? Look, I I think on the first call out, I think Cedric was obviously come out and he was holding a little bit more water than Kai, but uh as he posed, he seemed to get drier and drier. Um, I think he really pushed Kai again to be honest, especially in that last two rounds where he come out, he was a lot drier. Um, I thought he had a little bit more detail through the inner thigh than Kai. I think Kai was still holding a bit there. Um, so it's going to be interesting. But I like Cedric's shape. You know, I I really think he's got that nice feet taper, the nice narrow waist. Um, where Kai, you know, obviously is known for his wide waist. So, we we were sitting close to Arnold and Arnold was having a blast watching these guys up there. Then we saw a much improved Justin Compton. Yeah. Yeah. Justin Compton, he come out and really looked good tonight. So, uh, he he they left him in the middle. Yeah. The whole time. At the end, we saw that Kai moved and then Cedric moved. But what was what were your thoughts on on Justin? Look, Justin obviously has improved from two weeks ago on his last show and he come in a lot drier, a lot more fuller. Um, and he he he really he's got a narrow waist, too, and he really showed that tonight. So yeah, he's he's right in there. So, you know, it's very close between first and third. So, I honestly think that the finals is going to especially if they're judging the the um the posing again, I think that's what it's going to come down to. All right, let me ask you, who did you like between Cedric, Justin, and Kai? I um I I really prefer the look of uh Cedric and also Justin Compton. I think Justin Compton he's got the best um physique because of his symmetry and um also great condition. Whoever we will find out tomorrow as the judges will pick who will win the show and then on the figure side we have the reigning champion and still champion Latoya Watts winning the show. Yeah. Yeah. Look, obviously, you know, Lator has got the form on the board. Um and but I think she was pushed pretty hard tonight, you know, and um so it's going to be interesting the next show that they do together for sure because uh it was very very close and even in prejudging it looked very close. So yeah, in prejudging we saw Candace Lewis pushed her to the limit and um we even saw her, you know, in the corner like asking for water. Remember that? It was it was it was a weird moment, but at the end she got it together. What did you think about Latoya winning the show? Um, I love Ltoria's physique. Uh, however, Latoya and Candice Lewis have so like so similar. So, I thought uh could be could go anyway, you know, either way. But, um, yeah, of course, Ltoria her shape is just something like perfect. Well, in bikini one more time, India Palino wins the show again. What do you think about India? Yeah, India. Look, she's she's, you know, she's a little bit smaller than most of the other girls. Um, you know, her legs aren't as as round. Uh, they're very straight up and down. Um, yeah, to be honest with you, you know, you could have picked any one of those top five. You know, they're all pretty close. Um, and yeah, it's I think it just depends on the judge's preference u with Bikini. Um, because, you know, they're all very similar, right? India seems to, you know, show up, do her her pose pose posing and then, you know, wins the show. What were your thoughts on India? Uh, she's beautiful, very little shape, um, beautiful face. She when she's up there, she just shows she own the stage. So, um, you can't not give it to her. She's beautiful. I love her. Well, that's going to do it for us here in Australia before we get kicked off the stage. Um, tomorrow, join us again one more time and uh, we will be here to see who's going to win the Arnold Casc Australia for Daniel and Sylvia. I'm Johnny Styles, rxmuscle.com.