Tonight is Jonathan Rosa. Sergio Liver was the last guy that beat me in bodybuilding. And here is his son, Sergio. How's it going? Big bodybuilding star. Heat up here. Dave Palumbo here with Chris the Technician Aceto and we're here at the 2017 IFBB New York Pro Championships. He just let out as you can see a lot of rigoral and and uh noise in the background. But Chris Sergio Le Jr. finds a way to win again. He won the nationals and comes here for his pro debut. It was a hectic week, I know, for you with Sergio, but he emerges victorious. We said this show was going to be about conditioning and conditioning. It was, you know, somebody planted it in my head like 3 weeks out. You know, you're not aware of things that it is going to be about conditioning. And I was like, it is then that's easy because it was close. You know what I mean? And oddly enough, he went and guest pose in Pittsburgh and he was so nervous to guest pose in front of he flew. He was so nervous to guest pose with all the great guys sit in front of Manion and all this. He looked terrible on stage and people would text me, "He's never going to make it." And I'm like, he was eating a bunch of junk food, right? Well, I said he was ripped. I mean, he was ripped like 5 days before. So, either he he carbed up so he wouldn't be small next to Ramy and Phil, but just the nerves were just killing him going into that show. He didn't want to be small. and you know uh you know he was able to reverse that and and and come into the show as you know the tightest guy in the lineup really or one of the tightest. Another surprise John Del Roza in second place obviously challenging I mean you really could flip a coin between these two guys to me I said it right in Sergio's interview I did with him that I felt it was his stage charisma. I felt it was the fact that he was a little better condition that really pushed him over the edge because Del Roza probably was more complete muscle-wise for a frame. I agree. Uh John was very round. um which could tech, you know, which exposes the lack of thickness front to back that Sergio had. Um in prejudging, I think you could toss a coin in terms of uh Sergio's level of conditioning and his height and width plays a role against John's uh not lack of height, but just different different body type. Well, I think, like I said, I think I think Sergio had more wow. And your eyes go to him first on the stage. I felt when he was hitting some of these old classic his dad poses, the weird, you know, offbeat poses. I thought it was it really pulled you in. Yeah. Um, you know, it's it's I I think what at the end of the day, um, Sergio Brock upped his own personal game in terms of conditioning, which I I don't think people expected that. Um, and and he and he had added muscle since the nationals. Um, so he looked different than what people's expectations were. And he's a high green with the posing. I mean, he he has very weird poses and but they're they they pull you in and you want to see you want to see him improve. and he seems to get more excited on stage and his his physique gets better. It doesn't get worse. They have these guys out there for 20 30 minutes. Yeah, he was pumped up and you know he had a lot of stamina and and you know he does have stage presence. I mean the routine it's like this non-conventional routine that you know that's a really exciting routine because it's kind of like a weirdo routine right. Now, third place, Juan Morell, I thought was I thought Juan looked good, but I thought he didn't look as good as the fourth place finisher, Lewis Rodriguez, who is a new guy who whose claim to famous that he beat Boston Lloyd at a show in Connecticut before he turned pro. But the truth is, this guy is really good, Lewis Rodriguez. I mean, I was super impressed. I was really impressed with him. I I you know, he's just round. He he just he looks like a bodybuilder should look like. I mean, he's really impressive. He doesn't have weak body parts. That's his legs could come up a little bit, but his upper body is very impressive. He his back double's very impressive. His front double's very impressive. He's got thick pecks. You can make a an argument for him winning the show. Really peeled, he would have won the show. Like like with extraordinary condition. I mean, his condition was really good, too. But just like peeled, he would have won. He's only been training for a couple years, he told me. It's almost it's almost unbelievable. It's a Levonian year. He's going to be really good in a couple years. Once again, Juan Morell, you Juan and I talked backstage and you know, we're good friends and and I, you know, I thought, you know, he he thought that we were wrong about his legs. He told me his legs were actually bigger, but his upper body got bigger. So, I don't maybe he's just just proportionate. Well, that would be the same thing. I mean, you still got a problem. I mean, if your upper body gets bigger than your legs, then your legs look smaller. So, it doesn't matter like measurements or anything. So, it's all I think he says he's going to he's going to start changing his the way he trains his legs. He was training him too heavy. He feels now he can squeeze more and and and bring out more detail. But, you know, obviously One, if his legs were up and full like he was 2 years ago, wins this show. Yeah, I think one would have won this show if we I mean, the Juan Morell that won this show two years ago was the best Juan Morell to date. Um, and that's where he has to get back to whether it's, you know, shrinking the upper body to match the legs. If they haven't, you know, if supposedly if if the legs aren't smaller, then it might be a matter of bringing the upper body down to match to get back to the New York Pro two years ago look. You know, let's talk about Akim William fifth place who goes out to Kuwait four months ago, works out at Oxygen Gym. Definitely puts on a lot of size. He came back way bigger than I've seen him. Um, but not as lean as we saw him last year at the Tampa show, at the Baltimore show, at the Arnold South Africa. Uh, not a good look in terms of showing detail and conditioning. And then uh and to me that you know hurt him because I think he could have won this show had he been in shape. Yeah. No, if he was in this shape. I mean it's it's insane to pretend that he wouldn't have won the show. So that just goes that's just a you know goes to show you one how far out of shape he actually was and then two the distance between John's conditioning and uh Sergio's conditioning in his um you know it there was there's a big gap there that you know I don't think they did they try to bring him into a big thing is that was that the mistake that they made the calculated mistake no I I think they they got what what happens with the big guys you get suckered in and enamored by the mass when you see it in the gym. and he looks good from the front and sides, you know, and and and you think that that is enough. And and Jose Raymond has a great uh quote he always says you need to bring to IFBB stages to win Olympia level conditioning. And when people say what's Olympia level condition and cert uh Jose will say well then you obviously haven't achieved it yet because when you if you achieve it you know it and you don't have to ask or if you see it you know it and you don't have to ask and that's the the the entanglement that uh or quagmire that he's stuck in now is he's bringing condition but it's not the level of condition to show off that amount of mass and he called you yet. Well, no, no. We talked backstage a little bit, but I mean it is a problem obviously because you know we want to see Aake realize his potential. He's a Ronnie Coleman in the making. I mean, and he just needs to bring the conditioning. Yeah. No, I agree. I mean, you could make the argument that if he was in his Tampa condition or even the Olympic condition last year or even the Baltimore condition last year, he probably would have won the show. So, that that just to give perspective and context of, you know, how he needs to look or what he didn't look like tonight. Let's talk about the 212 division. Ronnie Raquel coming in here dominating, you know, that 212 winning. I think a lot of people wrote him off. You know what he told me he did because, you know, he's he's a he's a diabetic now. He just cut his carbs out. He doesn't need any insulin when he doesn't need carbs cuz he's not a full-blown diabetic. And he said all of a sudden the weight just came off and and I got in shape and he did his diet himself. Oh. Oh, Sean, right? He's going to say he's going to say, "See, you don't need a girl." Um, no, he he looked, you know, he looked big, he looked round. Um, personally I was surprised that he was ended in first place because I thought his condition wasn't like like that good. No, I didn't think his glutes were stried. I think he can still be better. Go back. Who who did you like? I liked Craig Richardson and Sean Clarita. I think they're like, you know, bookends of the same, you know, they they get the flowing thighs. Um, Craig was peeled. Clarita was mostly peeled. Uh, Clarita, super round. Craig has, you know, all kinds of showy body parts. Some some poses that are just exceptionally hard. Um, Clarita said he put 15 lbs on or 17 lbs from last year. He said he's going to put another 15 pounds on this year. Is that a mistake, you think, or or you think it it fits well on his frame? Um, well, this 15 fit well on his frame. So, why wouldn't he say based on what I've done in the past, why wouldn't another 15? He wants to be 190 on stage. It was I think 170 here. If he's 190, he wins a show like uh in two minutes next year. You know, honestly, if if on that type of frame, you know, he's got a small frame, but a small waist still. Uh even 5 lbs is significant. So, uh he was impressive here. He was impressive last year. You know, I thought he was overlooked. He was impressive the year before. I think it's amazing how much he's improved. You know, he's like a Dexter. I don't know. Maybe maybe he'll end up doing the open like Dexter. I mean cuz we've been making fun of Dexter if he was standing and say I'm moving up from the bantamweights. Dexter's name always comes up with Dexter was like 20 years old when he was a bantamweight. He wasn't you know in his 30s. Let's talk about classic physique because that was super exciting as well. You know that was a great f battle. We thought George Peterson was going to come in here and dominate. Brion Ansley proved everyone wrong. He came in terrific conditioning terrific stage presence posing. I mean he he he beat George Peterson tonight. He he beat George Peterson because he has um a weird athleticism to his physique that looks like he's a crossover between a bodybuilder and a gymnast. Yeah, you're right. He looks like a gymnast. And it just the movement on stage, the way he hits the poses, the the the the the freshness of the muscle where George Peterson looks like he's a 212 guy and said, "I'll do the classic, too." Right. Um and and if you're going to go with classic, if it's going to be defined with the word classic, that makes a distinction on what the look is. And I think George's look, although he was incredible, is a bodybuilding hardcore 212 look. He had a lot of trouble making that weight, George. He didn't have the 48 hours they're going to have at the Olympia to carve up. He had, you know, six hours, you know, or two hours. And that that that definitely counts for something. You know that. I know. Put on 17 pounds last year between the weigh in and the finals. How many hours was it a rush? Between weigh in and a night. Yeah. Day and day and a half. 17 pounds. But so things can right. So do you think George will be 45? Yeah. With insulin. Do you think you think George will do well at the Olympia because he has that extra time? Um, he might be bigger. I, you know, Yeah, I don't think he's I think he's tremendous. I think he belongs in the 212. I do too. I do too. Um, and you know, because I I I just he you know, when you see him up there, you're like you thinking, well, how would he do against Ronnie Raquel? He beat him on the back double for sure. Period. Let's let's talk about one more class. I want to talk about the women's physique because Chenique Grant is so good that my I'm my jaw hits the ground when I see this girl on stage. I believe and I don't know if anyone else agrees with me. I know Johnny doesn't agree with me, but I believe that she can win the Olympia this year. She can win the Olympia. You know, she'll and that's nothing against Juliana Malikarnney. She's just uh she to me she looks like a superstar. She's like a little Lenda Murray. Well, she you know, she maybe better. She's got a lot of muscle, a lot of muscle. A lot of crazy taper. A lot of waist I've ever seen. Yeah. Athletic look, you know. Beautiful girl. 21, you know. Uh, that's amazing. I mean, she's she's she's she she's amazing. You think she can win the Olympia? You can tell me the truth. Yeah. Yeah, she can win the Olympia for sure. And I think once she wins it, she'll win it 10 more times. That's my prediction. You heard it here first. Look who we got behind us. Sergio Oliva Jr., come on. One more victory post for me. Come on, S. I'll hold the plaque. I don't want to leave. I don't want to leave the stage. Give me the plaque. One more victory. Don't make me leave. All right. You saw it all tonight. Dave Palumbo here with Chris the technician Aceto. We're here at the New York Pro 2017. We'll see you next year.