I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations dosed for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. We are here to preview the 2025 FIBO Championships. That's the official name of the bodybuilding show. It's going to be held tomorrow here uh at this complex. By the way, before we get to the show, this complex is absolutely huge. For those that have never been here, this is my first time here. I don't know how many times you've been here. A few times. Yeah. I think it's the biggest exhibition, fitness exhibition in the whole world. It it has to be. I mean, this is this is essentially, and I'm not saying this to be facitious, about 13 Arnold Classic Expose on one campus, many within the same roof. I mean, you have giant hall after giant hall. You have an entire hall dedicated to bodybuilding and supplements. One dedicated to power, uh, one for strength equipment, one for holistic, one for functional wellness. Yeah. Biohacking, recovery. You have one specifically for like women and beauty and stuff like that. I mean, it it is if you think you could think about it, it is here. But nonetheless, uh, mind-blowing experience. And from everything that I've heard, tomorrow, Saturday and Sunday are supposed to be the quote unquote busy days. Yeah, absolutely. Because uh that's open for the like the public and the first two days are more like for people that are in the industry and they kind of have to uh qualify to get in, but basically everyone kind of gets in already. But most of the people, I mean, they work during the week, so the weekends are going to be nuts. Yeah. So from everything I hear from precoid times when on a Saturday Sunday you could not walk through the halls. So going to be very exciting to see what they have in store for tomorrow. But one thing that we do have in store for tomorrow is the pro show uh open class. Now this show was slated to be a showdown between Sergio Oliva Jr. making his quote unquote comeback even though he did a show last year but we all know the story behind that one that was not his best. things were, you know, in a tumultuous time in his personal life. Uh, essentially this is his comeback show, but Sassan Herat, who we saw two weeks ago, absolutely phenomenal at the Detroit Pro, but then comes the big surprise when the athlete list was released. Andrew Jack, the world's number five in this show, I guess. Um, I mean, obviously Andrew is the big- time favorite as like top five in the world. So, um, he's the one to beat. He if he comes at 90% or better, he's going to win. If he slips, I think Sassan could get right in there, but he has to slip for that because of his structure and the muscularity, the shape. Like, he's basically the perfect bodybuilder that we've never seen in shape. So, I mean, he could blow us all apart. Um, yeah. But uh what I hear is interesting cuz you were in Detroit and the people that I know were in Detroit like had Cassan winning over uh Bonak and on the screens everyone was like Bonak got this. I'm also like curious what how you saw that. Well, I mean, it's interesting because, you know, we talk about direction and direction in bodybuilding has been disproven time and time again. But then there's a matter of preference, right? And Sassan Herat, again, for those that did not see him, go to Fouad Abiad's channel. We'll give him a shout out. He had a free live stream of the show on his YouTube channel, so you get to revisit the entire show. Prejudging finals. And and the reason I say prejudging and finals is because prejudging there were points that you could say there were shots that Susan Hay Rodi won based off pure conditioning. In terms of conditioning, in terms of being a complete toptobottom bodybuilder, he checks all the boxes. That being said, he went up against the world's number seven and William Bonak. and William Bonak in terms of pure musculature just billowing muscle it would have had anyone else been on that stage he might have won that show but William Bonak just overpowering and again if you're talking about a muscle competition muscle comp muscle will always beat conditioning especially William Bonak again on his best day the conditioning they brought but William Bonak was truly special that show he turned the he turned the clock back to 2019 in my opinion maybe even better certainly bigger here. I mean, when I saw the comparison shots to 2019, he looks better, bigger. Even his legs from the side. Yes. Tremendous. Like there's like he slapped on some some good size, like 2 in at least from the side, it looked very impressive. So, like that's how I saw it on the screen, too. But in in person, the people that were there was just like, "Oh, he out conditioned him so bad." But yeah, we'll see. So, so maybe um when I see Sassan in person tomorrow that he'll be even better than I think. That's what I, you know, after hearing this could imagine. So that might make it closer. Um, then we have, um, my friend and a former client actually, Justin Luziel, who was very, very good in Detroit. He didn't control his stomach properly. He has some issues there. Might have some, uh, some tear in his abdomen. We don't know yet, but uh, it looked like he got this under control better now. So, that's going to be interesting cuz he's like heavily heavily muscled. And then we got Sergio Leva Jr., who I think could be beat by Justin if he's not in 100% shape. Well, let's talk a little bit more about Sergio. Very uh very good. Yeah. But Sergio coming back now. Um he looks very good. He has the mustache of his dad which I love. Yeah. Like I came in the athlete meeting and and he was like and I was like, "Dude, you look look just like your father." And he's like, "No, I just wanted to look like you, Leo." That was kind of funny. Um I I don't know what to expect from him. Um, from the previews, I think he looks he has a great shape. He has a great taper. Um, I don't know about his back. So, I think it's going to be decided from his back. Well, again, if you have go check Sergio Liv Jr.'s Instagram, uh, showing the the stash, obviously paying homage to his father. So, a classy gesture on his part. And, you know, we've seen this before where we've seen it with Chris Bumstead. Uh, we actually saw with Rafael Breno as well this past Olympia. Both will, you know, have a mustache. I asked Sergio, "Is the mustache here to stay?" Because, you know, you've had bodybuilders come in the athletes meeting or the day before, rock the mustache, and then come showtime, the mustache is off. It's like, "No, this is it. It's here to stay." So, but what I will say with Sergio, and this is the reason that um there I feel as if there is a reason, a lot of reasons for excitement. To me really, you know, if Sergio delivers, this truly could be one of the more exciting moments of the bodybuilding calendar year because you think about his breakout show, what was a New York pro back 2018, right? Dave Palumbo said it himself, that moment was so exciting for bodybuilding because you saw Sergio, something that again when we saw him turn pro, we saw the promise. We knew that it was all there, but the level of excitement that he brings, the level of personality that he brings to the bodybuilding stage, I felt like that was truly missing over the past few years. So now that we're seeing him again, and again, you talk about the previews, certainly looks to have added size, added roundness, and I think that's the thing, the calling card that when you talk about Sergio physique, what stands out, he does have that roundness. And you know, again, we talk about someone like, and I don't want to make the comparison obviously, but certain shows are won by round, right? I go back to Cedric McMillan when he won the Arnold Classic. He won that show by being round. So, he has those attributes. Now, one thing that he told us yesterday during the athletes meeting, which really stood out for me, he said, "Look, there are so many shows that I went in expecting to win, came out disappointed, didn't deliver, came out disappointed. they show riding it with no expectations at all and he feels like that's what makes him so dangerous. Yeah, it's it's it's true. Like I know myself um when you don't have pressure, it's so much more chill. It's so much easier. Like since I've been a pro, I had no pressure, but as an amateur more so. So being like, yeah, no one expects anything of you. Or you just have to feel that no one expects anything of you. Maybe people do, but if you have that feeling, then you're golden because you're gonna look better. And the other thing that, you know, when you talk about Sergio's physique, you know, again, we we talk about the legs and the legs, there seems to be, again, based off the progress pictures, it's Instagram, we'll see on on what happens on stage, but seems to be a better balance. And I feel like that's something that Sergio has certainly improved about his physique. What really stood out to me in having conversations with Sergio and why I feel like, you know, we wanted to film this because again, based off paper, you're going to have Andrew Jack as the pre-installed favorite to win the show. Uh, world's number five and obviously looking to make a statement here, getting his Olympia qualification and then doing what he needs to do for the Olympia. But, you know, when you talk about Sergio and you talk about the mindset that he brings, the level of excitement that he brings and you talk about, you know, all the chapters that he's been through, for me, what makes this so cool and why I feel it applies to so many bodybuilders, amateur, pro, this is a comeback story. This is someone that's been knocked down by life, that's been knocked down by circumstances, yet here he is. What do you whatever you want to call it? if you want to call it the second chapter, the third chapter, but he's authoring quite possibly one heck of a comeback story. Yeah, that's true. Um, and stories and bodybuilding and characters um, and like that have so much history that gets people so excited. He could be the same guy with a slightly different face, not his dad, and no one would even know what kind of comeback, anything, you know? So, that's always exciting. and and we need characters and we need people like that that have charisma on stage and and I just he doesn't smile but the way he does it like his dad and such it's like you know you you want you just want to see that and you want to roo for I just I just hope that this chapter is like last a little longer and we don't have to wait for another 6 years. What's interesting though is when he won the New York Pro, he stated in the podcast, I think it was even on Puad um after he said Cassan should have beat him and Cassan came in six. I know. Very praiseworthy of that's going to be a cool thing, too. Like there's so much, you know, so much more history than just that history. So much dynamics of people that, you know, have competed against each other and now they're back at it again. And Cassan also had almost like a 5year break. It's like I think 2018 to 24. It takes six years. Yeah. Yeah. So, no. Well, Cassan and I'm glad you brought that up because Sassan when you talk about that arc from New York and then finishing runner up the following week at the Cal Pro. Again, you looked at him as another candidate that's, you know, on the come knocking on the door of Olympia qualification. Then, you know, life happens, right? He wanted to take some time off, start a family, you know, grow his business, which is what he did. But now he's back. He he was telling me yesterday at the athletes meeting that, you know, again, he coaches athletes and at a certain point, you know, he's doing their dies, he's doing their posing, and saying to himself, "That fire is back, not just for them, but for me." And and you know, seeing the approach that he had, he also said another profound thing. He said, "Look, I went I had a different mindset back in the day, and it may have not it may not have been the best one." He I went in and if I didn't win a show, I came out disappointment disappointed uh and I didn't have the right attitude. rebounding from that. This time around, I'm going in knowing that as long as I bring the best package, the best representative package of myself, I'll be good with that. Now, what we saw at Detroit was highly impressive, right? Again, we saw a conditioned a complete bodybuilder. Now, again, I I saw some preview pictures that we didn't post on Instagram of his and I thought to myself, if Bonak doesn't bring something special, this could be Santi Roddy's show. You mean Andrew? No, no, I'm talking about for Detroit. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Right. But and what he saw again based off what we saw him prejudging. Yes. It was close. Yes. The level of conditioning he brought could have made anyone look off. At the night show, however, it was Bone X show. It was a Bone X performance. He was just way too muscular. Came on looking like he added 2 lbs of tissue. He was big. He was huge. And again, if had been anybody else, it could have been Sassan show. But Bonak was truly special and he put it away in the finals. But you talk about comeback stories. This is someone that is back after 6 years. You saw a package he brought in Detroit and the kind of top tobottom complete. There's no gaps. There's no mistakes in his physique. Yeah. It's just like um this time around he almost cannot like um edge the others out with this nice structure cuz they all have a nice structure. Good point. And last one is like he had the structure over bone neck and now everyone in the supposed top three like Andrew Jack and Sergio have great structure. You can't say oh like Cassan has a better shoulder to waist ratio. No. So now he has like less attributes to you know get the win. So it has to be conditioning. Um that's the only way it can go for for him. So, let me get one more thought from you on Andrew Jack because we are about a month and a week, month and a week removed from the Arnold Classic where it's universally panned that Andrew brought his best look ever. Now again, if you want to debate 2024 Texas Pro where he was 300 lb and just purely dominant or if what we saw in terms of the best level of conditioning that he brought and finally really combining that size and that level of condition, you know, and really, you know, showed his personality, you know, paying homage to Cedric McMillan with the uh with the mask and the tongue and everything like that. Really started to show off that personality. But in terms of physique, what impressed you the most at the Arnold Classic and what can we expect in your opinion to see this weekend? So when I looked at the shots and you look at the side chest, the guy had doubled. It looked like he had double the shoulder of Samson. I'm like, what the hell is going on? So, and also the way his muscles are edged out like his arms and the separation in his arms when others have like these kind of blurry arms and you see everything like all the the the deep cuts that's really nice and um I think with this if he brings the same package as at the Arnolds he's going to win this. Um the the only problem is that people you know um they expect something they they don't they don't want to see less. So, if the judges see less than the Arnolds, um, but I think there's still be going to be fair. If less than the Arnold still wins, they still going to let him win, but there's more expectation. The better you get, the the better they want to see you. So, I did want to give a shout out. Also, Justin Musiel Museiel, right? Yeah. German who's going to be competing at this show. We saw him two weeks ago at the Detroit Pro. Packs on a lot of muscle. Very impressed with how he was able to present himself. Um I his posing is impeccable in terms of again the mass that he brings but the way that he's able to show his physique. I thought he was very impressive. I don't know how many show it may have been his pro debut in Detroit. They just say that but they he had so when he turned pro he did I think two or three shows after last year and he was like seventh and fifth or something right. So that was but highly impressive in terms of the early portion pounds heavier now and he's not less conditioned. Right. So, he figures to be someone that you you're looking at, you know, could be fighting for a top three, could be fighting for a top four, but a very impressive German bodybuilder to keep an eye out for. And I also wanted to give it a shout out. Unfortunately, we're not going to have him here. Um, that is Edward Alih Carbo. We saw him as a Dubai Pro and that was his open class debut. Highly, highly impressive. former 212ver has all the bells and whistles uh to compete in the open class and this would have been a great show for him to you know ply his trade and show himself to a bigger audience uh here in Europe but unfortunately visa issues there needs to be like an international governing body of sports visas I feel like and maybe that might solve some of these issues but it it does certainly take some of the tarn some of the bloom away from this show but nonetheless a lot of reasons for excitement tomorrow Fibo Championships going to be an exciting open class. Obviously, the 11th hour edition of Andrew Jack, the world's number five in the show going up against Sergio Oliva Jr. and a very inform uh Sassan Herati and an upand cominging young bodybuilder, young German bodybuilder in Justin Muziel. So, should be an exciting show. Look out for him. Check out his YouTube. He has a lot of uh collaborations with American uh English speaking bodybuilders. So there's also English speaking content of his that's going to it's very good. We will try to have a prejud it's it's going to be absolute madness. So my myself my role is going to be I've been hosting the FIBO meet and greet with uh Jay Culler and Derek Lensford. So that is my quote unquote day job here at Fibo. I'm going to try to sneak out, go to the open class. Uh, and if I do that, we'll bring you a pre-judging recap and then certainly I'll be a finals and uh we'll bring you a finals recap as well. But for Leo, I'm Sadi Farooqi. Thank you for watching.