We've got Mr. USA Chris Knox with us today. Stay tuned. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. All right, guys. We're here with Mr. USA 2025, Christopher Knox. I know him very well. He's a good friend. He's client. and uh he's a guy worked very hard these last couple years to win the top honors at the 2025 NPC USA Championships where he won the men's overall championships and got his IFPB pro card and uh couldn't be happier to be finally doing this interview with you which I promised you. >> Yeah, it's been three years. Three years. And thanks for having me on, coach. >> Yeah. What did you first weigh when I when we first started working together? Like what was your stage weight? Um, in 2022 we did nationals in uh that was in Orlando and I weighed in at 213 pounds. >> Yeah. Yeah. You and now you're a super heavyweight. So >> 235. >> Yeah. You know, it's a testament to how you know the how hard you've worked these past couple years. And you know, it's funny. I'm going to let you tell your story in a minute, but just to let everyone know this guy had it wasn't like a straight path. There was a lot of, you know, >> job stuff going on and personal stuff going on. And you know, life happens. I always tell people life happens and the champions always find a way. And I think I told you this a couple times along the way. I said champions find a way to win no matter what. >> Oh yes. >> All right. Tell us your story. How did you get into bodybuilding to begin with? >> Um you know um uh basically uh I got into bodybuilding I believe it was 2012. Um I was kind of in transition in college. Uh quit football and I didn't know what to do with myself and I think I just went to the gym. I watched the I know I watched the Olympia in 2011 and I saw Phil Heath for the first time on stage and I was like, "Wow, I really want to look like that." But going into the next year, you know, I started going to the gym. Um I've always had the muscle mags, muscle developments and whatnot. And um I just started doing the diets and the magazines and training and and eventually I was approached by an older gentleman in the gym and he told me about a muscle contest that was happening in Greensboro, North Carolina. and we went to the show and I watched it and I was like I really want to try this and so that's when the journey kind of began and uh one of my first couple of shows uh I know I won the overall in my the junior division in bodybuilding North Carolina and that's where I got the little itch for it and I wanted to continue going but >> what did you back then >> what's that um it was like a sloppy 205 >> were you were you a big guy in like high school and everything like that did you play sports Yes, I was overly muscular, but uh I was I was I was I guess, you know, I was still short, but it was like I was always like 210 pounds, 205, but I was short, but I was like the strongest guy in high school always. >> And what do you call short? How tall? >> 5'7. >> It's funny. You're 5'7 over 200 lb. Just to give you an idea, I was like 510 and a half in high school. 510 and I weighed like, you know, 145, 155. So that's that's really big for for a high school kid. I mean, you had to be one of the the more muscular guys in school. >> Definitely. I definitely was. >> What What sports did you enjoy? >> Um, I really, surprisingly enough, I enjoyed soccer, but I was forced to play football because I was strong and fast. >> So, I I like I didn't necessarily like football. I just liked what came along with it like made me popular because I was socially awkward. So, >> the girls love the football players. That's for sure. >> Yes. So >> now when did you get involved in the military? >> Oh, never wasn't in the military. Never. Never was in the military. >> So then let me ask you, how come you've been moving all over? I thought you were some for some reason I thought you were military involved. What? You moved all over the place. You've been lived in many different places. What's had that happen? >> Well, uh, you know, you know, prep makes you do dumb things and I get really impulsive in prep. I was working at Duke Energy in North Carolina and I quit my job because I was like, I'm going all in. Going all in for his 2017 nationals. quit my job, took a drastic pay cut, and uh yeah, after the show, you know, I end up placing 15th place at my first nationals, and I didn't have a job. So, my buddy was like, "Look, you have safety in your background. You have your credentials. There's a company out in Hawaii that's hiring. Just send your resume in." And that company reached out to me and we did a like a a Skype interview, whatnot. And um they offered me a position out in Wisconsin. And basically, it's federal work. You do contracts on military bases. and that gave me my clearances and stuff. So that moved me to Wisconsin and that opened a lot of doors for me to move to Hawaii, Pearl Harbor, and now like like it's contracts all over the world. And >> it's funny because you told me you worked at Pearl Harbor. I was like, "Oh, you must be I I just assumed you you had a military connection." That's funny. We haven't known each other been a couple years and I didn't even know that. That's funny. >> Yes. >> So that's how that's how that's how not military. I guess it's federal work and is this military institutes and I do safety, OSHA regulations, company policy enforcement. That's pretty much what I do. I'm safety. >> Most people would say living in Hawaii is like paradise, right? I mean, it's almost like a dream place to live. Is it is it as good as it seems or is it does it have its drawbacks because, you know, the time zone differences are so crazy. I'm sure it's very expensive there. I know that. Well, I personally love it, but it's uh it's it's it my family's on the east coast. I'm originally from North Carolina, but yeah, it's drawbacks. It's cost of living. It's very expensive. A lot of people get island fever when they get here, but I absolutely love the culture. I love my gym. And I don't think I can't see myself leaving anytime soon. It's crazy expensive. But say for instance, when we went to Vegas a couple weeks ago, it's like going out to eat, it's like, wow, this is so cheap, you know? But this the drawbacks. It's a price to it's a price to pay for paradise. That's what we always say around here. >> So, it's expensive. >> It you're an anomaly. A lot of bodybuilders at your level are, you know, they're coaching people or they're, you know, they're not really doing real jobs. You have actually have to go to work, which does that does that make it harder to organize eating and training and stuff like that? Or do you find that that gives you more structure in your life? >> Well, as of lately, I think is it's took me a little bit longer to mature rather versus my peers. I feel like they they've found a groove earlier, but um earlier in life, I tried the whole personal training thing while I was in prep, and I found that it's was too hard for me. So, working a regular, you know, job that I have a steady income, I know it's not I can't say it's the best, but it helps me, you know, keep my mind off food, especially in prep. Like, I found that when I'm going to work every day, I know I'm getting that steady paycheck. I know what I'm doing at work. I'm not home sitting there just thinking about my next meal. So, it's hard, but it makes it easier. But my job, it's it's not too strenuous. It's not physical. So, it's more mental if anything like it's talk >> and I do paperwork. So, >> you know, it's it has its pros and cons, but yeah, like eventually I need to just go back to coaching and doing personal training and stuff, but I need to find that balance, too. It's just stepping and doing something else that I'm not used to. That's what makes it a little scary for me. Yeah, >> it's nice to it's nice to have a paycheck coming in guaranteed. I always tell people if you can do that because a lot of guys just don't have the skill set to do that. So, you know, coaching is is a more natural, you know, fit for them because they they can do what they want and they're on schedule, but a lot of people like to be scheduled. I know. I used to talk to Ronnie Coleman about this when we would work the Metricx booth together when he was still working as a police officer. And he told me, "I like the whole structure of having to go to work and yeah, I got to wear the uniform and everything like that, but you know, they loved him at at the police, you know, force. They let him do whatever he wanted." And he liked the whole, you know, he brought his meals with him. You know, it wasn't a big deal for him. And I'm like he said he said too on prep it was easier. I think it's harder when you're when you're offseason and you don't, you know, you want to just relax and just, you know, not do anything. But um when you're dieting, the last thing you want to do is sit home and stare at the refrigerator, right? >> Yeah. It was a few days of prep where like work got slow and I was at home and I didn't know what to do with myself. I'm like walking in circles in my place. I clean my place up multiple times. I walk my dog and then I find myself going in the refrigerator just looking at stuff. Then I end up eating ice. So I'm like, I just want to go back to work. >> I used to tear closets apart and and organize [\h__\h] when I was dieting. I had the cleanest house. I was doing laundry like like four times a day. Like if I would wear a t-shirt, I'd go wash the t-shirt alone. I I I just wanted to keep myself busy, you know. Luckily, I always had animals and stuff like that, like fish tanks. I would clean the fish tanks. I would It was like the most neurotic OCD like, you know, obsession while I was dieting. Then when offseason came, I didn't want to do anything anymore. You know, >> speaking of I got to ask you this. Like when you're in prep, when you were in prepping back in the day, could you watch anything on TV? I find myself like I can't watch anything. >> The only time I would flip the TV and I tell people this is when I was eating. So when I actually had a physical meal in front of me, that's when I sat in front of the TV and I would eat and usually I would watch like cooking shows and I would eat my as soon as the meal was over, I had to turn the TV off. I had no patience for it anymore. >> Same here. It's like I can't I don't have the attention span for it right now on prep. >> I didn't have the patience for it is what it was. And what I also noticed was and I I always wonder I'm like I wonder if I would if like Instagram or all those social media things would have been because I never had that when I was competing. I wonder if that would have been a good distraction for me or if it would have like pissed me off like because you know people you know you post stuff on your Instagram and if you start reading the comments you can go crazy. I always tell people don't even read the comments but >> yes >> I found with social media right now like when I'm really deep in prep when I'm tired that it drains the hell out of me. It's like another chore. So, I just I post and I just get off of it right away. Yeah, >> that's what I do now. >> That's the best way to do it. And uh you know, it's interesting, but when you won the USA Championships and you got that pro card, did you notice an upsurge in in subscribers on your social media? >> Oh, let me let me let me tell you this. Uh like you know, my lady at the time, she said, "Do not get on social media." And then you remember we spoke between pre-judge and finals and I just I guess literally just didn't look at my phone. Uh, we were at dinner that night after I called you and I told you the good news. Um, I I got on social media and my phone I thought it was going to explode with the amount of notifications and stuff. I never seen it just go crazy like that and like the following went up immediately. >> It's going up and it's like the view count's going up and I'm getting DMs like constantly and I I haven't even gotten back to all the, you know, congratulations and whatnot. So, it's it's good. I'm still not really good at social media and I know I need to be a little bit more vocal on there, but uh pretty much all my friends tell me that I need to speak and talk and show my personality. I just post training videos and pictures. >> I I told I told Chris I was screaming at him like probably since last year. Get on social media, post, get more subscribers. You know, you got to do this and because a lot of people do I I understand the idea of not going on there because sometimes the negativity is just too much. But post your stuff. Don't read what the responses are. I think that's the best way to go. But since we got you here and everyone's watching this interview, I'm sure, let's uh guys, if you haven't subscribed to Chris's channel, let's give him a let's show him some love. He is Mr. USA 2025. You know, he's right up there with the likes of Derek Lunsford, Flex Wheeler, and all the guys. Chris Cormier, the guys who won the USA in the past. And there's your crew right there. I wish I would have been there. I had my kids that week. And there's your girl. And Kenny Wallock was helping with the posing. Is that your mom, right? >> Yes. Hey, what does your mom think about the whole bodybuilding thing? >> Oh, what's that? Oh, uh, she's been there since day one, Dave. It was like, uh, >> shoot, my very first show, like my very first national show. I remember, uh, going to it was I remember seeing you at that Miami Nationals in 2017. It wasn't a good day for you, obviously. But >> was that the day that that that Steve Carol kicked me out? >> Yeah, you didn't have a good day. I was watching you and it was like, >> no, that was a great day. It was it was the day I got rid of him because it's funny because people think that, you know, I got kicked out. I videotaped the whole thing, but I never released the u me getting kicked out because out of respect for the organization because they said, "Don't worry, we'll take care of it." And they knew it was it was an atrocity. Remember, I had just had surgery. So, um I I couldn't really, you know, I had shoulder surgery and I couldn't they and I had gotten permission to go backstage and they and they and Steve Carroll, the promoter, who was the biggest loser of all time, you know, the worst guy. Um he he kicked me out. He said, "I'm gonna kick you out. I told you not." I said, "I have permission." And so he so they kicked me out and then uh I got the last laugh because he got fired the next year. But yeah, no, I remember that. >> I was I was sitting there right there and I'm like I'm new into the sport. I'm like finally this is my first national show and I've been watching you for years. So it was like surreal. I'm like never did I know I'll be working with you in a few years. But I'm sitting there I'm like watching I'm like that's Dave Palumbo and I'm showing my mom how big you used to be. And then like uh a couple years later, you know, but anyway, let's get back on the subject. I did that now. >> And I was a light heavyweight and I was like I thought I was gonna go on this show because I just won my little regional show. I was like I won the overall at the South Carolina show at the time, you know. And I was like, I'm gonna go in here. I'm gonna win my pro card like nothing and everything's going to be great, you know. Went in there. It was 41 guys in my class. It was a different level of conditioning. The guys were way more denser than I was. I was doing 20 minutes of cardio at the time. And I went in there and I realized when I was standing on the line, I was like, I got scared. I'm like, I'm not ready for this, >> right? >> So, I get third call out. I wanted to quit. My mom, I'm super mad and upset. I I literally quit. My mom was like, "You got to step it up. You just can't do this as a seasonal thing. Like, you don't you don't you don't eat your meals. You just get ready when the prep starts." So, two years later, >> your mom's reading you the Riot Act. That's crazy. Yeah. >> Yes. So, it took me about two years to get a little bit more mature and I end up coming back to the, you know, I did USA's in 2021. >> I was working with a different coach and I end up getting fourth place that year, but it was completely different from the years past because I was I would just do it as a seasonal thing. I would get ready and I would miss meals and then I would like solely rely on my genetics. I was like, "Oh, I got to I was I was arrogant and I was just cocky, you know? I just thought I had the best genetics that I can just show up and beat everybody." And it doesn't work like that when you get to a certain level. >> I used to love guys like you. You know why? Because when I I I would see guys like you backstage and I'm like, man, if this guy was in shape, I'd be in big trouble. And and I'd wind up beating guys like you that should beat me because I would I'd be more conditioned. I'd be, you know, more polished looking and and you know, but that happens all the time. There's a lot of gifted genetically gifted guys out there that either just don't work hard or they don't know what to do. I had guys backstage asking me, "Hey, can I work with you?" And I'm like, "Yeah, when I retire." I said, "You're gonna beat me otherwise." You know, I I knew I knew, look, I knew what my weaknesses and I knew what my strengths were. But the truth is that, you know, sometimes, you know, people don't realize how hard bodybuilding is. And I always tell people, look at Ronnie Coleman. He was probably the most genetically gifted guy of all time, but he also was probably one of the hardest workers of all time. And that's why he achieved the level of what he did. There were other guys genetically as good as him that just never, you know, never won the big show. Look at Flex Wheel. He never won the big show. I mean, he just always was like a little bit off, you know, at the at the at the wrong times. And so, you can't be the best if unless you're dedicated to the whole process. And it's it's a lot of sacrifice. It really is. >> So true. So true. And uh I know moving year from year to year, I've learned something else. I've always gotten better from one show to the next. And you know my mom now she still doesn't know. She just like she like before the show she thought I was like 190 something. You know I'm like mom like what are you what are you mom? I was like last year I could barely make the heavyweight class but yeah like it's been a journey and now like seeing she saw me when I placed 15th to win an overall. She was truly emotional after the show. She's like I'm glad you finally you stuck with this because it was for a while there when I quit football I was quitting everything. When things got too hard I would quit. Right. She's like, "I'm finally I'm glad to see you finally stick something out and stick with it." You know, >> you you know what it is, Chris? I'll tell you this because uh and I've seen this happen with other people and you know, people even said that to I'm not I don't quit anything unless I want to. >> Yes. >> And I think that um some people think that, you know, guys or women are quitters when they leave a certain, you know, thing that they're doing, whether it be a sport or a job. But if you don't have a passion or you're not really into what you're doing, even though you might be kind of good at it, you're never going to be great at it because you're not going to dedicate the level or you're not going to put the dedication into what you need and the sacrifice because it's just not that important to you. Like I was a really good soccer player in high school, like really good. Like because I was aggressive and I wasn't afraid of anyone, but it wasn't really like enough to make me want to go home at night and practice for three, four hours, you know, like you hear these stories about Michael Jordan and you his brother shooting baskets for six hours every day after practice, you know. So, but when I got to bodybuilding, like all of a sudden I found something that I wanted to do all the time, you know, and and and so I gave 100% dedication to it and that's why I was really good at it. And I think that was the same with you. you know, like you said, you did football more for the accolades that you got for the from your peers or from women and but it really wasn't a passion of yours. So, when you found bodybuilding, I think, you know, you knew that, hey, this is something that I want to be good at, you know, and so you dedicated more to it. And I think that that's okay. I think that it takes a long time for people to find that something that makes them, you know, really get excited about life. And yes, when you find it, you got to stick to it, you know. >> Yes. And bodybuilding has been that calling for me is like I love every aspect of it and I've like I realized I'm like some somewhat of a scholar. Like I literally know all the athletes and I've always I got all the magazines from when I was a kid. I've always looked at it and never did I know that like I used to always just say that but one day I'mma do this, one day I'm going do that and now like I literally said when I first got into this sport or this industry or whatever that I was going to be Mr. USA's one day and now like when I won it I was on stage and they said my name. I'm sitting here I was like wow is this real? like, did I just win Mr. USA? You know, it just didn't feel real, you know? >> Well, you I said to you also, I said to you while we were, you know, over the last couple years, what I said a lot of times to a lot of other guys, I said it to Hakee Williams. I said it to Juan Morel and probably a million other guys I can't remember off the hand that it's not you're gonna it's not whether you're going to turn pro, it's it's when you're going to turn pro. It's not if, it's when. because I know you're gonna turn pro, but enjoy the the journey along the way because it's gonna happen. And I and I said that to you, too. I said, you're just not there yet. >> And that's a hard thing for like a competitor to accept that. Yes. >> Hey, I did my best. I look my best on stage, but it's not enough yet >> to get where I want to. And so, and so you have to have a lot of patience as a bodybuilder. Do you find that >> do you find that hard the patience part? >> Yes. And um I'm I was actually having a conversation with the gym owner. He's a good friend of mine uh at Iron Hawaiian here. Mark Mark Canoli yesterday where I was discussing like our conversation we had back in 2023. I don't know if you remember or not, but I was really upset because I got third place and I got dean for some cosmetic issues, some stuff I didn't do properly. And you were telling me like I was like, I should have won. I should have won. I was so upset because one individual beat me. The guy got first place. I beat him two years in a row, but I showed up. He was bigger and fuller and he beat me then the other guy beat me two years, too. And I was so upset and uh I was complaining to you about it and uh you straight up was brutally honest with me. You were like, "Chris, you're 213 pounds." You basically told me I was a little too tall for 212 and I was too small for open. What were you going to do with that pro card anyway? You know, you told me straight up and it actually centered me a little bit. I was like, "Wow." He's like, "You were like, you don't have to take two years off just to grow." >> And here I am now >> over 10 pounds, like 20 pounds bigger than that what I was then. And yeah, it was it was tough hearing that, but you know, it made me go back home and work harder. So yeah, it's you and you always told me like after North Americans last year, you gave me a hug and you told me and I remember these these conversations, these messages you tell me. You told me after North Americans like next year nobody's gonna be able to stand next to you. Next year is going to be your year. You know, you'll be one of the top guys for sure this year. And it came true, you know, but I had to believe and I had to Oh, I was unsure this year, you know. You know how I kept calling you the week I was going crazy, but it happened. Everything you said come, it came true. So, yeah. >> Yeah. You know, it's sometimes you you I I don't like to give praise. When when I give you praise, you look really good. You know that I don't I don't give out false compliments because I want people to know that what I'm saying is authentic coming out of my mouth. So, I knew last year where you where you were mentally that that if you just made the same progress you made the year before that no one was going to beat you and uh you know, you never know who's going to show up, but I I you know, we kind of knew the players out there and I said, you know what, if you come in with your structure with a little bit more muscle and we're going to bring you in real tight, I just don't think that there's anyone out there that can take you. Plus, you know, when you put your dues into and they know you've been sacking a couple times, you know, it's kind of like your turn. So if it is close, I knew that that you'd probably get the nod on that one, too. So, you know, there was some great guys you competed against this year. and and any one of those guys could have absolutely won and I don't think anyone would have complained but you know I think you just had a little bit more and uh you had the momentum behind you and that that that definitely helps you know and this is this year's USA reminded me of like the years when I was competing where there was there was a lot of good guys and and and any one of those guys could have turned pro but you there was only one card being given out you know and so the guys had to wait till the next show the nationals and I'm sure we'll see some of those guys that that were in your who didn't get the pro will probably be at nationals trying to earn that pro card and that's the way it used to be. I hate when they give out too many pro cards and it kind of the guys don't look good when they win, you know, at least, you know, I want to see a good USA champion. I don't want to see someone who's like, well, he was the best guy they had there because they gave out 16 pro cards, you know, uh, the year before and now there's not then there's no one left, you know. So, this was this was a good victory for you, I thought. and uh validating and like I said it seems like every USA champion has always gone on into the pro ranks and done really well and that that's uh you know I think that's a good thing to have a little feather in your cap so to speak. Oh yeah, just look at Jordan Hutcherson and Joe Palasios. Both USA champions and look at them now. I'm like, wow. >> You sent me the that link to Jordan when you were competing against him. I'm like, holy, he put a lot of size on, right? >> Yes. Yes. 2021 he won. And comparing those pictures from 2021 to now, he's like 260 something on stage. I'm like, wow. >> That's four years of progress, though, too. So, I mean, you got it's a journey. Bodybuilding doesn't happen overnight. And you know what? Anyone who thinks it does is out of their freaking mind. And that's why a lot of people are not successful at bodybuilding because they they're not willing to dedicate the time, the emotional energy, and the sacrifice. It's it's it's a you have to love it. There's no way you can do bodybuilding if you don't like it. It's it's impossible. There's too much sacrifice involved. >> Yes. And you do the same tasks year after year, day in and day out, and you like it's almost like insanity. >> Yeah. I know. Well, that's But if you like what you're doing, then it's not really if you think about it. I always tell people I enjoy doing all all this stuff. I still eat the same way and train the same way. Not as heavy, obviously, but you know, if you do that, then you know, obviously, you know, it's not it's not work anymore. >> So, >> definitely. >> Anyway, but yeah, and we also I'm happy to announce that you know, you've been working with us at Species Nutrition, which is great. And uh I know you use you love the products and you know you've been promoting them and I appreciate that as well. And uh so what you know I kind of know but you know the thought process I know originally when you we talked about hey what would you do after the win you wanted originally to go right to Tampa. You said if we win the USA I want to go to Tampa the week after and compete. And originally I was on board with that. And then I said to myself you know what he won the USA. He's Mr. USA. let let him let him ride this title for for for for the rest of the year. You know, I sometimes think that, you know, if you jump into another show and you don't do as well as, you know, you want to, you don't win, that it's kind of like a it's almost like a it's like you get this high and then it's like a little bit of a low, you know. >> Yes. It it was it was one of those things like I know Texas as well. I had time off of work and it's just, you know, I've talked to my mom and I talked to you and I talked to my lady as well and my lady was kind of like frank with me. He's like, "The chance of you you looking better from traveling from one coast to the next and you ate all this food, I don't think is you want to do great at your your debut, you know?" And she's like, "This is a deep lineup. I think we need to just shut it down and just go back wait on next year." And I was like, I thought about it. My mom agreed and then speaking to you just confirmed all that what you said. I'm like, "Okay, shut it down, go back and, you know, go back to the Islands and, you know, go back into the offseason." But I really wanted to step on that stage. I so wanted to step on that stage. >> No, I know you did. I know you did. But >> it's a long ways for me to come from the Highlands all the way to the East Coast and then back to Texas. >> You know what it is also though? When you win a title, like if you had just won your weight class, it wouldn't have been as I think you could have done it. No one would have cared. But you won the USA Championships, you know, there's a certain prestige in that title. And I think that you should, you know, it's almost like you're an ambassador for the, you know, the the top amateur title in the in the world, I think, you know, that and the nationals, you know, and I think you should ride that for a little bit, you know, take that notoriety, you know, promote your social media, you know, relax a little bit, make the improvements you need, come back, do like a New York pro, which I know Steve Weinberger would probably love to see you there, and that's seems to be the plan right now. And and and you know, be five to seven pounds bigger. and, you know, really make an impressive pro debut and I think that that's that's a better splash, so to speak, into the IFBB Pro ranks. >> Yes, I agree. And I know one thing, you know, finally getting over that hump versus last year at North Americans, I literally ate myself into a coma after that show last year. Now I'm like super strict and I'm like, okay, I don't want to get I guess I want to do it right because I've had my last offseason one was I had great benefits. You know, I gained size and everything, but I know I could have did a lot better. And this year, I'm really going to try to push it. You know, you know, like make sure I'm eating all my meals, not just drinking shakes and eating burgers and fries substitute of what I'm supposed to be eating. So, it's, you know, it's important also that you, you know, I always tell people the after the first couple shows, you get that eating out of your system. I wouldn't I didn't I would have one meal after a show and I would be fine. I didn't even need to go crazy anymore. Um, but you know, I think that maturity, there's a there's a maturity level at some point, too, that where you realize that the the sacrifice you made, the diet sacrifices, you don't have to go eat everything in sight because you just it just sets you back too far. And and I I got to tell you, I gota on the record say I've never seen anyone gain as much weight from a cheat meal as you in the history of people I've worked with. You can get this guy can gain 20 pounds in a day and he could lose it overnight. I I've never seen anyone hold water like you in my life. >> I remember last year I checked in with you and you were like, "You're gaining way too much weight. Go get your blood done." >> And I was like, "Meanwhile, I'm eating like till I'm sick every night." You know, I'm not telling you this, you know. >> And it's just like, >> "No, but but I'm saying you like I would I could eat like that and I wouldn't gain anything. You you you gain enormous amounts of weight, you know. Did you get up to like Did you go up to like 2808 80 something? >> Yeah. And it was like a really fast It was It wasn't a slow period. It was like really fast, too. It's like couple weeks. I felt like like I was like, "Holy shit." >> And like my blood pressure and everything was through the roof. And I'm like, "Okay, I gota I gotta chill out." >> The You know what? It's the rebound. Some people rebound a lot worse than other people. >> Yeah. I was I was just talking to somebody about that. I was like, "Some of these bodybuilders, they get like three to four pounds. I eat one meal and I'm 20 pounds up. >> I know. I know. Wow. >> I tell everyone to stay on, you know what? Stay on a little bit of diuretic, you know, for a couple days after the show. And sometimes you might need it for a week or two, like here and there. The the fluid retention is not you're better off getting rid of it. It's that there's no there's no negative to taking a little bit of a diuretic to get rid of some of that that fluid because the flu you look big and you're strong as hell in the gym, but it it's really, you know, it's very uncomfortable and it's not a good it's not a good way. It's not like you gain 20 pounds of muscle. It's like 20 pounds of like of air being inflated into your just your face. I remember my eyes would go to like slit. I had these big eyes. They would go to like little slits and I'd be my face is like it looks like the Michelin man, you know. >> And the low back pumps are as like they're the worst. You can't squat really. You can't do >> you have to like sit down between sets because it hurts so much. Yeah. The belt is leaving like a like a mark on your stomach because it's you got so much fluid retention. Yeah. >> I'm so glad I'm not dealing with that this year. Last year it was it h it get screwed up my training and then meanwhile I'm still trying to eat everything after after the gym, you know. >> Yeah. Well, you know, where would you like to see yourself next year on stage? I mean, you were 235 this year, I think, right? >> Yes. >> What would you like to see yourself weigh on stage in and and the >> I would like to say 245. I know that's that's that's kind of crazy, but you know, 10 pounds of tissue, but if if I was able to do it last year without, you know, just somewhat having a good offseason and if I really put my mind to this, I think I can put 10 pounds of tissue, if not more, you know, because I have never really, really, really push my off seasonason 100% like I do on my end season. So, >> yeah, I think I can get 10 pounds of tissue on me. So 245 and I just want to bring that conditioning in tighter >> and uh not go too haywire on my cheat meals. I like when you tell me I only have a burger and fries. When you say have a cheat meal, I'm like I'm in the kitchen one day and I'm eating and my lady looks at me with this this look. She's like, "Okay, when you [\h__\h] lose us, >> don't complaining to me." And I just took the food and threw it in the trash. It >> it's funny because some people I just say have a cheat meal and they're fine, you know? And then other people like I'll say I have a cheat meal and then all of a sudden I get like an update like on Monday and it's like they gain like like eight pounds. I'm like what the what the heck are you eating? So certain people I tell what to eat and other people I just say enjoy yourself because I know they're not going to go crazy or either that or they just have a great a great metabolism. They'll burn it off. But I I I always the funniest story I always tell for cheat meals is and I've told the story on after hours a million times. Mr. G George Smallley who I used to do his diet when I would give him cheat meals he what he would do is he lived he was living in his gym for a while. So he would go and he would go to like Dunkin Donuts, BaskinRobins. He'd get it was just he would lie and he would line up junk food on his table in the gym and he would just eat as much as he could until he couldn't eat anymore and then he would just he would get so disgusted with himself he would throw it in the dumpsters in the back of his store because you know he had he had a business and then he would go to sleep and then he would wake up in the middle of the night starving and he'd go into the dumpster and take the food out of there and and eat the food out of the dumpster. That's how depraved he was with his cheat meals. So I said no one's is worse than I said no one did worse than you did. >> That's why I take it and throw it in the dumpster outside and I throw stuff on top of it so I won't mess. >> You don't go dumpster diving for it though. >> No no like no when I first started I would do something like that. I used to eat jars of peanut butter quite literally. Then Burger King I would go around the drivethru constantly. I'm like and then check in with my coach at the time and he was like why are you up so head? Why do you look like this? And I'm like I don't know. I don't feel good. >> Yeah. I know you can get carried away with cheat. So I I know the people that I have to like tell what to eat and I know the people that who I can just like give free reign to. But the the control freaks can you can give them full rain and they'll never matter of fact you might have to tell them to eat more because they won't they'll eat they'll eat too little people like you. You're like a Yeah, you're like a off the charts guy. You got to tell them you got to say with >> Well, I want to once again congratulate you and uh you know this was I lost. >> Sorry about that. It's my problem. >> No problem. I want to just congratulate you on the huge win. Super heavyweight men's bodybuilding overall champion at the USA Championships. He is Mr. USA Chris Knox. And we are going to see him on stage next year on an IFBB stage. Congratulations, Chris. >> Thanks, coach. >> Anyone you want to thank? >> Uh, you know, thanking my team, you, Kenny, my mom, and my my lady. So, I really appreciate all the support and uh everybody that stuck by me like gym owners and uh you know, my training partner and everybody. So, yeah, that's pretty much it, you know, and thanks to your nice supplements I've been using for the past going on four years. So, yep, that's about it. We'll do it. That'll do it. Chris, uh have a great weekend and thanks for joining us. Uh, this is another tremendous, tremendous victory for a person who's worked super hard. Very proud to say I was in his corner. Chris Knox, Mr. USA. >> I'm Dave Palumbo. We'll see you next time. >> See you guys.