If you want to know why guys win shows and and and lose other shows, it's number one how you look obviously and have you peaked on that day, but it's also who are you competing against? I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here with an RX Muscle news update. The IFBB Toronto Super Show men's Open has let out and the winner is Sasserati. Finally, always a runner up, never a contender, never a winner. Finally, Sass seals the deal. beats a very good Rean Grimes, clinches not only the title and the prize money, but also a Mr. Olympia birth. He'll be at the Olympia now in October. Congratulations, Sass. Sass has been uh a guy who has just hit every single show this year. He has not given up. And you know what? He's gotten better. He's gotten better and better. And the the reason why he can do that is because conditioning comes relatively easy for him. And once he's in shape, he can eat. And I think that's a key. If you can eat and keep, you know, and not have to starve yourself constantly to stay in shape, that's a huge advantage. And it allows you to go from show to show to show. So guys with good metabolisms once they get into shape can kind of eat up almost and continue and they don't, you know, kind of burn out. Whereas guys that are always having to watch every morsel of food that goes into their body, the longer they continue to compete, eventually their body just gets burnt out and it doesn't respond anymore. But he also has a very strong mindset because let's face it, not many guys can do this many shows. A lot of people would have given up by now and said, you know what, I did, you know, four or five shows. It's enough. I guess I'm just not going to make it this year. And look, he had every right to do that because Rean just won last week or was it two weeks ago and and clenched his birth to the Olympia. And now he comes back, you have to assume that, you know, Rean, you know, coming off that big win, he's got that huge structure, you know, a lot of muscle in his body that, you know, he's going to lose to Sass, right? I mean, and and I could see a competitor saying, you know, why am I going to go to this show if I'm going to lose to this guy? But Sass comes back better, harder, more polished, fuller. This this is the best I've seen him look. And when you compare the two of these guys, Rean has got a much bigger structure. He's taller. He's got more wow to his physique. He really, you know, he's brought up a so many, you know, weak body parts that he had in the past that are just not weak anymore. Everything is really good on Rean's physique and that makes him very difficult to beat structurally. You know, Sass is not as structurally big. He doesn't look as impressive when you first see him standing there on stage. But as they started going through the poses, you start to see why Sass wins this show. First of all, Rean is not as hard as Sass. Sass has got a better tan than Rean. Regan is is at some points in the prejudging starting to sweat, which is showing that, you know, maybe his conditioning is not quite what it needed to be. Maybe wasn't quite as dry as he needed to be, which is what the case was. And Sass actually beats him in in in some shots pretty, you know, pretty, you know, convincingly. If you look at that side chest shot, which is a big shot for Rean. Sass has got a crazy crazy side leg. It just looks nutty. It's bigger than Rean's. Even though Rean probably might have, you know, uh, bigger legs just because he's a bigger guy. Sass's legs just so nutty looking in this show. And they're so hard and so separated. His front quads are amazing. And like I said, Reagan's got a smaller waist. Reagan's got some better wows and whistles to his physique. But Sass comes in here dry, grainy, and did what he had to do. And if you look at if you want to know if a bodybuilder is in shape, a good friend of mine, Doug Gwens, told me this years ago on stage, you shouldn't have to pose too hard. If you have to squeeze too hard on stage, it means you're probably not in shape and you're having to like overdo or overexaggerate the muscle to kind of bring it out. Sass just hits the poses effortlessly and you just see everything fall into place. Look at the ab thigh shot. This that's, you know, the the gold standard in this comparison as far as I'm concerned. He just wins that shot hands down. And Rean has a good ab thigh usually, but Rean is like trying to squeeze and vacuum and and and over flex his leg and he and then you can see he's sweating at this point. So that just shows you that that Sass is where he needs to be. Rean's not. And that's really why SAS won the show because Rean Grimes is is I think a better bodybuilder than Sass on his best day, but he wasn't on his best day here. And Sass was his best. And that's what it comes down to sometimes. If you want to know why guys win shows and and and lose other shows, it's number one how you look obviously and have you peaked on that day. But it's also who are you competing against? Because if SAS would have had one guy that was better structurally than him here who was in better shape, he would have lost. But he was the best guy on that stage and that's why the judges rewarded him with first place. And I'm glad they did. I'm glad they did because you know sometimes you see these the bad decisions but this year we've gotten a lot of really really good decisions from the judging panel. They've been doing a great job and Sass absolutely deserve to win this show and Reagan once again has nothing to hang his uh head on on this one. He's he was a little a little watery here. Obviously he he already clinched his Olympia birth at the last victory he had. And I think when we see Reagan at the Olympia, he's going to come in a lot harder and a lot drier because he has to. He has to. And obviously his being a taller bodybuilder, I'd like to see his legs come up a little bit come October. The good thing is he's still young. He can bring those legs up. He only needs to bring them up a little bit and then just come in a little bit harder, a little bit drier. And you know what? I I said I don't want to sound like a broken record. He's got to tan more. Get a base tan, Rean. Please, before you get to the Olympia, have a nice dark base tan on you. And then when you get this the spray tan on you, you're going to look way more polished. Sass is like should be the poster child for what your tan should look like on stage. Just impeccable. He looks great. I I mean, he's dark anyway, but he he tans. You could tell he tans. He has a base tan. That's not just from spray tan. I can guarantee that. And some guys just have that kind of skin, too, that they they take good to the the spray tan. And some guys need a base tan before they get sprayed. But I'll tell you this, I've never seen a guy who had a really good base tan or a woman who had a really good base tan that didn't look amazing when they got spray tanned after. Doesn't happen. But I've seen it go the other way. I've seen guys with weak weak tans, you know, or no tan who get spray tan and sometimes they look great and sometimes they don't. Don't leave it to chance. It's it's silly to do that because it it's I mean it's just that's just not professional. And you know what? If you lose because of your tan, shame on you. being not a professional. That's that's the way I see it. But great battle here. You know, I think the the crowd got their money's worth up there in Toronto. It was a Sunday show. They love to do their Sunday shows up there. And Chris Aceto and I will be wrapping up the entire show on Heavy Muscle Radio. Uh we're going to be going live at 2 p.m. Eastern Standard on Monday. That's probably going to be our new day from now on. We've been doing some on Sundays and some on Mondays, but we're probably going to go to Mondays fulltime. But that's going to be 2:00 p.m. We'll break down the whole show. Carpar, I got to give you a shout out. You look great in that 212 division. Fantastic. Congratulations going back to the Olympia as well. For now though, um I'm out of time. We will continue this conversation on Heavy Muscle Radio. Like I said, Monday at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Standard. For now, I'm Dave Palumbo with another RX Muscle news update.