I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations dosed for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Alongside the Turkish prodigy himself, Nihad Kaya, the inevitable is now reality. He wins the Dubai Pro 212 title and at age 22 he is headed to the 212 Olympia showdown. Rajab Rajab here is nice enough to translate for us. Nihhat, congratulations on the win. We saw the emotion when you heard your name. What was going through your mind as soon as you heard that you were going to be the winner? Mhm. how much do he say he sacrificed a lot for this sport and um he has in front of his eyes the sacrificing the workouts and everything and he was uh happy about it uh when he hear his name and that's surprise you say last year you came in your pro debut and I think there was a fascination about what you would bring as a 21-year-old then I don't know how many people expected you were going to finish second to an hell But once you finished second to him, did that change how you thought about what you could do in the sport at a very young age? Last year it seemed as if you know again a lot of people were surprised right but what did he learn about himself finishing second in his first show against a top contender like Anel Calderon you mean the last year he yeah so second place right so so how does he feel what did he learn about himself that he Okay. He said the second place was for him no worries. He was happy about it. But this year he come for the first place. can say what was the biggest difference about your physique this year as compared to last year. He say he increase every year. He try he he tried to give his best every year to put more muscle size and uh with the discipline and yeah he did it muscle maturity muscle maturity there you go at age 22 there you go but now the dream is a reality you're going to the Olympia you're going to be going up against the likes of a Keon Pearson of a Shawnita is that something that you've been dreaming about for this last year He say I'm very excited to go to Olympia and he will give his best package. You will seeka with his best form on the Olympia. So is this done? Are you done for now till the Olympia or do you plan on doing any more shows between Dubai and the Olympia? They need to discuss with his coach. You know, Patrick Ch is his coach and he's also doing well job and um yeah, they need to decide and they will give his best. Finally, you bring a lot of people and I'm assuming they're from Turkey. You had a large large crowd cheering your name. You were knee hot. Knee hot. In your wildest dreams when you're growing up as a bodybuilder, did you ever think you would receive that kind of a reception? It's a different emotion. It's you cannot explain it. It's you have to feel it. You say, "What's going to be your first cheat meal now that you've won your first pro show? So you're dialed in all the way to the Olympia. This guy is also knowing for his discipline. He is in Turkey really um very popular and we also his sponsoring since two years and we are be behind Nihhat and I'm sure he will give his best and he misses mother's um food. The best food is the mother's food. Of course we talked about Turkish food in our last interview. Yeah, Turkish food. Finally, how high can Nihad place in his first Olympia appearance? Okay. He say I also didn't show it in Dubai pro. I didn't say I just show it the first place and I will do the same in the Olympia. I will not talk just show my results. I'm sorry one more. You don't want a replace uh do a replace for him. So he say I will just show uh what can I do? You are going to be talked about now in Turkey. You're qualified for the Olympia. What kind of a reception do you think you're going to receive from the Turkish fans upon returning home? Please, can you repeat? What kind of like once he returns home now people see he's won the show, what kind of a reception is he going to receive from the fans in Turkey? for he's uh very proud of the support from his country Turkey and all of his fans and he's very happy to back soon to Turkey and celebrate all together with his family and all the fans. Well, I know you have a lot of calls and a lot of important things to attend to. So, I want to thank you for the time. Congratulations. This is a big moment in bodybuilding. Fans around the world are rooting for you. Congratulations and good luck in 6 weeks at the 17 weeks at the Olympia Olympia. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Golden boy. He say Olympia is now coming a golden boy to the Olympia with the age 22 and he will show more and he just started now. He just started. Golden boy coming. Golden boy is coming from Turkey. The Turkish prodigy wins his second pro show. He's champion of the Dubai Pro and now he is headed to face the likes of Keon Pearson and Shan Clarita at the 2025 212 Olympia for Reub Niha Kaya Siddik Farooqi. Thank you for watching RX Muscle. Thank you so much.