The Mast NT from BSN available now. This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the 2010 Arnold Classic. Here with Iris Kyle, four times Miss International, six times Miss Olympia. Iris, are you ready to do battle today or tomorrow? I'm ready to do battle. It's It's time now. I've been waiting long enough. I've been waiting in the lobby for 16 hours for you to come in. And look at this this this load of stuff you brought. What do you got in all these suitcases? A couple of bombs. Uh couple of guns if things don't go off like they're supposed to. And food. Is this all food? Really? Yeah. The majority is food. Cuz I know it can't be outfits cuz you you wear nothing on stage. I don't wear anything. I don't need any clothes. I just want the champ trophy and the cash. What kind of food is in there? I'm not going to say. Well, okay. potatoes, steak, you know, all my meats. You pre-cooked everything. Cook everything. I don't go out there and get anything. That's not how how Champ do it. Did you bring like uh your your form and grill and all that stuff, too? Definitely. This is a mark of a champion. She totally prepared. And she's got a whole little entourage to roll it into the room. That's right. What are we What are you looking at to weigh on stage this year? 163. I think I look very clean and um full good separation when I'm at 163. I saw a little sneak preview when you were kind of looking at your legs over there. They look very very very very very hard. Really? Yes. Oh, good. That's a compliment. That's what I want to hear. So, you're going for five times. This is going to be a record for any athlete on the on the Arnold stage. How does that uh that accolade uh strike you in your mind? You know what? It's time for me to get something underneath my belt besides some wins. I want to set some records and and be that that the all-time best and you know in the two um two shows that I do compete in which is amazing because most Olympia champions have never done two shows both you do international and and the Olympia every single year. I mean is do you don't find that too taxing? I think it's just most people think of it as a little risk cuz once you have a a title you don't want to lose. You want to hold as long as you want but I just feel if you're good you're good. You put it on the line. I put it on the line and it was it was more shows with more money. I put those on the line, too. It's all about the money. Now, Iris Kyle will be putting on uh her Miss International title on the line tomorrow. Uh we'll we'll have to wait till tomorrow night to see if we interview in the winning circle, but I have no doubt you're going to come out and head. So, that's all I want. Win win. Dave Palumbo here with Iris Kyle, fourth times Miss International, rxmuscle.com. Nice jacket.