If Martin or Nick Walker win Pittsburgh, I will comb my hair. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back for another installment of Heavy Muscle Radio. We're here live. I'm Dave Palumbo, joined by the technician Chris Aceto on this beautiful Sunday evening. And Chris, uh, you put you laid it out there. If anyone could beat Derek in Pittsburgh, Nick Walker, Martin Fitzwwater, you were gonna comb your hair. And these uh these RX Muscle Ravenous fans are are chomping at the bit now. I combed my hair. I same comb from 1983. So, at least you don't need to do a comb over like I have to do. So, you know, you got hair. You got good hair. If I had your hair, Chris, I'd be styling the [\h__\h] out of it, man. I'd be uh growing it. I'd be blow drying it. Everything, man. I was thinking of growing it like Fabio, the model, like the Italian model with like long and you know, long. You should do it. I think you should do it. You should do the J hair do like like Lee Priest that one year wore it. Really? Right. You're right. The long blonde locks he had. Right. He you know, he never he didn't want to do that Olympia that year. I think his his um I think his sponsor Prolab I think at the time made him do it or what whoever his sponsor was at the time he told me they made him do it. He didn't want to do the Olympia and he uh he forced he was forced to do it. So he's like I knew I wasn't going to look good so I just said [\h__\h] it. I'll just you know I'll put do whatever. I'll come out looking like you know disheveled and yeah a rebel. A rebel without a cause basically. Was a rebel that year. I remember that was that was uh not the best Lee Crease, although has like brought some damn good looks. Yeah. I mean, that was probably the only time I've ever seen him really off. Only only time really. You know, Lee, if Lee's not if Lee's not doesn't have his head in something, he's a rebel. You know, he doesn't care. He's, you know, he'll he'll purposely do stuff to even make it look worse than he's the type of person who like win the Olympia and say like not if he wasn't in the mood not prep for the next still do the show the next year due to a contractual obligation place like well whatever. Well, he he'd do another organization. Speaking of other organizations, you know, I found out what happened with Ronnie Raquel. You know, Ronnie, remember we were talking about that they didn't didn't invite him to the Masters Olympia. Yeah, you had mentioned that. Yes. Yeah. Well, I guess he had competed in another organization and he had even run some shows in this other organization. So, what they're doing is they're making him re uh earn his pro card now. So, he has to do a proqualifier, become a pro again, and then he can compete in the Masters Olympia, which seems ridiculous at this point, you know, but I don't know why they would take away his pro. I mean, you could find him, I guess, you know, but why why take his pro card away and make him reearn it? It's kind of silly. But maybe Ronnie Raquel can go to the North American Championships and do the Masters division there. Yeah, you can you can do it from anywhere, right? Can you imagine if if Ronnie Ronnie Raquel from Germany shows up because you know it's an international thing. You can you can do you don't have to be in America to don't have to be Can you imagine if if these guys get to the North American No Dave don't let that out. It'll be a full nine day show if people from like Europe or Asia find out that they can be North Americas. you know, they can. But it would be really funny because I remember I had a client who was doing Mel's show this, you know, uh I forget which one it was. It must have been the one the holiday show in December and John Hansen showed up if you remember and did the show and this guy almost had a nervous breakdown. John Hansen showed up and you know that was the he came in second of course because John was first and but you imagine you're going for your pro card and Ronnie Raquel shows up and said I gota I gotta re-qualify for my pro card again. I'm doing the North American in the 50 and over well he's probably got that type of body Ronnie that he's still right in great shape all the time. He can win the open probably you know if he wanted to. So he always had a great physique, you know, balanced and Ronnie Rock type of physique where it doesn't overwhelm you. But, you know, the point is he's balanced and he's comes in great condition. So, you got to have a lot of attributes to be able to get by him. Well, he was like a Troy Alves almost, right? Yeah. But a denser version, you know what I mean? Yeah. But and you know you not outside the most muscular not one pose where you would say like he looks crazy in but when you take the sum of all the poses you'd say you know against people much maybe bigger than him or probably than him. He he'd slide by and beat a lot of people. Yeah. Yeah. I I think it's kind of silly, but uh I would I would just find him, you know, that How old is Ronnie Rockel now? He's got to be over 50 for sure. He's old. He's He's old. I would say he might even be older than that. I don't know. I I thought he was like around our age. He might be a little younger than you and I maybe, you know, he's in his show. You know, I just I just saw it online with the when I was pulling up that picture. I think I saw his age. Hold on. I'd say 52. 52. Born in 72. Oh, so he's four years younger. He's like my Oh, you know what? He's Do you know that he's born on the exact same day as my sister? July 12th, 1972. What's he 53? So he's got to be four years younger than me. So I'm Yeah. So 44. Oh, he'll be He'll be I mean he'll be 54. He'll be 54. Yeah. So he's 53. You're right. What a guess. Yeah. So I mean guess probably Probably gonna I'm just kidding. He probably looks exactly the same as he did when he competed. I'm sure these guys are unbelievable. You know, once again, I I I think that, you know, when you hit a certain age at this point, they should let you do whatever you want. I mean, I know I know there's rules and stuff like that, but I mean, who cares if he if he competed in He's a Mast's guy once you're out of the He's not a He wasn't really an active pro. He was retired essentially. He was doing a couple other shows. He was trying to make a few bucks for himself. I mean, once again, I I understand, you know, that you have to have a some kind of decorum, but um in Europe, it's not like here, you know what I mean? It's it's it's here it's a lot easier to get a show. You called your man up, you get a show. You know, over there it's like it's like the wild west, you know? So, he still looks great. Look at him. Hold on. I'll pull I'll pull up some video of him. Yeah. Send up put send out send me put up some I got some I got some here. I got some here. Hold on. Yeah. Still looks good to me. He looks like Morius Pujenowski. Yeah, as he got older. Speaking of Morius Pujenowski got his ass kicked, huh? Yeah, I sent you that video. That was pretty uh Eddie, you know, I had Eddie Hall on the show. One of the world's strongest men. He actually went world's strongest man at one point. And I had him on the show. I click about a month or two ago and he told me, you know, he was talking about his his, you know, 1,200 pound deadlift and his world's strongest man. He's a crazy dude. I I love him. And he said he was going to fight Moraurice Pujenowski who who I think didn't Moraurice win the World's Strongest Man like um how many times did Morius win it? Like five times or something like that? More than more than a couple, that's for sure. And but Morius like 370 in this fight or something like that. Yeah. I mean, just insane. Yeah, I would not. Hey, really? They said he's got the They did some kind of test on him in some MMA, you know, UFC gym. They said he hits with the most force of anyone they've ever measured or something like that. It's crazy. So, would you want would you want to get hit with a fist, Chris, that could you know that that's the hardest fist they've ever measured in terms of of pounds per square inch? and and the fact that he's the world's strongest man. And the fact that he's deadlifted 1,200 pounds with with no belt or I mean with no excuse me with no uh super suit or anything like that. Very dangerous man to be in the ring with now. And a lot of people don't know, you remember he fought uh the the the the mountain Hapthor Bjornson in a boxing ring a couple years ago and he lost, but a lot of people didn't know he had he had a torn muscle. He he fought with he told me that, you know, so I I I'm sure that I'm sure there won't be a rematch, but uh I think that Eddie probably would would have done really well had he not that torn muscle. He's he you know I I I have to say that you know it it sounds ridiculous when we talk about these these fights these super fights but you know what at the end of the day we love to see people beat the crap out of each other Chris I mean you and I all we do is talk about Muhammad Ali fights and uh because we like to watch people beat the crap out of each other. You know what the truth is? I enjoy watching people beat the crap out of each other who we actually know. So if you actually know the person, it's a much more enjoyable it's much more enjoyable to watch it because it's like you kind of know the the personalities of the people fighting each other, you know. Well, this day get a chance with with social media to feel like you actually know the person you're rooting for. Yeah. But you know what? If the money is there and there's promoters willing to put the money up, which there was obviously for this Pujenowski and and Eddie Hall fight, then God blessed them. They made a lot of money for themselves. I don't I don't blame them. I would do it too if I was, you know, still in the prime of my life. If someone put up a couple million bucks, I'd get into a ring. I'd fight uh I'd fight Ronnie Coleman in the ring. You know, you know, they speaking of they asked Mike Tyson um I was on some kind of podcast about you know who who would have won fight him or Muhammad Ali if they both fought each other at 20 years old. What do you think he said? I've seen it. He said Ali. Oh yeah, he said Ali. He said he would have He he's the kind of guy he said he'll take you out into the middle of the ocean and drown you. He said well that he said that he said two two memorable lines because Mike Tyson kind of memorable lines. Yeah. That one which really means he'll just tire you out in the late rounds. Take you out. He's a cerebral assassin. Drowning you. And then he said he's a Tyrannosaurus Rex with a pretty face. Yeah. He said he'd kill He said he'd kill me. That's what he said. He didn't say he'd beat me. He said he'd kill me. Right. Yep. So that's I thought that was pretty humble. I did too. But pretty humble. Well, if he beat George Foreman, I I think you know Foreman was like a was like a a taller version of a Tyson essentially. He beat George Foreman, but he also beat you know I mean he would fight far more frequently than people fight these days. Yeah, he would fight three fights a year, right? But Foreman fought kind of similar to the way Tyson, he came in, you know, slugged slugged it out. He went for the knockout punches, you know, that's what Tyson probably would have tried to go for the knockout. And I'm sure Alli would have probably played the same, you know, tire out, you know, strategy. Ali had none chin as well. Yeah. Yeah. And uh, you know, he likes to, you know, he would have been talking crap in Tyson's ear the whole time, too, you know. Yeah. So would have been interesting. I wonder if we'll get to some point with whereas AI will be able to create like a a a virtual character almost like a like a holographic character with all the attributes of of of the who the person is and and actually be able to have like a real almost like lifelike fight, you know, type of thing where would be more realistic as opposed to just a computer analyzing statistics, you know. I'm sure that's on the way. I mean, if you could do movies, right? Look, they I was watching an interview with I forget who it was and he was saying that the MMA fights Dave right now if you haven't seen on on uh Instagram with like Putin and Trump and yeah seen it's great isn't it awesome and I mean they'll have like accurate like they'll have the statistical you know aspects of these people so precisely calculated that it will actually be you know something that you that would be close to what would happen in reality. Yeah. Yeah. They say that the the smartest computer right now is is is smarter than the smartest man on on the planet. And they said in five years the best the smartest computers will be smarter than every human being combined intelligence wise. Scary, right? Yeah. Well, I mean at some point you'll be able to hook up with Elon Musk's Neuralink and instead of Google something, you'll just think it. Yeah. It'll show up. That's just a fact, right? So like education, you know, like just think of the access to information that you have now with just Google like on a keyboard. How about when it's in your brain and you think you know it but it's you're thinking about it and you be a you're able to recall that information that you don't even know what you're talking about. Yeah. I wonder if they'll ever be able to create like a um you know how they talk about these you know using crisper um technology where they can clip and insert genes into your body you know they talk about like removing the myostatin gene from muscle so the body bills can get bigger I could see that happening but what about if you could actually create some sort of like a nanobot that you can put into someone's body that can go tell the muscles build more build more you know make more protein go engage in protein synthesis more build more muscle. So you can actually program the muscles to to get bigger, you know, even without the the uh impetence or the input of exercise, you know. I I I could see that happening like where we can actually influence how our bodies respond, you know, by these little nanobots, you know, that are going to go in, you know, now who knows if they if you once you let them into your body, they might want to get out of your body and that could be a problem, too. I could see, you know, artificially enhancing muscle growth by telling the cells what to do, you know, and uh I could see AI doing that in the future. I mean, it's just it's unlimited going forward. We'll have to test people changes in medicine, right, with AI and just, you know, but we'll still be here in 10 years and say, quote, there's no there's no cure for cancer, Dave. Right. Exactly. Cure that. They won't let you call they won't let you cure that, Chris. There's too much money in come up with a cure. Yeah. They don't want they don't want to cure that. That's that's uh that's not profitable. It's got to be profitable. I sent you that that interview, right, with Tucker Carlson with the guy talking about cancer cures. I Yeah. Yeah. I've seen that. That incredible. You must have loved that, right, Dave? I did. That was one of my favorite interviews. Dave is gonna love the science. I I told people if you want to really really get a And this guy is the number one cancer guy in the world. I mean, if you want to know everything there is to know. I did what he I think he said like sleep, right? the most important thing and and sunlight. The most important things to, you know, for not getting cancer, get enough sleep and get enough sunlight. And, you know, it's funny because when I was in medical school and I was, you know, so sleepd deprived, you know, because they don't let you sleep and you got to be on call every, you know, third night or whatever, every 72 hours overnight and I would be like, you know what, I feel like I'm dying. I I I the fact that I wasn't sleeping, like I just felt like death. I said, and you know that it wasn't the reason I left medical school, but it was one of the reasons I said, "This is just so unhealthy." I said, "What I'm going through right now, I said, I can't see myself doing this for another another two years in med school to graduate and then I got to do a residency for three years, you know, and if I want to do something, you know, even more extravagant than that, it could be longer." I said, "I'm going to die." I said, "I'm going to die." I said, "I gotta stop this. I'm gonna get cancer and die." And so that's that was one of, you know, that was was like I said, wasn't the only it was one of the contributing factors to me dropping out. I didn't I didn't feel healthy because you got to sleep. You know, I tell these bodybuilders, too. I I have guys that I help I know a lot of guys have jobs and sometimes they can't do it. But guys, you got to find a way to sleep even if you got to take naps during the day because you're not going to have a successful bodybuilding career having four hours of sleep a night. It just doesn't it's not conducive to that. Babies don't sleep four hours a night. And that's and the reason why babies sleep and eat all day is because that's what that's what it takes to grow and to you know to and what what do babies do more than anything? they grow the first couple years of their life. So, if you want to put muscle on and you want to grow and recover, you got to sleep. And uh you know, as much as they try to vilify the sun nowadays, there's so many things that your body needs sunlight for. Not just vitamin D3 production, but a multitude of other things that that are initiated by the UV light hitting, you know, hitting the um body. You know, I was at I was at the mall and they were trying to sell me um this um red light therapy machine. Have you seen these things? Yeah. And they did my face. That's why I might be looking a little younger since uh today, Chris, because I had I had a fa I had a red light faceelift counting. So, they want they find they want f they want 10 grand for this machine. It's a red light machine that penetrates. You put this like Dave, it's 14 149 with tariffs, but go ahead. Well, he said he said it's 10,000. There is no discount on this machine. He goes, we have another machine that's a little less expensive. By the end of the by by when I finished with this guy, he was ready to sell me the she machine for five grand. I said, thought you said there's no discounts on the machine. I give it to you. I give it to you. A Zerelli guy. And um I said, look, you know what? I said, the truth is it probably works. I said, but but I don't have any time to use it. I said, "So, I'm being honest with you. I I have too many rituals already. I can't add another ritual. I have no I'd have to drop I'd have to drop one of my other rituals if I did that." Dave, nobody has your rituals. Nobody has rituals. Takes them three hours to get ready for bed. And it gets it's getting longer and longer, Chris, the older I get. Tossing the teeth. Yeah. Eye moisturizer, face moisturizer. Well, they found one of the biggest predictors of dementia, Chris, is is is bad teeth. Uh, are you serious? Yes. Poor gums. I have bad teeth. If you have gum problems, you better address it now because you will be they think because the the the bacteria go right into your brain, you know, from there. Not good. So, go get you know what they it might you got to get like a deep cleaning from like a perodontist where they get under your gums and they clean them up. And don't [\h__\h] with your teeth. I'm telling you the teeth are big big no no. Well, I never bought into that idea that a marker for heart disease was bad teeth because I just figured people with bad teeth have terrible eating habits meaning sugar. Yeah, that's a possibility too. And so that is the mark of the sugar, not the bad teeth. Yeah. Gums go gums. It's it's not teeth health. The teeth I mean sometimes teeth and gums are correlated, but it's gum health direct correlation with dementia. I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm going to take had the worst teeth and gum 30 minutes because he used to be a pipe smoker and you know his his teeth were horrendous. So I mean that that that would be a direct that made me feel a little better that that you know because uh you know I think we all fear you know if you you know if you see your parents have dementia I know Sean Ray's one of his parents had that too. was telling me about that. Uh it's scary because you think it's going to happen to you, but you know, we take a lot better care of ourselves probably than our parents did. And so, you know, and we're learning more about things that Man, you know, I was just thinking that the other day, like my parents never ate junk food. No, they never ate junk food ever. Wow. That's that's incredible. Even when they got older, because older people tend to do a lot of sugar. No, no, no. My my mother would, you know, maybe have a dessert here and there, but they never ate and never ate like chips or right or anything like that. Was your mother a Did she cook a lot? Yeah, they she she always cooked. Oh, so that's that's that's why they would when you when you're eating gourmet food every night, you know, from the kitchen, you know, there's no reason to eat, you know, potato chips, you know, as as a snack, you know. So, my grandmother was the same way. My grandmother would cook so much food. My grandfather was eating like a like a king every day. It was like he didn't have to eat junk food, you know. He had a canoli once at the holidays. That was about it, you know. But uh my grandfather knew, I don't know how he knew. He didn't really exercise. He did his own little exercises, but he always told me he's don't get fat. He goes, "These fatties," he goes, they they don't live. Fat people don't live. He goes, "They die young." He goes, "They got to put you in a piano coffin." He used to tell me. It's funny. My father used to say, "Don't overeat." one of few little, you know, he used to say two two word two tidbits of advice he gave always Yeah. Don't rush no matter what you're doing. Even though he rushed everything say don't be in a rush. Yeah. Uh and don't overeat. Right. That's right. My grandfather was a he's a glutton. He's a glutton. That's that that was the favorite the favorite Italian expression is the glutton. They glutton. And they would say it at people's funerals, too. No, they would say he's a go what's it? Garbone. I don't know what he gone. Gavone. Goon. He He He's a glutton. That's why he died. My My father would be like, "Dad, shut up. Quiet down. P." He'd be like, "Oh, yeah. I mean, in the funeral, Paul was saying this. Announce it. Announce why." No, he doesn't. He He had a loud voice. He didn't think anyone could hear him, you know. He was He was He thought he was being quiet, but he wasn't, you know. So anyway, oh look, uh Amin gets his white. That's not nice. Not nice, guys. Sorry. All right, let's uh take a look at Samson Dada who guest posed this past weekend. He's obvious people forget, you know, just because he lost at the at the Arnold doesn't mean he's not Mr. Olympia. He is the reigning Mr. Olympia right now and he's looking pretty freaky. You know, we got to I got to I got to believe that he's still the man to beat come October. This is in Germany now. We look we we know the German fans are crazy about bodybuilding. I mean, it's uh they love it. And I don't think Samson ever received as much of a standing ovation as he did in in Germany, but I expect that because the German fans are ravenous for bodybuilding. New York fans are great about bodybuilding, too, but the German fans love it. You and I have been to Germany for shows before. And what was that show they had? Remember, not the Fibo show. They had another show in Germany. Didn't they had like a oneoff show one year? They had the Olympia. It was called the like European Olympia or something. Yeah. Yeah. I I Yeah, I think actually I think you were there at that one. I don't think I went to that. I was there. Yeah. There was Who won that? Dexter Roden second and Lion Biki who look really That's right. That's right. Is Yeah, I don't know why they they gota they got they should have at least two shows there every year. Pro shows. I mean, with that fan, you could sell that. You could sell any arena out in Germany you want. So, I don't know what the reason is, but I I think that uh I think they should have more shows there. I really do. It was a great show. That show was uh maybe Ron Raquel could promote it. Sold out. Great lineup. incredibly or well organized. Yeah. Yeah. I booked my trip finally to Pittsburgh. Chris, did you do it? You better If you didn't do it, you better do it because I'll tell you one thing. I uh I went to book it yesterday morning and I went to the bathroom and I went came back and it was $100 more the flight. Yeah. Um Yeah, I'm there from Tuesday. Okay. Yeah, I'll be there and uh I get there. I'm I'm I'm doing a short one Friday to Sunday. I'm I'm like I can't afford I have too much going on. What if there's a delay in your flight? You or it's canceled, you'll miss the show. Well, the the show the show is Saturday and Sunday, actually. But the men are on Saturday. So, I'm really going for this. My My whole point is you're assuming is that if you if you come in on Friday and it's a canceled, I'm going in the morning. If it's canceled, I'm screwed. Yeah. I'm I'm rolling I'm rolling the dice, Chris. I'm rolling those dice. Thunder and Lightning. That's right. Cancelled. I'll be I really I really want to see the show. You know, I I hate to say it. I hate to admit it, Chris, but I I'm really going to the show because well, I'm going to show to support Jim Manion because his first time doing this pro show, but I'm I'm I'm going as a fan mostly because I think the lineup is so good. Just like I went to the Arnold as a fan. I really wanted to see the show really. And it's it's a great little perk that I get a press pass and I get to uh you know critique the show because you know at the end of the day Chris really we're we're glorified fans. You know even though we coach people and we cover the sport we you know at the end of the day we we love bodybuilding like everyone else and this is a great lineup. It's going to be like an Olympia lineup here. You want to give us any insights or any kind of previews on Derek? So you're helping Derek Good Veto. Who else? um in the open. Derek and Good Veto. Yeah. And uh Derek very good. And Good Vito looks very good. I think we should have like a battle of the coaches. Good. Good is in Tampa with Derek. Oh, he is. He is. He's training at his gym every day. Wow. Maybe I should go up there. Check it out. Raone is there, too. Really? Oh, that's a great little They got a great little training camp there. That's That's phenomenal. Yeah, it's it's it's uh what's uh how did they all get up there? I mean, it's still pretty early. Days or so. Did Derek invite all those guys up there? Um Fabriio Poolic. It's the first time I've been able to say his name properly. The only reason I can pronounce it is because Derek pronounced it because I botch it, so I just call him Po. Okay. So, um, Pacho is helping Derek with his training and Pacho also helps Ramon and Good training. So, uh, Pacho headed up there and dragged along uh, Good Vidito and I love it. Went to Raone and so they've been there for Ramon's guest posing at the show. So, it's it's team Aceto's up there. Really? That's great. And um I'm supposed to go up there to to to shoot something for Titan Medical uh in the next week or two. How long are they going to be up there? I think they're going to be up there to the first or the second. They're leaving pretty soon to They're leaving next week. Yeah. This week's not Yeah, they're going out there pretty early. And of course, Ramon doesn't uh I mean Ramon Goodito doesn't speak English. He We got to get him. We got to get him a tutor. Who can we get him to? Who can we tutor him? We need a Russian. Unfortunately, our great friend Eugene Mission, may rest in peace, is not around, but who else do we know that speaks Russian and um and English? Uh let's see who else would speak Russian in the bodybuilding world. I don't I don't We got to get like Oxana Gracina or something like that, you know? Or we can get He said You said he speaks perfect Portuguese, too, right? Perfect. We got to find a Portuguese uh someone who speaks Portuguese. Maybe someone's got to teach him English because you know what? His marketability will be go up a thousandfold and he can start speaking some English. If he learned Portuguese, it's got to be harder to learn Portuguese than it is English. I'm sorry. He learned it like fluent. You know what the problem is? No one speaks English in Brazil. They all speak Portuguese. And you would think because I, you know, we go to a lot of countries and and a lot of people speak, you know, they're bilingual. They speak English or whatever their native language is. In Brazil, you go there, no one knows English at all. It's it's amazing. I'm I'm I'm flabbergasted about how how badly everyone speaks English there. You go to Germany, everyone speaks English. You go to You go to any other country, you got English speaking. Germany, the FIO, there are a lot of people who didn't speak speak English. Yeah. Really? A FIBO? I'm surprised because the Germans all know English usually, you know, they learn it in school. shops, restaurants, barbers. Wow. Didn't speak any English. I'm very surprised to be honest with you. Hold on. Let me check my notes out here. What else did I want to bring up? What do you What do you think about this whole this whole Shannon Sharping suit for 50 million bucks? This guy I I you know, I just don't see him raping any women. It's it's crazy, you know, when he's I think there there's like a witch hunt out there. I I can't, you know, it this almost smells like a Shawn Rhoden, you know, job to me. What do you think? Well, since I was the only one on the planet who defended Shawn Rhoden. Yeah. Uh I will defend Shannon Sharp. You know, it sounds like a shakedown. Um you know, he's getting $100 million contract coming up. Yeah. and you know, lo and behold, his uh the girl who he was dating, it's it's problematic when you're dating someone. I know. I know. You know, and that person says, you know, this happened to me. Um, you know, and he's come out and you you saw he name dropped their name. Yeah. Yeah, I did see that. So, he's coming out punching, which probably is the the right thing to do, you know, when you're innocent. Yeah. Um I'm sure you the lawyers say don't don't say anything, but when you you know you're innocent, you want to say everything because you want your innocence. Um it doesn't help him though that you know he had that Instagram snafu like I know that Instagram live a few months ago and now this. It's just, you know, if it was just this public relations wise, probably survive it. Yeah. Had to step away from ESPN. And do you think they forced him out? Um, that's a good question. Let me think about it. Did they force him out? They probably told him to tempor temporarily step away until things simmer down and then we'll bring you back. That's my guess. It's just a guess. Well, you know, now that he's he's not on ESPN, I can get him maybe I can get him to do some coverage with us at the uh the up, you know, he did coverage with us at the Olympia last year, right? John Hansen and I did a wrap-up for men's classic physique. I thought he did a great job. Maybe we could bring him to the Olympia with us this year since he's not doing anything right now. You know, he's between jobs right now, Chris. So, we live in a crazy society. I I feel bad for him. I do. He's a good guy, you know. He's been around people don't realize he's been around the industry a long time. Remember uh Bill Phillips was using him and his brother right back in the day for I told you Dave when Mike Francois won the Chicago Pro him and his brother came backstage to a bodybuilding fan to meet him and Dave and Mike Francois said you're kidding me like they're here to like that was 95 too that was 30 years ago Chris it was exactly 30 years ago it was 31 years ago wow so He Channon Sharp was 58, 48, 38, 28. Shannon Sharp would have been 27 years old. Wow. Yeah. We were all We're all about the same age. Yeah. Yeah. All of us. You It's just It's you know I I It's like every time someone like becomes like starts doing well, at least lately it seems that way, and someone starts making money, it's like someone wants to knock them down off that pedestal. And let's face it, no one is no one lives a perfectly clean monklike life. Okay, these guys are, you know, you know, he's he's going to be out there. You know, he's gonna they I saw a video they showed from the Olympia of him like talking to some girl or something like that someone put up on TMZ. I think it was on TMZ. Maybe if you want to show that the Sid and I felt bad for the guy. What the guy's not allowed to hit on girls when you're a celebrity. It It's crazy. I remember seeing a um an interview with the guy who played Superman. Uh what's his name? Um I I love this guy, too. What's this? What's what's what's the the last guy who played Superman? He played the Witcher, too. Anyway, he was saying he goes, "I don't I can't even go. I can't even ask a girl on a date." He goes, "If I don't know her." He goes, "Because I'm I'm afraid that she's going to like try to trap me and get me say I try to like you." Oh, Henry Camilill. Thank you. Very, you know what? That's a very It's a very legitimate gripe the for you know, the last Superman actor had. And when you when you're a celebrity or you have tons of money, you know, that's goes with the territory that it's sad that you're you know, you expose yourself to any type of accusation. And an accusation this day and age is, you know, public relations wise is almost um almost sticks as much as a conviction. Yeah. I mean there's no way that by and and the proof of that is whether they asked him to step away, asked him to take a break, you know, requested that he, you know, not be on ESPN for a while. That is proof that just an accusation can ruin your career. I mean, you mentioned Shawn Roden, an accusation destroyed his career in one day. And his life 24 hours. Yeah. You know, his his uh supplement contract went away within 36 hours. Yeah. Yeah. You know, Gina Carano, you know, who they tried to blacklist her from from Hollywood. She was dating Henry Camille and Henry Cavil said when he broke up, well, they broke up and then he was dating some other world. And when he broke up with the other girl, he went back and started dating her again. He go and they said, "Why? You you you're Superman. You could date anyone you want." He goes, "I'm too scared to date someone I don't know." He said, "At least she knows me. She, you know, I don't have to worry about her." So, started dating her again. It's crazy. A lot of people suspect it's coming out now because he's getting Yeah, that Chris mentioned that. Said, "Yeah, that he's got a hundred million dollar contract coming out." Um, it's it's sad. It's very sad that that that people don't want to see anyone succeed. They love you. They love you. They love you until you do too well and then they want to knock you down a couple. Well, the girl has the same lawyer as who tried bring Jay-Z down. Yep. Tony Busby. And Jay-Z dropped the girl's name and then she had all types of holes in her story. Yeah, Jay-Z's too smart to get caught in something like that. I mean, that's why it didn't see something seemed suspicious right from the beginning with that one. And Shannon Sharp looks like so also the he doesn't look like he's a he gets he's not like a a troublemaker you know it just doesn't seem certain people you suspect you're like well you know possible you know Charlie it was Charlie Sheen you'd be like well yeah probably he probably did it you know but you know a guy like Shannon Sharp you know you don't you don't see that happening it's just not uh it's kind of sad and and you know when it when it piggybacks on top of when someone's going to make a lot of the suspicious nature of the whole thing goes up, you know, 100fold. So, I don't I don't know what the right answer is. I I feel bad for these guys, but right answer is Shannon Sharp's got to date woman with the same income I was sitting or date he's got to date his ex-girlfriends. That's But it is it is pretty scary. Um, how do you think Krisa will do it in Pittsburgh? He's looking pretty freaky. Uh he looks freaky and I think he's underrated and I think he's underrated because of uh you know he's got he's he's got a lot of bells and whistles and he's got height and width. So um you know and as good as he looks in the pictures, people still have low expectations. So when they when you have low expectations of someone and they deliver, you know, you sit at the edge of your chair and you say, "Wow, we look great." Right? because you know that he's he's not he's not won any big titles you know when he did the Olympia I think he was I think he got seventh at the Olympia um and he looked really good that year was just you know but it was top 10 so I mean he's a top 10 Olympian guy and he had some surgery to fix it and he obviously looks a lot bigger and better now than he did when you know the last time we saw him you know I think he put one of those bots you were talking about into his he looked He looks like he's got a bot inside of him. Yeah, he's he's so freaky. So, we got Kriso. Let me see who else. Sid, pull up uh the latest Nick Walker updates. He's looking pretty freaky as well. How does like a Nick Walker compare to a m to a Kriso? You know, different physiques. Nick's of course more of a mass monster. Um, Chris's got mass and and conditioning. Ridiculous conditioning, too. Conditioning and he's got, like I said, Dave, he's got height. You know, height. Yeah. If he's, you know, if he's big enough, height is really can create an illusion. You know, he's a big guy. He's a big guy. And you're going against guys like Derek who's short, Nick, who's, you know, not that tall. Martin who's on the shorter side. short. Um, you know, of course that could leave Krzo as the odd man out and just look, you know, the if he's not big, the tallness can be a detriment, but if he's big, going to be an attribute. Here's my question. Where are these pictures being taken? He looks he looks like he's he's in a studio someplace with a black backdrop and and like spotlights on him. Where is that that picture being taken, Sid? Does it say on his Instagram? Can't take anymore the the the pictures. I told you had the king. You had the the king of filters was on RX the other. You You want to bring them up or no? You don't want to talk about it? No, bring it up. All right. I I commented uh you know, king of filters and I I need to sell a house and I need that filter. Walker. Who's Walker? Me? Oh, that's that's Walker. That's the guy who shot the picture. Lewis Walker photography. So this is this was a this was a professional shoot. Professional. Yeah. Pull up the Persian guy that that said that. Um No, he was Chinese. The guy. Oh, the Chinese. I thought you we talked about the Persian guy with me. Oh, they're all filtered. Everyone's filtered. They're, you know, if I put Good Veto and Oh, Lewis's brother. Okay. All right. They're not in shape. Those are great pictures of Dick Walker. Whoever took those pictures, they came out really good. The lighting was excellent. So you think this is this is he looks like he's got a dream tan on too. This guy he's he's got dream filters. Dream filters. Another another backdrop like shady. That must be the There's something to that. That's a posing room. You can see the the mirror behind him though. Definitely. Chris spooky back black background. What show is he doing? This guy now Pittsburgh could win it. Said pull up his page or I could pull it up if you want, but you could pull it up while I'm talking to Chris. People on their page, Dave, for God's sake. No, let's just show some more pictures of him. I want I want you to analyze them. Do you think these pictures are filtered? I know the one I don't think he's as impressive here as he was in those in the other ones, the dark pictures. The dark picture is like I said, I'm gonna, you know, sell the next house that I'm flipping for five times the amount because I'm going to use his filter. He lists himself as a fitness model. He doesn't even really talk much about his classic Olympian. That front double though with from the filter. There's a there's a picture said a little further down the page of him like hitting some double bicep shots are really really impressive too. Coleman had the only pictures that that weren't filtered that looked filtered. That look filtered. Yeah, they if you filtered his pictures, forget about Yeah, that that picture. What do What do you think about those? Those are pretty freaky, those shots, Chris. He's in pretty good shape. Got good conditioning. These look more realistic. These pictures, you can see he's not like as overwhelming because of the lighting, but uh he's definitely, like you said, classic physique. I mean, he he could definitely do really well. He's got all the bells and whistles he needs. How did he do? He's a pro, right? He's got a pro. I think he's got a pro card. What was his last pro show? I don't know if he's competed as a pro, but he's I think he's a pro. Ask chat box. What was his last pro show and boy did he place? Somebody's commenting. What are they saying? I'm I'm trying to find out myself. He's competed today at a show. I think he's an amateur. Okay. Maybe he I think he was in another organization is I think that that's uh from what I'm seeing here it looked like he won the overall at an F some weird organization championship. So I don't think he's AI don't think he competes in the IFBB NPC. That's the problem. So look, you know, there's always new talent out there. Wayne D'Amelia was notorious for finding these these remember he used to go to other countries and find these guys and bring them in to the fray. So, champions. I mean, look, they found Krisa, right? Krisa wasn't, you know, wasn't, you know, an IFBB guy. Well, how hard does it to find him? You can just like go on the internet and find good pictures. No, you know, now now it's easy. But I'm saying back in the day, remember when Wayne would go to other countries? He would like track these guys down. He was like a scout. Like, you know, they used to scout like a high school football fields looking for talent. That was Wayne Demilia back in the day. He'd go to like the European Championships. That's right. actually too too much of too much. Too much. He's too Wayne's too much. So, he doesn't get the props for that. I think Chris I think I I agree with one of the comments. I think Chris is going to do very well. I think he might be a he might be your dark horse in this lineup in Pittsburgh. He could be. But, you know, he's he's also a guy though, Christie. You know, when you look at him by himself, he's like almost he looks like Mr. Olympia. And then you put him in the lineup and for some reason it doesn't he doesn't look as impressive standing up there. I don't know what it is, but um he's good, but he's not like phenomenal. I don't know what it is. Maybe his tan isn't as good. Something. He loses some some wow factor when he's next to other guys, you know? It's almost like he's too hard. It's like I don't know if maybe he's not full enough or something like that, but I would definitely say that that that Kriszo is a dark horse in Pittsburgh that no one's talking about. You know, I think good veto is a known commodity now that he won, you know, the Arnold Europe. I mean, the Arnold um Brazil. Uh we obviously know Derek has won the Arnold. You know, we we we know Nick Walker. I mean, I I I don't think there's any, you know, Martin Fitzwwater. So, I think Kriso is the guy that no one's really thinking about. So he he could definitely be very dangerous, you know, if he comes in better than we've seen him full because I don't think I've ever seen the guy out of shape. So, you know, he's he's the kind of guy that needs the Matt Greggo diet, you know, he needs probably cheeseburgers the last week every single day. Yeah. Last month. Go ahead. Because otherwise if you don't do No, because if you don't do that with him, he comes in hard, but he comes in flat hard and that's not impressive on stage against these guys. He loses some of that roundness. Well, you know how it is on stage. Everything counts. If you're flat, you know, if you're holding five ounces of water, you're not good. If you're holding a gallon of water, it's not good. If you're too full, it's not good. It's it just, you know, the competitiveness right now is such that you have to be bang on the money. And the fact is is judges they, you know, they know, you know, a good judging panel like this panel in Pittsburgh or New York Pro or they know when they've, you know, what's flat, you know, and they know what's holding a little bit of water because they're looking for mistakes. really that's what they're looking for is the mistakes because that's where you, you know, separate the winner from the guy who's second place is based on who came in perfect, which means who didn't make any mistakes. And it's so hard. It's so easy to make mistakes towards the end to come in a little bit too full or a little bit too flat but peeled, a little bit too full and watery or, you know, some combination of those, right? Is uh is it true that Cormier is working with Kriso on posing that I don't know. I haven't I haven't talked to Chris lately. It's possible. I would I would recommend it. I mean, if I'm a pro out there and I got guys like Chris Cormier who are offering their services, you know, to make me a better poser. And I know that posing can really go a long way be, you know, between maybe first and second or second and third place. I'm I'm gonna take Chris up. And you know Chris Chris will fly anywhere and go anywhere. You don't you don't have to twist the guy's arm. All you have to do is say, "Hey, Chris, you want you want to hop on a plane and come out to me for for a weekend?" He'll come. Posing Dave, posing and presentation is, you know, that's it's also it's counts because I mean, you know what, the tan counts. How many? You know, you could lose a show. This show could be one and loss on somebody's crap tan versus a good tan if it or maybe not one and loss, but you know, fifth and sixth or sixth, seventh or even fourth and third, you know, guys lose shows because of tan, bad tans. We've seen it happen. It I've seen it so many times. Well, I see Chriso's also confirmed that he's doing New York Pro as well. So now I see a post on his SAS is doing New York Pro Day. Do you know that George Ferris doing the Chris's diet? I did. Yes. Oh, I didn't I didn't know that. Okay. Well, he should be he should be great because George likes to feed a lot of carbs, so he should be he should be perfect for that show. Yeah. Sa Sass Herat is doing New York Pro. Oh, he is. Oh, good. Yeah. He was doing the Cal Pro, but I I just told why wouldn't you just do New York? I mean, you're also in Cal because you you bang on the money and I mean, you just look great. So, that was it. He's doing It'll be interesting to see who does New York. Is he doing Cal too? If he has do both. Yeah. Okay. All right. Yeah. Yeah, it'll be interesting because they're all back to back to back to back. Look at Is that John Efer? Yeah, it is. What's up? No, but but I I think it's a great idea that um guys are doing Pittsburgh, they're doing New York, they're doing Cal, they're all back to back to back to back. You might as well get all three of them in, especially if you're trying to get a qualification or just trying to make some money, guys. There there's good money at all these shows. you might as well hit them all and and because even if you get, you know, third or fourth or fifth places, you're gonna get a paycheck. You're in shape already. The more you do these shows, the more experience you're going to get on stage, especially for the guys that are not, you know, veterans who need the stage experience. I think a guy like Kriso, who's always in shape, should do all three, for sure. You know, obviously a guy like Good Veto doesn't need to. He's already qualified for the Olympia. So, but you know, is there a chance that Good Veto might do New York? Um, I don't think so because um, no, he's he's he's pretty beat. No, there's no Yeah, I mean, there's no point. He doesn't need it. You know, he he wanted to not do Pittsburgh um, after the win, but, you know, he signed the contract, so. Yeah. Plus, the money can't hurt, I'm sure. You know, if I'm if I if I was a guy competing nowadays, man, I wouldn't be turning down any $100,000 paydays, you know. So, I'm not saying he's going to win, but even I'm sure if he comes in second or third place, the the check is going to be much bigger probably than the check you would receive for winning any other pro show during the year. Yeah, for sure. So, guys, don't be stupid. When the when the prize money is out there, go get it. You know, same thing with Dubai. I don't want to see a horrible lineup in Dubai, Chris. If I see a horrible lineup in Dubai, I'm going to be really disappointed because we know that Bader's given away at least 100 grand first place. It might be more. And I even for the other divisions, he gives away a lot of money. So that show better be stacked. And Dubai is a nice place to fly into. It's a great place to stay. You have no excuses, guys. If you're not qualified, get your ass to Dubai because I'm telling you, you don't get a chance to win that kind of money very often. And uh I was disappointed in in the lineup last year to be honest with you. So what do you think about that? I mean this all the people doing this lineup Dubai the problem is holding on takes a lot you know right. But if you're going to compete around that same time anyway you might as well [\h__\h] hit, you know, a couple shows. Yeah, it sounds sounds good on paper, but how many people do you know that like just under 140 grand? There it is. First place. It sounds easy, Dave, because we're sitting in comfortable seats, but when you've been dieting and dieting and dieting and dieting and you know, you hit like what do you veto to be able to do like South America and then Pittsburgh and then Well, it doesn't pay for him because he's they're too separated. But I got I know guys that are competing around that same time of the year. Yeah, if you're competing around that same time of year, get your ass in that show, you know, that's that's I mean, look at it. 50 grand for second place, 25 grand for third place, that's a lot of money, you know, all three of those places. Plus, you're going to get to network with with, you know, people in Dubai. You know, you might get pulled out there for a guest posing. The men's physique is, look at how big the men's physique purses. What does that say there? Is that 50 grand? I don't know. What is classic is 70 grand. classic is like Alli Bal should get out there for $50,000 and uh do the men's physique. He's He probably looks like he he won the show. He probably still looks like that. Yeah, I mean the men's classic is that's excellent prize money. 70 grand for his prize for classic. Yeah, I think it's great. 50 for men's physique. I I I think any men's physique guy or classic guy would be crazy not to do this show if if they think they It's higher than the Olympia. That's crazy, Chris. I didn't even think about that. You're right. Wow. Good for you. Good job. And then you don't even know that it's higher than the Olympia. I don't Well, Ali Balot couldn't tell us how much money he won for the Arnold. He didn't even know how much he won. I What do he win? 50 and then he he wound up taking home 35 or something like that. I think after taxes, I think first first price. How much is beta given for for Dubai? 50 for men's physique. 70 for classic. Double the Arnold. It's crazy. And I mean, think of that. Yeah. Trump said never won 70 grand. No. No. You're right. Wonder what I wonder. Maybe I can call Grego see if he he could diet for like four days. He doesn't need to diet very hard. I would send him out there. Why not? I mean, why not? That's a lot of money. No, he complains that he has to eat the food, which is harder than the dieting. Yeah. And then you get to go out there. You get another vacation. Chris. Yeah, we have Pittsburgh and New York coming up. Dave, I know you better watch out. What What date? What is the date of Dubai, Sid? I'm looking at my calendar. I think I have something on that same day already. Probably have my kids. What's the date? Oh, same weekend as Alabama. Oh, that's what it is. Was Alabama weekend. What is it? What's the date? It's a June 21st. Yeah, I think I'll be in Miami. I can't go. Yeah. The only way Chris could go, he'd have to bring the whole family with him there. If he did that, he would be able to go. My rule of thumb is I travel internationally. My wife comes with me. It's smart. No, it's smart. It's a smart play because I know your wife likes going. The answer is I've been like to one international place in six years. I know. I know. But uh you know, maybe our maybe our good friend will uh we'll we'll he'll help out a little bit. So, it's all good. You know what? This this season is going to be exciting. We have a lot of shows back to back to back to back to back coming up and that's uh that's exciting. You know, it was a little the last couple weeks were a little slow, you know, for bodybuilding, but now with these shows every week, we're going to have a lot to report on. Obviously, in Pittsburgh in two weeks, it'll be you, me, Sid, will be out there, plus I'm sure a host of other, you know, celebrities that we always pull into our wrap-up. So, we're going to have some great wrapups and coverage out there. Uh once again, we're going to be there live sitting. Sure. Probably close to the front row, right behind the judges, which is going to give us good seats and it's going to be an exciting event, you know. And then New York, you'll be in New York with Sid the week after that. I'll have my kids that week. I can't come out probably, but that'll be an ex an awesome show. And then whoever doesn't qualify in New York or Pittsburgh is going to probably wind up in Cal, you know, at the Cal Pro at the Pittsburgh Auditorium Hall. Well, he's got it's a new It's a different venue. It's not the one that they usually use, I think. So, I believe I believe it's a different venue. Um, I could be wrong. And, uh, they got the expo there. I think the women are on Sunday and the men are all on Saturday. So, you know, I'm I'll be there for Saturday, the whole of day event. And, uh, Sunday I'll I'll probably miss part of it because I'm going to be going home. But, uh, I got stuff to do. But, the men's event is going to be super popular. I wonder is he gonna have I wonder if he's gonna have guest posers out there like he always does. Guest posing. Who is Ramon? Oh, Ramon is guest posing. All right. So, he's going to have the guest poses, too. So, it's gonna it's going to be a celebrity weekend. There'll probably be more bodybuilding elite, you know, guys in Pittsburgh than there than there is at the Olympia. It'll be pretty comparable, I'm sure. Uh because everyone's going to be going out there to check out this first year, you know, pro show. Mike Somerfeld is gonna be there. That's great. Um good. I I like Mike. Sam Oh, Sam Sulac is there, too. Wow. Oh my god. who's now a pro Sam I have to be pro Sam Sulite Laura Leapados is going to be there. I see Ers Kelsinski is there with his new hairdo live right now he's gonna be there there's Ramon and who else? Sarah Valleus, Miss uh physique Olympia. It's going to be a star studed, the new wellness champ. Keon Pearson, Ronnie Coleman will be there, too. Chris Bumstead, Phil Heath. Wow. Flex Lewis. Holy mackerel. This is going to be a crazy crazy Friday at midnight. Once your flight gets delayed, you're gonna miss. Oh, can you not jinx me, please? I'm trying to back. I actually have I actually paid extra. I have a direct flight. I'm going direct. The jinx. I'm going direct, Chris. Purposely. I don't want I don't want to be delayed. I said, you know what? I'll pay the extra money. I'm going direct. There's a direct flight. I'm going direct. So, it's uh actually I might be in Pittsburgh three times this year because I'm gonna go to this show. I'll I'll probably be at Mast's Nationals with my friend John. And I'll they'll be again there with John and his wife for North American. So I might be I have a Pittsburgh might be a three a three appearance year for me in Pittsburgh. All right, we're going to wrap up. Next week we'll have uh the preview of the Pittsburgh official preview of the uh Pittsburgh Pro. Are they calling it the Jim Manion Pittsburgh Pro? I think that's what they're calling it. I think it's an appropriate title. Jim's been throwing this show for many, many years. And now they got the expo. They got the pro show. They're giving over They're giving 100 grand, first place. It's going to be super exciting. They got an Olympia lineup on stage. Plus, they got every dignitary in the in the in the bodybuilding world who will be there doing appearances. And uh I think we should ask Ronnie Coleman. Ronnie, if you were in your 20s and Mike Tyson was in his 20s, who would win? What would Ronnie say in the fight? I don't know what Ronnie puts. Can you imagine if Ronnie was trained for boxing? He'd probably be like a world boxing champion, too. I bet. I can guarantee it. The guy's an athlete. No doubt in my mind. Anything he put his mind to, he could do. He was put on this earth to be, you know, the greatest at whatever he put his mind to. Well, he did it in bodybuilding. I don't transfer even even though the Brian Dobson said he could have been the greatest powerlifter of all time if he had completely dedicated himself to that sport. That's how strong he was. Might have been the greatest powerlifter of all time. Who? Mike Francois. Was he Was he Did he have some crazy lifts? Probably stronger than Coleman. I didn't know that. I didn't know he I knew he was strong. I didn't know he was that strong, you know. All right. As we say every week, Chris with Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. We'll see you next week.