 KISPEPTIN, is it the peptide you've been looking for? Stay tuned. Stay tuned. . . . . AnL-Z-ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ for that title. I'm actually going to be in New York, Connecticut slash Connecticut this coming weekend, see my sister. And I'm going to be seeing Kareth as well at Pro Body Gym, which is an awesome, awesome gym in Westchester there. I highly advise you check it out. It's like four or five stories high. It's got the best equipment I've ever seen. You know, it's phenomenal. So I'm looking forward to training there on Fridays, checking out Kareth in person, going through some posing. Maybe we'll put up a little posing video with Kareth because he's looking wacky. And Olympia fever is, you know, starting up. So I'm getting excited. I'll be, I know you're leaving. I'm leaving. I think on what, on Wednesday before the show? I'm set to arrive. I'm leaving Tuesday evening. So yeah, I'm going to arrive Tuesday evening there yourself. Yeah. Yeah. I'll be there. I'll be there Wednesday morning. So I got a direct flight out of Fort Myers, which is amazing. But so that's going to be the schedule. Yeah. And I know Chris is getting in even earlier than us. So we'll have some, some good previews coming up over the next couple of weeks. Now I wanted to bring up one thing before we get to the questions. Titan Medical Center is offering $50 off their Hexarel and growth hormone releasing peptide. It's, I think the steepest discount they've ever given on any of the growth hormone releasing peptides, certainly on Hexarel, which is one of the most potent ones out there. So you want to check that out, go over to TitanMedicalCenter.com. Also there, Red and True Tide, which is the three-in-one GLP-1 agonist, which is great obviously for fat loss, blood sugar control, et cetera, et cetera. They are offering a discount on that as well. It's continuing from last week's discount. So you might want to check that out. It's funny how I hear there, Chris Cicito sent me an article, Sid, where there, these companies are investing like $35 billion in building facilities in the United States just to make these, these fat loss drugs, these GLP-1 agonists, because they don't want it. They can't, the world supply is running out of them and these companies are losing money because they can't produce them fast enough. So they're going to be building these facilities here in the United States, which is great. Obviously it brings money into the economy. It's going to really bolster, I guess, what we're doing here. I think we should make everything in this country, to be honest with you, but it's pretty interesting. No. Also another note, if you've been watching the RFK Jr. slash Donald Trump announcements, they're really making headway into autism, which I think is freaking awesome. So I'm excited about that as well. But let's get to the Dave Plum experience questions. The question was, what is the difference between aromacin, femara, and arimidex? They're also, they have their own generic names too, and astrozole, letrozole, and exomethystane. But they're all, there's basically three aromatase inhibitors out there. And you know what? I've read studies about this from like five years ago, and they basically find that they all work just as efficiently. They're all pretty much the same potency. However, empirically, and the word empirically means what we observe, empirically, I do observe some people responding better to some of the aromatase inhibitors than others. Like, I always did very well on arimidex. I know people that don't do well on arimidex. They still have estrogenic side effects, but if they take femara, which is letrozole, it seems to work fine. And then I know people that don't do well on arimidex or femara, and they take aromacin, which is exomethystane, and they get great results on that. So they all work, you know, pretty much the same by inhibiting the aromatase enzyme system. But I guess in everyone's body, maybe certain drugs just have a better affinity for that enzyme system and its inhibition. So having said that, my answer is they all work the same, but I qualify that by saying, if you don't get good results with one, try another. Second question, again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. I want to run your baby making protocol. However, I'm unable to get a hold of HMG. I can, however, get a hold of the Peptide Kiss Pempton. Can I use that instead of HMG? Yeah. HMG is the magic in the baby making protocol. And as you guys know, I give it away for free. All I got to do is email me at huge285 at AOL.com. Matter of fact, speaking of AOL emails, Amon, who works for me, he's telling me, he goes, did you hear? Wednesday, AOL is closing down. What are you going to do for your emails? And I'm like, what is he talking about? And he had sent me an email like a month or two ago and saying how AOL was shutting down. But really what Amon does, he only read the headline. He didn't really read the whole article. they're shutting down their dial up service. So if you remember when, when AOL first came about, when the internet first came about, you had to use your telephone, your home phone number, home phone to call into the, the, the internet. And so they're getting rid of, I didn't even know anyone even used dial up anymore. So AOL, thank God it's still working properly. It's just the dial up they're getting rid of. Anyway, get back to the question. I always just about to ask, do you know anyone else other than yourself who still has an AOL email address? The only reason I use it is I'm petrified because I have, I have literally 25 years worth of email saved in, in all the different folders on AOL. So I don't want to lose all that information. And I'm not convinced that it's going to transfer over if I go to a Gmail account or something like that. So I just, I might as well just keep it. You know what the funny thing is, I'm probably the only person in the entire world who still pays for AOL. In other words, I'm afraid to even, because they say it's supposedly quote free now. I don't even, I pay for the 14 bucks a month just because I don't want to risk losing, but it's not worth it. I'd rather just pay 14 bucks. I, I, you know, $14 falls out of my pocket, you know, every day. So it's not even a big deal. Anyway, getting back to the question, HMG is the magic. That's human menopausal vanitotropin. It's also known as synthetic FSH. It basically mimics the, the hormone follicle stimulating hormone, which is a pituitary hormone, and it directly stimulates the testicles, specifically the shirtoli cells in the testicles to produce sperm. That's why it's so potent. It's not the only important part of the pregnancy protocol that I give away, but it is a, probably, you know, the most potent form of the, uh, of the therapy that I'm suggesting. So if you can't get it, taking a, a peptide like kiss peptin, which I'll explain in a minute, what that does is not going to substitute for HMG. Will you still be able to get fertile, not using the HMG? Probably, uh, it might take a lot longer, but maybe not. For me, the magic happens when you take that 75 IUs of the HMG, you know, three times a week. Um, there are places that make it tight medical center.com sells the synthetic FSH. So you can just buy it from them. I mean, so I know for a fact that they produce it because we discussed this and I, I made sure that they produce, they sell it. Now I've had people tell me, well, it's very expensive. Let me tell you something. And I've said this before, Sid too, so I'm not losing my mind. It's very expensive to have children. If you can't afford to buy the FSH in order to get your wife pregnant so that you can have kids, you can't afford kids. So don't have kids if you can't do that. Believe me, the expenses that are going to come out of your pocket, you will have no clue what you're, what's going to come in the future once you have children. So having said that, you got to use the HMG, but let me explain what Kispeptin does. Kispeptin is a peptide that directly stimulates the, um, hypothalamus gland in your brain. Okay. It acts like a gonadotropic releasing hormone essentially. And it, and it makes, you know, and in doing so, it stimulates the, the, the hypothalamus to release this gonadotropic releasing hormone, uh, and then, and thus stimulate, actually it mimics the gonadotropic releasing hormone, but in thus it stimulates the pituitary gland to release FSH and LH, glutenizing hormone and FSH, follicle stimulating hormone. The FSH will then tell the sperm cells, the sertoli cells in the sperm, their sertoli cells in the testicles to produce sperm cells, and they'll, it will tell the lighting cells in the, in the testicles to produce testosterone, those two hormones. So it's an indirect way of stimulating those hormones, but it's not as potent of a signal. Whereas if you're taking HMG itself, it directly stimulates those testicles, the sertoli cells to produce sperm. So is it helpful? It can be. Is it a replacement for HMG? I would say no. Let's go to the rest of our questions from our Instagram, from our Facebook, and from our YouTube community page, a page that we've really been trying to grow out. Uh, we're putting more short form content now as well, um, on our YouTube page. So reels, highlights, and other, you know, cool things. There was a little funny video, uh, not from earlier this week. It was actually from a few years ago. I think it was Nick Walker and Derek Lunsford, um, I guess having some sort of a playful confrontation at the airport. Um, you know, the way that it was put out, some people thought that it was from this week. No, yeah, I saw that. I knew it was, I knew it was all that. Yeah. I think the, uh, common knowledge is that it was from, you remember when Olympia TV did that little, uh, challenge, a strength challenge, whatever, uh, in Arizona. So, uh, somebody detected that it was from, it was an Arizona airport or whatever like that. So anyway, putting a lot more cool things on our YouTube, uh, shorts. So we're putting a lot more short form content. So a lot of the stuff that you see here on ask Dave, um, you know, heavy muscle radio, so on and so forth. Uh, we're putting like the highlight reels onto that as well. And then we're going to be putting some of those on our Instagram page. Again, if you're not already following us on Instagram, I would highly advise you do so because come Olympia weekend. That's really, we're going to be loading up our original stuff as far as yeah. Our, uh, you know, contest pictures that we're going to be taking live from pre judging finals, meet the Olympians. We're going to try to really, really, uh, put a lot of the stuff that we would only put on our YouTube channel or stuff that I guess didn't make it to the YouTube channel onto Instagram. So official underscore RX muscle is where you will find those go to the rest of the questions. I know we've addressed this before, but again, this is a kind of fairly hot topic right now, and that is methylene blue. What do you think about it? And where is the best place to get it as there seems to be a lot of quote unquote, bad stuff out there? You know, I methylene blue, my historical, you know, relationship with that was always through fish tanks. You know, I, I had fish tanks my whole life as an aquarium, you know, hobbyist and use methylene blue. You drop a couple of drops in water in the fish tank water, you know, in a little vial, and it will tell you depending on how it turns, what color it turns, whether the fish tank is acidic or alkaline. Uh, so it has, it interacts with the water and, and, and, and we'll tell you the pH of the, of the solution. So I never knew of it anything else. Now, recently they've, they've come out with, uh, with some data to suggest that taking methylene blue will actually increase cognition, meaning make you more cognitively sharp. Uh, they think that it also can help with, cause what, cause methylene blue can, I guess, mimic, uh, parts of the electron transport chain inside the mitochondria and it can help shuttle, you know, uh, electrons faster and thus produce ATP quicker. So it will be an energy increasing type agent. They think it also has some anti-cancer effects. It seems to be one of these, it can do everything type of compound. I bought a bottle of it off Amazon. You know, they have some human grade versions of it there and I have yet to use it because I know that when I drop it into my mouth, my mouth is going to, and my lips are going to turn blue. So I just haven't done it. Uh, I don't know why I haven't pulled the trigger on it to try. Usually I'm into trying new things, but it is sitting in my cabinet. And at some point I will try. I also have a bottle of hydrogen peroxide too. Not the, the stuff you rub on your, your cuts, but it's like a human grade. We can ingest it. And you're supposed to mix that with water too. I have, those are two things that are sitting on my shelf. I have not experimented with yet, but they're things that people are using to suppose the enhanced immune system, enhanced cognition, you know, increase energy production in the body. So like I said, I have not tried it yet, but, uh, you might want to give it a go. It doesn't seem like there's anything harmful in the methylene blue aside from it turning your, you know, your mouth blue. And then I hear it could also, when you poop, the poop might be blue as well because it's going through the whole intestinal tract. Other than that, I don't think there's anything to worry about. By the way, if you guys want, you can subscribe to the day plumbo experience app, which we talked about a little early answer to questions from that. It's $29 a month. You get a day plumbo me as your coach in your back pocket. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum. So everyone sees everyone's questions and answers. I do a Q and a video exclusively for the app every single week. That's a great, great source of information. All my writings there, all my videos I've ever done in an organized fashion, all my protocols, offseason, pre-contest diets, keto diets, cyclical carb diets, my, uh, cycles for beginners, advanced men, women, it, it, everything is in there. It's a great resource for everything that I teach on a regular basis and it's constantly evolving. So, uh, it's great because, you know, you, you, you get it once you look at all the knowledge, but then every week there's new stuff being put up there. And so it kind of keeps you guys surprised of what's going on. And we got a lot of members. I want to thank you for the support and, uh, I think you're going to really enjoy it. It's great stocking stuff for, for someone you love to coming up for the holiday seasons. Um, how would you incorporate EQ versus test ratio, then progress doses weekly along with food consumption, maybe increased carbs by 200 calorie week too, and maybe after eight weeks, a tight D load before the next eight to nine weeks before off cycle. So I guess the core of the question is EQ versus test ratio. And then he kind of goes into the rest as far as increasing carbs and then, uh, doing a D load before coming off cycle. Yeah. I think he's, um, making things a little too complicated, but number one, I, and I've said this before, if you, if you're, if you're not a beginner, okay. And you want to maximize gains a thousand milligrams of test is the sweet spot per week. I like to combine it with an anabolic anywhere from three to 600 milligrams of an anabolic. So you can use up to 600 milligrams of EQ a week, you know, or as low as 300 and you're still going to get a nice effect from that combined with a thousand milligrams of test. You're going to get a nice synergism between these two compounds. They stack well with each other, uh, you know, DECA and tests stack well, Trenin tests stack very well. And I like to usually, you know, modify and, excuse me, swap out the compounds every six to eight weeks just to keep the body guessing. And, but that to me, the thousand milligrams, you know, so it's, it's, if you want to on an average, a two to one ratio. So two times the testosterone as the anabolic. So if you're doing a thousand tests, you do 500 EQ, you know, a thousand tests, 500, uh, DECA. Now with Trenbolone, it's very strong. You don't need that, that two to one. So with Trenbolone, it would be a thousand tests, like 200 milligrams of like Trenin Anthony per week. And that would be ideal. So, you know, each compound is a little different, but in general with DECA, you know, masteron an EQ, you're looking at about a two to one ratio. Uh, usually when we ask you about different training styles, different training methods, your answer is usually yes, but this one is specific to the GVT, the German volume training, uh, 10 by 10. Does it really work to build mass and strength or in your opinion, is it a gimmick? I think a lot of the training systems out there are gimmicks, you know, um, just because they're trying to make something, you know, like, I mean, look, if it works, it's not a gimmick, right? Sometimes you have to be creative and create a training system that interests people in doing the training system and that gets them to the gym. So in, in essence, it's, I don't call it a gimmick. I call it a motivation, right? Uh, do I think that like Hany's FST seven versus this protocol versus, uh, Neil Hill's, you know, training system versus, you know, dog crap training. I mean, versus John Meadows, mountain dog training. Do I think they, they're all, you know, gimmicks they're gimmicks, but they get people to the gym and they work. I don't like super high volume. I don't think it works well for, for anyone. There are genetic freaks that can respond to it, but the genetic freaks don't usually do high volume, lower weights. They do heavy weights and high volume and they can get away with it because they're just good. They have a good recovery system. But for most people, and I was arguing with Greg Valentino this past week on After Hours, I said, you know, your legs are your best body part. You claim you do one set or two sets for your legs, you know, once a week and they grow amazing. And then for your upper body, you're into this volume. You're doing like 30 sets for upper body. And meanwhile, your upper body is weaker. So why not? Maybe you should be training your legs with less. I mean, your upper body with less volume, like you do your legs, you get better results. And it was so logical that I think it's short circuit in his brain, but same thing. Volume doesn't work for many people because when you overdo the volume, it's like you become overtrained. And I know some people think you can't be overtrained if you're taking enough drugs or you're taking enough, you're eating enough food, but that's not the truth. What's what's when overtraining is really has nothing about the how much you're doing. It's the exhaustion of the neurotransmitters. Because remember, norepinephrine, acetylcholine, serotonin, all these neurotransmitters allow muscles, I mean, allow nerves to talk to muscles. They don't touch each other. It's not an electrical system. There's a gap. It's called the synapse. And when a neurotransmitter is released, it goes from the nerve ending to the muscle cell, and then it tells the muscle what to do. If you run out of these neurotransmitters because you're training too much, which exhausts them, what happens is the muscle and the nerve can't talk to each other anymore. And then you get less strength. Your recovery is hampered. You know, if it happens in your brain where the brain cells talk to each other, you don't have enough neurotransmitters because you've exhausted them in the gym. You get depressed sometimes, you get lethargic. And the only thing that really restores neurotransmitters is rest and sleep at night. So if you don't sleep enough, that's another problem. So it is possible to overtrain. It's a real phenomenon. It happens an awful lot, probably more so than people think. I know guys that go to the gym and girls seven days a week, they never take off. And that's just bad, bad idea. So I always tell people five days of weight training per seven day week is more than enough. Two days off for recovery purposes. And don't go crazy with the volume. You know, I know some people respond to a little more volume than other people, and that's fine. But there's no reason you should be in the gym for two and a half, three hours, you know, training with weights. So Doreen Yates is coming out with a quote, health longevity range of products as part of his DY nutrition, resveratrol, glutathione, etc. Would you consider having a similar line of longevity type products as part of species nutrition? Now, again, we do have a health optimization line, but I guess for as far as longevity, is that something you've considered? Well, I think our products already are about longevity and good health. I mean, we have the most potent, you know, multivitamin, multimineral, antioxidant, polyphenolic, trace metal, you know, fruit and vegetable extract product on the market, demineralized. It's number one selling on Amazon. There's nothing better you can buy on the market. I know it because I made it for myself. We have the number one most potent, okay, essential fatty acid supplement on the market, okay, which is omegalyze. No one puts three grams of fish oil, 2,600 milligrams of evening primrose oil, which is your omega-3s and 6s, plus palmitoleic acid, which is a really good, good omega-7 fat that, you know, increases insulin sensitivity, decreases total body inflammation. So those are the two most healthy. And then combine that with fiber lyes, which is the number one selling fiber supplements. It's what all the pros use. Everyone uses that. Those are your three most important health products. You know, now, as far as longevity goes, you know, there is some evidence to suggest that resveratrol, you know, can have some anti-aging effects. There's some, you know, there's other products out there. Glutathione is not orally absorbable, so you'd have to sell it as NAD, excuse me, as N-acetylcysteine. You know, how much your body converts to glutathione, I'm not really, you know, convinced that there's a lot that it happens to. I'd rather take an injectable form of glutathione. So, you know, I try to leave the anti-aging products, which are much more potent as injectables, like NAD plus is an injectable, glutathione is an injectable. I leave those for, like, people like TitanMedicalCenter.com to make because they're compounded in pharmacies. Their potency is real good. And they, we know that they work better by injection. I mean, testosterone replacement, same thing, better by injection. It has to be taken by injection. So, you know, I don't want to come out with any kind of products that I would consider fluff, fluff products. So I'm not saying that what Doreen's doing is fluff. I'm sure there's some good science behind it, but basically I would be rebuilding, I would basically be remarketing my demineralized product, you know, with a couple extra added ingredients and calling it a longevity product. I already, it's already a longevity product. If people just took it on a regular basis, you wouldn't have to go buy anything else. And I, and that's what I explained to people. You know, people say, Hey, I took this product. I feel better. You know, well, maybe if you weren't deficient in the, in the, in the vitamins, minerals, you know, uh, trace metals to begin with, you know, you, you wouldn't even notice a difference. And I always tell people, if you take a good multivitamin and multimineral every single day, you never, you never feel bad. So you don't even know that you don't even know what it feels. And that's why a lot of the studies that are done, they're like, we gave these 90 year old people this many milligrams of vitamin, this and vitamin that. And this is the great results we got after two weeks. Well, yeah, because they were completely deficient in everything. And now you've restored their vitamin, you know, uh, and, and mineral balance. And of course they're going to feel better and they're going to have better blood work and they're going to have better performance in two weeks because they was, they had nothing in their body. And now you put something in there. If you, if you're, if your, uh, efficiency is already really good, meaning that your mineral vitamin, you know, trace metal balance antioxidants are already at a high level. You already have enough essential fats in your body. You know, adding more stuff is not going to do anything because you're not deficient in anything. And so I think that, you know, you have to, I had to come to this realization as a owner of a supplement company that people will only buy so many products, right? Cause they can only afford to take so many products and they can only remember to take so many products. So I better put as much bang for the buck into each bottle that I produce. And that's what I tried to do. Keep the bottles to a minimum. Yeah. You have to take a bunch of pills, but it's one bottle you're taking it from, you know, here, one bottle here, one bottle here. And that's it. Um, because if you, if you, if you give people 600 different bottles to take every day, they're not going to do it. And it's, it becomes expensive. So that's my whole philosophy on species nutrition is try to get everything into, into one thing. So you can have one bottle here, one bottle here, one bottle here, and it covers everything that your body needs. Interesting one here about none other than Nasser. I heard Nasser also in body had a $3 million house and lived in a neighborhood of CEOs. Is this true? And if so, did he do anything different from other bodybuilders for extra income? We know that he was smart. Wait, like I don't have my Nasser glasses, but I, let me put my glasses on. Yes. Um, I, uh, I was, I am the smartest bodybuilder on the market. Uh, the, the Acromegalian, uh, Dave Palumbo, he feels that he is smarter than me, but, uh, he is not unfortunately for him, but I, yes, I, I have not lived. Uh, the claims are slightly exaggerated. I did not have a $30 million house. Although I am good friends with some of the wealthiest, uh, they would come to me for advice and I would tell them, I'm not interested to talk about the chicken breast and rice because it does not interest me. Um, but I would like to know how you have made your money. And, uh, yes, the claims of, uh, greatly exaggerated, but yes, I understand because of my intelligence that people think that I am was worth a lot of money. That was, so I'll put it this way. The first 85% of that you were Nasser. And then eventually you kind of blended it to Dave Palumbo. I know. No, you know what? I don't think that Nasser was worth 30 million. I think he, I think he was no, no, that he bought a $3 million house. You said that was actually, you said 30 million. No, no. Oh yeah. I'm a miss misspoke. But he lived. I don't think he bought any house for $3 million because Nasser didn't make that much money back in the day. Nasser had money and he was smart with his money. He didn't, he wasn't like a typical guy going out and buying fancy cars and watches and stuff like that. He saved a lot of his money. So when he retired, you know, all the rumors of him working at men's world and all these other crazy stupid things, there was all BS. He had plenty of money probably to live the rest of his life, you know, because he was smart like that. But, uh, I don't think he lived in the $3 million house. Think about it. Back in the nineties, a $3 million house would be worth 10 million today. Probably. Yes. Yes. Uh, we do have now, and I know you're, if you want to refresh those who may not be aware, you're going to India in November, correct? Yeah. We're saying like, they can't wait to meet you there. Yeah. Yeah. We're solidifying. I'm going to be at the Sherwood classic. I haven't, I haven't talked to Sherwood about it, but I, yeah, my, my, our distributor there, Alphalete, uh, who does a great job. If you guys are looking for species nutrition products in India, I know we have a lot of viewers from India. You can go to Alphalete.com and that's the distributor who sells all the species products there. I think we have a couple more products coming in over the next couple of weeks, but yeah, I will be at the booth there in India, in Mumbai, uh, and answering questions, maybe doing a seminar and we're going to, I'm going to make sure they bring a ton of product there for you guys to buy. Take a couple more questions. Um, the quickest way to recover your HDL level as quickly as possible after a cycle of harsh orals has tanked it. Yeah. You know, here's my feeling on HDL cholesterol. We know, we know there's LDL and HDL and, um, there's other intermediate ones too, but predominantly we talk about LDL versus HDL. HDL is, is I always, the analogy I give people is LDL is like the litter bug of, uh, of the, of the circulatory system. It kind of just dumps, you know, cholesterol around and kind of HDL is the vacuum cleaner that kind of cleans up, you know, the cholesterol. It's a very, you know, cartoonish version of what really goes on, but you get the picture. If your LDL is, is in reasonable range, okay, you really don't need a lot of HDL because in other words, if you're not making a mess in the, in the circulatory system to begin with, then there's no reason to have to clean it up, right? There's nothing to clean up. So I think that guys that have really low, like HDLs, I used to get into single digits, you know, it's at certain points in my cycle, uh, when I would, uh, but my LDL was always very low under, it was like 70, you know, so I was at no risk for laying down, you know, plaque and stuff like that. Uh, the, the people who have super high LDLs, you know, those people don't want their HDLs to suppress because they need the, the HDLs to help clean up some of the junk. Now there's new, there's new dogma that says that if your LDL cholesterol is high, but your triglycerides are normal, which is the amount of, usually triglycerides are analogous to how much sugar is in your body. You eat too much sugar, you're, you know, it gets converted to triglycerides. The liver tries to pull them out of the circulation and stores them in the liver, which is, could be known as fatty liver. And if it gets overwhelmed with the liver can't store anymore, these triglycerides, they, they circulate in the bloodstream. And then, you know, you're said to have, you know, on blood work, you should have high triglycerides. So high triglycerides in conjunction with high LDL seems to be more dangerous. Take another step forward. Another thought pattern is that LDL is not dangerous if it's not laying down plaque, because the people who have the highest LDL numbers also have the least amount of dementia. Because if your cholesterol is too low, it can cause dementia because the body uses cholesterol to make the cell membranes of cells. It uses cholesterol to make all the steroidal hormones in the body. So we need cholesterol and people. So that's why when they put you on statins, they're showing now that stat usage over a long period of time can lead to dementia, early dementia, because your brain cells can't repair themselves because they don't have any cholesterol presence to do that. So what's the answer? If you have high LDL, okay, or your LDL is even a little high, and your HDLs are really low in your concern, guess what? Go for a cardiac CT scan. There's two types. There's the cardiac calcium score, which is less accurate, but it gives you kind of an idea whether you have calcium being laid down in your, in your coronary arteries. The cardiac CT scan with contrast, however, which is, they basically inject a little contrast into your bloodstream, is a much more accurate picture of what's going on. And if you get that test done, and guess what? You have no blockages. There's nothing there. Then you don't have to worry about it. Who cares what the HDLs are? Who cares what your LDLs are? You're not, you're not laying down any plaque. If, however, that comes back and you have blockages and, or you have, you know, plaque formation, then you got to reevaluate. Maybe your diet is off. You know, maybe you have to think about some of your lifestyle changes and you have to look at your genetics of your body. Cause sometimes a lot of the, uh, laying down a plaque has a lot to do with what your genetic or family predisposition is. So HDL is not the do all end all. Usually it takes about three to four weeks to bounce back a little bit after a cycle. Uh, it probably won't come back to normal for six months. Uh, unfortunately, most people go back on cycle after eight weeks off. So you're probably looking at HDLs that are going to be suppressed, you know, most of the time if you're on cycle, you know, most of the year. I wanted to squeeze, squeeze this one. Uh, last one of the show, uh, question about T4 and HGH. Do you need to supplement with T4 when using GH? Uh, free T4 is below reference range, but TSH and free T3 are looking good. This might be, I thought, remember I used to tell you the HCG question was the most asked question we get about HCG and post-cycle therapy. Um, I think, I think this is taking over. I really do. The T4 question while on GH, I'll say it again. When you take growth hormone, okay, one of the fat burning effects of growth hormone is that it directly mobilizes fat from the fat cells. We know that. But one of the indirect fat burning effects of GH is that it, it causes thyroxin, which is known as T4 or the inactive thyroid hormone in your body. It can, it causes more T4 to convert to the active form T3 or triiodothyronine. So T4 converts to T3. So when you go for blood work while you're on GH, you'll notice that T4 is suppressed or looks suppressed. It's really not suppressed. You're, it's just, there's less of it and there's more T3. So your T3 levels are higher. T4 is lower. The reason that's happening is not because the thyroid gland is not working. It's just because more of your body, your body's converting more of the T4 into T3, which makes sense because T3 is active thyroid, which helps burn fat. So it's an indirect effect of GH. The question is, do I need to supplement with T4 because my T4 is low? The answer is no, because T4 doesn't do anything in the body. It's the T3 that does everything. That's the active thyroid hormone. So most people who find that they go for blood work when they're on GH and they notice low T3, T4, their T3 tends to be a little higher than normal and their TSH, thyroid stimulating hormone is normal or low. Because what happens is as T3 goes up, the body doesn't need as much thyroid. So it kind of, it'll temper its release of thyroid stimulating hormone. But in most of the blood work that I look at, I see low T4, higher T3, normal TSH. And that's, that there's nothing wrong with that. Taking extra T4 is going to do nothing because your body's not going to convert it. It only converts what it needs. And when you're on GH, it forces your body to convert a little extra beyond what you normally produce. But taking more T4 is not going to do anything. That's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. Again, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell so you're not going to miss anything that we have coming up over the next two and a half weeks leading into the Olympia. And then of course, all the coverage that we're going to bring you here on this channel, as well as on our Instagram official underscore RX muscle for Dave Palumbo. I'm Sadiq Faruqi. We'll see you next time.