Kiss Pepin. Is it the peptide you've been looking for? Stay tuned. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RX Television, RXMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. I'm your host Sif Farooqi, thanking you for joining us on this, the 24th day of September. We are two and a half weeks away from the 2025 Olympia. We have a few more iron debates and Olympia previews planned for the course of the next couple of weeks. And then of course in two and a half weeks, Dave, myself, Chris Cedto, and the whole cast will be in Vegas to cover the Olympia wall-to-wall coverage of the 2025 Olympia weekend. Let's go right into the questions. The first two questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. differences between aromomasin, arimedex and let is one stronger than the other or can they be interchangeable? Yeah, before I even answer that question, uh I want to just say a lot of people have been asking me, "Hey Dave, are you working with anyone at the Olympia this year?" And I actually am Kareth Bajio will be in the 212 buying for that title. I'm actually gonna be in New York, Connecticut, Connecticut this coming weekend to see my sister and uh I'm gonna be seeing Carth as well at Pro Body Gym, which is an awesome awesome gym in Westchester there. I highly advise you check it out. It's like four or five stories high. It's got the best equipment I've ever seen, you know? It's it's phenomenal. So, I'm looking forward to training there on Friday, checking out Kareth in person, going through some posing. Maybe we'll put up a little posing uh video with Carth because he's looking wacky. And uh Olympia Fever's, you know, starting up. So, I'm I'm getting excited. Uh I'll be I know you're leaving. I'm leaving I think on what on Wednesday before the show we get there. >> Uh I'm I'm set to arrive. I'm leaving Tuesday evening. So, yeah, I'm gonna arrive Tuesday evening there yourself. >> Yeah. Yeah, I'll be there. I'll be there Wednesday morning. So, >> Okay. >> I I got a direct flight out of Fort Myers, which is amazing. But, uh, so that's going to be the, uh, the schedule. Yeah, I know Chris is getting in even earlier than us, so we'll have some some good previews coming up, uh, over the next couple weeks. Now, um, I wanted to bring up one thing before we get to the questions. Titan Medical Center is offering $50 off their Hexarellin growth hormone releasing peptide. It's, I think, the steepest discount they have ever given on any of the growth hormone releasing peptides, certainly on hexarellin, which is one of the most potent ones out there. So, you want to check that out, go over to titanicalcenter.com. also their reatrite which is the threein-1 GLP-1 agonist uh which is you know great obviously for fat loss blood sugar control etc etc they are offering a discount on that as well it's continuing from last week's discount so you might want to check that out it's funny how um I hear there Christo sent me an article Sid where they're these companies are investing like $ 35 billion in building facilities in the United States just to make these these fat loss drugs, these GLP-1 agonists because they don't want they can't the world supply is running out of them and these companies are losing money because they can't produce them fast enough. So, they're going to be building these facilities here in the United States, which is great. Obviously, it brings money into the economy. It's going to um really bolster uh you know, I guess you know, what we're doing here. I think we should make everything in this country to be honest with you. But it's pretty interesting to know. Uh, also on another note, you know, if you've been watching the RFK Jr. Donald Trump, you know, announcements, they're really making headway into autism, which I think is freaking awesome. So, I'm excited about that as well. But, let's get to the Dave Plum experience questions. The question was, what is the difference between Aromosin, Famara, and Arimedex? They're also they have their own chemic names too and astrol and exomethane but they're all they're all there's basically three aromatase inhibitors out there and you know what I've read studies >> uh about this from like five years ago and they basically find that they all work just as efficiently. They're all pretty much the same potency. However, empirically, and the word empirically means what we observe. Empirically, I do observe some people responding better to some of the aromatase inhibitors than others. Like I always did very well on arimidex. I know people that don't do well on arimidex. They still have estrogenic side effects, but if they take fear, which is let it seems to work fine. And then I know people that don't do well on arimidex or famra and they take aromomasin which is exomethane and and and they get great results on that. So they all work, you know, pretty much the same by inhibiting the aromatase enzyme system, but I guess in everyone's body, maybe certain drugs just have a better affinity for that uh for that enzyme system to and its inhibition. So having said that, my answer is they all work the same, but I qualify that by saying if you don't get good results with one, try another. Second question, again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Um, I want to run your baby making protocol. However, I'm unable to get a hold of HMG. I can, however, get a hold of the peptide kiss peptin. And I use that instead of HMG. >> Yeah, HMG is the magic in the baby making protocol. And as you guys know, I give it away for free. All you got to do is email me a huge.com. Matter of fact, speaking of AOL emails, Aman, who works for me, he's telling me, he goes, "Did you hear uh Wednesday AOL is closing down? What are you going to do for your emails?" And I'm like, "What is he talking about?" And he had sent me an email like like a month or two ago and saying how AOL was shutting down. But really, what am he didn't read, he only read the headline. He didn't really read the whole article. They're shutting down their dialup service. So, if you remember when when AOL first came about, when the internet first came out, we you had to use your telephone, your home phone number, home phone to call into the the uh the internet. And so, they're getting rid I didn't even know anyone even use dialup anymore. So, AOL, thank God still working properly. It's just the dialup they're getting rid of. Anyway, get back to the question. >> I I was just about to ask, do you know anyone else other than yourself who still has an AOL email address? The only reason I use it is I'm petrified because I have I have literally 25 years worth of email saved in in all the different folders on AOL. So, I don't want to lose all that information and I'm not convinced that it's going to transfer over if I go to a Gmail account or something like that. So, I just I might as well just keep it. You know what the funny thing is? I'm probably the only person in the entire world who still pays for AOL. In other words, I'm afraid to even because they say it's supposedly quote free now. I don't even I pay for the 14 bucks a month just because I don't want to risk lose lo losing but it's not worth it. I'd rather just pay 14 bucks. I I I you know $14 falls out falls out of my pocket, you know, every day. So it's it's not even a big deal. Anyway, getting back to the question HMG is the magic. That's human menopausal gonatotropin. It's also known as synthetic FSH. It basically mimics the the hormone follicle stimulating hormone which is a pituitary hormone and it directly stimulates the testicles specifically the cerolei cells in the testicles to produce sperm. That's why it's so potent. It's not the only important part of the pregnancy protocol that I give away but it is a probably you know the most potent form of the uh of the therapy that I'm suggesting. So, if you can't get it, taking a a peptide like KISS peptin, which I'll explain in a minute what that does, is not going to substitute for HMG. Will you still be able to get fertile not using the HMG? Probably. Uh, it might take a lot longer, but maybe not. For me, the magic happens when you take that 75 IUs of the HMG, you know, three times a week. Um, there are places that make it. titanmedicalcenter.com sells the synthetic FSH. So you can just buy it from them. I mean, so I know for a fact that they produce it because we we've discussed this and I I've made sure that they produce they sell it. Now, I've had people tell me, "Well, it's very expensive." Let me tell you something, and I've said this before, Sid, too, so I'm not losing my mind. It's very expensive to have children. If you can't afford to buy the FSH in order to get your wife pregnant so that you can have kids, you can't afford kids. So don't have kids if you can't do that. But believe me, the expenses that are going to come out of your pocket, you will have no clue what you're what's going to come in the future once you have children. So having said that, you got to use HMD. But let me explain what kissepin does. Kiss pepin is a peptide that directly stimulates the hypothalamus gland in your brain. Okay? It acts like a gonadotropic releasing hormone essentially and it and it makes you know and in doing so it stimulates the the the hypothalamus to release this gonatotropic releasing hormone. Uh and then and thus stimul actually it mimics the ginatropic releasing hormone and thus it stimulates the pituitary gland to release FSH and LH luteinizing hormone and FSH funical stimulating hormone. The FSH will then tell this the the sperm cells the certoly cells in the sperm the cerolei cells in the testicles to produce sperm cells and will tell the lighting cells in the in the testicles to produce testosterone those two hormones. So it's an indirect way of stimulating those hormones but it's not as potent of a signal whereas if you're taking HMG itself it directly stimulates those testicles the cerolei cells to produce sperm. So is it helpful? It can be. Is it a replacement for HMG? I would say no. >> Let's go to the rest of our questions from our Instagram, from our Facebook, and from our YouTube community page, a page that we've really been trying to grow out. Uh we're putting more short form content now as well. Um on our YouTube page, so reals, highlights, and other, you know, cool things. There was a little funny video uh not from earlier this week. It was actually from a few years ago. I think it was Nick Walker and Derek Lungsford um I guess having some sort of a playful confrontation at the airport. Um you know the way that it was put out some people thought that it was from this week and I was >> Yeah. Yeah. I saw that. I knew it was I knew it was all that's the fight. >> Yeah. I I think the uh common knowledge is that it was from You remember when Olympia TV did that little uh challenge strength challenge whatever uh in Arizona? So somebody detected that it was from it was an Arizona airport or whatever like that. But anyway, putting a lot more cool things on our YouTube uh shorts. So, we're putting a lot more short form content. So, a lot of the stuff that you see here on Ask Dave, um you know, Heavy Muscle Radio, so on and so forth, uh we're putting like the highlight reels onto that as well. And then we're going to be putting some of those on our Instagram page. Again, if you're not already following us on Instagram, I would highly advise you do so because come Olympia weekend, that's really where we're going to be loading up our own original stuff as far as Yeah. our our uh you know contest pictures that we're going to be taking live from prejudging finals meet the Olympians. We're going to try to really really uh put a lot of the stuff that we would only put on our YouTube channel or stuff that I guess didn't make it to the YouTube channel onto Instagram. So official_rxmuscle is where you will find that. Let's go to the rest of the questions. I know we've addressed this before but again this is a on a fairly hot topic right now and that is methylene blue. What do you think about it and where is the best place to get it as there seems to be a lot of quote unquote bad stuff out there? >> You know, I methylene blue, my historical, you know, relationship with that was always through fish tanks. You know, I I I had fish tanks my whole life as an aquarium, you know, hobbyist. And use methylene blue. drop a couple drops in water in the fish tank water, you know, in a little vial and it will tell you depending on how it turns, what color it turns whether the fish tank is acidic or alkaline. Uh, so it has it interacts with the water and and and will tell you the the pH of the of the solution. So I never knew of it anything else. Now recently they they've come out with with some data to suggest that taking methylene blue will actually co increase cognition meaning make you more cognitively sharp. Uh they think that it also can help with because what because methylene blue can I guess mimic uh parts of the electron transport chain inside the mitochondria and it can help shuttle you know uh electrons faster and thus produce ATP quicker. So, it will be an energyinccreasing type agent. They think it also has some anti-cancer effects. It seems to be one of these it can do everything type compound. I bought a bottle of it off Amazon. You know, they have some human grade versions of it there. And I I have yet to use it because I know that when I drop it into my mouth, my mouth is gonna and my lips are going to turn blue. So, I just haven't done it. I don't know why I haven't pulled the trigger on it to try. Usually, I'm into trying new things. But, it is sitting in my cabinet and at some point I will try. I also have a bottle of hydrogen peroxide, too. Not the the stuff you rub on your your cuts, but it's like a human grade. We can ingest it. And you're supposed to mix that with water, too. I those are two things that are sitting on my shelf. I have not experimented with yet, but they're things that people are using to supposedly enhance immune system, enhance cognition, you know, increase energy production in the body. So, like I said, I have not tried it yet, but uh you might want to give it a go. It doesn't seem like there's anything harmful in the methylene blue aside from it turning your, you know, your mouth blue and then I hear it could also when you poop the poop might be blue as well because it go through the whole intestinal tract. But other than that, I don't think there's anything to worry about. By the way, if you guys want, you can subscribe to the Day Palumbo Experience app, which we talked about a little earlier. Answer two questions from that. It's $29 a month. You get Dave Palumbo, me as your coach in your back pocket. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum so everyone sees everyone's questions and answers. I do a Q&A video exclusively for the app every single week. That's a great great source of information. Uh all my writings there, all my videos I've ever done in an organized fashion. All my protocols, offseason, pre-contest diets, keto diets, cyclical carb diets, my uh cycles for beginners, advanced men, women, it it everything is in there. It's a great resource for everything that I teach on a regular basis and it's constantly evolving. So, uh it's great because you know you you you get it once you look at all the knowledge but then every week there's new stuff being put up there and so it kind of keeps you guys apprised of what's going on and we got a lot of members. I want to thank you for the support and uh I think you're going to really enjoy it. It's a great stocking stuffer for someone you love too coming up for the holiday seasons. Um, how would you incorporate EQ versus test ratio? Then progress doses weekly along with food consumption, maybe increase carbs by 200 calorie week too, and maybe after 8 weeks a tight D lo before the next 8 to N weeks before off cycle. So I guess the core of the question is EQ versus test ratio and then he kind of goes into the rest as far as increasing carbs and then uh doing a D load before coming off cycle. Yeah, I think he's um making things a little too complicated. But number one, and I've said this before, if you if you're if you're not a beginner, okay, and you want to maximize gains, 1,000 milligrams of test is the sweet spot per week. I like to combine it with an anabolic, anywhere from three to 600 milligrams of an anabolic. So, you can use up to 600 milligrams of EQ a week, you know, or as low as 300, and you're still going to get a nice effect from that. combined with the thousand milligrams of test, you're gonna get a nice synergism between these two compounds. They stack well with each other. Uh, you know, DECA and test stack well. Trenin test stack very well. And I like to usually, you know, modify and excuse me, swap out the compounds every six to eight weeks just to keep the body guessing. And but that to me the thousand milligrams, you know, so it's it's if you want to on an average a 2:1 ratio. So two times the testosterone as the anabolic. So if you're doing a thousand tests, you do 500 EQ. You know, two thousand tests, 500 deca. Now with trembolone, it's very strong. You don't need that that two to one. So with with tremblone it would be a thousand test like to 200 milligrams of like trenin per week and that would be ideal. So you know each compound's a little different, but on in general with deca, you know, master and EQ, you're looking at about a 2 to1 ratio. Uh usually when we ask you about different training style, different training methods, your answer is usually yes, but this one is specific to the GVT, the German volume training uh 10 by 10. Does it really work to build mass strength or in your opinion, is it a gimmick? I think a lot of the training systems out there are gimmicks, you know, um just because they're trying to make something, you know, like I mean, look, if it works, it's not a gimmick, right? Sometimes you have to be creative and create a training system that interests people in doing the training system and that gets them to the gym. So, in essence, it's I don't call it a gimmick, I call it a motivation, right? Uh, do I think that like Han's FST7 versus this protocol versus uh Neil Hills, you know, training system versus, you know, dog crap training. I mean, versus John Meadows Mountain Dog Train. Do I think they they're all, you know, gimmicks? They're gimmicks, but they get people to the gym and they work. I don't like super high volume. I don't think it works well for for anyone. There are genetic freaks that can respond to it, but the genetic freaks don't usually do high volume, lower weights. They do heavy weights and high volume and they can get away with it because they're just good. They have a good recovery system. But for most people, and I was arguing with Greg Valentino this past week on After Hours, I said, you know, your legs are your best body part. You claim you do one set or two sets for your legs, you know, once a week and they grow amazing. And then for your upper body, you're into this volume. You're doing like 30 sets for upper body. And meanwhile, your upper body is is weaker. So why not? Maybe you should be training your legs with less. I mean your upper body with less volume like you do your legs, you get better results. And it was so logical that I think it shortcircuited his brain. But same thing, volume doesn't work for many people because when you overdo the volume, it's like you you become overtrained. And I know some people think you can't be overtrained if you're taking enough drugs or you're taking enough you're eating enough food, but that's not the truth. What's what's when overtraining is really has nothing about the how much you're doing. It's the exhaustion of the neurotransmitters because remember norepinephrine, acetylcholine, serotonin, all these neurotransmitters allow muscles, I mean allow nerves to talk to muscles. They don't touch each other. It's not an electrical system. There's a gap. It's called the syninnapse. And when a neurotransmitter is released, it goes from the nerve ending to the muscle cell and then it tells the muscle what to do. If you run out of these neurotransmitters because you're training too much, which exhausts them, what happens is the muscle and the nerve can't talk to each other anymore. And then you you get less strength. Uh your recovery is hampered. You know, if it happens in your brain where the brain cells talk to each other, you don't have enough neurotransmitters because you've exhausted them in the gym. You get depressed. Sometimes you get lethargic. And the only thing that really restores neurotransmitters is rest and sleep at night. So if you don't sleep enough, that's another problem. So it is possible to overtrain. It's a real It's a real phenomenon. It happens an awful lot, probably more so than people think. I know guys that go to the gym and girls seven days a week they never take off and and that's just bad bad idea. So I always tell people five days of weight training per seven day week is more than enough. Two days off for recovery purposes and don't go crazy with the volume. You know I know some people respond to a little more volume than other people and that's fine but there's no reason you should be in the gym for two and a half three hours, you know, training with weights. Uh so Dorian Yates is coming out with a quote health longevity range of products as part of his DY nutrition uh resverrol glutathione etc. Would you consider having a similar line of longevity type products as part of species nutrition? Now again we do have a health optimization line but I guess for as far as longevity is that something you've considered? >> Well I think our products already are about longevity and good health. I mean, we have the we have the most potent, you know, multivitamin, multi-mineral, antioxidant, polyphenolic, trace metal, you know, uh, fruit and vegetable extract product on the market. Vmineralized. It's number one selling on Amazon. It's there. There's nothing better you can buy on the market. I know it because I made it for myself. We have the number one most potent, okay, essential fatty acid supplement on the market, okay, which is Omega. No one puts three grams of fish oil, 2600 milligrams of evening primrose oil, which is your omega-3s and sixes, plus palminoleic acid, which is which is a really good good omega7 fat that you know increases insulin sensitivity, increases um decreases total body inflammation. So those are the two most healthy and then combine that with fiberiz which is the number one selling fiber supplement. It's what all even it's I call it's all the pros use. Everyone uses that. Those are your three most important health products, you know. Now, as far as longevity goes, you know, there is some evidence to suggest that resveratrol, you know, can have some anti-aging effects, uh, there's some, you know, there's there's other products out there. Glutathione is not orally absorbable. So, you'd have to sell it as NAD, excuse me, as an acetylcysteine. Um, you know, how much your body converts to glutathione, I'm not really, you know, convinced that there's a lot that that it happens to. I'd rather take an injectable form of glutathione. So, you know, I try to leave the the anti-aging products which are much more potent as injectables like NAD+ is is an injectable. Glutathione is an injectable. I leave those for like people like titanmedicalcenter.com to make because they're compounded in pharmacies. The potency is real good and they we we know that they work better by injection. I mean testosterone replacement, same thing. Better by injection. It has to be taken by injection. So, you know, I I don't want to come out with any kind of products that I would consider fluff fluff products. So, I'm not saying that what Dorian's doing is fluff. I'm sure there's some good science behind it, but basically, I would be rebuilding I would basically be remarketing my V-mineralized product, you know, with a couple extra added ingredients and calling it a longevity product. I already It's already a longevity product. If people just took it on a regular basis, you wouldn't have to go buy anything else. And I and and that's what I explain to people, you know, people say, "Hey, I took this product. I feel better." You know, well, maybe if you weren't deficient in the in the in the vitamins, minerals, you know, uh, trace metals to begin with, you know, you you wouldn't even notice a difference. And I always tell people, if you take a good multivitamin and multi-mineral every single day, you never you never feel bad. So, you don't even know that you you don't even know what it feels like. That's why a lot of the studies that are done, they're like, "We gave these 90 year old people this many milligrams of vitamin this and vitamin that, and this is the great results we got after two weeks." Well, yeah, because they were completely deficient in everything. And now you've restored their vitamin, you know, and and mineral balance. And of course, they're going to feel better and they're going to have better, you know, blood work and they're going to have better performance in two weeks because they was they were had nothing in their body. And now you put something in there. If you if your if your efficiency is already really good, meaning that your mineral, vitamin, you know, trace metal balance, antioxidants are already at a high level, you already have enough essential fats in your body. You know, adding more stuff is not going to do anything because you're not deficient in anything. And so, I think that, you know, you have to I had to come to this realization as a owner of a supplement company that people will only buy so many products, right? Because they can only afford to take so many products and they can only remember to take so many products. So, I better put as much bang for the buck into each bottle that I produce. And that's what I tried to do. Keep the bottles to a minimum. Yeah, you have to take a bunch of pills, but it's one bottle you're taking it from. You know, here, one bottle here, one bottle here, and that's it. Because if you if you if you give people 600 different bottles to take every day, they're not going to do it. And it's and it becomes expensive. So, that's my whole philosophy on species nutrition is try to get everything into into one thing. So you can have one bottle here, one bottle here, one bottle here, and it covers everything that your body needs. >> Interesting one here about none other than Nasser. I heard Nasser Alson body had a $3 million house and lived in a neighborhood of CEOs. Is this true? And if so, did he do anything different from other bodybuilders for extra income? We know that he was smart. >> Let me let I don't have my Nasser glasses, but I let this Yes. Um I uh I was I am the smartest bodybuilder on the market. The the acromegalian Dave Palumbo he feels that he is smarter than me but uh he is not unfortunately for him. But I yes I I have not lived in the claims are slightly exaggerated. I do not have a $30 million house. Although I am good friends with some of the wealthiest. They would come to me for advice and I would tell them I'm not interested to talk about chicken breast and and rice because it does not interest me. Um but I would like to know how you have made your money and uh yes the claims have greatly exaggerated but yes I understand because of my intelligence that people think that I am was worth a lot of money. >> That was so I'll put it this way. The first 85% of that you were Nasser and then eventually you kind of blended into Dave Palumbo. >> I No, then you know what? I don't think that Nasser was worth 30 million. I think he I think >> No, no. That he bought a $3 million house. >> You said 30 million. Actually, you said 30 million. >> No, no. Oh, yeah. I misspoke. Three million. But he lived >> I don't think he bought any house for $3 million because Nasser didn't make that much money back in the day. Nasser had money and he was smart with his money. He didn't he wasn't like a typical guy going out and buying fancy cars and watches and stuff like that. He saved a lot of his money. So when he retired, you know, all the rumors of him working at Men's World and all these other crazy stupid things, there was all BS. He had plenty of money probably to live the rest of his life, you know, because he was smart like that. But uh I don't think he lived in a $3 million house now. >> Think about it. Back in the 90s, a $3 million house would be worth 10 million today, probably. >> Yes. Yes. Uh we do have now and I know you're if you want to refresh those who may not be aware you're going to India in November, correct? >> Yeah. >> Were saying like they can't wait to meet you there. Yeah. >> Yeah. We're solidifying. I'm going to be at the Shiru Classic. I haven't I haven't talked to Shrew about it, but I Yeah. My my our distributor there, Alphalite, who does a great job. If you guys are looking for species nutrition products in India, I know we have a lot of viewers from India. You can go to alphalite.com and that's the distributor sells all the species products there. I think we have a couple more products coming in over the next couple weeks. But yeah, I will be at the booth there in India in Mumbai and answering questions, maybe doing a seminar and we're going to I'm going to make sure they bring a ton of product there for you guys to buy. >> Take a couple more questions. Um, the quickest way to recover your HDL level as quickly as possible after a cycle of harsh orals has tanked it. >> Yeah. You know, here's my feeling on HDL cholesterol. You know, we know there's LDL and HDL and um there's other intermediate ones too, but but predominantly we talk about LDL versus HDL. HDL is is I always the analogy I give people is LDL is like the litter bug of of the of the circulatory system. It kind of just dumps you know cholesterol around and kind of HDL is the vacuum cleaner that kind of cleans up you know the cholesterol. It's a very you know cartoonish version of what really goes on but you get the picture. If your LDL is is in re reasonable range, okay, you really don't need a lot of HDL because in other words, if you're not making a mess in the in the circulatory system to begin with, then there's no reason to have to clean it up, right? There's nothing to clean up. So I think that guys that have really low like HDLs I used to get into single digits you know it's at certain points of my cycle uh when I would uh but my LDL was always very low under it was like 70 you know so I was at no risk for laying down you know plaque and stuff like that. Uh the people who have super high LDLs you know those people don't want their HDLs to suppress because they need the the HDLs to help clean up some of the junk. Now there's new there's new dogma that says that if your LDL cholesterol is high but your triglycerides are normal which is the amount of usually triglycerides are analogous to how much sugar is in your body. You eat too much sugar you you know it gets converted to triglycerides the liver tries to pull them out of the circulation and stores them in the liver which is could be known as fatty liver. And if if it gets overwhelmed where the liver can't store any more of these triglycerides they they circulate in the bloodstream and then you know you're said to have you know on blood work you should have high high triglycerides. So high triglycerides in conjunction with high LDL seems to be more dangerous. >> Take another step forward. Another, you know, thought pattern is that LDL is not dangerous if it's not laying down plaque. Because the people who have the highest LDL numbers also have the least amount of dementia because if your cholesterol is too low, it can cause dementia because the body uses cholesterol to make the cell membranes of cells. It uses cholesterol to make all the steroidal hormones in the body. So, we need cholesterol and people. So, that's why when they put you on statins, they're showing now that statin usage over a long period of time can lead to dementia, early dementia, because you your brain cells can't repair themselves because they don't have any cholesterol present to do that. So, what's the answer? If you have high LDL, okay, or your LDL is even a little high and your HDLs are really low and you're concerned, guess what? Go for a cardiac CT scan. There's two types. is the cardiac calcium score, which is less accurate, but it gives you kind of an idea of whether you have calcium being laid down in your in your coronary arteries. The cardiac CT scan with contrast, however, which is they basically inject a little contrast into your bloodstream, is a much more accurate picture of what's going on. And if you get that test done and guess what, you have no blockages, there's nothing there, then you don't have to worry about it. Who cares what the HDLs are? Who cares what your LDLs are? You're not you're not laying down any plaque. If however that comes back and you have blockages and or you have you know plaque formation then you got to re-evaluate maybe your diet is off you know maybe you have to think about some of your lifestyle changes and you have to look at your genetics of your body because sometimes a lot of the laying down of plaque has a lot to do with what your genetic or family predisposition is. So HDL is not the do all endall. Usually it takes about three to four weeks to bounce back a little bit after a cycle. it probably won't come back to normal for six months. Unfortunately, most people go back on cycle after eight weeks off. So, you're probably looking at HDLs that are going to be suppressed, you know, most of the time if you're on cycle, you know, most of the year. >> I wanted to squeeze this one uh last one of the show. Uh question about T4 and HGH. Do you need to supplement with T4 when using GH? uh free T4 is below ref reference range but TSH and free T3 are looking good. This might be I thought remember I used to tell you the HCG question was the most asked question we get about HCG you know post cycle therapy um I think I I think this is taking over I really do the T4 question while on GH >> I'll say it again when you take growth hormone okay one of the fat burning effects of growth hormone is that it directly mobilizes fat from the fat cells we know that but one of the indirect fat burning effects of GH is that it it causes thyrox toxin which is known as T4 or the inactive thyroid hormone in your body. It conver it causes more T4 to convert to the active form T3 or triotoyronine. So T4 converts to T3. So when you go for blood work while you're on GH, you'll notice that T4 is suppressed or looks suppressed. It's really not suppressed. You're it's just there's less of it and there's more T3. So your T3 levels are higher, T4 is lower. The reason that's happening is not because the thyroid gland is not working. It's just because more of your bi your body is converting more of the T4 into T3, which makes sense because T3 is active thyroid which helps burn fat. So, it's an indirect effect of GH. The question is, do I need to supplement with T4 because my T4 is low? The answer is no, because T4 doesn't do anything in the body. It's the T3 that that does everything. That's the active thyroid hormone. So most people who find that they go for blood work when they're on GH and they notice low free T4, their T3 tends to be a little higher than normal and their TSH, thyroid stimulating hormone is normal or low because what happens is as T3 goes up, the the body doesn't need as much thyroid. So it kind of it'll temper its release of thyroid stimulating hormone. But in most of the blood work that I look at, I see low T4, higher T3, normal TSH. And that's that that there's nothing wrong with that. Taking extra T4 is going to do nothing because your body's not going to convert it. It only converts what it needs. And when you're on GH, it forces your body to to convert a little extra beyond what you normally produce. But taking more T4 is not going to do anything for you. >> That's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. Again, if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell so you're not going to miss anything that we have coming up over the next 2 and 1/2 weeks leading into the Olympia and then of course all the coverage that we're going to bring you here on this channel as well as on our Instagram official_rx Muscle for Dave Palumbo. I'm Sadi Farooqi. We'll see you next time.