Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm your host Dave Palumbo and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Tuesday, July 21st, 2015. And let's get to it. With just 5 weeks to go until he sets foot on the stage for the first time here in 2015, it looks like Ken Jackson appears to be dialing things in quite nicely. Last year, Jackson really made some improvements to his physique, and the judges rewarded him with a top 10 finish at the Tampa Pro for his efforts. But after another long and productive offseason, it looks like a seriously improved Jackson is ready to bring his talents back to the stage. Jackson told Muscle in the morning that he'll be entering the San Antonio Pro, where he'll be looking to roll out the biggest, best version of Ken Jackson we've seen thus far. And if the upward trend continues, there's an outside shot we could see him battling it out in the first call out. The Vancouver Pro just got a whole lot more interesting. Late last week, rookie sensation Kevin Jordan announced that he'll be heading north of the border to take on all challenges at this weekend's events. Jordan is just a few weeks removed from a very successful pro debut at the Chicago Pro and looks to be right on track to be bringing his agame to Vancouver. During his two years away from the stage, Jordan put in some serious work. And with a top five finish in Vancouver, he would join fellow rookie Michael Lockett as one of the front runners for this season's Rookie of the Year award. Just over a week out from making his highly anticipated national level debut, team bodybuilding sensation Cody Montgomery has enlisted a little bit of championship advice for the final phase of his contest prep. Montgomery recently linked up with four-time Mr. Olympia Jay Cutler, who gave him some lastminute presentation advice as Montgomery heads into the biggest contest of his young career. Montgomery will be entering a stacked heavyweight class that is loaded with highquality NPC veterans. But perhaps this rising star can teach the old dogs a few new tricks and shock everyone by locking up a top five finish. Or better yet, a class win. Just in case you were on the fence about whether or not women's physique pro Erica Blockman was a genuine badass, look no further. Over the weekend, Bachmann released a video of some throwback, make no excuses style of training inside a local firehouse. The newest species nutrition athlete is a living testament to the mantra that hardcore heavy lifting builds dense, mature muscle. After laying low through the early part of the contest season, it looks like Dorian Haywood is about to unleash some fury at next weekend's NPC USA Championships. Haywood was the overall champ at last year's NPC Junior Nationals and managed to crack the top 10 at the USA a few weeks later. And after another long, productive offseason, it looks like Haywood is ready to lace up his posing trunks once again and go to war. The heavyweight class is always a tough nut to crack at the top amateur events, but Hwood has already shown flashes of brilliance. And if he could just put it all together on game day, he certainly has an excellent chance to challenge for the win. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out iron magabs.com. Today I'm your host Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Heat up