Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Thursday, April 20th, 2017. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Research suggests that we end up forgetting somewhere in the neighborhood of 95% of our dreams. But the nightmares, those always seem to stick around, don't they? And right now, we've got one. A nightmare stalking the streets of South Florida that goes by the name of Aaron Clark. Late last week, some new progress photos of a nightmarishly big looking Clark surfaced on Instagram, sparking up more rumors of a potential return to the stage. How this bigger, leaner, nastier version of Aaron Clark will fare on an open stage is a question I simply don't have the answer for, but I do know that there's only one way to find out. In sports, some of the biggest jumps in performance come between year one and year two as guys really start to figure things out. And hopefully that'll be the case for secondyear big man Lucas Wiler. This week, Wiler announced that he was officially 20 weeks out of his first contest prep of the season where he'll look to build on the momentum from a strong rookie campaign. Last year, we saw Wiler put together a few very solid outings against some pretty steep competition. And now that he's had a full six months to fine-tune the whole process, he might be ready to take the next step and start breaking through with a few top five finishes. If you're going to compete at the top of the men's physique division today, you better make sure that you're ready to bring the heat night in and night out. And it seems to me that Logan Franklin is up for the challenge. Following a breakout season that saw him hold down his first ever top 10 Olympia finish, the red-hot third-year pro is only weeks away from making his highly anticipated 2017 debut. From the front, Franklin looks like he's packed on at least another 3 to 5 lbs of quality stage muscle, which should put him right about where he needed to be. And as long as he comes back with that same consistency we saw from him last season, I think this kid could be poised to have a huge year. Logan Franklin isn't the only men's physique athlete we saw come into his own last year because pound-for-pound, eighth place Olympia finisher Joseph Lee might have been the most improved athlete in the entire division. After another fantastic offseason, Lee looks like he's almost ready to come out and throw down the gauntlet for the first time in 2017 where he'll look to build on last year's efforts. The Joseph Lee we saw a year ago is without a doubt one of the most dangerous men in the sport. And if that guy has made even the modest improvements that we think he does, he's going to be a handful to deal with. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo!