I have just gotten home uh from Baton Rouge, Louisiana and the Red Stick Classic and I got a whole bunch of video for you. Um I decided to make instead of putting a bunch of little videos, I decided to make one kind of like a video of my whole trip of a bunch of the stuff that I took footage of. So hopefully you'll enjoy it and uh I'll um I'm going to play them and then I'll come back between each one, tell you what you're about to see and uh explain it so it makes some kind of sense putting these all together. And yes, my room is very dirty. I get that every time I do something like this. So yes, it's dirty. Sorry. But uh here we go. The first one is a a random clip. I know everybody likes animal clips. And um we happen to see a possum. I don't get to see a lot of possums. I don't know, maybe you do. I don't. But uh I chased a possum outside of a club uh in Baton Rouge and here it is. Okay, we are following this possum. Let's see if I can see him. I don't know if you can see this guy. Here he is. Here's the possum. Come here, Pawsum. Come here, Pawsome. I'm trying to get him. Oh, he's big. You're nasty, man. That's not big. Oh, well, here he is. So, after I shot that uh that scene with the possum, the person outside of the club let me know that corning cornering a possum is actually not the best thing to do. So chasing the possum could have actually turned out to be disastrous and the possum could have attacked me. Apparently they're vicious little [\h__\h] This thing could have like ripped me up. Now um you know I'm thinking that's a good thing, but uh if it would have happened that would have made some for some interesting video, huh? Um anyway, next uh I will be going to the night show and you'll see me uh with IFBB Pro Barbara Ble who won the Shreveport show just a few weeks ago in bikini is going on to the Olympia. very pretty girl. So, you'll want to tune in for this one for sure. And after that, I'll be back and we're going to go to a mic liberatory guest posing. So, don't miss that. Here's Barbara. Okay, we were holding our beer. Okay, here I am, Erin Singerman with the very beautiful Barbara Blet. And hopefully you can hear us. I'm bringing it close, not because I want extreme closeup, but because uh because hopefully they can hear us. Anyway, Barbara, uh you're here and I see not just your boobs, but a beer. But but a beer. But a beer. So, uh, are you, uh, are you preparing yet for the Olympia? Yes, I am definitely preparing. I, um, I'm still dieting and doing like two cheat meals a week. So, I'll start hardcore again on June 21st. 3 months out. Three months. Plenty of time. Plenty of time. I have to congratulate you. Everybody's probably seeing this. Some people are on RX Muscle. I have to congratulate you for come posting on RX Muscle. What was the the reason, the impetus to post on RX Muscle in the first place? Um Gail actually the editor-inchief contacted me and said this would be a great thing to do for you. And I agree just to keep my name out there and um I'm not going to compete again until the Olympia. So it's just a good way for me to just you know it's good for me because it keeps me on track mentally and uh just to keep my name fresh. So why did you decide to wait till the Olympia to come back on stage again? I really just want to bring an amazing body. I don't want anything to, you know, stop me from doing that. So, I just wanted three solid months of training for one show instead of, you know, I was going to do a show in Dallas and changed my mind about that. So, um, hardcore for the Olympia. So, well, I have to say, Barbara, that you stay you stay in shape pretty much pretty much all the time. Here, flex the bicep. Let's see your bicep. Oh my gosh. Oh my god. So, you stay in shape pretty much all the time. So, you're not that that far away really, right? No. some fine tuning and um you know, a little more size in my shoulders. I feel like keeping those legs down tight and that's pretty much it. Well, you can see Barbara not just here, but also at the Olympia, but but the Olympia in uh well, it's September or what? September what? September 17th. September 17th, obviously. RX Muscle will be here. I'll be there. Barbara will be there. And don't miss Barbara. And also check out Barbara on her uh Q&A or her uh in the women's training section. Is that the form? Yeah, IFBB Journal. IFBB Journal. Don't miss Barbara. She's going to make a big splash at the Olympia. Yes. Yes, I am. Yeah. Don't doubt it. Come check out her. Uh and check out her pictures, too. We got your pictures from the Shreport show. She won. Uh she's done two pro shows. She won one. And uh she's on her own. All right. Check out rxmuscle.com and ironlabs.com. Heat. Heat. Heat. Here comes All right. So, there you go. You've seen Mike Liberatory guest posing. He is in very good shape at almost 250 lbs. He just started dieting, so he lost a little bit of weight from one of my previous videos where you saw him uh weigh in at Bev and Steve's powerhouse gym in Sioset. Uh so he lost about 10 pounds. He started dieting now and uh uh he's still got a little ways to uh he competes and I think you'll see an improved Michael Liberator. And then obviously Barbara Brolle was a delight as uh as uh you saw in the video. Very nice girl. Uh cute personality too. So, the next thing we're about to see is uh the afterparty at AAA and the suddenly the electricity went out. The actually uh you could hear a huge boom and everybody thought it was like some gunshots or a shotgun or something. Who knew? But uh all electricity turned out for the whole area and um it kind of happened in the middle of the club and um this is what happened. So, here's what happened. Hi. So, I'm here at Triple A's and I'm standing here. This is you. This is Triple A's. All the electricity has went out. People don't know what to do. It's confusion. Mass confusion. You don't know it, but I'm looking right now. You You wish you could see this, but you're you're looking right now at Colette, who won the bikini, the overall bikini at the at Oh my god, they're so loud. There you go. That's good. You're looking at Colette Barbara. Yeah. Wait, wait. Get it like this. Like this. There you go. There you go. Right here. Right here. This is Colette Barbara who won the bikini overall. Overall. And uh this is this is the best thing you're going to see in here. I can tell you that much. For sure. For sure. So, let's see what else is going on in here. It's confusion. People don't know what to do. It's crazy in here. So, awesome. Let's see. There's Bubby. He's the promoter of the show. He doesn't know what to do. He's leaving. It's crazy. Miss Cobb, PJ, you want to say hi to PJ? Hi, PJ. You can't see him, but she really was. I'm taking my drink and we're leaving. We're totally leaving. So, this is what happens in Baton Rouge. If you go out to a club, there's a good chance electricity will go out and uh they don't pay their electricity bill. So, here you go. This is after hours in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Enjoy. All right. Well, that was an interesting night. I have one more video I'm going to play uh from the prejudging. Uh it's already on the YouTube page, but I wanted to include it in this uh video since it kind of encompasses the whole weekend. And then I'm going to uh put some pictures in there that I took during the weekend, and we'll we'll run through a bunch of pictures. And uh that'll be it. So, I hope you enjoyed this video. Obviously, as always, thank you to Oh, this side. Ironmag Labs and go to iron maglabs.com. Use the discount code RX2011 for 10% off. Thank you very much to Iron Mag Labs that's making all these videos possible for you all. And uh here's the last bit with uh Mike, me, and my buddy Tim who actually competed. You'll see a little bit of that and then I'm going to throw some pictures in there. All right guys, till next time or next cardio confessional hopefully tomorrow. Bye. So here we are at the Red Stick Classic. I'm sitting next to IPB Pro, Mike Liberatory. Extreme closeup and Tim Mahomes. Okay, Jeremy, you could actually over there not paying attention. I had no idea if the sound was going to come out, but Tim just competed. Uh, want to show him something, Tim? Jeremy, listen up. I'll call you. Let's see some abs. 54. Very nice. Very nice. So, what do you think like so far about uh I'll back it up. You got all the muscles in there. Yeah. Yeah. What do you think? What do you think so far about uh Baton Rouge, Louisiana? It's uh been a lot of fun. Everybody's been uh very nice. Anything I've needed or whatever has been taken care of, even though I haven't really asked for too much, weather's been good. It's been warm. Uh so I can't complain. It's definitely a good time coming down here. I'd like to come down again and, you know, hang out and party a little bit. I mean, it seems like everybody down here is in the party and I don't know. So, it's very cool. Um Bubby and uh Josh and it's true. They're like always like, "What do you need? What can I get you? What can I eat?" Yeah, without a doubt. You know, uh whatever whatever I've needed, you know, food, this I mean, I've ate pretty good since I've been down here. I think I've had fillet or something like that three times, you know, in the past, you know, day and a half. So, we're going to go out to dinner tonight and do it again, lunch, and do it again and, you know, whatever. Whatever, man. So, it's been good. So, uh we are now at prejudging. It's uh very early in the morning. I'm usually not awake at this point in time and uh I woke up at uh 9 to see Tim compete and did a good job and uh let's see what else for today. I'm going to go back and go to sleep. I need to shave obviously to uh dress up a little bit for tonight for some interviews. Okay, here competition is actually surprisingly good. We got over a 100 competitors, almost 110 competitors here in Louisiana show. That's unusual in the level of uh of male bodybuilder competitors. There's a few really good guys and uh you know Tim is uh five weeks out from the show. We're planning stage. He may not even win which is a shocker. Uh cuz I thought that was a for sure thing but in five weeks he'll have no problem. But so I'll put some pictures up for you guys to see and it's been a good show and we'll be back later. There it is. Out. I got a million ways to get it. Choose one. Hey, bring it back. Now double your money and make a stack. The next one to the next. Somebody bring me back some money, please.