Welcome back to Live with brought to you by speciesnutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and tonight's guest is the NPC Junior USA overall champion 2016. You might not know him, you're going to know him after this interview. His name is Henry Jackson III. Welcome. Hey, thanks for having me. You know, this is a good interview because, you know, very rarely do I interview someone who the people don't know. And uh I think that people are going to get to know you very quickly after this terrific win you had in Charleston, South Carolina down at the Junior USA. Uh talk to us a little bit about uh how this event came about. Um where your bodybuilding first started and uh where we can expect to see you next. Let's first start with how you got into bodybuilding. Uh got into bodybuilding. I was in college at Georgia Southern. Um pretty much, you know, I didn't have anything going on. I lifted a lot, you know, bodybuilding style workouts. And uh one of my friends, he did a local bodybuilding show there down uh at Georgia Southern down in Statesboro. So, you know, I figured, you know, I'll wait the following the next year to do it and you know, just to try it out. And that's back my first show back in 2011. I competed heavyweight. I was about 210 pounds. Didn't really know what I was doing. Didn't really prep or anything. Uh, you know, just went out and did the show. Then I won a heavyweight class, but I got second overall. So, but ever since then, I've been I've been hooked on competing. Then, uh, took some time off, uh, decided to do the Iron Eagle IMBF. Um, competed heavyweight again. you know, had a pretty solid thing. Uh, prep going, do knew what I was doing for prep, got a lot leaner, uh, came out and won heavyweight class and the overall for that show for the IMBF and also earned my pro card in that sanction. Um, that was in 2013. That the INBF is a natural bodybuilding organization. I think Kai Green was originally in that organization as well. Uh, obviously after competing in that for a while, you must have decided, hey, if I want to be compete with the big boys, I got to go into the NPC. And so you went Exactly. That's you went up doing the Al Palmetto Classic in what was it 2013 or 15, right? 2015. Yeah. Yeah. 2015. Yep. And you you dominated that event, easily, winning the overall. Correct. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Who told you at that point, hey, you got a good future in bodybuilding, you know, you ought to enter a national level event next year? Um, nobody really told me. I knew I wanted to do a national show after that, but uh my coach uh you may have heard of him, Matt Olsen, he did he was Mr. Georgia some years back. Um uh him and uh Trey Trey Bennett, they wanted me to do the after winning, they wanted me to do the junior junior USA's that year back in 2015. But you know, I just felt like I wasn't ready. I needed to take another year off to kind of grow a little bit more. um come in a little bit tighter. I didn't really like my condition at that point. I knew I wouldn't be ready 100%. So, I waited. You know, the outcome, as you can see, it turned out pretty good. Um cuz I won overall. So, happy I made that decision to wait and you know, come in a little bit bigger, better, tighter, better conditioning, everything. So now your story is very similar to Cedric McMillan's story because Cedric McMillan uh won the uh I think the South Carolina State. They tried to convince him to do Junior USA. Same deal. Trey Bennett like trying to twist his arm. He said no. Next year, the following year he did Junior USA. Uh and then the following year he went on and he won the NPC nationals and we know the rest is history so to speak. Um, obviously after this big win at the Junior USA and I saw the pictures. We're still trying to find pictures to put up, but uh I mean you looked tremendous from the few uh snapshots that uh was sent to me. Did you know going into the show that you were going to be that dominant? Um I was pretty confident going into the show. Um but then you know I saw my competitors um when they lined us back up during the prejudging it was me and another guy and it was really when I saw pictures that my friend took I saw that it was really close. It really could have went either way. I didn't know how it was going to turn out. So um it you know I didn't know uh at that point but going into the show originally I was pretty confident that I would do well. But, you know, after I won the super heavy class, I was pretty confident I was going to take it, you know, take the overall. What did you weigh on stage? Uh, weighed in at 256. Uh, but at the night show, I end up being around 250. So, and a little bit dryer, huh? How tall are you? I'm 6'2. 62. Another Cedric McMillan we got here on our hands. Oh. Oh, yeah. One more thing, too. At the Palmetto Classic, Cedric McMillan, he guest posed at my show. Well, he actually uh he actually presented me the award, you know, at the end of that show. So, that was pretty cool. It's pretty ironic, you know. Yeah. That we kind of have the same competing history right now. So, and you're the same. Did you uh did he say anything to you? Did he give you any words of encouragement? No, he he didn't, man. It was kind of weird, you know. Uh you know, he held my hand up, we took pictures, and he just kind of belined it to the left and walked off the stage. So, maybe you're worried you're making him worried a little bit. You know, he might think that you're going to take his uh steal his thunder, so to speak. Yeah, I I guess so, man. I don't know. You're 25 years old. You're the new next generation upcoming guys, you know. Yeah. Uhhuh. From the south there, you know, Cedric likes to build himself as the as the country bodybuilder, you know, that that no one expects or no one sees coming. You might be the new guy, you know. Yeah. I mean, I'm e I'm either further south than he is. So, hey, you know, you're truly south. You're truly south. Yeah. Now, yeah, we talked earlier. You told me that you were going to you weren't going to do nationals this year. You were going to wait till the following year. What was the uh reason for that decision? Uh that was honestly, man, it's mainly financial and um also, you know, I want to make sure that once again that I want to be competitive. You know, I want to I want to be in a top top place in my first time out. So, um you know, it's going to take some time. Uh my upper body grows really fast. So, I'm going to take some time to catch my legs up a little bit more. Um, you know, they're not too too behind, but I just want to make sure that they keep up my upper body this offseason. So, like I said, I just want to be ready. But, yeah, mainly, you know, finances. Yeah, that's the main reason why I'm still going to wait. Money is important in bodybuilding, that's for sure. Getting ready all the food, the supplements, the the contest entry fees, the travel, all that stuff. So, y talk to me a little bit about your training techniques. I know Cedric always had very unconventional training. Uh what kind of uh leg training do you do? Do you do squats? Do you do the basic movements or are you more into machines? You know, what kind of Yeah, my uh Yeah, my my training is it's basic um you know, five sets of everything about at least 20 to 25 reps. So, usually a typical leg training session, I'll go and start with hamstrings, you know, four to five sets of 15. Lying hamstring curls, a seated seated hamstring curl, same deal. Um, standing, same rep scheme. Um, and then, uh, something like a straight leg deadlift. Same thing. Then, uh, warm up, you know, with leg extensions. And I don't really do a lot of back squats right now, but uh I'll go straight to leg press, you know, five sets of 20 to 25. Hack squats, five sets of 20 to 25. Um lunges, pretty about 40 yards for three to four sets. Then uh Yeah. And then uh a lot a lot of volume you're doing. Yeah. I mean, a lot of a lot of numbers. That's that's very unconventional in essence. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, as far far as movements go, you know, it's it's it's nothing fancy, man. Then I'll finish up with uh some uh leg extensions, abductor, abductor, and some butt blast. And that's the usual leg day in the offseason. Uh pre pre-contest, I'll split the hamstrings and quads up. Are you um are you very strong? Would you consider yourself strong in the gym? Yeah. Yeah, I consider myself strong. Uh um pressing is definitely my my strong suit. um shoulder press and mainly bench press. Those are my two favorite things to do. Uh offseason I may go up to usually do about eight to 12 reps. I'll go up to 365. All right. 365 405 for about eight. So that's good. That's good. Good. We should get you in bros versus pro strength challenge. We got to talk about that. Uh talk to me a little bit about your job. You're a corrections officer now. Is that is that make it a little easier for you to to kind of do your bodybuilding thing? Yeah. Yeah, man. For sure. because uh you know it's not it's you know sometimes you it it's a little stressful. You got things going on. You may be behind on meals but for the most part you're working with a good team, a team of people, team of other officers. So whenever I need to go down to the staff room, take a break, get my meal in real quick, I'm able to get it in no problem most of the time. So usually like a 12-h hour shift at work, I'm eating most of my meals at work. So it's very crucial for me to be able to, you know, have time to get down and eat. But, you know, sometimes, you know, it gets a little crazy in there with the inmates and, you know, maybe behind an hour on a meal, you know, so still got to get it in, though. What What kind of a a facility do you work at? Is it Is it a high security or maximum or is it like a low security? Yeah, it's a max security. I work I work the max security floor in the jail. Um, it's just the Muscogi County jail here in Columbus. Um, so most of the time I'm on the maximum security floor just pretty much due to my size so if something goes down, you know, right? I'm able to handle it. But some of these guys are crazy. Do they do you ever have any runins with any of these guys where you have to actually put the smackdown on them? You know, um, honestly, you know, it comes down to knowing how to talk to people. You know, if you go in there, you're kind of disrespectful, you know, being Mr. He-Man, you're going to have a lot of problems. But you know uh first impression is everything. So you know the inmates they'll see my size and from that point you know most of the time they won't try me. But uh most of the time it's just all talk. I haven't had anybody crazy enough to kind of run up on me and try to punch me. So uh but yeah. No, I haven't had any any use of forces or anything. So do they have way? Yeah. Yeah. Uh we actually have a gym there for employees only. Uh, of course the inmates don't get to use them, but um yeah. Yeah. So that makes it convenient as well. You know, sometimes on night shift they give us about 30 to 45 minutes to use the gym. So whenever I'm on prep, I'll go down real quick and do my cardio and I'll come back up to the floor. Um, and even after work, after working 12 hours, it's kind of hard sometimes, but we'll go down there and, you know, hit shoulders sometimes. Shoulders or back or something. It's pretty it's pretty it's pretty good for upper body. lower body, not too much, but got upper body, get some workouts in. Yeah, mo a lot of people don't train legs. Only bodybuilders train legs, you know. I found, you know, most Yeah, pretty much. Most guys just want to look good in the upper body, beat your body. Now, um, you have a degree in exercise physiology or exercise science. Um, do you ever think like, you know, you went to college, obviously, you got the degree, you know, you're corrections officer now. Do you ever like say, hm, I would really like to use this degree to do something? Yeah, I mean I I do use it, you know, as far as my training and my prep and my food and stuff, but uh yeah, it would be nice, you know, but it's, you know, reality is especially with a bachelor's. Um with exercise science, most of the time you have to go off and get a masters or doctorate. So, um by the time I graduated, I I realized, you know, I wanted to kind of wasn't really my thing to keep going to school. I wasn't really interested in anything like physical therapy or anything like that, but uh I did when I initially when I graduated I worked at GNC. Um so I I pretty much used my knowledge there as far as supplements and yeah telling people what to take. But uh of course you know with retail it's kind of kind of iffy. I needed something a little bit more solid. So got I didn't mind I didn't mind going to law enforcement. It's I actually like it. So, um, good benefits and everything, which is, you know, of course is important for bodybuilding if you get injured or something. So, Yep. very smart. Yeah. So, now that's where I'm at right now, man. You might be Yeah, who knows? You might be training people using all that knowledge down the road, you never know where you're only 25 years old. Now, I always say uh once you win a title, you got to have a nickname. Do you got any nicknames that your friends call you or anything like that? Uh, they call me Henjack most of the time. Uh, I kind of like the name Juggernaut for myself, but uh, they usually call me by by my Instagram name, which is Injack. So, what is it? Uh, but Henjack. Henjack. Henry. Yeah, it's like the shorten shorten shortened version of my first and last name. Henry Jackson. We got to call maybe we got to call Lonnie Teper up and get a nickname for him. Or maybe we can just call you like Action Jackson or something like that. You know, that's a that's Carl Weather's nickname. So, yeah. Yeah. Actually, one of my co-workers calls me Action Jackson. So that's a that's a cool one. I like that one cuz you got too many Jackson. You got Dexter Jackson, you got Ken Jackson. You got to kind of differentiate yourself, you know. Uh yeah. Yeah, you're right. Call him Action Jackson, right? Uh Sid Sid, give me the knot. Sid, give me the knot. Well, you know, I think he got some tremendous potential. Um I I wish we had some pictures from the show to put up, but there was so much going on with the New York Pro this weekend. Whoever was shooting that show down there, I haven't seen any pictures anywhere. Have you? No, I haven't, man. I've been looking since the day, you know, I finished the show. I haven't found anything besides uh a few pictures that were taken um by some people in the audience. But I've been I've been scraping and scratching trying to find pictures on the internet. I haven't found anything. So hopefully they can get some up soon. But for now, I I don't have any pictures besides my Yeah. You know, my pictures I took, you know, to see my progress leading up. Well, I had some very good people that I trust in the audience who told me, "This guy is going to be a star." And you know what? I'm going to say it right here. You know, I was the first man to interview Cedric McMillan, and I'm the first guy to interview you. And I I predict that there's going to be some big big big things to come from you in the future, especially at least maybe a year from now, uh whether it be at the NPC Nationals or whatever show you decide to do. And I just want to say congratulations on the big win. I think we lost connection with uh with Henry, but uh on you're not going to see him. This is not the last time you it's not the first and it's not the last time you're going to see Henry because he's a future star for certain. And that with that we're going to take us to the end of another episode of Live with brought to you by species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo. We'll see you next time.