Welcome to Christmas Eve at Muscle in the Morning Brought Brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Thursday, December 24th, 2015. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. The calendar year may be officially winding to a close, but we've already got our first signs of life from the 2016 contest season. Earlier this week, the official lineups were announced for the Arnold Classic, giving bodybuilding fans who are currently being afflicted by an incurable case of the Winter Blues something to smile about. With the lineups across every division loaded with former winners, highlevel veterans, and emerging young superstars, the world's biggest sports festival once again promises to deliver a weekend full of action and excitement for bodybuilding fans from across the globe. Believe it or not, we're actually tminus about 70 days until kickoff, which means that over the next few weeks, we're going to see plenty of drama play out in the headlines as we draw closer to the big day. Seeing his name on the official Arnold Classic invite list might have triggered an inferno under Fouad Aviad, who looks to be training like a complete savage these days. Just a few weeks removed from a hernia surgery that sidelined him briefly, Abiad is already back in the gym grinding away on the road to his first career performance in Columbus, Ohio. According to Abiad's Facebook page, he wrote, quote, "Holy I didn't even apply for this and I got this email this morning." Well, after notching the first two wins of his pro career at the Orlando and Vancouver Pro earlier this season, Abiad is closing out his career year riding one heck of a wave. If the same big freaky fuad that we saw last season shows up in Columbus, Ohio, he should find himself fighting hard for a spot in the top six. Remember earlier in the season when everyone said that Josh Lonardoitz was an athlete you should keep an eye on? Well, I certainly don't remember that conversation, but after locking up wins at the San Marino Pro and Furrigno Legacy Classic to close out the year, it's a safe bet to say that all eyes will be on the Australianborn powerhouse heading into next season. Tipping the scales at 300 plus pounds in the offseason, Lenardo has more than enough muscle to hang with the Kai Greens and Justin Comptons of the world. But the Arnold Classic is in San Marino and the level of competition he's about to face is on an entirely different level. But with that size and that level of conditioning, once the lights come on, anything is possible. If you're looking to wager your money on an early favorite to claim rookie of the year honors next season, Dominic Cardone might not be a bad horse to bet the house on. The 22-year-old phenom has really put his foot to the gas in his first official offseason as a pro, packing on plenty of muscle that he's certainly going to need when he sets foot on stage at the New York Pro. Don't let his age fool you. Cardone has the heart and work ethic of a man 20 years his senior. With a set of lofty personal goals to match, and with so many great years still ahead, he hasn't even begun to scratch the surface of his full potential. Don't let the fact that she's put her posing suit to rest fool you. Adella Garcia is still one of the baddest women on the planet. The eighttime fitness Olympia champ and certified industry icon is still sporting a physique good enough to take out just about anyone in the division with one fell swoop. Her days of dominating the stage might have come to an end, but the legacy and imprint that she left behind has earned her a place all alone on the Mount Rushmore of fitness. No matter where her second act happens to take her, one thing's for sure, when Adela Garcia sets her mind to something, you can take it to the bank that it's as good as done. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com today. I'm your host Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be true to your passion. And make sure to follow us on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo!