Welcome back to the road to the 2017 Arnold Classic brought to you by Quest Quest Nutrition, visit questnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and today's guest is IFBB2 Pro all the way from Oxygen Gym in Kuwait, Ahmad Ashkani. Welcome, man. Hi, guys. How you doing? And you're sitting there with your trainer Oscar, who we've seen before. We've talked to him before. Got the whole crew there. He's my mate. I I I can't stay without him. Now, you stormed onto the scene, the bodybuilding scene that is last year. Uh came out, no one knew who you were in the beginning of the year. Uh you went to the Arnold amateur. You won I actually you won the Australia Arnold amateur. You got the pro card there. You then went on uh to the Olympia. Uh well, first you were Tampa. You won in Tampa uh in the 212 division. And then you went to the Olympia and you placed second, beating Joseé Raymond. I mean, this is almost a uh it's a dream year for most people. Uh has it sunk in yet? What you accomplished? Mr. Jose uh about this thing you know I did my broadcast before the Olympia maybe six months okay and first bro show in Tamba I I didn't uh stand I didn't stand on the uh 212 line for brush uh close the 212 up and my first time it's just I want to try I want to see how how is Ahmedi with all the 212s and uh the pros 212 guys this is my first uh brochure in the top when I get first you know me also I'm shocked about that okay okay because first time and you know all the bodybuilders know first time can't be uh to get first because you should be try more competing more shows after will be uh qualified to Olympia. This the first shop I will uh uh it will be come with me after when I go to Olympia. Okay. I will I I talk to myself. Uh okay. Go scari to Olympia and enjoy your moment there. And I didn't uh it's my fian my first Olympia. I want to be in the top 10 or I want to be stay on the in the line. Okay. the the second shot it's in uh Olympia because when you only see the 212 guys you see them so huge uh different level u and I come from the amateur I can't stand uh next to this guys but when I uh stand next to the the 212vers I I saw Uh there is no no different between me and you know and it's a second chance for me to get a second place in Olympia and it's uh like you know uh imagine to be like that because the first time first time in Olympia you get second it's like a dream. Now, now Ahmad, um Jose Raymond arguably was not at his best at the Olympia. Um he is now more determined than ever to come into this Arnold Classic next week and beat you because you obviously beat him at the Olympia. Do you think you've improved enough from the Olympia to be able to beat Jose at his best at the Arnold Classic? I know. Yes, I know. I know. I know. Jose was not the best uh shape in Olympia because I think he have a surgery and I think he's get wedding and get married and he he have some problems. Uh Jose, he's not good. He's perfect. is the most one of the perfect 212. Okay. But he he he wasn't come in a perfect shape. And in Arnold uh classic I know I know he he will uh he will came he will come in the best shape and it's very hard to uh to beat him you know and I I will uh did my best also all the two do uh did our best and we will Right. The question The question is, will you beat him? Will you beat him? I can't because I'm not I can't answer this question. He says he's going to beat you. He said to me yesterday when I interviewed him, I will beat Ahmad Ashkani no problem. Although he did say you're a very good competitor. You know, I know David if he if he beat me, I will say for him well done and congratulations my brother because because we we we come to the competition for for compete. We are an athlete not come to war you know and I I I know it I want to be at first. I want to be beat every uh guys that compete with me. But who's can in the best shape he will get first. Right. Right. Let me ask Oscar. Let me ask you a question. Oscar. What have you been doing with Ahmad over the past four or five months since the Olympia to get him ready for this Arnold Classic? We worked hard in last two 12 weeks and we uh there is weak points in Ahmed's body and we uh we solved the problem with it and we have you will see a new in this competition and he will uh I think he will take the the show. What what he will he will take the shot. What specifically were you working on with Ahmad these past 12 weeks? Uh his back and his uh quads. It's it cames bigger and uh more more more work in his back to become more more because this is his uh good shot for him, right? So we we work hard for for for improving it and uh it works on and even his quads it's now bigger and uh his body is more balanced so he'll be uh more perfect than Olympia. Now when you work on a body part like quads for instance what like what will you do with it? Will you do more heavy squats? Will you do more repetitions? Will you train it more frequently less frequently? What's your what's your secret in terms of bringing up size in the legs? It's it's not like a basic things. We we uh I change every like every workout we change. Sometimes we go heavy, sometimes with highs, sometimes with drop sets or silver sets. So, it's not a workout that we all the time we make it again and again. So, we mix everything. Gotcha. Gotcha. Now, Ahmad, uh, being so new to the pro scene and and doing so well so quickly, have you found that you're like more of a celebrity now in Kuwait? And when you go and and go places now, do people recognize you more? Uh, yes. This those things that uh uh make me more uh like popular, you know. Yeah. And uh I have a lot and I get a lot of fun from uh Kuwait or Middle East or from all the world you know. Uh this for me this the best things uh to be uh success. Uh and uh you should you should trust our your fans and love your fans and because uh you know those push you up and you those make you to train hard to push yourself hard uh to get what you need about the uh marketing about the competitions about everything. this the best things we will work. Well, you got a great look. You're on the up and and coming. You're improving every time we see you. I mean, the just the the improvements you made from Tampa to the Olympia were pretty impressive. You got Oscar over there training you. It sounds like everything's going pretty well for you. When are you flying in? What day will you fly in for the Arnold? Will you come in early? Uh, sorry about when I fly because I I I didn't hear you. When will you when will you be fly? When will you come to the United States? What day? Are you coming in early next week? Yeah. Yeah. Uh, I will be there 27th of uh, February. I will be there. Are you going to be in Columbus that whole time? Yeah. Okay. All right. Well, best of luck on stage. I'm glad we got you here to just talk to you and and hear so the fans can get a chance to see who you are and and how enthusiastic you are for what's going on. You guys, Oscar and all the guys out there at Oxygen, you're doing a great job with all the guys out there. I know you're training a we sent them out there and I know you got Brandon Curry you're doing great work with. So, um, best of luck with all those guys as well. And, uh, we'll see you in Columbus, Ohio. And hopefully we can interview you in the winter circle. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thanks, guys. See you soon on Columbus. Yeah. And uh from my fans, uh wish for me a good luck and best luck and pray for me, please. Thank you. Have a safe flight. We'll talk to you. All right. That's going to take us to the end of another episode of RX Muscles Road to the Arnold Classic 2017 brought to you by Quest Nutrition. Visit questnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and we'll see you real soon.