Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Thursday, March 23rd, 2017. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. The official lineups for the Nasimento Pro have started to float out, and apparently that's where we'll get our next chance to see figure standout Diana Schned. A few weeks after putting together one of her better looks ever at the Arnold Classic, the fourth year pro announced the next step of her 2017 tour would be down in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, where she'll look to score her first top finish of the season. Conditioning should be a non-issue for Schneade heading into the weekend's events. So, if she can strike the right balance of fullness, a top placing certainly appears to be in the cards. Diana Schne isn't the only one with laser focus heading into the IFBB Nasimento Classic. Apparently, Rosella Joseph is coming to make a statement this time around. The women's physique division's little Hercules latest progress photos are nothing short of awesome, showcasing what is easily her best overall look to date. With this level of conditioning, it's a guarantee that Joseph ends up being a major factor. The only question left now is how high will we see her climb? If you've been a fan of bodybuilding long enough, then you've probably heard someone say that it's all about creating an illusion up on stage. Well, I've got news for you. When you get to the size of a Keem Williams, that whole thing goes right out the window. New back training footage of the Brooklyn Beast surfaced early Tuesday morning out of Oxygen Gym where he and the camel crew have been putting in some serious work. Last season was a career year for Aake in every sense of the word. And after the incredible turnaround we've seen from Brandon Curry so far, you'd have to think that the next chapter in the book of Aake is going to be one for the ages. Year two of the classic physique experience is already off to a roaring start, and that's in large part due to the emergence of secondyear star Jamie Loyce. Following his dominating win at the Fit Pro world a few weeks ago, Loyce has suddenly become one of the early favorites for the upcoming New York Pro. New video from a recent posing session supervised by Olympia champ himself, Danny Hester, shows a very polished looking Loy starting to fine-tune his act. If he can bring a slightly sharper look than what we saw back at the fit world, things at the top three will get awfully interesting. You can't have a good set of wheels without being a little bit of a crazy masochist. And I think Aaron Clark just might be that kind of crazy. The former 212 Olympian was spotted crushing a leg workout earlier this week and looking pretty damn huge in the process. Since taking time off to get himself back in order, Clark's body has absolutely exploded, packing on all sorts of new muscle. And whenever this guy decides he's ready to hit the stage again, you can be absolutely certain that it's going to be headline news.