Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Wednesday, January 25th, 2017. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. We've got a lot of fluffy new training techniques floating around these days, but if you ask me, there's still no substitute for getting in the gym and getting underneath some heavy ass weight. And I think I can safely say that Fouad Abiot shares my convictions. Earlier this week, Big Hos was spotted taking the 150s for a ride during his latest chess training session as he starts to kick things up a level or two six weeks out from the Arnold Classic. Over the last few weeks, Abiod's physique looks like it really started to turn the corner, which should put him right on track to bring the pain in Columbus. The Arnold lineup is loaded from top to bottom this year, but a 100% Fouad Abiad can be a dangerous thorn in anyone's side. If you've been paying attention to the NFL playoffs lately, you know how important it is to have homefield advantage when the stakes are at their highest. And there's only one man heading into the Arnold men's open class that'll take the stage right there in his own backyard. And that man is Michael Lockett. 6 weeks out from laying it all on the line for the first time on the Arnold Classic stage, the native Ohioan is starting to look awfully dangerous. During a wildly productive off seasonason, we saw Lockett balloon up to a gigantic 280 plus pounds. And now it looks like all that hard work is really starting to pay off. If he can hit the stage at close to 265 and bring the necessary conditioning, this guy is definitely capable of doing some serious damage. Hey, here's a lesson for all you guys out there who like to load up the leg press with 10,000 lbs and post self- congratulatory videos of your half reps. Well, if you want to build some showstopping legs, start taking notes from an bales. This week, the UK's 212 human forklift released some footage from one of his legendary leg training sessions where we see him crush a brutal set of leg press. pound-for-pound. I'm not sure if there's anyone out there who brings more of that old school bluecollar tenacity with him day in and day out than Bales. And when he hits the stage again later this year, you can be sure that he's going to give it everything he's got. It's been a while since we've had a Jojo Nitaporo sighting. Coming off a solid 2016 campaign that saw him come in as one of the real pleasant surprises down at the Tampa Pro, the longtime veteran looks to be gearing up for another strong mid-season run. In some new back training footage released late last weekend, we can see a gigantic looking Nitaphorro getting in the gym and hammering out a few sets of heavy rack deads for reps. For the better part of a decade, Nitaphorro has been one of the true class acts in bodybuilding. And if he can tighten up his conditioning a bit, he certainly still has enough in the tank to crack the top five in the right lineup. Over the last few years, we've seen bodybuilders swarm in mass out to the Middle East Mecca, Oxygen Gym Kuwait. And now it looks like our old friend Aake Williams has finally made the pilgrimage with my blessings. This week, the Brooklyn Beast made his way out to bodybuilding's paradise where he was spotted crushing shoulders in typical Hakee Williams fashion. Guys have a habit of going out to oxygen and coming back looking like caricatures. So, if Williams can find a way to capture some of that Berai magic they've all got floating around out there, there's no telling what sort of monster we're going to see hit the stage later this season. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo!