Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Thursday, March 30th, 2017. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. They say a true test of a man's character doesn't come from how he acts in victory, but how he acts in defeat. Three weeks after battling his way through a tough sixth place finish back at the Arnold Classic, Fouad Abiad hasn't been wasting any time making excuses. After admittedly coming in slightly off in Columbus, Abiad has spent the last few weeks trying to write the ship. And his latest progress photos coming out of the Abiad camp would suggest he's doing just that. Pound-forpound, Fouad is one of the toughest, most hard-nosed competitors we've got in the sport today. And if he says that next time he's coming back better, that's one check you can take straight to the bank. Earlier this year, we saw the great state of Hawaii take center stage on the IFBB radar. And a few weeks from now, Hawaiian native and 212 powerhouse David Robinson will be looking to keep the mojo moving. After a solid pre-debut that saw him crack the top 10 at last year's New York Pro, a much improved Reaper Robinson is coming back out of the corner for round two with a vengeance. New training footage that's leaked out of the Robinson camp over the last few weeks shows the secondyear man looking way ahead of schedule, making him a prime candidate to come in to be a party crasher in the top five. From the front, Robinson has all the tools to hold his own in a handful of shots. So, if he stepped up his game from behind, things behind the judging table are going to get real interesting. When you're in the media going out on a limb and making predictions, well, that's the best way to get yourself into trouble. But every once in a while, there's one you feel pretty comfortable with. And I'm pretty comfortable saying that soon to be 212 rookie Nicholas Vouad is going to be a star. This week, Hurricane Vulad released his latest series of reality bending progress photos, showing off a combination of size and detail that should be giving anyone else in the Charlotte Pro lineup nightmares a 100 times over. There's no such thing as a sure bet in sports, and there damn sure isn't one in bodybuilding. But if this guy comes in at 100%, the shest bet in the entire Tarhill State is that Nicholas Vouulad will end up as the last man standing when the final curtain draws. If the low point of your season so far is a third place finish in a completely stacked lineup, conventional wisdom would say that you're off to a pretty damn good start. But when 2 weeks after that contest, you put out progress photos that make you look like an absolute world beater. Well, now you've taken things to an entirely different level. Earlier this week, figure giant Wendy Forino almost broke the internet when she released her latest set of progress photos, showing off a physique that looks like it could stand toe-to-toe with just about anyone right now. In the past, we've seen Forino come in and deliver some truly awesome performances. And if she keeps coming in like this, she'll become one tough woman to beat as the year rolls around. The bikini division has already given us plenty to talk about so far this year, and that's without adding Urishna Ayala into the mix. Coming off a standout 2016 campaign that saw her reel off an impressive five straight top finishes, Puerto Rico's hottest commodity looks like she's on track to come back and pick right back up where she left off. New training footage of a spectacular looking Ayala surfaced earlier in the week, showing the fourth year pro crushing some of her recent workouts. From a pure talent standpoint, is right up there in the ranks with anyone we've got in the entire division. And if she can find a way to fill in that last piece of the puzzle, good luck trying to slow her down once she gets rolling. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo!