All right, road trip 2015 Florida is about to start. It's 8:00 in the morning. I'm heading to my new friend Tom Crutchfield, one of the legends in the reptile industry. He was one of the first smugglers of reptiles back in the day. And you know what? He's living the clean life now down in Homestead, Florida, south of Miami. I'm going to go down there. He's invited me. He's a big bodybuilding fan. We're going to check out his collection, see what he's got, and we're going to make a couple pit stops along the way because I, guys, I've shown you what goes on in New York. I've even shown you the road trip along the east coast. Now, we're all the way down southeast. You're going to find out what goes on in Florida. We're going to go from the west coast over to the east coast. We got to go through Alligator Alley. You're going to see all the attractions. Stay tuned. Follow me on a day in the life of Dave Palumbo, Florida style. All right, we're here at Racetrack Gas Station here in Cape Coral. I got to tell you, the reason I want to show you C uh Racetrack gas station is because this is not just some typical gas station. Sure, you can get gas here. Sure, you can get premium and regular and great prices, but it's what's inside that makes this place special. I haven't seen this any place in the country. This is like a full-fledged everything store. You guys got to come inside and check it out. It's unbelievable. I got to get a cup of coffee. All right, we're inside racetrack gas station. I got to show you around here. This place is amazing. Come on over here. You want breakfast? You got breakfast here. Bacon, egg, and cheese. You got your McDonald's standards here. Of course, you got some jalapeno hot dogs or something up there, but you got your sausage, egg, and bacon. And that that's not it. If you want to come in here in the middle of the night, actually, you want to come in here at 7:00 in the morning like we're right here, and you want to get a yogurt, guess what they got here? They got yogurt. Swirl world. You can pick Irish mint, pistachio, Georgia peach, strawberry lemonade, strawberry banana, Carl's cake, peanut butter cookie. Come on. Cookies and cream, double chocolate. You pick your yogurt. You fill up your little container with it or or a big container for that matter. And you go to your toppings here. Look at these toppings. They got chocolate chips, marshmallows. Not something that I would use, but you know, I know a lot of people like this stuff. Reese's Pieces. They got fruit. They they got blueberries. They got everything here. I mean, this is this is like what I mean in the gas station. In the gas station. Come here. You know what else they got? They got protein. They got Quest protein bars. Quest protein bars. Quest protein bars at Racetrack gas station. Unbelievable. But come over here. I'm I'm here to get coffee. They have extra caffe. Have you ever seen extra caffeinated coffee? I've never seen extra caffeinated. I go decaf, but they have extra caffeinated coffee here. All right, I got my decaf coffee. I just mixed my little sweetener in it. Guess what? You can get whipped cream. Who the hell gets whipped cream? I don't even know the whipped cream thing works. Look, I got whipped cream in my coffee. Who? At Racetrack gas station. This is amazing, guys. Look what else they got here. You want donuts? They got donuts. They got chocolate glazed donuts. They got apple fritters. They got cookies. Chocolate chip cookies. Doesn't get better than that. Guys, look at this. They got sandwiches. They got real sandwiches. Look. Chicken and chives. They got tuna salad. They got egg salad. They got chicken salad. They got chicken and turkey. I mean, these are real sandwiches. They got wraps. Come. We're not done. We're not done. They got a hot dog bar here. A hot dog bar. Who Who has a hot dog bar? Nathan's Hot Dogs doesn't have a hot dog bar. Cheesy Buffalo chicken, cheesy pepper jack taqua. Look, it gets better. Pork tamales, fajita sausages. The only person I know in the bodybuilding world that would eat this stuff is Jimmy the Bull Pletia. Jimmy the Bull would eat this stuff. He'd go crazy here. He lived here. Look, they got jalapeno cheddar smoked sausages. They got corn dogs. I don't even know what a corn dog is. They got 100% beef hot dogs. This is the hot dogs. This place makes Nathan look Nathan's in Long Island look inadequate, guys. That's not it, though. They got your candy over here if you want your candy. But you know what? You got smoothies. They got smoothies. You can get peach smoothies. You can get mango smoothies. You can get French vanilla. You can get blue raspberry, cherry, ginger, lemonade. And you know what? If that's not enough, guess what you can get? You can get a real milkshake. Get milkshakes here. Look at this. you with a touchcreen. Would you look at that? Unbelievable. Look, if that's not enough, you can get I don't even know what these are. Frozen drinks, bubble gum flavored, wild cherry, Dr. Pepper. I know Amanda would love the Dr. Pepper. And of course, you got your full array of drinks here. It you know, I am in a gas station and I have full service here. You I could actually move in if I had a room in the back. You got everything you want and you could ever want here at Racetrack Gas Station. only in Florida as far as I know. Guys, check it out. All right, we're here in Alligator Alley. Alligator Alley is the road that cuts Florida right in half. It goes from West Coast, which we were coming from, all the way over to the east coast where Fort Lauderdale and Boca Raton and Miami is. And it's just a long, long road. And there's once in a while you see alligators. Last time we were here, we actually saw them catching a huge alligator in the middle of the road. And they live on the on the sides over there in the marshes where I just peed and almost uh uh got eaten alive by all the bugs there. I should have filmed that. You guys would have probably liked that. And uh you know, once we get to the end of Allig, then we're on the east coast and we head south and we're just going to go past Miami to Homestead. And uh once again, we're on our way to Tom Crutchfield's house. And you guys uh if you ever want to check out a cool documentary, check out Snakes on a Plane by National Geographic. It's on YouTube. You can get the life story of Tom Crutchfield, how he got caught smuggling reptiles back in the day. Uh he tried to take a king cobra out of Southeast Asia. Pretty cool guy. We're going to find out a little bit more about him and all his escapades. He's a big bodybuilding fan. So looking forward to it. You guys stay tuned. This is the Florida road trip 2015. Here about 20 minutes outside Homestead Florida. Amanda says there's no bugs, but I I see them in my hair unless I'm unless I'm having visual hallucinations. Uh, I'm going to teach you guys how to get gas because we're close. We're not there yet. We're at the gas I got the gas card. Put it in. Real simple. Enter my zip code. That's what I always forget. I always forget. I always put the wrong zip code. I put my It's my business zip code. I always put the the home one in and then it screws it up. I'm approved. Okay. Um, rent the car, you get the cheap gas. Good car at home, you get the expensive gas. Now, Amanda likes to get gas and fill it up to an even number. As soon as I hear the click, I stop. I don't like to overfill. I I believe overfill spills over. It's like you're eating too many carbohydrates in your diet and you spill over. Guess where those extra carbohydrates go? Into the fat cells. Then you get fat. That's why you don't want to eat too many carbs. You don't want to put too much gas in your car. You get spillage. And you get spillage in the car, it's not so bad. You don't get fat, but you get a an explosion if if I happen to, you know, click my heels together and create a spark and blow something up. I'm a little delirious. Not that much sleep last night, but I love these road trips and hope you guys are being entertained. I actually have some salmon from my Japanese restaurant we went to last night, the Habachi Grill in the car. I'm going to eat salmon. And uh Amanda made me some great grits. And you see the bugs? See the bugs, Amanda? See the bugs? They're in my face. All right, stay tuned. Next time we talk to you, we'll be in Homestead at Tom Crutchfield. I am driving and eating my salmon from the Habachi place the other day. It's still very good. If you could tell, it's very rare. I believe in only eating it seared. I like it seared. They actually know in drostanolone when I come in that my salmon is cooked almost not cooked. It's just heated up essentially. And uh so I have a little extra leftover which is tasting very good right now. And then I'm going to eat some of Amanda's delicious grits she made me. They're better than Waffle House because I like Waffle House is is good, but um a little buttery. I don't like the buttery. I like to put a little uh stevia in mine. Give a little sweetness. That's just me. It's a New York thing is traveling down this dirt road now. I don't know where Tom Crutchfield ever found this place, but he is literally in the middle of nowhere. I don't even know. There's trees to our left here, like some kind of like uh fruit trees they're planting. Uh if we didn't have a GPS, I I don't even have the GPS knows this road to be honest with you. It does not even pave and uh we could be going into the heart of darkness as an Alar commute would say. Take a right. We're going to take a right where into the trees. There ain't no rights unless there is a right. Then we must be on the wrong road. No, there's got to be a right. Right here is a right. Turn right onto Southwest 352nd Street. That's not right. Southwest. That's not right. We're on the wrong We're on the wrong road. All right. We hear a Tom Crutchfield. I see him in the distance. This is about as rural as it gets. It does. This is hardcore bare bones. I hear roosters. Look, we got coconut trees. The door is wide open. Just opened up automatically for us. What will we find inside? Who knows? He's got the GoPro on. How you doing? How you doing, Dave Palmer? How you doing? It's my wife, Amanda. Is that the one and only Tom Crutchfield? It is. Hey. Hey. Good to see you, man. Good. Yeah, you looking great, man. Thank you. I'm still holding it in. It's my wife, Amanda. Hi, Amanda. How are you? You this I don't know how you found this place. Yeah, it by accident, but I like it. It's like Louis and Clark. You got to be famous. I wanted to be uh when I first, you know, all my life I wanted to live. Well, we bought the place actually. When I show you around, you'll see it was [\h__\h] fighting farm like for chickens and stuff. Was it really? This Cuban had a a really short cub because you'll see some of the cages. Even I had the duck and I've been showing all my other places. So, you used all the cages that they had for the [\h__\h] fighting? Yeah. So, we changed them and converted them like reptiles and they had the pools and the tanks were like for the turtles, right? The house was kind of shitty, but you know, I don't I I mean, I live a Spartan existence anyway, and I never, you know what I mean? I had all the other stuff back in the day and his Mercedes, and I if I were a billionaire, I wouldn't change too much how I live. You like it here? I do. I love it. I It's very rural, but it's like And I wake up every morning, you know, early with the roosters that Well, love them, too. They They of course make me up, too. But I have that indoor clock I've always had. I wake up with the wonderment, you know, of a 5-year-old seeing like awesome time. Look forward to stuff, you know what I mean? It's really nice meeting you. It's nice meeting you. You You were one of my heroes. Was I was like I was really I used to be I don't like I'm fat now, but I used to but I was I've never tried to compete or anything, but I mean arms. Oh, I 236. I didn't know that. Scary told me 10% body fat. I mean, I used to [\h__\h] do walking lunges, you know. Bill Davies and I were partners. Yeah. Yeah. Bill. I mean, back in the day. Yeah. That's where Ryan Coleman got the walking lunges from from Tom. I knew. Yes. This is a marmicet now, right? Yeah. Look at this guy. His name is Smegel. Smeiggel. Smeiggel. Like, look at this little guy. I tell you what he's going to do though. What is he going to poop on me? If he No, he won't. No, he'll try not to ever crap on me. Oh, good. Get off here. Do that. But he'll put one drop of pee. Oh, he'll mark me if he likes you to mark you. Oh, really? So, I want to get marked. In other words, cuz I know he likes you. He did. Oh, he did. Come on, buddy. It's not like he pees on you, but he'll put like one tiny drop. Come on, buddy. But when he showed his balls, did he, you know, like that? He put his balls like down. He put his balls on me. That was a good sign. Yeah, it was a great I got baldled. I got balled by Marmison, man. I got the whole team here because they want their little They like this little toy. I got them here. So, No one's peed on me that I know of yet, but they're all loving this. I'm hearing little little piercings, little high piercing noises. They don't like to be pet like dogs, but No. Well, they do. They'll let you though. If he when he goes to the morning, you'll see he'll like fall down like a flying squirrel. Good boy. Such a good boy. Such a good boy. That's a Cayman lizard. Cayman lizard. And I I heard they're hard to keep. A lot of people say they're hard to get to eat. No, the snails you get in any of the oriental food stores like they eat snails. Yeah, frozen snails. You get They're like $2 a pack. Buy the snail. You can make cat food with it. They'll eat tortoise chow. They're easy. That's all they eat is is snails. Yeah, but they'll in captivity all kinds of stuff once you get right. No, they're easy to keep. They are like cayman though, so it's better. And they like sun, so I like it like when we have a tank for them and stuff like that. A little swim. Yeah. Yeah. If I if I if I keep them permanent for breeding, I'll probably make a nice habitat for them with like a real looking pool with Yeah. Fast. Look at this guy. Wow. And these things have person. Now, now this is You have to hold it. Let it sit on you. This is an albino iguana. This is But this is a crutchfield version. Crutchfield. What's the difference? Well, they're both T- negative albinos. We bred the regulars first. Where did the first albino come from? First albino came from an imported one. It was raised up and bred by a friend of mine to a normal one. Mhm. a clutch of hats, animals that were country out of it came out of Columbia. Out of Columbia. Okay. All right. So, he uh he raised up the hats, right? He didn't keep them long enough to raise them to adult size. He sold them to a gentleman by the name of Ed Bullion in uh Atlanta, Georgia. Ed had them for 9 years. Was never able to breed them. I tried to buy them and he wanted 50,000. I told him I would give him 25 and eventually he took it. After about a year, couldn't get them right now. Well, he had them now. That was going on 10 years. Uh-huh. So I took him and he told me the only reason he sold them to me because he knew nobody would ever breed them because he'd had already tried for that and he was 22 years old. How long did it take you to breed them? Uh I had seven and eight months after the rest. But what's what's the trick to breeding these? Uh just not it's just understanding how to keep them really and the social structures. Is it is it do you think cuz you keep them outside is that why they breed better? You don't have to. But you think they breed better that way? Why if you live down here? Yeah. North. No. Cuz you'd have to move them in and out. Sure. All right. Here's the two different albino iguanas. This is the original, the regular one. This is a separate strain of albino. They're not even compatible if you breed them together. This is what they what Tom calls the crutchfield version. You could just see that bright like lime color with the nice red in it. Even the eyes. Look at the eye difference. What a what a beautiful what a beautiful. Now you have something one step further. Show Patty. Now this is what we call a crutchfield crimson. This is one of these, but a red albino. Now, how did you get that? Well, I bred uh I bred a a Crutchfield albino to a red iguana which is a kodom trait. I got all normals and I raised those back up and bred them back and I got last year two of these. So this is an really an albino crimson albino ready iguana. That's what it is that we call crutchfield crimson different because it's using this it's using this gene. Exactly. And they have now how red will these guys get? Will they get any more red much redder as they get older? They they don't they're not red as babies unless it's a super you know a solid red. I mean now yeah I heard this that because this is a co-ominant you can obviously form a super red albino and we'll in about 14 days if you come back I'll show them to you how do you know you'll have them isn't there I know you do cuz he knows he's psychic what do you think it'll look like we don't know I do know because one died in the egg last year oh you saw it full almost full term the skin is pink there's no yellow at all it's completely pink yes wow and with with much brighter reds what does the eyes look like much redder that's going to be and that's that's a Very expensive iguana obviously. Well, they're the first ones in the world, so they don't exist until now. What's the coolest cobra you got in here, Tom? Just went crazy. Like, what do you like the best? People in the family just went out there with a shotgun, started blowing them away. I think I like king. You like the king cos from back in the day, huh? When you when you try to smuggle one into the country. I did. I love king cobra. Al's one of the best king cobra handlers on. What is that? Is that an Indian cobra? Monaco. Yeah. Wow, look at that. He makes it look easy. That's a very dangerous snake. Now, that snake, how fast would you die from the a bite from that thing? There's 20 minutes. 20 minutes. Wow. You die. Total cardiac arrest as well. Hey, you're you're immune, but is that because you injected stuff? I'm immune. I don't have a total immune system. I have a heightened immune system. Why is that? Um, only because if I get bit and it's just a just a basic, you know, scratch or bite, you know, with minimal. Are you becoming sensitized to it? Is that what's happening? I'm not I'm not sensitized to it. Basically, he needs to give me five times what's going to kill you to me before I make me go. Is that because you've been I guess because my body is more resistant to larger amounts of venom because you've been exposed to it. Yeah, because I've been bitten over. Oh. Oh, you've been bitten? Oh. Oh, I didn't know that. So you had to run to the hospital and get do the whole antivenenom thing. Well, it all depends on the severity of the bite. Sometimes I just go home. How do you decide whether whether you might die or not? Yeah. All right. After 100 and something bites, you get that many times. You get a little bit of knowledge on the severity of a bite. Like I'll get bit here and I'll say, "Tom, I'm going to sit around for an hour just make sure these symptoms are not progressing." What's the symptoms that you know you're in big trouble? Well, basically when you um start to feel tired. Okay. Uh basically uh you can't uh you have difficulty breathing. Um and the other thing is is um basically you get tightness in the chest. That's not a good sign. Yeah, that's not a good sign. Anytime means the venom is becoming more slurring of speech. Um basically when you get fit are you like oh damn, what did I do? No, actually I'm very relaxed when I get fit. Actually, you might even have to ask me if I got bit. Oh, really? So you don't even like respond. I'm normal. You don't do one of these like suck out the poisons things, do you? Like you see in the movies. I was doing a show one day. Rattlesnake just bit me right here. Okay. So I didn't care. Did the whole show guy after the man I wish I was as brave as him. I'm like a [\h__\h] compared to this guy. He's just like ah rattlesake. It's not that bad. I get bit by cobras all the time. Now some people say they feel more energized from cobra venom. Do you feel anything like any kind of heightened response from I don't know. I'm 60 years old. You look you look great. Maybe it's the venom. Look, he don't have a wrinkle on his face, this guy. Oh, no. What's the most dangerous cobra in here? Uh, the most dangerous co Yeah, the black pack. Very powerful toxin. It's a nice snake. It's an Indian cobra, but it's just from the northern ranges here. Man, you want to get No antivenen. Wow, look at that thing. Is this the same? No antivenenom. Don't want to get by. We don't want to get bit by that guy. That's for sure. There's no antivenenom. I'll stay over here. Show the camera girl. You say, "Came, man. Come around. Just don't get bit, man. The most dangerous cobra in the place here. Wow. They're just such majestic animals. I mean, it doesn't get any cooler than that. But I guess you got to really know what you're doing cuz you can really get hurt with these things. I'm I'm impressed. It takes a lot to impress me. That's impressive. I don't know if it's crazy or impressive, but I'm impressed how crazy you are. But that that's a cool snake. I'm too old to be crazy. Where do these things actually occur? Uh this onetheast Asian uh well the black pack's from Pakistan obviously the rest of these are all from Southeast Asia. Where's where's that from? What's the like he's milking up here too. That is a beautiful snake. And he's defending himself. Is that albino? It's it's a it's a sunset. It's a kind of albino. But you can stand up here. Come on. You're safe here. I have my mic on. That's why he uh a cobra like this. See he's following her cuz she's moving. It's all about movement and what he perceives as danger. See how if I move, he moves, right? That's because he's afraid of me cuz he is afraid of them. He's not ever ever going to come up to bite me. He won't. Venomous snakes. No snake attacks people except possible exception of a giant python or a small person they might try to eat. Right. I didn't know that. No venomous snake attacks people. A venomous bite is never an attack. It is a defense move only. So if you go for the snake, that's when it usually bites you. Or if you step close to it, what would you do if a giant stepped on you? You may not see it and you think it attacked you, but the snake thinks you're attacking it because he thinks you're stepping on it. So you have no fear of snake. I'm out of the fear out of the range of this snake. I don't even care what it does. Right. That's interesting. And it doesn't this kind of snake and and what it is I'm far enough away. Now if I had a king cobra on the table, they react to threats differently. They'll advance to make the threat go away. This won't. Gotcha. So you know, and so I would treat different species different ways. But really and truly, no snake will attack you as long if you see one that actually defends itself. Just walk away from it. Gotcha. So in the wild, no one's coming after you. Yeah. No. What a beautiful Look at that. The way it hoods up like that. And and it's mostly bluff, too. Now I'm going to make it strike. And when he strikes, when he strikes, I'm going make turn this way. See, he does not want to look at me. Why doesn't he want to look at you? He's trying to wor me away cuz if he looks at me, he's going to have to strike. Ah. What do you feed cobras? M these rats. Yeah. Go back in there. He always likes Do they kill by using their venom? Yeah. He bite a rat digest. You kill the rat in about maybe instantly to like 10 seconds. Wow. Really? Venom just shuts it right down. And then he just he just starts eating. They don't rat. They don't they're not constrictors at all. No. Wow. Now that's that's an albino monle. No lizard. It's an albino. It's an albino lucistic. Yellow albino lucistic. Look, it's got no color. Move around in front of it. Move around in front of it. Move in front of it. There we go. Look at that beauty. Wow. Yeah, you can see through it. That is gorgeous. Yeah, it's got no pigment whatsoever. No, that is beautiful. And that's How old is that? This one hatched out February of last year. Oh, so it's a year old already. They must be teeny when they're born, huh? They are. They're real small. They're so cute. Hang on. Who wouldn't want to have this NAS if it wasn't so venomous, right? Oh my god. Okay, Zach Dalo has been working for me now for the last 2 years. He was a volunteer here for about 6 years before that, literally since he was a young boy. And he's getting pretty adept at handling venomous snakes now. And he's graduated to handling king cobras. He has never taken a king cobra out of a cage before. Uh it's more difficult sometimes to take one out for cleaning than it is to put it back or if you take it in the yard. So, we're going to sort of critique his technique on it. And beside me here is Al Killian. He's probably as good a king cobra handler as exists in the world. So, go ahead, Jack, and let's uh let's get Naga. This king cobra is from Indonesia, locality, and it's his name is Naga. He's Naga is about 11 ft long. That's a big snake. First step, Tom, is to put it in the in the in the in the can. Explain why he's going to put it in there first, Tom. Well, because we have to secure the secure the snake that he did the right thing on that. Okay, hang on. Okay, let me do it. Yeah, I got it. Okay. Makes the comeback that open. All right, that was good cuz he was being bad. kind not being bad. He didn't try to get you. He would if if if if he had reacted jerkily or real fast, the king cobra would have defended itself and it would have looked like a king cobra attack. But in reality, the king cobra is defending himself. But they're really really good at defending themselves. So it's very very calm. He did. Well, it's very important for him to stay in that zen, what I call a zen-like state state. And he can never ever take your eyes off the snake and never break your concentration. No matter what anybody says. What we're going to do now is we're going to take Naga out of the box and uh let you film it so you can see what a king cobra what it acts like when it's out in the yard. And these are what I call a monster of God. These are creatures that if you see them, they're like a seeing an elephant or a tiger. It's one of those animals that you don't have to know anything about that when you see this hooded up, you know good and well if you get anywhere close to that that the animal will kill you. And it's it's it they're such marvelous animals. The world would be such a poor place without them. I mean, it would. And and they're gentle, good snakes, too. They rarely bite. Once it comes out, how do you get it back in there? That's the thing I uh very carefully. All right. Okay. Go ahead. Take it to put it on the ground. Oh, I'm sorry. Just lay it on the ground. Look at the size of that snake. Wow. Unbelievable. Is he getting nice now or what? Yeah, he is. We got him in the shade here, Tom. Right. Yeah. If we if we put him in the sun, he would be really afraid and trying to get away cuz he would be afraid he would overheat. Oh, really? He would overheat. Oh, yes. Well, it's an ectothermic animal. It's a cold blooded animal. So, you want to get his attention temperature than these guys? They want not once they get up over 90, they start to become afraid that they'll overheat around 100 or so we kill them. You want me to kiss it? You can do whatever you want to do. I mean, get out of my way. I love these guys. These guys are my heroes. My new heroes. I've never seen anything like it. You should get them from the side. Amanda, don't move around. You move around, you'll get out a bit. Stop moving. This is [\h__\h] I'll you out. Watch. Yeah. He's thinking about grabbing your arm. You know that though. I'm watching. Unbelievable. That's crazy. Tom, you don't do that stuff, do you? Yeah. You do? Not kissing and [\h__\h] but touching stuff. Damn. See how you catch it behind the neck? Wow. But but it's all about perception. See, you notice this king cobra doesn't want to bite anybody. Now, this is a Madagascan treeboa from it's endemic to the island of Mad Madagascar. And this is the juvenile coloration. Uh this one is a little less than a year euro. It will go through uh a slowtogenetic color change and in about another year it's going to turn into sort of a golden green animal and these will stay sort of like colored but it'll look very different than now. Now I thought the treeboas are usually like the green tree boas especially are very usually bite a lot. Aren't they usually nasty? Well the when you say treeboas there are a lot of kinds of treeboas. Some kinds like boas never bite. Amazon basal treeboas almost never bite. The gy and shield animal tree bite. So it depends on the local. Oh, I didn't. And and the Yeah. And how defensive they I've never seen one like this. These these just naturally never seem to bite. Even big wild ones. Really? And they have an awful lot. If you look at the face of this up close, see all of the labial pits around the uh the labial scales? Those are heat sensors like a pit viper except they have a lot of them. And that's to help them find food. Interesting. And these have more than other boas. Are these aroreal? They can be anywhere. They can be on the ground. They're not They're not totally aroreal. This is a um Jamaican boa. Yeah. Jamaican boa and they're crit and they're an endangered species. They are an endangered species. They are. So I haven't seen too many people breeding these. No, I'm one of the few. One of them is given off a They let off. They are musking me. I'm musketed. You got musk. They got musk. I'm going to Actually, I think you're smelling me. I got musk. Oh, you got musk. Okay, that's better that you get musk. That's bad that you smell me though. It mean that means that people from a distance can smell me, right? Is this a breeding? Is this an adult? This is an adult male, but they can. A female can get 10 ft long. Now, how come you don't see these very much in the pack? Well, because you can't ship one across state lines without a permit, which is silly when they're captive bred, but there it is. Nevertheless, so and people don't just don't know. They You can't ship these out of Florida. No, not not not selling it. You can give them away. Oh, you can give them You can you can have them in Florida. Okay. But you can and you certainly can't import them or anything like that or export. Beautiful boa. Now, do these are these live bears, too? No, they're live bears. Baby Mexican beaded lizard. This is from a real These are poison, right? The only They're venomous. One one of the only two venomous lizards in the world. Look at that. The venom the venom glands are in the lower jaw and the fangs are in the lower jaw. Is that a vicious bite? Yeah. He won't turn you loose. You have to pry it off and it's usually not fatal, but it'll cause blood pressure drops. It causes uh projectile vomiting and the they have an enzyme in their venom that causes intense pain in mammals. It's I've been bitten by heel monster and it's one of the worst bites you can have. I wrote it out at home. Didn't go to the hospital with ibuprofen for pain reliever, but not again. Yeah, the pain lasted for like bad pain. Oh, these will get 3 ft long. But this is AI could touch. Yeah, you can't. Don't get right. Get your hands around the mouth where it can grab you. You can actually hold this. Let me show you how to hold it. Okay. And put your two fingers like this under like under here and it can't really bite you. Put your two Yeah, like that. Yeah, you got it. Holding a venomous lizard. See? See? See the venom glands right here? The big bulges. big bulgy they're pretty that's pretty cool pretty nice looking lizard and and you you can explain that the a drug was made that's primarily used to treat diabetes from this this is where the GLP is made from exactly you know glucagon like peptide is is is made from the venom in these in these snakes in these I should say in these reps and that was only discovered a few years ago actually yeah and they give it to type 2 diabetics to raise insulin output from the bank beta pancreatic cells so you see some of these poisonous lizards actually have medical applications a vine boa probably the only one in the United States at least that we know of. Uh it's from the island of Hispanola, right? Y and this is an adult full grown. Is this the smallest boa in existence? It's not the smallest but it's one of the smallest. I mean it's up there with the angelio fist, the banana boas, but it's very small. What would something like this eat? Lizards. Only lizards. Little anolles. You think this? Wow. This and this will breed at this age and he's Yes, that's a male. That's that's an old male. Got a little musk on there. This is about 15 years old. Is it really? Wow. Yeah, amazing. The amazing stuff we see here at Tom's. All right, so that was Tom Crutchfield's place. You know what? We took so much footage. I can't show it all to you because it was just an amazing experience with Tom. I'm getting eaten alive by the bugs again. Uh he's got such a great setup here. He's got such unusual unique animals. You don't see these anywhere. this. You're not going to go to anyone else's collection and see king cobras and monleled cobras and all kinds of Puerto Rican uh and and Nicaraguan boas. I mean, he's got just just crazy stuff. Albino uh iguanas. I mean, this guy has got such a great setup here. It's all outside. He's living the life here. And I want to thank him for bringing us in and allowing us to get a little taste of his life. And I think I've made a friend that we're going to see in the future a lot more. Thanks, Tom. And thank you guys for watching. Let's go cuz we got more to do. You know what? I think we're going to go to the crocodile farm and see a couple guys maybe wrestle. I heard they got a one-armed crocodile wrestler. Stay tuned. standing here with an emu. Pretty cool. These guys are like uh little dinosaurs. The dinosaurs evolved from anything or these evolved from anything, it was definitely the dinosaur. Um they're kind of cool. They're kind of furry. I want to pet him, but I'm not sure they're going to take too kindly to that. So, buddy. Hey, buddy. All right, we're here with these fancy chickens. I love these fancy chickens. They look like uh they look like my Maltese terriers. I'm going to chuck some food over to them. Come on, guys. There they are. Look at those cuties. One of them is missing some feathers on his neck, though. You can see the little chicks there. I'd like I think I'm going to get some of these back for in New York. Uh look at the little chicks. They're so cute. And we got a little All right. I see there's some great crocodiles in the water there. Or actually alligators and they're just chilling out on the beach there and uh waiting to get fed. I think there's a feeding coming up and they just like chilling. You would think that they're real calm. You walk over there, you probably get eaten. There's an alligator right in the water there, right a foot from us. And you know what? You just see them laying there and they look real boring. Alligators are kind of boring until you get near them and then they eat you or they bite you and then it's not so boring anymore. So, we want to see boring alligators. Very cool though. Baby crocodiles or alligators as they're growing them up in this little pen here. It's a little smelly here cuz there's a lot of poopies. But, uh you just see these are this is the cute fins here. This is where they're not going to really eat you alive, but uh they're a little dangerous. Probably their teeth are real sharp, but they're uh they're kind of like in the cool lizard stage where, you know, you might want to have them as a pet, but not much bigger than this, that's for sure. All right, I'm standing here with a baby 1 to 2year-old alligator. Uh the alligators have the rounded snouts. He wants to try to bite me, but his mouth is taped shut, so that's not going to happen. Um if you, as you can see, these things get really big. But this is a little baby guy and he is pretty cute here. You know, you could probably can get I'm thinking about getting a little kitty pool and bringing one of these home maybe. Man is shaking ahead. No, no, no way. Come on. You want to come home? He's like, I want to bite you. I want to bite you. All right. Well, we're going to go see if we can maybe sit on a big crocodile. We might get a special VIP tour. Stay tuned. Alligator's going to pretend to circle around. I'm coming back over here. Come on. Go directly behind it. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Right behind the tail. Okay. I'm crazy. I don't know what I'm doing. Yeah. Okay. Now, just jump and dive on his head. Go ahead. Dip all your weight. Just keep him down. He's not happy about this. He's not happy about this. Cover his eyes. Cover his eyes. Get him. Get on him. Get on him. The guy wants to eat me. He's not going to eat you. His mouth is tight. All right. You hold his hands with two hands. Yeah. Right there. You got to hang on to it tight. Hang on. He ain't going to fall apart on you. You're a big guy. I'm a little guy. He's looking at me with those eyes like he wants to eat me. Al, you better come over here and take them from me before I get off. Let me get out of your shot. All right, this is cra the craziest thing I've ever done. I'm sitting on top of an alligator here in Homestead, Florida, for the wrap up of my road trip 2015 Florida. My good friend Alice got me on top of this thing. This guy want to eat me. He's got tape. A microscopic piece of tape is preventing him from eating me at this point. And I think I it's time to go because if you outstay your welcome, you wind up as dinner.