 raspassgratgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgrgr To provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work, I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hi, I'm Chris Cornere with RxMuscle. I'm here with the champ. I'm here with the big dog. He won this show, a million dollars in one month. And how are you feeling right now? I know how you're feeling, but I got to tell you, this is very impressive work. And coming here, I feel like you even look better this week than you did even at the other win. Can you tell me a little bit about that? Well, I would say the goal is to come in at least an inch better from my previous shows. It gives me the drive to keep pushing and moving forward. I don't like being content with the previous things I've got. I like to have at least an inch of progress. Yeah, well, you've been getting better. I mean, show after show, you've been showing a lot of improvement. You've got some different coaching. You've got different tactics and pressure you've been putting on the body. You want to talk about that a little bit before we go to the two-time champion of the Honor Classic? Yeah. I would say the coaching is still the same, but the training definitely changed. I think the training is really tuned up everything. Yeah. The training, you know, like tuned up the body, got me through nooks and crannies and, I mean, through turbulence and whatever. But at the end of the day, it's really, really good. Yeah. So that matches. I think that was the missing link. The coaching was good, but the training was missing. But now we'll find the link. So now it's like a yin-yang effect. It makes a difference. And I can't help but introduce the four-time Olympia champion and two-time Honor Classic champion, Jay Cutler. Come on now, Chris. We're here at the Honor Classic, so we battled it out. We had a lot of battles. Andrew, congratulations. You crushed it. Chris, you want to come in? Who else are we going to invite into this? Because Kamal, of course, you guys did the training with him. So, Andrew, we had a moment backstage. Obviously, I've said this is the year of Andrew Jack. Yeah. And you've shown up. You've improved time and time again. Maybe at the Olympias and these other shows, you had a little, you know, feedback on what you needed to bring. And now your body's coming into its own. Your confidence shows on stage. Does it make a huge difference when you can stand on stage and know you have all the goods? Or is it something that you thought all along it was there? What do you think your body, at this point, do you think you're the best in the world and you can beat anyone with the body you have tonight? Yeah, I think something was missing. And when we found the missing link, put it together and everything was in sync with what has been in place before, everything's starting to blend and go well. That gave me the confidence. I don't, you know, like, usually post stuff and, like, update on Instagram or whatever training. But, I mean, like, recently, because of the confidence of how things are going, I started, like, putting it all out there. Like, hey, I'm letting them know that, hey, I'm coming. Get me. Because the confidence has been there. And I know I'm putting in the work. And with my team, I know definitely we're, you know, approaching, like, greater heights. Well, you know what's funny is you kind of, you were hidden and now I know you've been showing signs of improvement through social media. Is that leaked because of the confidence, Kamal, or? Well, I mean, you know, Jay, you've been there. When you bring your best and you know, everybody can see. And he's got the shape. He's got the, I mean, the genetic to do it. But never nailed it, you know? When you know, like, you've done everything and you're going to be confident. You're going to be going into anything, like, not just bodybuilding, anything. And he's doing it. He's been confident. He's being put in the hard work. And the improvement does the things. Improvement from every show to the show, like, people, they cannot believe it in short amounts. So imagine now he's got a good time. So that's the confidence. When you are, when you've done everything, you just walk, be the champion. I mean, we talk about the humble attitude. You know, he stands up there with confidence. Since, obviously, you guys have been working really hard behind the scenes. Talk a little bit about his transition since last year. I mean, you knew it was coming. You know, he produced the crazy physique on stage. But the mindset, we always talk about the mindset. So talk a little bit about that with the confidence. Yeah, well, we've, you and I have talked about it. Ever since, you know, I met Andrew in terms of just, you know, what makes a champion. It's more than just genetics. You know, you have to be 100% locked in with everything, including your mindset. And this doesn't mean that Andrew just did not have the right mindset. It's just finding your right mindset and focusing on yourself. And, of course, he was able to pull in Kamal since a couple months maximum before the Olympia this year. And the Olympia feels like it was, like, two years ago in terms of improvements. I mean, he looked great at the Olympia. He was, you know, dynamite there. But that felt like it was really, like, well over a year ago in terms of improvements that he's made. So, you know, your confidence, it starts with you, of course. But you have external factors. And the external factors are, you know, the people who are in your ear or who aren't in your ear. And then, you know, in this case, you know, he's, you know, I'm in close contact with Andrew. But Kamal's been with him and, like, you can't get any closer contact. They've been training to, you know, in the gym morning, noon, and night. And, you know, Kamal came on your show. He's done, like, 65 shows or whatever. And he's won, like, 64 of them. And, you know. He's also there on cardio in the morning at 5 o'clock. Yeah. With you? I mean, I have to deal with him. He's also there on cardio. Because, like, I need to make sure the job is done. Okay? Sometimes with him, he feels a little bit tired. So, for me, we have to do it. We have to improve. Because I know, I know the judges, what they like. They want to see you the same as the shows before or better. If not, they're going to hammer you. So, that is maybe with him. Because Andrew has done maybe, what, eight shows now? Yeah. So, he got experience. But, like, we know. And he's got the potential, man. He's good at all. You know what I noticed, though, Andrew, is, like, the things that you needed to fix. Whether it was, you know, it needed a little more density. The posing. The posing improvement from the Arnold Classic U.S. To here, three weeks later. There's little tweaks in the physique. I mean, that was able to show that. Could you, I mean, were you more confident on stage at this one now? With the more stages you get on, the more experience. Because, man, you're still so fresh in this. Yeah, exactly. I mean, after the Ohio, we got some feedback. That, oh, I shouldn't do this. I should do, like, this and this and this. And we just locked on that. And we kept locking on that. And that was why I came in here. And I was, like, he called the shots. I gave it to them. He called. I gave it to them. I'm, like, yeah. I'm, like, I'm ready. Like, keep calling. Yeah. Even with the posing as well. Every day we do posing. After the training. So, we go to the posing. How much time, you think? Well, I mean, to be honest, every day we do at least half an hour, sometimes even more. So, we do the normal rounds. And then we hold the poses. We hold that. So, we do it all. And then we see it. And he thinks, oh, yeah, this is better. This is better. I mean, Chris, even when he came, there's two days. So, he twisted one of the hands. You know, do this one and do this. For the side of the triceps. Yeah, for the side of the triceps and everything. So, I mean, Chris, he's got all that experience. You know what the judges they look for. And the thing is, he's doing it. He's like doing it and slowly, slowly. And it brings it home. I mean, I got to tell you, I think we've all seen this type of story before. And we saw it with a gentleman named Ronnie Coleman. Later on in his career, I mean, he started to get with the right combinations of people around him. And then he started to generate this type of look. And then that type of look brought him to surpassing some great champions. And that took him to the Olympia title. So, like, do you see yourself doing something like Ronnie Coleman here? My job for now is just to keep pushing. Of course, there's something that was missing. So, definitely, I'm going for that. And, I mean, we, the feeling I'm most happy about is the consistent improvement in every show. So, there, definitely, at the Olympia, you will see something more improved than what you're seeing now. For sure. So, definitely. Yeah. So, that would be a very good. I think I would have some good advantage in contention-wise against those guys. Because mentally now, I think I am more ahead of them now in terms of advantage. Yeah. Because I just won more, like, back-to-back. And it's not that, oh, he was, like, you know, he was, like, not good in this one. Yeah, I was better in days and, oh, I look more bad on this one. So, it was, it's really good. So, it's an add-on advantage. Well, I see a lot of changes. And, like Jay said, you come in alive more on the social media stuff. I've seen the same thing happen with Ronnie. He was in the back of the bus saying nothing to nobody. He was, like, an introvert sort of guy. He never said much. But then he started to slowly come out of his shell. And then it came with the yeah, buddy. And all that came, you know. So, I just. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. All right. Well, congratulations, man. You know, you have a crazy team here. Congratulations, Chris. You can critique his posing. I mean, you're the posing master. He's doing a great job. I know you're looking forward to some rest. You've got a lot of business to take care of. I mean, it's crazy because, you know, guys used to go to the Middle East to train. Now, of course, he comes to the States. So, I'm pretty proud of that, actually. Especially you, Kamal, actually being the one to train him. And I guess, are you going to be still doing cardio at 5 a.m. and training as much as you were with him or what? I think I'm going to be, like, taking time myself more than him. And I need time off. Really. Like, it's been hard because of the month of Ramadan as well. Away from my family. And, you know, and I'm doing this as well. But at least when you see the result, the thing is, like, he's doing well. And he's winning. And he's improving. And this is what it is. All right. My last question. Are you going to miss Kamal hanging out with Kamal every day or what? Oh, for now or for sure. I'm happy. You know what? You'll be right back at it before you know it, man. But enjoy it. I'll tell you what. Sometimes when I say something. I'll miss him. I mean. He's going to hate me. Sometimes I see him. Look, I'm Kim. We're going to do. I mean, what we did in these three weeks, to be honest. No. We worked very hard. But you guys were out here at Simon's gym training, like, for how long? Ultimate. Ultimate fitness. We're going to give him the record, Simon. Immediately after. I've been kicking Kamal's ass every day, so make sure he's in shape. Yeah. Since I came, look at him. I know. He only cares about his legs. He only cares about his legs. That's all he cares about. When I showed up there, he wanted to train legs with me, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We did legs with him. But to be honest, we worked very, very hard for these three weeks. I mean, he knows. I don't think he's done that training before. No, no. As we pushed that much. So we have to do it. Especially where, I mean, I've set my alarm for cardio, but I'll get his message before my alarm. I'll be like, oh. Yeah. Yeah. We all be like, oh. Yeah. Because he's chilled out. He's this. And I'm not. I'm going to, we're going to do the job. Yeah. It's simple that. I want to go home. So do the job. I want to go home and sleep. So, but like, we worked hard. Very, very. I pushed him hard. But he did the job. And everybody sees the results. So the good things, he wants it. So that's what, again, for the Olympia. If he won it, he can do it. Let's not talk about that yet. Because it's, let him enjoy this moment. Arnold Classic victories. He's $1 million over three weeks. That's a big number for us because I didn't win that in my whole career. So for myself, Chris Cormier, and of course, Team Andrew Jack, Rx Muscle, we are out. Thank you.