I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations dosed for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution alongside the winner of the 2025 Fibo Championships, Andrew Jack. Andrew, quite the battle between you and a very informum Cassan Hayatti. What allowed you to come out on top today? Uh, I would say I just kept pushing. Yeah. Yeah. He was tough though. Yeah. He made me sweat. You know, so much was made about the decision, the 11th hour decision for you to do this show. Why this show? Why Fibo at this point in the contest calendar? I think it's something that I can actually do and have enough time to really really go back to the engine room. Yeah. Work on myself cuz I'm tired of games. Yeah. Now I want to get down to business. And what does business mean? Uh back to the drawing board. What do you feel like between now and the Olympia are some of the fine points between what you saw at the Arnold Classic and what you delivered here tonight that you feel like you need to work on, you need to bring up, you need to refine to give yourself the best shot to win that Olympia title? Everything. Everything. I think the major thing for a 6'2 guy, same thing. hamstrings, more legs, back thickness, and um yeah, I do have to ask you because this show did feature the return of Serga Jr. Now, he did compete last year as well. Um you know, we talk about the level of excitement that he brings, but the excitement level that you bring and you know, the kind of quality conditioning that Cassan brings. Talk to us about this lineup that was featured here at the FIA Championships. Oh, I mean for the first for the first uh uh open bodybuilding competition ever here in FIBO, I think it was a good start to start with. You have an OG coming back like Sergio and S who's been giving people a run for the money like recently came in good. He made me sweat. Something I something I used to do to other people but he did that to me. So I was like impressed. So it did it coming good. Finally, between the Arnold Classic and this show and obviously the few minutes that you've had to reflect, best part of your physique, best part of your overall presentation that you want to hone in on to really make it in terms of the best attribute for that Olympia stage? Uh, I think I just need to work more on my um aura. Put it like that. Yeah, to work more on my aura. Yeah. I have to ask you because I want to know myself. How does one work on their aura? For me, I vibe with the environment. I vibe with the crowd. I vibe with the people. But sometimes if they're not there, you just have to create that illusion and just re-energize yourself mentally. Yeah, that's an answer that only Andrew Jack can give. So between now and the Olympia, so is this we're shutting it down or there's a possibility of you going for a four Pete at Texas? Uh stay tuned. Stay tuned. Between now and possibly Texas and the Olympia, this man will be working on Azora, the champion of the 2025 Fibo Championships, Andrew Jack. Andrew, congratulations on the win and thank you for the time. Appreciate it. Thank you, my friend. Yep.