 an anroproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproproprop Join the evolution. I mean, the job is done. Now is just the time to just come, just get it over with. That's it. Do you feel like now that you've done quite a number of shows that you're owning it up there on that stage? In other words, you feel like, I deserve to be here. I can win this show. I'm the guy. No, I'm just enjoying every moment. I find myself in that. That's it. Chris Cicito said two weeks ago you weighed over 320 pounds. Is that true? What do you think you weighed on stage? You had to be at least 310 if that's the case. I've got no idea. I've got no idea, bro. You look enormous, man. You looked enormous, though. I'm predicting 310 to 312. The thing about Chris and we don't do... He told me to ask you. Yeah, we don't do scale things because, honestly, 10 years before the Olympia was when we actually stepped on the scale. At Romania, we didn't. Even now, we didn't. He's more on the package. You look significantly bigger than the Olympia and you look a lot leaner, too. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I told Chris, give Andrew a burger and fries tonight. Fill out a little bit. No, no. I don't do the burger stuff. What do you do? I'll just do... What's your cheat meal of choice? Just potatoes and salmon. Oh, you're a clean guy. You like to eat clean food? Yeah. My stomach is sensitive. I'm lactose intolerant, too. Oh, yeah, there you go. Yeah, I'll just grab some potatoes and some salmon and have... Yeah, let's see. Now, how do you feel about the fact that you have to go another whole day now? It's kind of like the Olympia. Do you like that second day, you know, or do you feel like you get better from day one to day two? Yeah, of course. I'm always, I'm always, I'm always, I'm always, like, better on the second day. Yeah, the first day is like a test run, and then the second day, you go full throttle. All right. Well, good luck, man. You look great up on stage. Andrew Jack might be leading that prejudging after round one. Yes, sir.