 ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Andrew Jack, we talked to you last night. You were very confident, and you delivered. Yeah, and that was why you saw me posted lots of videos. I never post stuff like that. I know, I know. But whenever you see me do stuff like that, it means, okay, yeah. Doesn't this guy, he's like you. He looks big in clothes, too. Most guys don't look big in clothes. He looks big in clothes. He is big in clothes. Kai is not human. Well, we know he's an alien. But you're a human, and you're a pretty big human. And you're the new champ. I'm just taking over his steps. What are you going to do with that 700? He's given me an award twice at the Arnold's. Oh, really? Oh, so he's good luck for you. Twice. You better show up at the Olympian. I'm like, no, sir, not today. Keep walking, keep walking. Nope. Oh, he didn't give you first place. I was like, nope. Walk, walk, walk. Keep going. What are you going to do with that 750 grand? That's what I want to know. Nah. That's a lot of money, man. Nice, nah. It is a lot of money. It's the biggest prize money in all bodybuilding ever. In bodybuilding ever, yeah. But in life, no. It's no. Okay. The biggest prize in life. You can put it in the bank just to not touch it? The biggest prize in life is waking up healthy and sound. You're right. You're 100. Yeah, and thanking God. And thanking God on that, too. Yeah. Every other thing can be achieved. It might take a long time, but it definitely can. Here's an interesting question, because is this still a hobby for you, or have you accepted this as potentially like a career? Honestly, I was working since 426 AM. I'm still an analytical engineer. I was working. I know you're an intellectual. So this is still a hobby. This is just my passion for me. Just a passion. You like that guy, right? Yes, absolutely. A guy like me, he never had a real job his whole life. Yeah, it will never change. Like, days I know I get up at 5 to do my cardio, yeah, only when I'm prepping. But when war calls you, 1 AM, 2 AM, 4 AM. But you enjoy the, you must enjoy your job, right? Yeah, I don't have to compromise, so it's easy. Okay, so you enjoy doing the electrical engineering. It's profession. Yes. Yeah, there's life after the sport. So it keeps you balanced? Yeah, of course. There's life after the sport. It keeps me sane, though. Right, right. Which is good, yeah. When you heard the announcement for the Best Poser award, something this guy's won a lot, and so he was very complimenting towards you. Did you think maybe they were going to give you the win? No, like, the thing about me, I'm not, you know, like, expecting something when I know it's mine already. Oh, so you knew that you were going to win. Yeah, yeah. Okay, all right. As long as it's Arnold and I step on the stage, it's mine already. Okay. But, yeah, the last time I was just penalized for the mask and the... I know. Yeah, but... I had a few masks on during his career. Well, when I made the post, when I made the post that it was a tribute to Cedric, then I started to be like, okay, now we get why you did it. But... Yeah, we have a bunch of best posers here. Best poser, best poser. Cedric, best poser. It's not about the money. It's just doing something that they exactly respect. You and Cedric had a battle for Royale on this stage. Wow. Shout out. Yeah. Rest in peace. Rest in peace, exactly. Rest in peace. What do you like about the posing round? Is it allows you to express your creativity? They feel the bummy. I always find the vibe. Like, this routine I did now was this morning. Oh, you just made up this morning? Yeah, this morning. Kai draws his out for, like, weeks before. No, I got... I got, like, a couple of songs, and I had... Like, now I have about 15 playlists, and I have... Each song has its own pose, and... But these songs... Like, yesterday, someone handed me a DM and be like, Bro, I made you a song. See if you like it. And I put it there, and you can see it was all, like, Mona Lisa just about me. And I'm like... And I'm like, okay, this is... It's an effort by someone, so let me also appreciate. So I know he will listen to this. Oh, so you used his song? I didn't tell him I will post the song. So he will listen to this. I love it. And he will go crazy. That's a great story. So I have to, like... Oh, shit. Okay, I have to, like, switch it up, and I'm like, okay. What will I do? Okay, just do some bing, bing, bang, bang, and that's it. Wow. I had Derek over here before. I said, are you a little nervous about Andrew? And he's like, well, it's going to be a good battle. I don't know what I have with these guys, man. Like, he barely said hi to me. You're the enemy. Samson sent me backstage, barely said... He didn't even say hi to me. These guys are scared. I don't know what I did to these guys, man. You won tonight. That's what you did. They're winning, like Ronnie. I don't... I never complained. Okay, now I just... It's just my time came, and... Because you're this tall, and you're this wide. That's scary. Yeah, but I'll see them at the Olympia, though. So, yeah. Oh, that's what I'm talking about. I think they don't want to get you too comfortable with them. Like, there's no competition in Destiny. Wow. Was it great to be interviewed by Arnold? He owes me, even. Oh, he owes you? Why? He owes me two extra interviews, because I won the Arnold UK. He wasn't there. Oh. And I got my pro card that same year. He wasn't there. So he owes me two interviews. So he owes you two more. Are you going to be going to the UK in two weeks? Everything is done already, yeah. Wow. So you might win a million dollars total. He could win a million dollars if he wins that show. That's 250 more. Man, you know what? That is awesome. He's like, man, I should have been a little younger, man. A little younger. I could be a lot younger, and I'd be very young. Yeah, but most of this stuff goes to charity, so I'm not. Oh, you give your money to charity? No. What charities? I've been blessed already. Like, yeah. That's right. Yeah. This is nice. Yes. Very good. Very good. Congratulations, man. Yes, indeed. Our Arnold Classic champion, Andrew Jack. What a classic. Here he is. Get over, Kamal, over here. Uh-oh. Kamal, who's – Kamal, tell me – I don't know if a lot of people know, what did you do for this guy, you know, between you and Chris? We know what Chris did, but what did you do? You kind of train this guy every day, right? Yeah. I mean, this time he came a bit earlier than the Olympia, so – but from after the Olympia – What's a bit earlier? I mean, probably another two weeks earlier. Okay. And he stayed at your house? No. No, no. I don't want a big guy like him. No, I don't – because you know what – He will scare me. I don't mind, but my kids are going to be very scared. Well, what happens, he'll clog your toilet up because, you know, as Ed Conner said, they go to the bathroom too much. Yeah. Well, I have to have a special stuff for him as well. A special toilet paper. But now he stays like near the gym, so – and then we meet. I do my training, and then I wait for – we come to – And then you train with him too? No, I train him. I mean – I mean – Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because the thing is like people that say, why you don't train with him? I said, that is not what he for. Right. I'm here to push him, to train him because when I train, I train hard myself. Okay. So I need to catch my breath. Looking at him on stage, what are you going to do with him for the Olympia now? What would you like to see him bring up and improve? Well, just to keep going, keep improving, keep training hard. To be honest, we didn't do anything that my – whatever I tell him what to do, but he choose that training that fits him. Okay. But I do it my way. Right. Okay, we're going to do drop set. We're going to do super set. We're going to do – you know. Well, what Chris said that I thought was very wise is sometimes you'll push him like with a lot of volume. And then other days you realize it's too much. You'll back off and you'll do less. And it's very intuitive, right? Yeah. It is like because I do see – I've done it so many times. I know when I pack off, I always ask him, are you okay? You feeling this? If I see him like – he's an anaclastic champion. I know. Yeah, but he wants to go the way. I know. I want to know what the secrets are because your physique has changed a lot over the last three years. You can't spill the beans on the mic. No, it's for me. Well, you know what the funny thing is? What works for you doesn't work for anyone else. No, but yeah, you're right. I mean, last year, the training of last year Olympia is not the same as this year. Right. It's different. I mean, you have to treat the physique as you see it. And then you treat it. Last year, when he came, I'm going to say it, he was a little bit behind. He's a behind. So we have to crush it. We have to crush it. Now you're going to – all the Mr. Olympia contenders are going to be in Tampa this year preparing for the Olympia, it seems like. I haven't got the bloody time. No way. You've got him. You've got Derek. He's got his own chip there. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, Derek, he does well anyway. So he's got his own gym. He's busy. But like – I mean, we all train for the same. We're all for the same sport. We love the sport. So whatever we could do, we could do. Well, this team was a very powerful team right here. And you guys emerged with the victory, Chris. I know you were a little nervous, but how does it feel? No, he wasn't. You don't know. He tells me when he's nervous. He doesn't tell you when he's nervous. Today he was nervous. It feels great. I turned into like a little tyrant after prejudging, I think, a little bit today. But it feels great because, you know, we had a couple Olympias that I felt slipped out of our fingers. They were good placings. But there's nothing worse for me to go to a contest. I don't care about the placing, really. I was like, you could have been better for this particular show. And that's, I feel, all changed. And with those losses, I always told Andrew, this is going to take time. You have to be patient. It's step by step. You're going to get to where you want to go. But you have to be patient. And patience is, for bodybuilders, a cliche. It's something that people fight with. They don't understand it. And he's been patient and worked. Too busy doing his electrical engineering. But he's been plugging along. And I think that everything has just, you know, he's come into his own. How long have you been doing this series now? Three years? Three years, yeah. At some point. Jay just said before you got it, he's like, your ceiling is unlimited. Because it takes ten years to be great at anything. And you haven't even gotten halfway there. So Arnold Classic Champ, $750,000 richer. We're going to see him in two weeks at the Arnold UK going for another win and another $250,000. And then we're going to see him at the Olympia battling Derek for that title. Congratulations. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Dave Palumbo. I want to thank Jay Cutler for joining us. Kai Green for joining us. Kamal. And, of course, Chris Asito, the technician. The only technician. I'm Dave Palumbo. For rxmuscle.com, thank you to all the Arnold people for inviting us, giving us the VIP treatment, you know, allowing us to do what we do best here. And all you fans for all the support over the years. We'll see you next year.