Brian Hilderbrand, rxmuscle.com. We're the 2012 Olympia. Second event in America's Strongest Man, Andrew Palmer. You're here last year. I was. And had a had an interesting time. Today you've looked terrific. Good speed. Yoke, 150. Tell me tell me kind of how that drop went and the momentum to carry it through. Well, at the 950 run, I dropped it. I was just stumbled. I took off too fast. Momentum carried. I fell and I just lucked into I duck tried to duck under it and pick it up as soon as before it slid. If it slides too far, you get a penalty on this slick surface that it's going to slide some. So, I just kind of dove under and started lifting again as quick as I could. We had saw a couple guys come up a little lame at the end of their runs and uh any word on how everybody's doing? I I think I mean there's always injuries, there always sore people. I know a couple of guys have some knee issues going on. So that's probably why they were looking a little bit looking a little bit rough at the end of it. But you know it's a it's yoke is a good event for me. So I always come out feeling good and I know a lot of the other guys are looking pretty good today too. So I Everybody's put some size on since last year. Yes. This is the biggest field I've competed with and I've competed with a lot of big boys over the years. I was saw Caruso and watched him walk away. He looked like one of those one of those Belgian bulls as he was walking away. He looked like Tom Mccclure from the back. He's 30 He looks 30 lbs bigger and it's all in his shoulders. He's huge. Yeah. Um Husfeld Stones next. What What do you feel about that? Um it's a really unpredictable event for me. I don't have a very I just use a 400 lb sandbag to train and that crushes your lungs. So I've never had I can't really get huge distances with it. But uh you know the first year I did this belt I got 8 feet or 12 feet. Then the next year I got 140. So it's just kind of wild card. We'll find out how it goes. Good. All right. All right. Well, hey, Andrew, good luck to you. Uh, from my hometown of Seattle, congratulations. Living up on Capitol Hill on my peaks out in Seattle. Uh, Andrew, congratulations. Go get ready for the Hustafel. Until then, uh, event three coming up, the Hustafel Stone, Andrew Palmer walking away. I'm Brian Hildebrand, rxmuscle.com.