 I was on the J. I was on the Jay Cutler podcast a few weeks ago, and I was discussing androgen receptor sensitivity, and the fact that in today's day and age, no one wants to go off cycle anymore because, you know, God forbid, they stop taking testosterone for a few weeks, they think they're going to lose, you know, all their size, which is just not the truth. And I explained that the reason why you want to do that, not only is for detoxification purposes, but just to give the androgen receptors an ability to regenerate them. And what I mean by that forphenate them for a few weeks later because, you know, get the neuroperververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververververv And we know that happens because, you know, you never grow as well as you do the first, you know, six weeks or eight weeks on a cycle. And then it attenuates itself. You don't stop growing, but you don't grow at the same level. Okay. Because your receptors decrease. And that happens with clobuterol. It happens with anything you take. So by going off once a year and bringing your levels down super low, because what's essentially going to happen is you're not going to produce anything, right, for a year. A different time period for each person. But you're going to have very low levels, more than likely for several weeks, is that your body's not going to know that you have low testosterone production in your body or that you're not taking what you were taking before. It's going to think that there's not enough receptors to recognize those androgens there. So what it does is it increases androgen receptor numbers. It might do this for four to six weeks, four to eight weeks. Keep increasing the receptor numbers until finally the body realizes there's just no hormone there. Not there. And eventually then you go back on a cycle. Now you respond really well. And this is something that's been going on for years and years and years. Nowadays, guys don't want to go off anymore. So they've created this myth. And they use studies that don't support their point of view, but that circumstantially support their point of view. So what they're doing is they're creating a narrative that's not true. This guy, Jason Coley, loves to go after me on Instagram. And he's waving this study on his Instagram reel. And the study doesn't even have anything to do with androgen receptors. He's like, we have evidence now that androgen receptors are increased in response to high androgens. And he's waving this, putting this study on the screen. And if you look at the study and you zoom in on it, it has nothing to even do with androgen receptors. It's about different forms of testosterone, long acting, short acting, which is better. And the studies that are out there to suggest that androgen receptors are increased in response to androgens are done on prostate cancer cells, okay, which have nothing to do with muscle cells. And they're being subjected to physiological dosages of testosterone that you would normally have in the body at different varying levels. It's not super physiological levels or pharmacological levels like body levels. They're not putting 3,000 milligrams of testosterone into this rat body to see how it's going to respond to the androgen receptor. They're using physiological dosages and they're using cancer cells, prostate cancer cells. This is not any proof of anything. You can waive all the studies you want. It's just not true. And if you want to say it enough times, it's just not true. And if you want to create your own narrative to support the fact that you're too mentally unstable to go off a cycle for six to eight weeks every single year, go ahead and do it. Don't vilify me. If you want to come on and challenge me and you want to have some science-based debate, I'm open for it. Let's go. Sign me up. You pick the questions, send them to me, and we will debate. You can send me all the studies you want, and we'll go over the studies, you know, study by study. On a long-form YouTube podcast. I have no problem doing that. But for now, shut your trap. You don't know what you're talking about. And Garrett Walker might be even dumber than the other guy, Jason. He might be the stupidest guy I've ever heard in my life. His rationale, let's listen to it. Uh, no. To everything that was said. Androgen receptors don't diminish in the presence of excess androgens. They actually upregulate in the presence of excess androgens. I mean, just think about this logically here. If there's too many androgens for your body to handle with the amount of receptors that you have, what do you think the body is going to do in order to solve that issue? Make less androgen receptors? No, you're going to make more androgen receptors. The more androgens that are present in the blood, in the body, the more androgen receptors your body is going to create to handle those androgens. So he thinks that the more androgens you take, your body is just going to say, Hey, we got all these androgens around. We got to make more receptors. It's so obvious. How stupid is Dave Palumbo? And you know what? If we take 10,000 milligrams of testosterone a week, our body is going to say, Hey, we got 10,000 milligrams circulating. Let's make more androgen receptors. So in other words, according to your logic, the more you take, the bigger you get. So if you take 20,000 milligrams a week of testosterone, you're going to get even bigger because your, your body is going to have to just make more androgen receptors because it must respond to everything you take. That's why drugs work unlimited. They never stop working. Okay. How come guys are not 400 pounds on the Olympia stage by your logic, because by your logic, the more drugs they take, the more receptors they should make so that they can just keep growing. Cause that's just logical. Dummy, the body limits itself purposely so that it won't overdo anything. It won't overgrow itself. It won't blow itself out of proportion. It's fighting us. That's why it's so hard to put muscle on. You don't grow unlimited. The more drugs you take, that's the stupidest explanation I've ever heard. And the lack of logic is so baffling that I I'm embarrassed for you that you actually put that video out. Once again, if you want to join the debate group that we're going to have on this discussion, and I'm sure no one will take me up on my offer to debate and go over the science of this, because you guys have no idea about anything even remotely close to science. It's all about promoting the narrative that you guys want to promote. And if it doesn't promote the narrative, then you get rid of it. And if it does promote the narrative, you'll make up some cockamamie reason why it's right. It's why anyone would listen to you guys. And when I read the comments, I can't even believe that these guys are like, yeah, yeah. Well, of course you guys are cheering them on with cheerleaders, because you want to believe that that's the truth. So you never have to go off and you can just keep taking an infinite amount of drugs. And guess what? You don't even look like you could win the Mr. Long Island. It's baffling to me that you guys can't see the logic of what I am saying. But you know what? Sometimes in life, you're just not ready to hear the message. And when you are ready to hear the message, maybe you'll all of a sudden say, hey, Dave knows what he's talking about. And then we'll get back to the TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV