Heat up Dave Palumbo here with Chris, the technician of the men's prejudging open has just let out here at the 2017 Arnold Classic. Cedric McMillan looks like we said this last year though too looks like he might go home with his first Arnold Classic victory. Uh edging out a spectacular Dallas Macarver today. Talk to me about what made Cedric special. uh special is the fullness because the lines are in particularly impressive when he's uh when he's full and this is the the heaviest he's ever been on stage. Everyone blah blah blah. He was legit 281 on stage today. Um I know everyone was in a panic when he was 298 2 days ago. It is I think half of it was in his face. Yeah, he looked very bloated a couple days ago and but he was able to pull it down and and you know his lines are better when he's full and you know everyone knows you know the Olympia for him was you know not a good show because he wasn't full. If you contrast I mean he posted pictures today of him last year 3 days out versus this year 5 days out he's up 18 lbs at at the 5day mark. He's he's up a legit 14 lbs on stage compared to last year. It's interesting because Dallas pointed to Cedric's glutes on one of the back double bicep shots and when Cedric Good idea Yeah. When Cedric flexed everything, I saw crazy lines. That's just his genetics. Yeah. His his uh hamstrings are peeled. I mean I mean Cedric's in the in which they got to be full to be peeled. It's an irony for his body, you know, cuz most people would just peel it down and the ham his you peel it down and we've been fighting, you know, Cedric, we'll get to this later. He's an artist. You don't coach him. You hope to work with him. It's like a Kai Green. George, you don't you don't coach Kai Green. You work with them. Some people you coach, you say 1, two, three. You tell these guys who are truly artists mentality, 1, two, three. They like, you know, small ones, you know, one and three equals four. And they come up with these own ideas. So, we've been battling on the fullness issue for years. And I've been telling them forever, you you got to let them you got to come in full. Well, Cedric had not only fullness, but he had roundness to his body. Uh, I scored it shot by shot. I think I I had him only losing one shot side, tricep, and I didn't even give that to Dallas. I gave that to Lionel Biki. Um, let's talk about Dallas McCarthy because Dallas really, you know, Yeah, we we were very Yeah, his back looked good on stage. I think Chad got the right the right balance of fullness and conditioning. He could have been harder, but if I think he would have been too flat, he would he would have been terrible if he was, you know what, it was the Goldilocks approach for him because if he was too full, he would have fallen and looked blocky and if he was too flat, he wouldn't have been tight enough. He was like perfectly tight for his fullness. I've been such a Dallas Macccarva critic. You know, when he won Chicago, I'm like, "No big deal." When he was in the Olympia, I was like, "Guys, he's hyped." On the radio show, you know, I throw him under the bus. And when he came out, I said, "Wow." What impressed me the most was the leg separation where before he had none. He had a lot of polish on him, too. Today, a lot of polish. He had tan on. He looked really good. I mean, he looked professional. He didn't look fidgety and nervous up there, which I think those shows at the Olympia, you know, I mean, maybe that the nerves made him hold water because he always looked at the Olympias like in his mind like he didn't belong up there, like he was nervous. Um, and you know, Chad's probably just brainwashed him that you're going to win the show. I'm just kidding, Chad. I had a great conversation with Chad. I mean, he looked phenomenal. He looked his crunch shot is every bit as impressive as the ones that you see on Instagram. Like, wa, look at Dallas Macarver. And he brought up his back. Um he had very tight separated hamstrings. Side chest was great. Um even the front double which I thought would be like fall apart. You know, it looked really good. He looked really good in really all the shots. Well, it was it really was a twoman show tonight. And obviously when we get to the final wrap-up, we'll go over all the competitors, but it's a it's the Dallas and Cedric show right now. And oh, we got a special dignitary. Hey, Jason Poston, man. How you doing, coach? Body. Did you watch the men's physique? Yes, I did. Who do you like? Straight up without Tell you who I like without any other excuse. I know who you're going to say. I like Ryan Terry. Okay. Why? Uh because he was the most complete. He um he had the the most symmetrical posing on stage. There was no angles or side turning trying to look thinner. He wasn't trying to hide any small waist or wide waist. He wasn't trying to do anything special. When it came down to comparisons, he just kept it really simple and he he did what he always does. He stands there and looks like a freaking uh like he's doing a cover shoot of of a magazine. I I was very impressed with Andre Ferguson who's the best smack talker in the business right now. He's take He surpplanted every other person out there that I've ever interviewed and but he brought it, man. The guy has made improvements from show to show to show. How far can this guy go? I think he go really far. And uh you guys all know that me and Andre had our differences, but you that's in the past and um I I definitely respect what he's done with his uh conditioning and his muscle maturity. He looks harder, more dense. Um man, I I wanted to yell out at him to quit turning the sides. Why was he doing that, you think? Cuz he has a small waist. He doesn't need to do that. I can only think he did that cuz that's kind of what Jeremy does. That's what Olympia So and that's what Brandon Hendrickson did last year. So he shouldn't have changed up what he done. And I honestly I think that's what's going to cost him and get him second place even ahead of Brandon Hendrickson the previous champ. Well, we'll see. Thanks, Jason. Good seeing you looking really big. What are you waiting? Um 2:22 and uh just started the diet. Classic physique. Yeah, classic. Uh we're shooting for uh possibly earlier, but due to the travel schedule um Chicago Wings of Strength July 1st, Vancouver Pro July 8th, but if I can get ready quicker, be ready. Good luck, man. All right, Chris. Well, like I said, it's the Cedric McMillan and Dallas Macccarver show. Who will emerge victorious? We got the posing routine, which is still worth 30% of their score. I don't think anyone out there is better than Cedric McMillan, so I can't see him losing. We'll see everyone tonight. Stay tuned. I'm Dave Palumbo with Chris, the technician Aceto for rxmuscle.com.