RX television on rxmuscle.com. I'm Sadique Barooi. Yesterday and today, the fields for the Arnold Classic, the 2017 Arnold Classic have been released. We're going to get an initial reaction from Dave Plumbo. Let's go over the field. Nine bodybuilders invited. Here we go. Fouad Abad, Lionel Bay, who just won the San Marino Pro. Max Charles, Justin Compton, Vitali Fativ, Dallas Macccarver, Cedric McMillan who took second last year to Kai Green, Juan Morurell, and Shawn Rhoden. And as we now bring in Dave Palumbo, Dave, your initial thoughts on this field of nine for the 17 Arnold Classic field. Well, you know, right off the bat, I was kind of a little taken aback because I I I I knew for a fact that Shawn Rhoden wasn't doing the Arnold Classics. I don't know why he was included on this list or whether whether he had made a commitment to do it earlier in the year and then changed his mind, but I know Chris Aceto told me who does his diet he wasn't doing it. And then Johnny was watching, you know, Johnny stalks his social media pages and he did a live uh Facebook or something like that uh or Instagram feed and he actually said he was not going to be doing it. So, um I have to believe that that's accurate information. So, I I don't know why the Arnold people didn't understand that or there was a mis this miscommunication. So Rhoden's out. I mean, he would have been the hands-on favorite, obviously, having placed second at the Olympia. Um, he seemed a little burned out. I He didn't look like he was in dieting mode when I saw him in San Marino when he was hanging out there. So, I think that we have to discount that uh him as being in there. Having said that, you know, you have to look at what happened last year. You know what? You know, Kai Green won the show, but Cedric won the prejudging and finals and just lost the the posing round and Kai went up narrowly beating him. So, Cedric pushed Kai Green to the limit, you know, ostensively beating him at the Arnold last year. And so, I have to put my money on Cedric McMillan. The problem is that Cedric McMillan is the least consistent bodybuilder on the entire circuit. So, if you put your money on him, it's a crapshoot. you don't know which Cedric you're going to get there. Um, having said that, looking at the rest of the lineup, you have to say well to yourself, well, who who's good there? You know, who can come in here and win this? Uh, Justin Compton had several victories last year. Um, very successful year for him. I thought he has to be considered one of the favorites in this lineup. Biki coming off that win in San Marino, like you you said just a little earlier ago, um, has to be considered one of the favorites. You know, if he brings the conditioning he brought from San Marino, he's not going to win the show. It wasn't enough to win in Arnold, but it was certainly good enough to win San Marino. If he can tighten up 57%, I don't think anyone can beat him in this lineup to be honest with you. He's got really no weaknesses. Cedric McMillan's strengths are that he's a terrific poser. Arnold loves his physique. He's that aesthetic, beautiful, sculpted physique. The problem is you don't know who you're gonna get on stage. If he comes in at his best, I don't think anyone beats Cedric. Um I think a Biki Cedric McMillan, you know, pose down, you know, the last two men standing would be terrifically exciting. And I think that's what it could amount to. Now, obviously, we got Dallas Macccarver, uh who's, you know, been putting up pictures at 320 pounds up online at 6'1. He's impressive size-wise, but I don't know if structurally he can come in there and win this show. I think the talent pool might be too deep, but he does bring terrific conditioning to the stage. And now he's worked with Chad Nichols. I suspect he'll probably be even more consistent on stage with the way he looks. So, he's definitely a a wild uh wild card in that lineup as well as Juan Morell, obviously, my good friend. And he uh he's got he's got all the tools to win the Arnold. You know, the question will be, will his legs be big enough and full enough on stage? And if they are, no one touches his upper body. You know, I don't think he's got anyone's got a better V taper in that lineup. He's got a terrific back. He's got great pecs and arms and shoulders. So, he's dangerous in this lineup. So, the good thing about the Arnold lineup is it's not a foregone conclusion who's going to win. While we have a couple of favorites, the lineup is deep. And, you know, you can't discount Fuad Abiad who's always dangerous, and Max Charles who's who was making a lot of improvements at the end of last year. He just didn't seem to be able to dial in the conditioning. if he brings it to the stage, he's also going to be a certainly or certainly a top five, top six opponent here. So, the the bottom line is with Rhoden out of the lineup, I think it's wide open for anyone to come in here and take it. But I I think you have to say that Cedric McMillan is the sentimental favorite. Dave, let's talk about some of the notable emissions. And of course, we start with the defending champion, Kai Green. Uh, from what you know or from what you would speculate, why is Kai Green not in this field? I spoke to Kai Green uh on the way back from San Marino. Uh, we sat in a in a bus together in the back of this like little van and we talked for two hours and Kai's got a lot going on in his life right now. He loves the Arnold people. So, he would definitely do the show if he had the time. I just don't think he has it on his uh the scheduling time to do it. I I don't think he has time to diet uh get the workouts in. You know, when you travel every weekend, it's very hard to eat right. Even if you're Kai Green, it's very hard to get to the gym. And even when you do get to the gym, you just don't feel like working out because you're not well rested. So, that that's a big problem. And I think Kai's at a point in his life right now where business is more important. And he's such a creative being. I told him, I said, "Acting is great for you." I said, "Because you you're creative and you like to express yourself, and that's what actors do." So, I think you're going to see a lot more Kai Green and getting involved in acting projects and stuff like that and movies. uh a lot less involvement in the bodybuilding competition side of things. So, uh I think that's why he's missing from this lineup. So, to recap, Shawn Rhoden again saying yesterday in one of his social media live chats that he will not be partaking in the 2017 field. Another couple of notable emissions, Dave, and that is the oxygen gym duo of Roly Winkler and Nathan Dasha. two really made their mark this year, especially um on the Olympia stage. Rolley Winkler placing. What do you think the rationale is between behind them to not uh being invited to partake in this field? I don't know if they weren't invited or they didn't apply. Um I would say they probably didn't apply because I mean these guys competed an awful lot last year. They got to be tired. Their physiques are a rundown. Rley jumped into that last show uh you know that took place the week before. What was it? the Sheru Dubai show. I don't know. He I'm sure he wasn't dying for dieting for it, but he still won. So, he's qualified for the Olympia. I I wouldn't be surprised if we didn't see Ruy Winkler all year. Or maybe like a New York Pro return. Maybe he'll do that. But I I think that he's he's going to rest his body. Uh Nathan, same thing. Nathan's got to grow. He's got to put more size on. He's not going to do that by competing at every single show that that pops up. So, I think it's a good choice for both of these guys to take a break, let their bodies recover, and come back better in 2017 in the latter part of the year. Josh Lonardoitz, another uh who did really well last year at the Arnold Classic, not in the field. Finally, Dave, for those who may be wondering with the announcement yesterday made by Shawn RH, nothing is official right now as far as the Arnold uh side of things is concerned, but with that reducing the field down to eight, how does this work? Would they consider uh inviting another top bodybuilder to this field or you know once somebody exits it stays at that field number? Very rarely do they replace people. I've seen them add people like like because a guy a week before or two weeks before does a show and wins and everyone's talking about how great he is and they'll throw they'll extend and invite them. That happened one or two times. Uh I don't really see people swapping out like oh so and so is not going let's invite the the next guy on the list. They don't really do that. Uh, so usually they'll just the person just won't be there. That's my experience. Now, I'm sure if Kai Green called up at the last minute and said, "Hey, I want to do the show." I I'm sure they would extend an invitation to him. So, that's going to do it for this initial reaction to the field for the 2017 Arnold Classic being announced yesterday. For more continuing coverage of the 2017 Arnold Classic, Dave, you wanted to chime in one more time. Yeah, I I think I think it's important that we mention the 212 class because um this is the 212 might be more competitive actually than than the open classes. Obviously, Heday Yamagishi coming back to defend his title against Jose Raymond who he narrowly beat last year. A lot of people thought that he didn't beat him. I'm sure Jose didn't think he beat him. Was Jose at his best? No, but Jose was pretty damn good last year. Um I know he crashed dieted to make that show, but he kind of lost by the posing round once again. The question really will be, will there be a posing round that scored like last year? Are they going to drop out drop that out altogether? I haven't heard any mention of it, which usually implies that it's not going to be there, but who knows? We'll have to find out about that, but that's going to be a good battle. I know Jose is going to want revenge on Heday, so uh it'll be interesting to see. Heeden didn't do so well at the Olympia, so um you know, Jose was third. I don't see Ashkani in this lineup, which was a surprise. Maybe he's also resting his body. seems like the whole oxygen crew is is skipping the Arnold this year. Um, also obviously in that in that lineup is David Henry who's always very very dangerous as well as Guy Sister Nino. So the 212 class is going to be a real good battle and I don't want to downplay those guys. I kind of enjoy the 212 sometimes more than the open because those guys are so ripped and so conditioned because they got to make the weight class and they're very competitive against each other. So, my prediction is this year we'll see Jose Raymond return to the winner circle. Uh because I know he's hungry, he's pissed off. He lost last year and he'll be back at his best. For more continuing coverage of the 2017 Arnold Classic, Chorus interviews with the top competitors coming up over the course of January, February, and leading into the show. Keep it locked to rxmuscle.com.