The ladies of the view had Arnold on as a friendly Republican. Turns out they were wrong. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back for another installment of the Palumbo podcast. We haven't we took a few weeks off but we are back and we have a big story to talk about Arnold Schwarzenegger on the view with those lunatics and we want to give you our opinion on that but before we do John Romano I want to bring you on uh they saw you a little earlier I got I got a funny story to tell you because you know it's so true that you get what you think about right I mean you create your own reality don't you after all of course of you gota yeah of course visualizing things helps all of that [\h__\h] Now, you and I are getting on a plane tomorrow and I will be probably with Mr. G at some point on this plane in Alabama. You'll be coming to Alabama tomorrow. But, you know, a few I'm driving. Remember, I'm driving. You're driving, right? You're driving. Okay. But a few guys went in today. Okay. Now, of the people who flew in today, I believe Larry, Arman, Greg, and his girlfriend, and I think Jimmy's coming tomorrow like we are. Yeah, Jimmy. Guess who had a problem in Atlanta? Had a problem in Atlanta. Exactly. Can Can you take a guess? Well, you mean the pilot didn't care that he had his gallbladder out? No. I I get this text, this group text from Lucia, which is Greg's girlfriend, right? They're removing fuel from the plane. 30 minutes or more process. The other plane they moved us from was having other issues. So, this is this is the second plane they're on and now they're taking fuel out of the plane. I I only thought they put fuel in the plane. I didn't know they removed fuel. Did you know that? Not in Greg's case. I think Greg took such a [\h__\h] in the toilet bowl that that they didn't they needed to get some of the fuel off the plane. The flatulence make up a lot of the Yeah, it was weighing the plane down a little bit. So, that's the last update I've had so far. You know, isn't that funny how you when you project like that? It's it's it's it's amazing how that happens. You create your own reality. It's it's it's inevitable. There's no reason for that to happen. I mean, to him specifically because when does he travel? This is the second time he The last time he traveled on a plane was last year to get here. So, in a whole year, all right, he could have traveled every single day, right? And what would have happened? Nothing. But the one day he traveled in a year, I have traveled about 15 times since then. And and and I haven't had one delay. Not that I'm looking to jinx myself, but but yeah. No, he Yeah, he he brings it upon himself. He has to. I mean, it's got to be. There's just no two ways. I guarantee no one else who travel will have any problems getting whatsoever. And it was in Atlanta, right? And you know, look, if you Lucia is texting this to Michelle, that means that Greg's like like having a nervous breakdown. He's comeomaosse. Yeah. That means Yeah. And he and the and the terrible thing about Greg is he won't even he won't even take any like drugs to like like mellow him. Like you know how like you have to give animals like like tranquilizers to get on an airplane? Yeah. You can't even give him a tranquilizer. He'll he'll only take stimulants for some reason. I don't know what the reason is, but no, he's he's a classic reason to take a a you know, eat a brownie or take a Valium or something, you know, before you get on it. Xanax. Yeah, Xanax. Except now the Xanax is is is fentinyl. You can't even tell the real Xanax from the fentinel. So, the problem is now when we get there, we're going to hear the story 600 times, you know, from I want Do you think Greg gets the special meal? the kosher meal. Imagine him on the phone with the air airline. Yeah. Getting ordered a special meal. I have my gallbladder out. I'm diabetic. Luckily for Gray, they don't serve me anymore. No. And the funny thing is that that service that service is outsourced to India and the guy on the phone is do you want Muslim meal? Do you want vegetarian? Do you want cookies only? What? I I heard this this Jewish comedian telling the story about the kosher meal that he cooked about I mean that he ordered on the plane how they come it's like wrapped like like 600 times over and they they're afraid to touch it the flight attendants because they don't want to like they don't want to like you know spoil it. It's so well, you know, when you keep kosher, it's so easy to [\h__\h] up because you got to have you have to have an entire dishes and forks and knives for stuff with dairy. And then you have to another entire dishes and forks and knives for meat. And then you have to have pots and pans. One set for dairy, one set for me. And if you smi mush switch those up, oh god, you got to break out the rock salt and the prayer book and the tomet and you gotta get the rabbi to come over. It's it's treacherous. So yeah, they wrap that stuff up good. Do you think that they um uh have like a special like kitchen in in in the airlines? Because you know in local flights you don't get meals anymore, but like if you fly over, you know, internationally you get you get a meal. They give you a couple meals actually and they're really good. I have to How do they prep these things? Well, they got special kitchens and but but the kosher one is the most difficult. My my my wife grew up in South Carolina, never ran into a Jew before in her life. She gets she gets to the um uh public defender office, her first job in in in Florida and in Broward County, and she's there's a girl, another lawyer to to had her food in the microwave. So, it's done. It's sitting there. My wife's like, "I want to eat." You know? So, she take opens the door, takes hers out, puts it on top of the microwave, puts hers in, and heats hers up. The girl comes back to pick up her her meal and she's like, she's like this. And my and my wife is like, "What did I do? I just took it out." She goes, "That's all right. My mother will fix it. I just can't eat this." Now, that's that's how they are. I mean, literally, if you mess with their food and make it uncosher, then they No one in my house was ever kosher, believe me. They were Jewish, but they weren't kosher. I did that, John. If the if if the meal falls on the floor, I'll eat it off the floor. I don't I don't care about anything and I'll rationalize in my head that that the bacteria are good for the [\h__\h] gut and the the gut biome and my immune system. Increase your your your immune system. Yeah. There are people that if if like it's funny because my kids their mother, you know, is a nut. Like if the food falls on the floor, they they'll they'll throw it in the garbage because that's what she's like. But if if a gumball drops on the floor and no one's looking, it could roll in a [\h__\h] pile of dog [\h__\h] They would [\h__\h] put that into their mouth and eat that that gumball. I can guarantee it. It Well, it's you know the 5-second rule, right? But it I think the 5-second rule there. No, it only No, it only applies to the foods they like. In other words, if it's dinner and they really don't want to eat it anyway, it's like, "Oh, fell on the floor. Can't eat it." But I I'll eat that uh I'll eat that thing that's been laying over there for about that that right that rolled through the dog [\h__\h] That Hershey's bar that's been sitting over there on the floor for three days here. I'll eat that. But I you know the 5-second rule, right? People don't realize that there's a humidity element to that. So you could drop a dry gumball on the floor that could stay there for four weeks and it's all you. But if you drop a, you know, some a piece of riatoni with cheese sauce on it, you don't have much time. Well, it's also what's on the floor, too. You know, dog hair, cat hair in your case. You know, you got snake scales. I don't know what you got in your like Yeah. I don't know. If I dropped something like in a puddle, I wouldn't eat it outside. But, you know, if it if the street was dry and the sun was out, you know, and I'd probably pick it up and eat it. Yeah, I dropped half a sandwich on a construction site one time and I just picked it up and started eating. You going to eat that? They go, it's just a piece of wood. You know, you just get rid of the side that touched the the Look, you got to realize you look at a dog. Look at what a dog eats. Dog eat [\h__\h] anything. I mean, you throw it right on the floor and he eats it right off the floor. Right. Right off the floor. And yeah. So, like, why are we any different? I don't know. I think I think we create our own uh food sensitivity issues because we're too clean almost. It's true. Yeah. Yeah. Well, some of us are like crazy a little background, you know, bacteria and and fungal stuff is probably good for the immune system. I think I would think it is. It's like a It's like getting vaccinated. It's like, you know, it's like hyping up the immune system. Your immune system only strengthens by being tested. So, you have you have to throw, you know, slimy [\h__\h] in there. Sometimes people are saying I I I've seen like people can RFK Jr. you know, we used to swim in in the rivers and stuff like that and play in the puddles outside and, you know, and our immune systems was were better. People got less people got sick, less people had allergies back then, you know, we're almost too we're almost too antiseptic, you know, about everything. I I was I had this conversation with my dad before he died and and it was very eye openening. He said, "You know, when I was in school, you had you had a couple of slow kids. The the the the smarter kids helped them out. They all made it. You know, a little extra help here and there, you know. We had we used to go outside and play. We just didn't come home until the street lights came on. My parents didn't know where That was me, too. You know, my parents didn't know we were I used to during the summer, my mother wouldn't even let us back in the house until it was the street lights came on. She was cleaning. She wanted us to [\h__\h] it up. We used to get the sandwich out the kitchen window. She wouldn't let us in. You know, I've experienced that, too. Why does this camera do this, Dave? I don't know. I don't know either. But anyway, so yeah, things have definitely changed and everybody's gotten soft, man. I look Max was just here, you know, and and I look at some of his friends. None of there there is a there is AI don't want to not macho but masculine element missing from this newer generation. None of them have any body hair. None of them have can grow a beard. None of them are particularly you know they're all kind of soft and doughy. You know a lot of them have gyno. It's really weird man. I think it's you if you look at the parents though it's usually reflective in the kids too. I mean I look at your son Max. I mean, he's very masculine looking, you know, he's he's like got a hard body, you know, everything like that. My son is very he's got that aggression that I have like he's you know, he's he's like, you know, he's a little bit menacing, you know, he's he's a little mischievous, but he's but he's aggressively male, you know what I mean? Like a like a right, you know, he's he's got aggression in him. Like, and a lot of these I see some of the kids in his grade, they're like into like, you know, the playing the just they don't do anything. They don't do sports. But but we also and they're like soft like you could tell they their estrogen levels are probably higher than the girls. Very high. And they're all and I think a lot of that also now these days comes from the food supply, the water, you know, the drink, the stuff, the crap that they're eating, the chemicals, you know, those are very, you know, a lot of xenoestrogens floating around out there that we didn't have when we were kids. I'm not so sold on the whole xenoestr thing. I think it's just it's the way we're just we're just pampering these kids. I think you don't think there's like a like an environmental element that supersedes the genetic element. Um I'm not sure of that. I'm not I'm not I'm not sold on it. I think that there is certain hormonal influences I guess in the food supply that maybe are like causing women to have you know enter puberty earlier. Uh, but I I think I don't know. I I see when I look at like like kids that are like on the heavy side or they're like soft or they I look at the parents, it's like they're like clones of the parents, though. I I don't know, man. I I I see I see it both. I see it both ways. I This couple I know, you know, I've been out on their boat, you know, I've seen they're they're not like, you know, fitness people, but they're not out of shape either. They're like normal, right? Normal. Their kid, their son is not. He he has he has gyno like crazy gyno. Like bra gyno, you know. You know, you're right. Yeah, I'm probably Yeah. You know what it is? I think it's the kids who are eaters, like kids that really like to eat a lot. I think those are the kids that are being more affected by it. Whereas like like my son is like a forager. Like he's he'll eat like a maniac and then he'll go like hours without eating. You know, he might eat for a whole day. He might eat like nothing, you know, and then he'll eat the next day. I think the kids that are real moocher, you know, they they love their food and it's like chubby too. Yeah. Yeah. That they get a little chubby and then because they're consuming more of these, like you said, phytoestrogens and stuff like that and the food supply, you know, they're they're getting more side effects from it, too. Too bad we don't have I hate to say this, but Jason Hut and I had this um conversation because Jason was eating a lot of stripe bass and he got serious mercury poisoning. Really? And and I said, "Well, what do you eat now?" He said, "I eat hamburgers and French fries." He's like, "I realize they're the healthiest thing that I can eat." And you know what it it's sad, but you know what the truth of the matter is? Everything that we were told is healthy for us, fruits, vegetables, all poisoned with pesticides. Yep. Fish, tons of heavy metals, you know, uh pollutants from the water, right? So those are the fish, vegetables, and fruit are supposed to be the healthiest thing that you know you could possibly eat. And I still believe they are, but they're so they're organic. Yeah. That like you're I'm like I don't even know what to eat anymore. So, like I'm like I almost think like and and and try to eat a piece of pizza these days. It destroys your stomach because the cheeses and the the dough have so many additives into it from, you know, God knows what's in what's in the because I could eat a piece of cheese in Italy, it doesn't bother my stomach. I eat a piece of cheese here and it just it just doesn't digest. I don't even know what they're putting in the stuff. This would be such a perfect topic for Blechman if we could get him on the show. Oh, yeah. He was I I know. Oh, I I get the studies here to prove it. Phytoestrogen. He's going to like, you know, he's Are you kidding? I mean, that would be so PC. And And he'll say, "Me and RJ, RFK Jr." like this. Yeah. Junior. I call him Junior. I call him Junior. Bobby J. Bobby J. My father donated to his father's presidential campaign. a legacy in. Right. Wow. Yeah, he would definitely be a good person with that topic. But, you know, it it is kind of it's sad. It's and you really don't know what to eat anymore. What's healthy anymore? I you know, because I like vegetables and I like fruit and I like to eat raw vegetables. And I'm always like, you know, maybe I'm poisoning myself eating all this crap, you know, and it's you think it's good for you. It smells good and it's green and it's and it's alive and it's and it meanwhile God knows the pesticides they probably put in this because I look at these I buy these peppers these you know the yellow red and green peppers they're so perfect they're so it looks like they're fake they're so perfect I get them in Sam's Club I try to grow peppers out in my yard John they're all malshapen they're all like they're half rotted you know you know and I'm trying to cut off the the bad part so I can eat the good bits I'm Like how do every single one of these is a is so perfect. They must have so many pesticides that no insect even wants to go near these things. You know I when when when the COVID thing was, you know, brewing and we were going to have civil war and we were everybody was like plant a garden as food supply. So I did I had planted a garden. It's it's it's 15 feet by 40 feet. Okay. I had corn, tomatoes, potatoes, you know, yams, um, uh, basil, parsley, cilantro, all the stuff I use, right? Green onions, garlic, all the stuff I use. The deer ate all the corn and the tomatoes. One animal or another had their had a board over there that I provided for them. Plus the we then the weeds the weeds took over. So, how much poison do you have to put to kill the weeds, to keep the deer away, to keep the birds away, to keep the [\h__\h] worms off it? You got You got to douse this [\h__\h] in poison. I got I got an even better one than you. I've been planting stuff outside and nothing's growing. Nothing grows. I got to No, listen listen listen. I'm thinking the seeds like I'm I think I'm getting ripped off. Maybe there the seeds are no good. And then one day I come out early because I got to go to the airport and I find out why nothing's growing because the peacocks that are around my house eat all the seeds. How will they know where the seeds are in the ground? I have no idea. But they dig them up and I see them digging them up and I turn and I they look like the the Roadrunner from from WY Coyote and they go they're like beep beep and they like they take off. I Yeah, they steal everything. They eat all the like same thing the raccoons they eat all the anything that grows they they eat everything. So and when and when things like I I I had grown beets, right? Yes. And because I like the beat tops, the the the greens, right? Yeah. They never got more than that high. Something ate them, you know. And so it's like you're supposed to be doing this organically, right? And I got compost from the house. I'm turning the dirt over. I got the the mulch. I'm doing all this like my father used to do it, right? And either nothing would grow or whatever grew got eaten immediately. So it's just so I'm thinking large scale. You're doing this for America. The big farmers out there. No wonder we're poisoning the [\h__\h] out of every You have to You have to have you wouldn't get anything. I had a pumpkin the first year I moved in Florida. I had AI was growing pumpkins and I had a pumpkin. It was about this big and I'm like I can't believe it. I I'm actually gonna grow a pumpkin. This is amazing. And one day, it was like pretty close to when I was ready to pick it, something ate half the pumpkin. I don't know what did it, but it was probably a raccoon. But he was waiting too till that thing ripened and then he [\h__\h] devoured it. Or just nature [\h__\h] with you like that. Like the first year I did, I planted watermelons, right? And I got I got one this big, like this big. Yeah. And that was it. Next year said, "Fuck it. I'm not planting any more watermelons. It's not worth it." Right. So I, you know, dug up all the dirt, you know, restarted everything again. Halfway through the summer, I got this watermelon vine growing and I'm like, I guess from the year before, see, whatever. So it's growing and I'm not paying any attention to it because I don't want a [\h__\h] watermelon. So I And none are growing. It's just the vine. It's like, you know, you get a flower, I'm Oh, is it going to get a mel? No, nothing. Zero. So the whole summer goes by, it's like, you know, September and I'm clearing everything out. I swiped that whole vine away. There's a [\h__\h] watermelon this big under the vine like this. And I'm like, "Holy shit." I finally grew something. I go run in the house. I get the knife out. I cut it open. It's [\h__\h] white inside and yellow. It's like, "What the how? What?" And I'm I was so pissed. So, I don't grow anything anymore. I I found a cucumber like that. They got hidden. And I think it was it was hidden so well. It was hidden, right? It was hidden so well that even the peacocks didn't didn't know where it was. And I I I I actually got to eat it, which was which was But you know what? I I I got, you know, because I live in the boondocks, I got these roadside, you know, stands that sell produce, right? And I'm like I always wonder how how the heck do they grow that [\h__\h] Yeah. I can't grow anything. And these guys got bags and bags and [\h__\h] all over the trailer, all over the tractor, everywhere. They know all they know all the They must be shoveling poison on top of that [\h__\h] Like I don't Unless maybe you should build some scarecrows. You're pretty handy. I was going to enclo I was going to make like an aviary. I was going to enclose the whole thing in water. That's a good idea. Yeah. What I did was I put my um my vegetables now on my pool deck because I have a pool cage. You have a lai. Yeah. Well, yes. It's all the whole the whole pool is enclosed with a pool cage. So, uh so I've been actually growing. So, I grew these peppers, John. I was so excited. I couldn't wait till these things were ready to eat. I picked them. I went in. I cut them up and I realized very quickly they're jalapeno peppers. I grew the wrong ones and I basically had to throw them all out because I'm like, I don't want these. I don't even like jalapeno pack peppers. Well, one goes a long way if you if you use it. No. Well, yeah, I know. But these were really hot, too. They were like yellow ones. I I don't know. The rule of thumb is the smaller the pepper, the hotter it is. It was small. It was It was small. There's They had these one these in Mexico. They were like this big. They look like a regular chile but minute like the honey I shrunk the kids size. Blast your [\h__\h] mouth apart. Your eyes will water. Your windpipe will shut. It's the your ears ring. It's the most insane. You cannot believe something like that could cause a reaction. It's It's unbelievable. They even have a contest every year to see who can eat the hottest one. You see these macho, you know, Mexican pistol arrows with the big mustache, you know, and they're crying. It's like, remember we used to take my father out for a sushi and he he he he never used chopsticks. He would take a spoon or fork and he he he he swiped up a big thing of the wasabi mustard and he put it in his mouth. No, I don't know what he thought it was. He thought it was like avocado or something like that or a guacamole. I don't know what he thought it was. And he's like, "What? What is this stuff?" I said, "Dad, you just ate a whole mouthful of wasabi. You're going to be in big trouble." He's like, "What is this?" And and somehow I I mean, it was hot, but he he actually survived it better than I thought. I would have been done. That would have been it. But the thing with wasabi versus peppers is that the pepper lingers. Your mouth burns for like 10 minutes. All right. Well, Sabi, it's over in 30 seconds. You know, it's just it's like a it's like a popper almost. You know, by the way, you know, I don't know if you know, I mean, I know you do you are aware of this, but in the south, because we don't know if you're from New York, you don't have any idea you in like Walmart and Target, they actually sell fireworks. Yeah. And which is which is so foreign from from myself because, you know, in in New York, you can't buy them. They're illegal. You know, we used to smuggle them in from Yeah. I remember remember when you when John moved to New York for a little while. He brought fireworks and he brought them to my house. The day he got there, we're blowing them off in my backyard, but it wasn't the Fourth of July. And and and the neighbors called the cops. Remember, the cops came. They're like, and they knew us. They're like, "Oh, you guys." But these weren't these weren't bottle rockets. These were [\h__\h] mortars, okay? They were this big. And we're on your dock, right? There's houses all over the place. were blowing it for 8:00. It's dark and I heard that you lady young, it's 8:00. It's here. Kids are sleeping. So, I I bought the kids some some fireworks, which I find is funny because they they actually ID you with to buy the I'm like, you know, at this point in time, I I really think I look like I'm over 21 years old, but whatever. They they ID you and I so I bought them something for aids or just for registering that you're buying an explosive. No, you just have I guess they have to like ID you if you're if you're underage, you know. I mean, if you're if you're buying fireworks, you know. So, I got him the little snap those little poppers you throw on the ground that pop Barbie's tampons. And then I got him some I I introduced Logan to smoke bombs. I told him, you know, we used to light these off in school. I said they used to and bring them to school and some there was always one bad kid who would bring a Yeah. a smoke bomb and and throw it in the in the gym class or something like that. Do you remember the snakes? The the little pill, the black pill, and you lick the top of it and it would just come out like a snake. Like those are the best. I wonder why they don't have those anymore. Probably because of that that smoke that came out was full of toxic fuel. There's one I don't know what it's called. We we live in the other night. They like they're like glorified sparklers that change. It's like shoots out. It's like this tube and it like shoots out like a Roman candle. It's I don't know. No, you could you hold it. It's like a Oh, you hold it. You're supposed to Yeah, you hold it. It's like a It's like It shoots sparks and [\h__\h] out of it, but it's like um but it changes colors. It's I've never seen them before. We used to hold the Roman candles and shoot them at each other. I don't want my kids getting like blown up or anything like that. But so I was like I'm so like I'm like like because I you know we're all pyromaniacs. All All boys are pyromaniacs. Oh no. I was burning [\h__\h] down when I was my father the psychiatrist was a serious pyroman. Oh, was he really? Oh my god. And he and I set some fires up state. Like the one day he we had this field cleared and from and the bulldozers pushed the stumps and the dirt and the trees and [\h__\h] all up into one pile in the middle that was on a ridge, right? And we worked for like a year with chainsaws like cutting that [\h__\h] up. It was just finally we just gave up. I mean it was just too much [\h__\h] Yeah. So one day he decided it's pouring rain and he goes out there and he sets it on. He lights a fire in the rain. In the pouring rain. Really? He lights a fire. The flames were 40 feet high. They were above the house. The the fire department from three towns comes over. They got the whole street blocked off. And my They're looking My father's looking out like what? You because the bulldozers had just pushed this all in. So it was a big field. There's nothing but dirt all around. It's like you couldn't fire couldn't spread if you tried, right? Yeah. So, this mound of dried is burning like burning like crazy. And my father's arguing with the ch the chief, he wanted to put it out. He goes, "Don't put it out. I just And then the guy, how did you start the fire in the rain?" And then next thing you know, they were best friends. But they let it burn. That's funny. Yeah. Yeah. But you know, you realize what I realized at least was the price of the fireworks in Target or Walmart is way way cheaper than when you had to buy them on the street in New York illegally. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, here we have these they look like shipping containers, these big metal thing and and the doors fold up and they sell it's all loaded with fireworks and they they sell them out of there. I think they have to have it in those enclosed metal. shocked though that John they have them out like like you're buying like toilet paper. It's it's it boggles my mind that you can just go in and buy this stuff in in Walmart. It's it's or Target. It's just it's it's weird. Even and the caliber of them, those mortars like they're like real fireworks, man. You put it in the tube and you light it and it goes boom and it goes way up in the air and it goes boom and it's it's like you're going to a fireworks show. I lit what I didn't realize it was like 10 o'clock at night when I'm with the kids. I'm like, "Oh no, the neighbors are gonna call the police now." I'm like, because they were loud. So I I try to buy the ones that don't make as much noise. They make colors and stuff. And of course, we got to try to light three off at one time. So you got to push the fuse together. Don't give Don't give Logan any. Last year we had a bunch of them and they come with a tube, you know, the cardboard tube. These kids didn't have the tube. So I'm like, "What are we going to use?" you know, and I'm like fidgeting around in the dark and my where I keep all the leftover construction stuff. And I found this piece of PVC pipe that I used for a drain. It was like 2 in PVC pipe. The walls like an eighth of an inch thick. And I bang that into the ground. And we put one of those in there. It goes boom to go up instead of boom to go up. And boom, it exploded. The pipe explodes. Really? We're by the pool here. I have six people out. And the thing just rolls over and and blows up right by the pool. Like everybody got, you know, covered with this little burning pieces of paper. It was freaking nuts. Got to read the directions. God forbid we do that, right? So, yeah. Isn't it amazing that cardboard is stronger than PVC pipe? Sorry, it is. That was That was what what that was my takeaway. Believe me, the way they make these fireworks, it's it's unbelievable. And and they're so cheap, too. It's it's it's got to be a huge business. It's got to be huge. The But the guys that used to I remember my my father's one of my father's brothers, this was going back to the 70s, used to drive down to probably where you live, right? South of the border. Is that where they start selling them legally? And they would load up their car and they would drive it back to New York. Yep. And sell them. I mean, they made a people make make a fortune because you cannot get fireworks in New York. No. And everyone knows some guy who's got them. And you know, and they and they they'll spend a couple hundred bucks. Probably the guy the guy's cost for that same couple hundred bucks is $10, you know, $20. Right. Right. When when I was a kid, I had neighbors who were from way upstate New York, like Syracuse or, you know, like Buffalo, like way the [\h__\h] up there near Canada. Right. And they would go to Canada and buy the fireworks. Ah, but those just fire crack like M80s fire. That's a little more difficult because you got to get it over the border though, you know? Well, back then nobody gave a [\h__\h] It was Canada, you know. All right, let's get to the topic at hand. Yes, Arnold Schwarzenegger was on The View. First of all, I don't even know why he would go on The View. I can't stand those ladies on View. It's The View is a repository for all that is insanely stupid in the world. I I swear to God, but that whole panel doesn't have an IQ that's a double number. If you had it all together, I know. Did I Did you lose me? Oh, there we are. Okay, hold on. All right, let's see. Pull this up here. Let's listen to our immigrant. You're an immigrant in this country. Uh, did you have a a a visceral reaction to what they're doing? What I is doing when you see the videos of it? Wait, stop it right I tell you, I mean, you said that the immigrant I'm what what what what she's doing is she's setting him up for this question thinking that because he's an immigrant, he's going to be sympathetic to the illegal immigrants that are being deported by ICE. And she gets her shoe in her mouth. Watch. Watch this. Yeah. so proud and happy that I was embraced by the American people like that. I mean, imagine I came over here with the age of 21 with absolutely nothing and then to create a career like that. Mhm. I mean, in no other country in the world could you do that. Every single thing. If it's my bodybuilding career, if it's my acting career, becoming governor, the beautiful family that I've created, all of this is because of America. That's true. And so this is why I'm so so happy to to to see firsthand that this is the greatest country in the world and this is the land of opportunity. And I think because I'm such a proud American and a proud immigrant, they came to America, I was asked to do uh on July 4th a big speech, the keynote speech at Mount Vernon, where George Washington was made to rest, where he lived and all that to celebrate the 250th anniversary of America, the existence of America. And I will be doing the speech there. They ask me because I'm an immigrant and we will be there will be 7,000 some people there and we will be there will be people that will be sworn in and will become citizens that day. That's great. So it's really a great great celebration and this is what this is all about is to celebrate. Now I'm playing I'm going to continue to do this. I'm playing the whole clip purposely because I don't want this to be taken out of context. I want you to see the context of what Arnold's saying. people becoming Americans and coming to America and uh and all that. And so I I just think the world of the great kind of a history that we have with immigrants in America. But the key thing also is at the same time that we got to do things legal. That is the important thing you know. So you got to do things you and those people that are doing illegal things in America and that are foreigners, they are not smart because when you come to America, you're a guest and you have to behave like a guest. Like when I go to someone's house and I'm a guest, then I will do everything I can to keep things clean and to make my bed and to do everything that is the right thing to do rather than being abusive or something like that. So that doesn't really work in this country. So I think the important thing is when you become an immigrant to think about, okay, I go to America because I want to use America for the great opportunities that America has in education, in jobs, creating a family, all of those kind of things. Then you have to think about, okay, if I get all of those things from America, then I have to give something back. Now you have a responsibility as an immigrant to give back to America and to pay back to America and to go and do something for your community for no money whatsoever. Give something back to after school program, Special Olympics or whatever it is. Make this country a better place. Arnold, don't for Now, now one of the most telling parts of this whole thing was very subtle. Okay. When Arnold first started talking, I come to America, I have nothing and I have this beautiful family and my career and and and they're all going oh. Then as soon as he says in America, you got to give back when you're got to be legal, man. Legal. It started with legal silence. None of those Seiko fans made a sound after that. Well, then they grabbed them, right? Sunny Hust Arnold, shut up. You're not following the narrative. You know, Arnold was Arnold knew exactly what he was saying. And you know what? Arnold came here with Joe Weider bringing him over here legally. Legally, he became a citizen legally. He became a pillar of the, you know, who worked for the, you know, in this community, became the governor obviously and an actor, but he did everything legally and that's important. So there's a distinction when you say that, hey, these people are immigrants. They're not they're immigrants in the but they're not legally here, right? And the problem with that is that a lot of these people are not good people. And that's why Arnold said, you have to give back to the community. I think that was a very telling thing. Hey, we did all this for you. Now you got to do something for us. And and if you do that, then then then that means that we want to welcome more immigrants. I think Arnold slammed these women like better than anyone could have because they didn't see it coming. No. Well, they they they assumed incorrectly. So, you know, but it was cool to watch how that turned. But see the thing is, you know, my grandparents came here or immigrants came here through Ellis Island legally and they had to prove that they were bringing something of value to America, a skill, you know, something that they knew how to do, something that they could, you know, contribute to building and rebuilding America after the war, right? So we with illegal immigration, you're getting the worst of the worst. Nobody who's got a degree in any kind of engineering, physics, what math, doctor, lawyer, vid, none of them are coming through the wading through the Rio Grand with a backpack on their head. Okay? None. They're going they're doing it legally. The only ones that we're get going through the Rio Grand with the backpack on their head are the people who are coming here illegally who are probably a lot of them. We don't know. We don't know who they are and a lot of them there are people committing not everyone but there are people committing crimes and against you know people here there's too the the problem is there was too many people coming through John that's really if there was only a couple thousand coming through no one would have complained but when millions and millions and millions come through and they don't have any place to put them and they're putting them in hotels and we're paying for them and they're giving them uh Visa cards you know that that's coming from the money that you know we're paying in taxes. I think that's when people start getting a little pissed off, you know. So, it was excessive, you know, obviously. And so, it it was it was twofold. Why would Arnold endorsed illegal immigration when it I'm sure it wasn't easy for him to get over here. So, no, you know, and there's a lot of immigrants that have it takes them a lot of a hard time to get over here. It's a difficult process, but we allow a million people a year to migrate to America legally. A million a year. Okay. these million people have to bring something to America that that is meritorious, you know, that's why why why should we let you live here? What are you gonna do for us? You just want to get a job, you know? I mean, it's it's it's you got to contribute like Arnold is saying, you got to give you got you accept the opportunity, you got to give back. Instead, what we get, we get rioters, protesters. We get morons from another country who are rioting in our streets burning the American flag and waving the flag of the country that they don't want to go back. They don't want to live in, right? They don't want to live in stupidest thing. What the [\h__\h] These sheep people should be rounded up. [\h__\h] deporting them. You should be exterminated. You're not even human. Yeah. Yeah. Why would you come here and wave your country's flag and stay in your country then if you wanted? Yeah. If your country is so great, stay there. Stay there. We don't need you. We don't need you at all. They come. Did you rehear what Gavin Newsome is giving these illegals in California? No. What's he doing there? Unfucking believable. Health care, education, child care, uh, welfare, allowance. I mean, like you come. What an invit. What a what a what a um, uh, attraction. I'm sure voting rights, too, John. If if you're live if you live in bum [\h__\h] Egypt and you're eating tired of eating camel jerky and you've heard it. Why? All I got to do is make it to America. I'm going to live at the Clinton hotel. I'm going to get a food card, a gas card, a telephone. I can go to the emergency room when I have a cold. I going to get all this stuff. Why do I have to eat [\h__\h] camel jerky and die of the sun anymore? I'm going over to America. Why? You can't get in the front door. I just go through the back door with the Mexicans. So, you know, and the thing and I'm not even right about that. The majority of the people coming through Mexico are not Mexican. They're not Mexican. A ton of them are coming from China. The number of Chinese nationals was astounding that they're Africa too. Africa. China. All over the all over the world. All over the world. And we do not know who they are. They have no paperwork. They have no history. They have no nothing. And they're we're talking, you know, 14 15,000 a month were coming in under Biden. That's a lot of people, man. 15, 20 million extra people. That's like a whole state. Look, and we don't know who they are. We have no idea who they are. A lot of people didn't like when Arnold did the whole thing during COVID about screw your freedoms, right? I always thought he was He just redeemed himself. I thought he was taking out of context. He was he was trying to just say, "Listen, you know, this is the rules right now. Just just f" but you know, whatever. If people want to think that he was he meant really meant screw your freedoms, I don't believe he really meant that. I think he was was taken out of context. Um I think he was let's say he he said it inappropriately. Okay, let let's let's go with the worst case scenario, which I don't believe and I have I've never believed it. I've gone on the record and said I didn't I didn't believe Arnold meant anything maliciously, but let's assume he did. Let's say he [\h__\h] up. Everyone [\h__\h] up. Okay, everyone has screwed up at one point in their life. this statement that he made on the view is so powerful because this is such a a dividing uh theme of what's going on because look, we knew Trump was going to get these people out of this country. Okay, he said it. That's what he got elected on. Shutting the border and getting rid of these illegal people that don't belong here that troublemaker and that are killing and and raping our our women. So, I'm so happy that Arnold went on the record and and and said, "Listen, I'm an immigrant. You want to use me to try to sell your agenda? Ain't going to happen. I did it legally. These people are not contributing positively. They're they didn't come here legally. I'm not supporting that." Um, and I think that that's going to go a long way towards people really rallying behind Arnold again. I think that he and you know what Arnold's at a point in his life, we've said this before, John, on the show, he doesn't give a [\h__\h] what anyone thinks about him anymore. Say anything. He I just heard I read a report that he's worth over a billion dollars now. Probably with all his real estate investments and everything. He was he at the time he divorced Maria, he was worth 700 million, right? And they had I don't know how much Maria got, but I know his money got half. It's far, but I know his money was very well invested. He had re he was a very astute businessman, had good investments. So, I'm sure that number is you. Well, you said I I saw I think he's won 1.4 billion or something. You said it yourself that Arnold can put the prize money of the Arnold Classic up to a million tomorrow. Tomorrow. And and it would wouldn't f one bit. Well, he's up to 750,000. He's, you know, I think he's playing games with with the Olympia guys. In other words, he wants to keep Yeah. It's It's like It's like when Usain Bolt was beating the world record in the 100 meters. I read an article about the fact they they tell these guys, "Don't break it by too much." Yeah. He pulled up. Just break it a little bit so you can break it again. Break it again. Yeah. So, I think Arnold knows he's going to get to a million first. And he's gonna And he's teasing taunting and teasing the Olympia guys. All right. First, he went to what, 500? Then Jake had to go to 600. Now he's at 750. Jake's going to have to go to what? 800. Then next year he'll go to 850 or 900. And then Jake will have to go to 950. And then Arnold will say, "You know what? I'm going to be the first guy to give a million dollars away." He he should do that tomorrow. He should just rip the band-aid off and do it tomorrow. That's what I think. But, you know, I I think fun doing it's going to take five years to get to a million. I mean, he doesn't care, John. He is at a point in his life he's done everything. Yeah. But with inflation, the million in five years is going to be worth 750 today. So, it's he's not going anywhere. Yeah, it's a lateral move. But look, the bodybuilding deserves it. And if anybody if anybody even above Joe and Ben Weider, it would be Arnold that would should Oh, we want to give back. You want to talk about giving back, right? Raise the prize money. Yeah. No, I agree. I agree. But I I have to say this about the view though. Um, it was real. It the the one the second most telling thing other than the psychopantic silence at as soon as he started, you know, talking [\h__\h] talking the real numbers was how Sunny Husta was trying to grab him, you know, like Yes. You know, it's like the hook. It's like the hook. They're going to drag you off stage, you know, like like Arnold was going to be influenced by anything. Arnold didn't even like didn't even move. Didn't flinch. You know, he felt her arm or grab him. And he's probably like, I'm surprised he didn't turn around and say, uh, take your hands off me. I know. I'm surprised he didn't say I know this is hard to listen to, but it's the truth. Or or I'm surprised he didn't say, "If I put my hand on you, they'd probably arrest me for, you know, he's being she's he's being sexually harassed by someone." Sexual harassment. Yeah. Now, there was another thing I wanted to bring up. I think we still have some Yeah, we have time. Uh, did you see I don't know what's going on with Lee Haney? Have you seen what Lee Haney did? No. Lee Haney is launched his like own organization for what? For bodybuilding. He's he he's his Lee Haney games are are no longer NPC. He's I I don't know if he lost his mind. He he actually reached out to me. I didn't even know what he was what he was talking about. He wanted to go in and promote his Lee Haney games, but he it's sanctioned by his own organization now. It says, you know, there is there is this brewing faction of bodybuilding fans that are so stuck on the way things used to be and are so offended by the way things are now. Even the fact that we've given you guys have [\h__\h] board short division classic phys. You have all of the possibilities that you could possibly want to have. Leave the open guys alone. Let them be freaks. Why do you guys have to constantly Oh, it's all steroids. That doesn't look aesthetic. That doesn't look good. That's what I want. The bikini girls take trembalone, John. I mean, come on. I know. And you're going to And you It's I'm going to start a new federation for the people who don't who who who want to not take drugs and be and committed to the way things used to be. We have that. It's called classic physique. We have it. You know, I mean, what the [\h__\h] What do you want? You know, I mean, they they literally want to drive the open class out because it offends their perception of bodybuilding so much. Yeah, but you're you're right. They created classic for guys who want to be Bob Paris. And first of all, Lee Haney was not classic physique. All right. Lee Haney was a mass monster when he was competing. Yeah. When he was competing, he was way bigger than everyone else on. He was over 250. So, if anything, you would think he would be the guy to embrace the the bigger bodybuilder, right? He always said a good big man always beats a good little man, right? That was his Yep. Yep. Yep. And I love Lee Haney. I I don't know. Maybe he's I There's a there's like you said, there's Valentino is a perfect example. Like he can't get out of that era that he competed in, right? He he he I he doesn't even know who the guys are today, but he's all he knows is that they're not as good as his as as the era he was competing in, you know, but and I think it's it's it's a very it's terrible because it's it's a very very bad um insult to the guys competing today who are working so hard um and who are putting in the same effort that the guys did years ago. And the truth of the matter is the guys are bigger today. They're hard. Okay? There is there are some guys that are not getting in the kind of condition that we saw in the 90s possibly and I would like to see that change but I think the bodies are bigger, more massive, more detailed. Yeah. I mean a lot of these guys would have beat a lot of the guys in the 90s. Now granted there were some freaks. Ronnie Coleman will never be beaten. I mean he's the greatest of all time. Yep. You know Dorian was was was a freak that people don't realize and don't give enough credit for. Plus, I I think I think in any sport and and I've seen this happen in motorcycle racing a lot, you get a wave you get a wave of incredible talent that blows through rarely, but it happens. And we had that we had that in the 90s. We had Chris Cormier and Kev Flex Wheeler and Kevin Levrone and Lee Priest and um uh Paul Delet Nasser, Remarcus Rule. We had all these amazing giant great guys and and we had them all at once. We had them all in a pack. Yeah. Now, I don't think you can say that all of them worked harder than everyone today. I I don't think you can say that all of them used less or more drugs than the guy. I just think we ran into that bunch of guys that just happened to be following. They were in other sports, too, and they moved over to bodybuilding for and it'll happen again now, John, with with with almost a million dollars up for grabs at these at these shows, you know. I think it will. But I I think the I think the the idea that there's this this group of fans, supporters, whatever you want to call them, that is insensed with the way things are today in the open level that the guys who are monstrous and it's just it breaks the aesthetic mold of what body they believe bodybuilding should be. And like I keep saying, we have that. It's over here. It's men's physique. That's what you want. Chris Bumstead, we got him. Go look at him. But we want to see the guys like us who like freaks. That's what we want to see. We want to see the envelope pushed. I want to see both. I want to see both. Yeah. Sure. And we do. And we're lucky. We get to see both and we get to marvel at both. But the but the idea that exist open the open draws way way way more people than classic does. Always. It's nice to have the classic there, but if people had to choose, they would go with the open guys every But I don't know why they want to take that away. Who are they saving? I mean, these guy everyone's They're dropping like flies. No, they're not. But why why would Lee Haney and like maybe I'll ask him in person, why would Lee Haney want to start his own organization? I I predict I tell I just told you why. because he is I believe he's got the same divisions. I but he's pro he's probably of the idea that the the current flock of top pros is gone too far and forget forget the open men. Forget the open. Okay, he's not even doing open men. He's got like team bodybuilding, classic bodybuilding, men's physique, women's physique, women's figure, bikini wellness, and art physique, which is an exhibition only. He doesn't even have open. Okay. So why then would he want to buck the NPC then and not do it? I don't know. I this to me this smells of like a feud almost like he's like mad like maybe something happened and I don't I I don't know what could possibly happen because I know Jim Manion really likes Lee Haney a lot for Lee to go out on a on a because I've I've only seen Jim Manion praise Lee Haney over the years that I've known him and for Lee to do this it's almost like spitting in Jim Manion's face is very disrespectful I Well, unless he did it, you know, like Paul Dlette did it. Paul Delet went to Jimmy first and he said, "Look, I want No, he didn't. No, he did not do that. He did not. I can guarantee that. Did that. He told me he did it." No, no, I can guarantee you that that what's his name? Didn't do that. That that Lee Haney didn't do that. No, Lee Haney. No, that's what I'm saying. I'm saying because I think Paul asked permission. Look, I don't want to step on your feet. I'm going to do something totally different. I'm going to do it in Canada. Yeah. And they go, "God, go. Do what you want." And I think I I don't know if If Haney has had a conversation with Manion or not, have they discussed this or I I don't from what I know, I don't think so. But the idea that it's non NPC IFBB, I think that's very telling. G gave Lee and his son, they run that show, the Lee Haney games. I mean, he gave them that sanction. So, I mean, he gave Lee the ability to promote bodybuilding and to make money and stuff like that. I mean, Lee was an eighttime Mr. Olympia. You know, there was there was a lot of history between these two guys. And I don't know, it just seems a little disrespectful. I don't know, you know, what Lee thinks he's g there's no there's not going to be any traction on this thing. No one No one's leaving the IFBB NPC. I mean, that's it's like the Olympics. You're gonna Who's leaving the Olympic Games, you know, to go someplace else. Who Who are you going to be? You want to be the best in the world, you got to compete in the IFBB and the NPC? I don't I It's just a It's a weird move. And to me, it it's like um it smells smells bad. I I I get a something's wrong. I agree. Something's wrong. Look, Jim is then nothing. Like I said, if Jim and him were bumping heads their whole career, different story. I've never seen Manion like more give more praise to a guy than Lee Haney and always say great things about him. So to me, I I I feel this is a little disrespect. It's not and and to Lee's credit, he deserved every bit of that praise. He he he's one of the most impeccable human beings that ever won a title. You know, I don't know what happened. Talk about talk about giving back to his community. I mean, he he's practically the honorary mayor of of Atlanta. Look at it this way, John. Who bumps heads more? I mean, Arnold is bump, you know, Arnold is bumping up against the Olympia guys. And I'm sure, you know, he's bumped with heads with Manny a little bit too over the years because, you know, Arnold is such a strong, you know, personality and and type A and so is Jim and I'm sure Weider was the same way, you know, but Arnold had that that, you know, that loyalty to Weer, but now that he's not around, he bumps heads. But yet Arnold hasn't Arnold's still with the IFBB NPC. You know, they're still doing the amateur and the and the pro show. So if Arnold's not leaving, what's Haney think he's going to do here? You know, if anyone's going to leave, it would be Arnold. And Arnold obviously realizes that if he wants to have the best competitors, he's got to be he's got to participate in in in the in the IFBB NPC. So now, is all is all of this what Lee is doing uh amateur? Yeah, for now right now. Yeah. So there's no prize money involved? No, but yeah. No, not at all. So I mean, he's it's like just offering like a uh like AI don't know, like a alternative league. It it just it just seems weird. Um well, now here here's the question. Is the winner of Lee Haney's, you know, whatever division, is he going to be allowed to compete in the NPC next year if he wants to? Well, I don't see why not. I mean, I don't think I don't think Jim would would not allow people to cross over. They used to not They used to not. Well, no. If there was a pro, it's different if there's a pro division. the amateur division, they don't give a [\h__\h] who competes where. But in the pros, obviously, if you're a pro in in the IFBB, you're not going to go compete in another organization because it's like being in the major leagues. You can't you can't go to from from Major League Baseball and then compete in some little crap league in Timbuk 2. Right. Right. You have a contract with the with the league. So, I I I just don't know where I can't figure out what what he's up to. And maybe I'll I'll text Lee and ask him. Yeah, we get get let's get him on the show and ask. He caught me by surprise. Someone sent it to me and I'm like, "What the hell?" I just talked to Lee the other day. I was going to get him on the TV show to ask what's going on with the whole, you know, his criticism. Remember, because he originally said that bodybuilding isn't growing and it's it's stagnating and I don't I don't know how he could even say that when there's 19 divisions now when there was only one division, you know, when he was competing. So, it it just doesn't make sense. If anything, I think they're expanding too much. there's too many divisions, you know, but that remains to be seen. So, it's a lot of stuff going on. So, Arnold, kudos to you. Yes, Arnold. On the putting those women at the view uh in their place and not feeling any pressure to have to say a certain thing, I think that he's going to get a lot of his fan base back that maybe abandoned him. I never I never left him. I I I never really took what Arnold said personally because I didn't think that he was really uh I think he was taken, like I said, out of context. But regardless, people make mistakes. You know, he pro what he probably should have done is he should have said, "You know what? I I that's not what I meant." And you know what? If I offended people, I'm sorry because I I believe that Arnold believes in in what I thought it was was a good example of how well the government scared everybody. Well, and I think he felt pressured by the establishment to promote their own to promote the establishment's agenda. That's No, I think I think they were The Rock did the same thing. I think I think they were genuinely frightened that that this was a real thing and that this was this was going to wipe everybody out and you better wash your hands and, you know, do they they bought the Kool-Aid. They drank they drank the Kool-Aid. Yeah. I mean, you can't I don't think you can blame them for that. I mean, that's human. You know, some people drink the Kool-Aid and they get drunk. Do you think though do you think that that a lot of these celebrities got paid? I I believe I wouldn't surprise that Travis Kelce got paid $20 million to do a commercial for that you know the the jab. Yeah. Yeah. It doesn't surprise me at all. And you know what would you know how do you turn down 20 million bucks? I mean I don't even know if the guy even got it himself but it's hard to say. Money talks. I mean, yeah. I mean, yeah, you want to you want to you want to tell people the right thing to do, but when you when you're offered ridiculous amounts of money, it's really hard to to turn that down. I mean, that could be that's your legacy. That's your future. You know, here you 20 million bucks. I mean, you could retire that you're done, you know? So, I can understand why some of these guys do sell out. Not that I'm saying it's right or wrong. It's probably not right, but people do it all the time. the the the forced jab did did cause a little cottage industry to spring up because I know a couple instances where the the the person administering the shot in a private little setting would say the shot's free for 100 bucks I'll squirt it in the garbage. Exactly. No, but you you know what I'm saying? Like it's like, you know, you wonder how some of these celebrities can actually promote some of these agendas, but then you say the guy got paid 20 million bucks. You know, I mean, I know everyone wants to be holier than thou, but you know what? Wave up 20 million bucks in front of people's faces and see how many people don't take that 20 million. How about the celebrities that got paid to endorse Camala Harris, right? She burned through two billion dollars in like in in like six in three months. I mean, everyone, how about And and the way they faked out the audience like like she's having a rally. Beyonce is going to be there. So, everybody thinks Beyonce's going to play, right? Beyonce gets there and she gives this [\h__\h] up speech that I don't know, like a two-year-old wrote and then that was it. Then the audience is booing and they're leaving and Yeah. Yeah. At least give us a song for the for the 10 million bucks. She got paid for that. She got a couple million bucks for that. Well, Oprah got paid to a million bucks to have but that she still denies that. No, she's like it was for my production company. As if she's getting no benefit from that and the production company paid her. Yeah, there were two payment. One was a million and another one was a million and the million through the production company. I believe you know what, John? I would rather have these celebrities come out and say, you know what, they [\h__\h] paid me. That's why I did it. You know, I got paid it. Tell the truth. Tell the truth after the fact. Obviously, you can't do it when you're going through it, but tell the truth. Say, I got paid. It was a paid gig. What do you want me to tell you? I think they should say it ahead of time. Look, I got I'm get I'm being paid to say this. Well, I'm sure that's not part of the contract because they want Well, but I know, but if it's like what was his name? Um, Arnold if John if Arnold came on Instagram and said, "Listen, I I gotta tell you guys something. I know you guys think I'm an [\h__\h] for for saying screw your freedoms, but you know what? They paid me 10 million bucks to go on there and and and get people to wear masks. Uh because, you know, it was I and I believed truly in my heart that it was dangerous and they scared me too. And you know what? I sold out. You know what? It was a bad decision. I'm never going to do it again. Um I'm I'm 75 years old. Whatever he is, he's 80 years old. I'm not at this point in my life. I'm only doing things that I believe in. And that's why I went on the view and said the things I did. And yeah, you know what? That was a bad it was a bad move on my part. But you know what? I got greedy and I took the money and and and I and I thought I was doing the right thing. But in hindsight, it wasn't the right. If he did that, people would be like, "This guy's a god." He would ingratiate himself everywhere. If if he included that very critical phase that you included, which which was the look, I was caught up in this like you. I was scared. You know, they offered me a bunch of money to try to get you guys to get a shot. I thought it was the best thing to do and that's what I did. And I don't think he told people to get the shot. I think he told people to just wear the mask. That's what he was saying. Wash your hands, wear the mask, you know. That's a big difference between getting a shot and then wearing a mask. A mask is not mask is not going to do anything. I look I wore I wore the mask when I had to go out if if if it was required. It wasn't I wasn't compromising my health wearing the mask. So, I wore it. If now if they said, "Hey, you got to get this thing or you're going to lose your job." I would have said, "All right, fire me." That's all. I a friend of mine friend of mine almost 20 years in with Continental Airlines, he lost his job. Yeah, I don't blame him. I wouldn't. And he sued him and got a ton of [\h__\h] ton of money, but Oh, yeah. So, but yeah, look, you know, it's it is what it is. Like I said, Arnold is AI I really believe Arnold does love this country. I believe that Arnold does want to see the best for people. I don't think he's a phony at all. I think he's done maybe some phony stuff because he's an after all he's an actor and he's in Hollywood and he gets he gets hired to do gigs, you know, and so I think whenever he winds up selling out for money purposes, it backfires on him. When he's authentic, people love him. And and that's that's the history of Arnold, isn't it? Plus plus going into a setting like the view. I mean, that's like wheeling a howitzer into a rubber band clip. That was a very uh hostile environment for him to go. Plus, I mean, the cumulative IQ of the view was like seven, you know, and and he handled himself great on the ice because he's he outsmarts them just breathing, you know? I mean, it's it's like it was such an unfair, you know, thing to do. Put him in there because he knew he was going to control the whole narrative. They haven't They thought he was No, they thought he was going to go along with their BS. But, you know what? If you really want to see who Arnold really is, watch the Netflix documentary on Arnold they have. It's the best. If you That's Arnold at his most barebone honest about who he is, what he did. Matter of fact, I haven't read the book, but the book supposedly the book Total Recall that he wrote is Patrick V. David said it's unbelievable. He said it's one of the best biographies he's ever read. He said Arnold is completely transparent in there. He talks about the the the housekeeper getting her pregnant, how it ruined his marriage. He he's completely open about everything in there. He said it's it's he couldn't put the thing down. Now I want to read it just for that reason. Yeah. So definitely, like I said, I think at the end of the day, Arnold is is authentic. I said I think he's made some bad decisions along the way. Like we all do. We're I'm not I've made bad decisions. You've made bad decisions. Of course. Absolutely. And you know what? If he didn't make bad decisions, I would be suspicious of them because you know what? It would mean he's not human. It would mean he's a robot. So, kudos to Arnold. Yep. That's gonna take us to the end of this episode of the Palumbo podcast. John and I will be in Alabama all weekend long with the entire Whack Pack filming Jumbo Palumbo part two. plus will be at the BodyB1 Classic and we'll be doing our seminar on Friday night which I believe is either going to be livereamed or if it's not live streamed we will put it up immediately after the seminar is over. Uh thank you guys for joining us and we'll see you again next time.