Hello friends, this is the first episode of RX Moss Sol Latino. I want to thank my friend de Palombo for giving us Latinos and Spanish-speaking countries this opportunity to learn a little more about what's happening in the sport. Since xmosso.com has a large following and audience, and they do radio shows almost daily in English, we came up with the idea of ​​bringing information in Spanish to many of you who want top-notch information. And as everyone knows, de Palombo is a great journalist who has been a part of our industry for a long time. Well, in this first episode, we're going to talk about what happened at the competition in Kuwait. As everyone knows, everyone wants to know about White Way's miracle formula for the growth of deep cuts. Athletes who hadn't previously performed well have now exploded in growth, improving their condition and drying in an incredible way. Nobody really knows why this happens, but we have some ideas about what's going on in Kuwait, and this competition was excellent, one of the best competitions...  The strongest in the 212 kg category so far is very controversial. What happened there in Kuwait is very controversial. As you know, Javi could never compete in the Olympia because of money. The US, under Donald Trump, used regulations against certain Muslim countries traveling to the US, and that's why someone can never get their visa and compete in the Clean Ministry with Jose Raimon, with Ask a Nani, and with... of course, it's the Clean Ministry mystery of that category. Then another strange thing that happened was that nobody entered the list two days before. Suspicious, since if you're going to compete, you already know that you're going to compete at least a week in advance. You send the contract, and they write to you. If they advertise with the athlete who's going to attend that event, then maybe it wasn't a good idea for the channel to have him on the same show. The question we all ask ourselves, setting aside religious differences, since one is going to me and the other is covering himself, setting aside those differences that are very strong and that many don't understand why  We haven't experienced what it's like in those countries. For one or the other of them, losing might be an embarrassment, an exception, and something very humiliating. But we're sure that Jardín was at his peak a week before the event, yet he did n't compete. What do you think? So something strange happened there. It could be a bit of fear of bringing shame back to his country. It's very difficult in these countries to lose; it's not accepted in the normal way that we accept it in all other countries. So that could be one of the possibilities. In any case, nobody beat José Raimon in Asia, but José Raimon has never competed like Canal. So this tells us, it gives us a little more insight into what's happening here. Well, the conclusions that you and I can draw are simply speculations. Canal's condition wasn't the best either; it's not even close to the condition that Canas had at the 2016 Olympia. But well, there aren't enough photos of this event either. It seems that Camel Krumm understands. We call it the change. The English club is called the Camel group, so to speak.  The Camels team hasn't released any photos, and there's a specific site where you can see all the photos from the show. But from the photos, we see that Jose Reímos had a chance to win. Many experts, like our colleague Palombo Efe/Alex Montse, of course the owner of the former Mosso, and our colleague Chris, all think, based on the photos, that Jose Ramon is the winner. Anyway, remember that photos give us a flat view, a flat view, so to speak. Photos are linear, they're flat. Videos don't show more detail, but being there, feet or meters away, in the third or fourth row where the judges are, you see the truth. Now we know that the Canary Islanders and their legs are getting bigger every day. They have a great breadth of shoulders, much broader than Jose's. We also know that Jose is one of the more muscular athletes in the sport, but he doesn't have that separation in his legs. Above all, we can see many veins, many of them rusty, but not details and insertions in the arms and insertions in the legs. All those extractions... who is more complete?  Who deserved to win is everyone's opinion. What we do know is that it will be very enjoyable for all of us to see, perhaps next year at the Olympia Flex, Ahadi Ascán, Anís y Ajos, ​​the rhythm, in any other country that can bring them together and put them there, and see who truly is the most harmonious and the champion. So far, of course, he's the most harmonious, meaning you have to knock him out to win. This is Hansen signing off. I wrote that book, Detective, eight years ago, and right now I'm training people and helping my friend Palombo to produce, or rather, to try to start producing. We hope you like these information clips that we're going to give you in Spanish. I bid you farewell, thank you.