Welcome inside the RX Muscle Studios. This is Ask Dave, better known as # Askdave, brought to you by species Nutrition. Go to speciesnutrition.com. I'm your host Sik Farooqi. Glad you can join us on this Wednesday afternoon here on rxmuscle.com. If you're in the Northeast region, nice to see the weather finally warming up and for you to get out there and start to show off those gains that you've been working on all year long. Again, go to speciesnutrition.com. We have a whole line of products, everything laid out there, all the stacks, as well as a supplement guide on the homepage. The game is simple. You can ask your questions for Dave Palumbo by using the Muscle Central forum on rxmuscle.com, tweeting the questions using askdave, asking questions on our Instagram handle that is official_rxmuscle or on our Facebook page. And with that, we bring in Dave Palumbo. Dave, big weekend coming up this weekend with the New York Pro in T-neck, New Jersey. Tomorrow night, we're going to have the preview show right here on rxmuscle.com. a special episode of Heavy Muscle TV. I'm confused. I got to be honest with you because this is the first year they've ever had the New York Pro on a Sunday. And I don't know if there was a venue issue there. Obviously, it's going to be for the first time in Tene, New Jersey, which I love that Marriott there. I think it's a great venue. It's easy to park. It's easy to get to. It's easy to get out of there. There's places to eat around there. But, uh, yeah, bodybuilding on Sunday. Pro bodybuilding. That might be the a first. Or maybe not a first, but it's it's a rarity, that's for sure. And it certainly will make for interesting radio show following the show because I know Chris Aceto will be there. I will be there. We'll be doing our wrap-up and then we'll be heading back to the studio here to do our official RX Muscle Heavy Muscle Radio Show. And uh you know what's great about the New York Pro is you know the old saying as Sinatra said you if you can make it here you can make it anywhere. Well all the biggest newest freaks always came to New York Pro first and that's usually where they're showcased. Uh, Big Ramy won the last two years. Not a bigger freak on the planet than that guy. Uh, Juan Morell had to settle for second last year. I know he's looking to win it this year. Victor Martinez entering at the very last minute. Should make for an interesting competition. Obviously, you got Max Charles who's probably the biggest freak in the sport right now. So, it's going to be exciting this weekend, you know. Plus, obviously, you got women's physique, you got figure, bikini, and you got all the other divisions as well, men's physique. So, it's going to be a busy weekend. But I like the pro shows that are only pro shows because once again I get to really, you know, dig into the top competitors in the world. So with that, you can ask your questions for Dave. Again, the muscle central forum and rxmuscle.com, our Instagram handle official_rxmuscle. You can tweet your questions using askdave or on our Facebook page as as well as the live chat box on livestream.com. We're going to start at the Muscle Central forum on rxmuscle.com. our good friend Jeff Roberts. Dave, in regards to the Pittsburgh Pro guest posing lineup, did any of the physiques surprise you in a positive or negative way? You know, Jim Manion always has the greatest lineup of guest posers. You know, the top guys in the world show up there and pose. And, you know, in the last couple years, Kai has really shocked a lot of people and impressed a lot of people at at multiple, you know, Pittsburghs. Um, from what I heard, I wasn't there obviously and I looked I saw some of the videos and the pictures, Phil Heath was really impressive because he might not have been as big as he normally is in the offseason, but he was very lean. And I think as as bodybuilding fans, we like to see the guys that are in shape on stage. I I think Phil is taking this year's Olympia very very seriously. He knows it's not going to be a walk in the park. It was very close last year. And I I think he's he's putting in his homework now so that when he gets to the show later, he doesn't have to play catch-up. And I think that Phil Heath was the most impactful person in that guest posing lineup. Stick with the Muscle Central forum and go to Mr. Dedication. Question about RX Muscle. Hey Dave, would you let RX Muscle go back to how it used to be? I still love you and all but just missed the old forum. Well, you know, nothing could ever go back the way it was. Everything is constantly always changing and evolving and moving forward. So, you know, we have to go with the times and change with the times. you know, what worked, you know, in in 2009 is not going to work today. Different different crowd, different, you know, plus I have different interest as well. You know, the whole industry online has changed to the degree that, you know, there's more people out there doing it. So, what we're trying to do at RX Muscle now is is do it better, more innovative, and that's why we really are putting a lot of our energy into the old in the new TV programming that we're coming out with. Obviously, we have the Iron Debate Show, Fitness View, This Show, Ask Dave, um, Heavy Muscle TV, obviously, which is our our staple, and we have Behind the Muscle, and we have a couple new ones coming out. So, that's really where I'm focusing my efforts, and I think where the RX Muscle um website is focusing its efforts. Obviously, Heavy Muscle Radio will always be a staple every Monday night. And then, of course, we'll cover the big shows, but in a professional way. Let's go to our Instagram handle again. If you want to ask question on our Instagram handle, it is official_rx muscle. And with that, we check in with frost hard team villa. Ask Dave. Dave, this show sucks. Got the memo. What are your thoughts on cutting water two days out of a competition? Um, I I don't think that water should be cut for any more than about 24 hours. I think once you start going over 24 hours, you start um facing the the serious threat of going too flat on stage. Remember, the muscles are not are probably 90% water. So, if you start dehydrating them for too long, no matter how many grams of carbs you got jammed in there, no matter how many grams of fat you got jammed, they're not going to look full and round, okay? They just can't plump and round themselves off without that water. So, it doesn't take more than 18 hours to to get enough water out of your or under your from out from under your skin and dry your body out. Any more than that and you know what? Now you're looking into dangerous territory of screwing up. So, if you look great, like I always say, a week out, the less you do, the better. Let's go to Chadzamine. Hi Dave, your show sucks so bad I'd rather chew on my toenails. Nice one. What are your thoughts on reverse dieting? also after being on a cut doing ketogenic diet. How would you go about reintroducing carbs after the cut? Thanks from Liam in Birmingham, UK. Well, you know, a lot of people ask me, you know, after doing a very low low carb diet like, you know, my ketogenic diet, um, how do you get back to eating, you know, um, in an offseason or a maintenance type of phase or so to speak? And you know, the the true answer is is gradually, but I know after a show's over, the the inclination, your desire is to go eat everything in sight. So, I always tell people, enjoy yourself for a day or two, maybe even three, and then get back onto the protein fat regimen, but add 35 grams of carbs to each meal, you know, and do that for about a week to to four weeks, you know, until your body regulates. I always found as a bodybuilder, it took me four weeks at least to feel like a normal human being after a show where your digestive tract is working again, where you're not ex, you know, retaining excessive amounts of fluid, where you just, you don't feel tired all the time. You know, people think after a week of going back to eating normally, you're going to feel fine. Usually, you feel like crap for at least four weeks. So, I would do something like that, a clean type of eating. Maybe give yourself a cheat meal every three or four days just to kind of, you know, let yourself indulge a little bit. And then after four weeks, then you can start really redesigning what you want to do and what how you want to eat. Ironically, six meals of protein and fat with carbs in it is really an offseason scenario as well. It just depends on how many grams of carbs you're really going to need depending on your metabolism. You're watching Ask Dave on rxmuscle.com brought to you by Species Nutrition. Go to speciesnutrition.com. We stick on our Instagram page. This question from Chris Tomaso. Hey Dave, this show sucks so much it makes me think CrossFit is a good idea. Nice. That see that's the kind of innovation that we've come to expect from the RX Muscle community. My lower back has a backwards curve to it. I really want to have a straight back. Is this caused by tightness in a certain group of muscles? How would you recommend I fix this? Thanks for doing the show, Dave. You know, a backwards curve is kind of like a not a very descriptive term. uh maybe he means a lordosis or it's over curved a little bit or a kyphosis, but usually the lordosis refers to the lower spine. Um usually a lot of that's genetic. Um I'm a, you know, my dad as he got older and older kind of hunched over more and became like a hunchback and his mother, my grandmother was like that too. So I'm like petrified that I'm going to get like hunched over too. So I'm like always trying to stick my chest out and improve my posture. When I go to the gym, I go on this machine where I can actually stretch backwards so I can keep my sp my spine stretch. And I think that has that goes a long way. But I think as we get older, the spine kind of shrivels up a little bit. So you really have to work on your flexibility. And if you are noticing that your spine is getting a weird shape to it, you got to stretch. You you might even need someone else to stretch you. Chiropractic manipulations, massage is a good idea. Don't let it get to the point where you can't fix it anymore. So if you're noticing it, act on it. stretching is the best thing I can recommend. Let's go to our Facebook page again. Our official Facebook page for RX Muscle. We go to Mark Folultz. Dave, I hate your show so much. I'd rather have Nicole Bass fart on my face. Did you see the video of George Farah crying like AI'll say baby about Chris Aceto? What is your take on it? And is Farah just being a Well, yeah, let's just not repeat that on air. Yeah, I I I you know, if you listen to Heavy Muscle Radio this last week, Chris and I did a pretty bad good number on Farah. You know, I actually like the guy. I when I hang out if I hang out with him, you know, he's amusing. I find him amusing. I don't really take him too seriously, but um and he and he I don't think he has bad intentions, but then again, maybe he does have bad intentions because I was with Triple H this past weekend, WWE superstar Triple H, and we were going over his diet and he told me, "Hey, you know, just out of cur I just thought you find this amusing." At the Arnold Classic, George Farah came up to me and he was like, "Triple H, I will help you look like The Rock. You see what I do for rock? I do that for you." So, he basically tried to steal my client from me knowing that I work with Triple H. So, maybe George's intentions aren't good. I don't know what what his problem is. He's got a lot of great clients. He makes good money. I I I don't I don't understand what the problem is, you know, why there's why he lies about things and why, you know, he he tries to steal people's clients, but that's him. You know, I I accept everyone for who they are. Well, stick with our Facebook page. Question from Wayne Crandell. This show sucks. I was just wondering, Dave, if you were still going to write a book. Yeah, you know, I I'll tell you something on the book update. It's interesting that you mentioned that. I started updating my smart training manual. For those of you who don't know, I have a smart, it's called smart personal training certification. I certify personal trainers. It's online and you can go online. You can you download the books and and you and you take the test and then you get a certificate and and I've been doing this for like over about 18 years now. I've certified probably thousands and thousands of people. Uh but every once in a while I sit down, I update the book. So, I'm I'm doing a 2015 edition now, which should be out shortly. It's it's really good. I've updated all the new supplements and and and a lot of great new stuff. Even if you have the old book or if you did the old course, you might want to do this one just because it's such so much great information. Once I started writing again and writing about this stuff, I said, you know, I'm going to keep going. So, I'm actually working on after this I'm going to work on on a smart um class part two or I guess you could say level two class which is going to deal exclusively with detoxification. I might even give it in person too uh for like probably be about 50 or 60 bucks a person and I'll teach that and and that you this way if you have the smart certification you can kind of renew using that uh level two class and then I'm going to take that and I'm going to take go on a little further and I'm going to write the the diet book I've always wanted to I think I finally figured out in my mind how I want to do it and uh since I've started writing again I I got the juices going so I better act now. So it is a possibility within the next six months I might have a book finished. You're watching Ask Dave on rxmuscle.com brought to you by species nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm your host Sadique Farooqi. We go back to our Facebook page and check in with Raymond RieR. So Dave Raymond has a riddle he wants to ask you. Okay. Hey Dave, what's the difference between a vacuum and RX Muscle? They both suck. After five years, RX Muscle will still suck. Very nice. Dave, I recently finished a 10-we cycle of test e at 750 milligrams a week, DECA 600 a week, EQ 600 a week. What would you advise in terms of PCT length and dosages when it pertains to compounds such as Clomid HCG and Nulvex? I've said it before, I'll say it again. This is the most asked question I have I've gotten throughout my career. People are obsessed with postcycle therapy, PCT, knowing what to do when they come off a steroid cycle. I don't know why I put it out there so much. I don't know why people find this so confusing. It's really not hard. Look, the problem is when you're taking an anabolic steroid cycle, what you're doing is you're shutting down your testicular function, the production of testosterone from your testicles. That's because the pituitary hormones in your brain, LH and FSH, these are the the hormones that stimulate your testicles to produce testosterone, have been turned off. So, what do we do? The first step you want to do is you want to restimulate the testicles to start working again. And the best thing to do is to take HCG for that which is human corionic anatropen. It mimics the the pituitary hormone LH or luteinizing hormone and it basically tells the testicles produce testosterone. And usually the dosage a lot of guys I recommend that guys use is about 2,000 units every third day for about anywhere from five to seven in shots which should take you about two to three weeks on that. After that, you want to do what we use a compound known as Clomid or Clomophine. Uh you could also use Nulvidex or Tmoxifen. That's those two work kind of similar. What they do is they block estrogen receptors. Clomid I think does it a little better because it blocks estrogen receptors in the brain or the hypothalamus pituitary area and it doesn't allow the pituitary gland to be shut down. So it what it basically is doing is releasing the hold on the pituitary gland and letting the pituitary gland start producing LH again which is what we want because that LH is going to keep the testicles producing the testosterone. So we stimulate the testosterone the testicles with HCG then the LH stimulates the testicles and then throughout that whole you know PCT time you want to take something that will block estrogen production because estrogen screws everything up. shuts down the whole process. And usually I recommend a half a milligram of arimedex every other day to every day or 2.5 milligrams of famra every day to every other day. And that combination for about six weeks, the three weeks on HCG, three weeks on the Clomid or Novidex tends to turn everything back on in an ideal world. Of course, we don't live in an ideal world. You're watching Ask Dave on rxmuscle.com. We go to our Twitter feed. Again, if you want to tweet a question, use the hashtag askdave. And we check in with Tony Washington at Tony Washington. Dave Kai was smaller, leaner, and more separated at the Pit Pro than usual. Think it's to avoid a huge weight drop, fullness, and water issue. You know, Kai always looks great in Pittsburgh. Kai is Mr. Olympia in Pittsburgh, usually every year. The problem is he tends to get bigger as he gets to the Olympia and more out of shape. I don't know why that is. If he just maintained what he was doing at the Pittsburgh, he'd probably be Mr. Olympia this year. So, every year I see it happen, Christo and I knock our heads against the wall and we're like, I don't understand. This guy looks so good at Pittsburgh and then he shows up at the Olympia and he and he's o too big and he's like he's bloated or he's he's holding water or something just doesn't look right. It's almost like he's doing trying to do too much. Um, I think with Kai, because he's such a genetic freak and he's so genetically talented, less is better. I think he looked better when he when he was when he was just first coming up and I think that that's because now he has the money to do what he needs to do and he and he and I think he's overdoing it. That that's my theory. Whether it's right or not remains to be seen. We check in with the Muscle Central forum and rxmuscle.com. Again, if you're not already a member, it is free to register. rxmuscle.com. And we check in with Kell. Kell asks, "How much phosphorus is in isol per serving?" I I have no I Let's look at the container here. I don't think there's any phosphorus to tell you the truth. I'd have to look that up for you, Kell. There's no added phosphorus, that's for sure. So, what'sever in the whey isolate is what's in there. Um, it's not very high. Let's check in with the Dutchman on Muscle Central forum. Dear Dave, I just want to say that I hate your freaking show. Cancel this All right. I am beginning my very first cycle soon and starting with test e 500 mgram. Should I inject it two times 250 mg per week or once at 500 mg uh per week? Now, I know that it's already a long lasting oil, but I hear different options or rather different opinions. What's your take on it? And then the he goes on to ask, "And is test e alone enough for first time or should I already begin to stack it? I have a feeling my receptors uh might get an overload." While theoretically test and ananthate or testosterone and anthlife in the blood because it releases very evenly and very slowly, theoretically, it doesn't really happen practically in real life. So, you're better off splitting your shots into at least two or three injections per week because then you're going to get better peak levels because then that the peak levels are going to kind of go like this because and every couple days you're going to get another peak. Um, I I find that that gives you more consistent blood levels than when you take one shot a week because what happens when you take one shot a week is usually at about midweek you get a nice peak and then toward the end before you before you're ready to take your next shot, your your levels are low. So rather than get those swings, if you split the shots up into two or three shots throughout the week, even though it's the same amount, it seems to be abs assimilated better. That's my my my thinking. Um and I think he wanted to know something about um stacking the the compounds. Obviously, when you're trying to maximize gains, if you stack two anabolic steroids together, they work better than just one plus one equals two. They kind of it's like 1 plus 1 equals five. I've said this before. they have some kind of an exponential or augmenting effect on each other. Now, people will say, "Well, what if I add a third and fourth compound?" You don't seem to get that same benefit as the one and one. Okay? Probably three compounds will give you the the maximum kick you can get from mixing different compounds together. But when you definitely mix two, you see a much better effect from just one. You're watching Ask Dave on rxmuscle.com. Reminder, tomorrow night, 8:00 p.m. special episode of Heavy Muscle TV, a full preview of the New York Pro Show this Sunday in New Jersey. We go back to our Instagram page again. Our Instagram handle is official_RXMuscle. Question from Yan Met. Hi Dave, I hate this show. Any plans on doing a seminar in Denmark? You know, before I answer that, you mentioned Instagram. You know, I mentioned last week and a couple times before that I said, you know, if you guys really like the show and you want to support it, you know, like us. And you know what? You guys or if you really hate the show or if you hate the show, like us, too. Yeah, we don't care. If matter of fact, if you like if you hate the show, like us twice. Uh, and tell all your friends. But when you guys do that, I and I I noticed a surge in people liking us and I and I want to just thank you guys for supporting the show. Obviously, you know, we put Sid and I put and Johnny put a lot of time into doing this show every week and we want to give you guys great information. So, I appreciate it if you guys like us on Facebook, like us on Instagram, and uh, you know, always, you know, tweet us your questions because that just shows that you're supporting what we're doing. Getting back to Denmark, I would do a seminar in Denmark if I got enough people. Um, you know, I'm doing obviously my hardcore seminar. I have two planned right now. I have one here on May 23rd in this RX Muscle office here. Uh, we have almost a full class, so there's a couple spots left. You can register at davepalumbo.com for the hardcore seminar. It's really not. It's how to become a diet guru seminar. Excuse me. It's a a 10-hour class. It's it's going to involve me explaining, you know, how to structure diets, how to create supplement plans, uh drug cycles, you know, pre-contest carb depletion, carbing up, diuretics. It's going to cover everything. You're going to learn how to become a diet coach essentially. Even if you don't want to be a diet coach, you're going to learn all the information involved. And I think it's going to give you way better insights into the science of how the body works. And I and and I'm only doing a couple of these because it's it's it's a very emotionally draining for me to to teach these classes. And I can't have a big class because there's too many people that suck me dry on those classes. So it's we have about I'm limiting it to 20 overseas, but 10 or about 10 or 12 here in New York because it's going to be a big class here. I know already we are almost maxed out, but you guys can sign up for the May 23rd class. If you want to sign up in Sydney, Australia, I will be there on June 13th. That's Saturday. You can contact Chris Schmidt on Facebook and he's organizing that class for me. I think we have a couple seats left there, too. So, you might might want to act quickly if you want to be in that class. That's going to be a great one. I love Australia, but I would do one in Denmark, but you I the person would have to contact me. We'd have to set up a class and I have to have enough people because I got to pay my airfare, hotel, and food. You know, it's I got it's got to be worth my time. Uh because it like I said it is very draining and and a lot of people have been asking me Sid too are we going to videotape this and release it. I will not be videotaping it. This is a one-on-one experience. It's not like a seminar where I'm just talking. There's going to be a lot of interaction from the people who are in the class asking questions. I really encourage that. It's more of a teaching environment. So guys, if you don't show up in person, uh you're not going to get the advantage of this class. It's it's really a once in a-lifetime opportunity. I wish that someone had done this back in the day when I was first coming up because I'm going to save a lot of people a lot of time and I'm going to make people really great coaches. You guys, you know, there's a lot of guys out there that are coaching people that don't really have the knowledge that they really feel that they need. They don't understand the science. This is right up your alley, guys. Sign up. Let's go back to our Instagram page again, underscore official_rxmuscle. Let's go to Well, again, you know, we always talk about the creativity that you, the RX Muscle watchers, viewers, listeners, exhibit when you talk about how much you hate this show. This one may take the cake. This one is from Princess Juicy DDS. Dave, I'd rather pack my anus full of M80s and squat over a flaming habachi then watch your abortion of a show. That might be the best one ever. The rest of you have a lot of catching up to do. I'm on the Palumbo diet right now. I love cheese and was wondering if I could eat no carb varieties perhaps as a substitute for the peanut butter with the shakes. There's really very few no carb varieties of cheese and you know cheese uh you know there's a lot of there's dairy in there and I have a problem with too much dairy especially because there is a little bit of lactose and cheese. I guess if you could tolerate the cheese theoretically, you can use it. I wouldn't call it an ideal source of fat um just because it's it's like milk fat. But um I guess if you did it once, maybe one meal out of day, you probably can get away with it. I'll stick with the Instagram handle. Let's go to James Copesell. Dave, I'd ra Wow, I'm definitely not saying that one over air. Can you provide insight on if pros really come off cycle or just down to maintenance doses? I think a lot of pros don't come off cycle and that's the god honest truth and I and I think that's a huge problem. And you know, while I'll never mention names, I have a lot of guys that have been competing for a long time contact me and have problems with kidney function and uh liver function and heart function and blood sugar levels because of years and years of not coming off. And I think that you know it look the sport is is not a race. It's not a sprint. It's a long distance race. Bodybuilding is is a takes a long time to to to really become a great athlete in. And if you're going to be in this a long time, you got to have a strategy. You got to, you know, figure out how you're going to keep yourself healthy while you're putting all this muscle on and while you're, you know, growing and dieting and all that stuff. And I think that coming off cycle at least once a year for, you know, 10 to 12 weeks is part of the process. And if you can't incorporate that into the process, then you have mental problems. and that you need to find someone who's going to be able to explain to you how to do it properly so you won't lose a ton of muscle and how to deal with it mentally because it is part of the process especially if you want to have a productive and long life following your bodybuilding competition. You're watching Ask Dave on rxmuscle.com. Reminder, special episode of heavy muscle TV. Tomorrow night, full preview of the New York Pro show. And then of course this weekend, we are going to have wallto-wall coverage of the New York Pro. Dave Palumbo, Johnny Styles are going to be all over the place doing interviews. So, you're not going to want to miss that. Stay tuned to rxmuscle.com. We stay with the Instagram handle. This question from real young Kobe Bryant. Dave, first of all, I want to tell you that I hate this badass show. What is your opinion on those quote unquote natural bodybuilding shows? That's the first question. Second, what is the best time frame to eat a protein source? Every 2 hours, 3 hours, and will my body burn muscle when I do not eat in this time frame? Um, first let me address the eating because I think that's more relevant question. Uh I always when I was competing or even when I was offseason I would eat every hour to hour and a half because I had such a fast metabolism that if I didn't feed myself that frequently I wouldn't gain weight. Um that doesn't mean that I was losing muscle if I didn't eat every hour hour. It just means I wouldn't gain muscle. Some guys if they do that will be fat slobs. Okay. So the ideal window is depending on your metabolism is usually about an hour and a half to about three and a half hours. You don't want to go more than three three and a half hours. Women can get away on the three and a half hour mark. Men usually are better at two two and a half hours. Um because when you start going longer than that, that's that's when you you're not going to maximize your gains. But let's let's look at how a meal works. When you break down food, your body assimilates protein at 8 grams per hour. So if you eat a meal that has 64 grams of protein in it, it take eight eight hours to absorb all that protein. So you're never going to not have something trickling into your bloodstream, even if you went eight hours without eating. But once again, we want to maximize the anabolic environment. In order to do that, you should probably be consuming food every hour and a half to two and a half hours as a man, every two and a half to maybe three and a half hours as a woman. Uh it seems to be adequate. And uh if you follow that scheduling, I guess you could say you're going to get maximize your results or or or your muscle gains. Now, getting back to the original question, I think, which was naturalization. Yeah. You know, look, I've been to natural bodybuilding shows where guys weren't natural. So, um, I've been to natural bodybuilding shows where they've actually excluded a guy who I knew was natural because they said they failed a polygraph test and the guy weighed 140 lbs. I don't know what they thought he was taking. He just was like in really good shape and there was there was some argument, you know, the guy had with one of the promoters. So, you know, look, there's politics and everything and there's corruption and everything. the National Organization H is what it is and you know they have their own little group of people who compete and then you have the you know the NPC and the IFBB which is the the top you know bodybuilding organization in the world with the best athletes. So it depends where you want to compete. You want to compete in the in the big leagues in the ocean or you want to compete in the little pond with the smaller people. Some people like to start in the pond and then move into the big ocean and there's nothing wrong with that. So, I think that the the key is that, you know, the fact that we have such a passion for the sport and there's so many organizations and people out there that are trying to accomplish the same thing. That's great. That's good for what we're trying to accomplish. It means that that the lifestyle is something that a lot of people are are are being captivated by and there's money out there to be made and I'm in all for of everything as long as it's for the sport. Let's go back to the Muscle Central forum on rxmuscle.com. Again, if you're not already a member, it is free to register. You can also check out all our contest galleries which are going to be populated weekend after weekend over the next few coming months. We check in with Vic B. Hi Dave, what are your thoughts on um my apologies if I'm mispronouncing this gluccoage and then parentheses metformin. This drug is believed by some to have anti-aging benefits, increase lifespan, and even has anti-cancer properties. Does metformin have any use for bodybuilders? And if so, how would you recommend a bodybuilder use metformin? Yeah, metformin or glucage, you know, it was originally a diabetic drug. And I'll explain how it works in a second, but yeah, there has been some I've read in life extension magazine, I'm a big life extension guy, that that there has been some supposed benefits to, you know, curing cancer, uh, leading to longevity by stimulating like cert receptors and stuff like that. But you know, I'm always skeptical of putting any foreign body like drug into your body and and and trying to induce something because there's always side effects and ramifications. Now, people who are type 2 diabetics, which are diabetics that produce insulin from their b beta pancreatic cells, but they don't produce enough. So, what happens is their blood sugars get high. Now, the problem with high blood sugar is that um it can accumulate in the eyes, the extremities. So you can get, you know, you can need, you know, amputations at some point because of poor circulation. Your eyes, you can lose your vision. Um, your kidneys, you know, can get damaged by the high glucose levels. So we don't want high glucose. So a lot of times the doctor's knee-jerk response is put the person on glucage because glucage makes the makes the um the liver produce less glucose, which means you need less insulin, but it also forces the the pancreas to produce more insulin. The problem with that is that when you make your pancreas work harder, you could burn out or destroy the cells in there. So sometimes when they give glucage because people have high blood sugars, they actually make the situation worse long term because the pancreas gets worse and destroys itself because it's being overworked or overt taxed. A better solution, which I know a lot of people are doing now, is what's called insulin management. It's like if in people with slightly high blood sugar, give a little bit of a long acting or basil insulin to keep the needs or reduce the needs of the uh of the body to have to crank out extra insulin. So taking glucage in my mind because it over taxes the pancreas is probably not a good thing to do long term. I wouldn't advise it. We stick with the muscle central forum on rxmuscle.com and whenever we get these kind of questions from the United Kingdom, I always try to envision it in a British accent. So let's So you know what? I'm not going to read in a British accent. I'm going to ask a question. I want to do it in a British accent. Oh, I'd be terrible at that. I do watch enough British soccer, though. I still can't do the accent. All right. Question from GP King 100. I'm not sure if you're familiar with this saying here in the UK, but the only words that can describe your show is piss poor. So, however you want to translate that in the British tongue, go right for it. I wonder if you have any plans to invite Scott Connelly on any of the RX Muscle TV or radio shows soon. I used to love hearing him on Heavy Muscle Radio with you and John back in the day. Do you still keep in touch with him? What's he up to? You know, uh it's funny you mentioned Scott Con because I was thinking about him the other day because, you know, he had a great he had developed a ser kids cereal that was like super low in sugar and high in protein and and and I was thinking about the other day because I thought that would be a great I'm I'm big into kid nutrition now. I'm really like in my mind I'm trying to like you know the wheels are turning in I'm trying to figure out how to come out with some kids nutrition products because I think that the the youth of America is greatly malnourished and and they eat terribly. And uh so I probably will get in touch with Scott. Scott and I email back and forth, you know, maybe every couple weeks I ask him a question here. He answers it, you know, just because I don't really have anyone that I could ask my you guys ask me all your questions. I need someone who I could ask questions to also when I'm not sure of something. Scott is my go-to guy because I think he might be the smartest man that I know uh living on this earth right now, especially when it relates to protein metabolism or anything in the nutrition field. So, uh I'll try to get Scott back on. I I think that might be a great idea. Maybe if he's in the New York area at some point, we can get him to come into the studios. If not, worst case, we'll get him back on the radio. Let's go back to the Instagram page. This question from Hard Team V. Dave, your predictions for the New York Pro Physique Division, men's physique division. That's a tough one. Um, I guess if if you're a betting man, you probably would want to go with the guy who won in Pittsburgh, but um, you know, I like Logan Franklin. I got to tell you, he's the guy who won the Nationals last year. He didn't do so great in Pittsburgh, but I think he's going to come back with a much better look for New York. Um, I don't know if Matt Actton is is doing I think Matt Actton is I I think Matt Actton's the guy to beat or the guy it's really his show to lose. I think he came in Pittsburgh really flat and washed out. I think he's going to come back better, too. I like those two guys. Those are my picks. Matt Actton and Logan Franklin. Let's go to the live stream live chat box. We'll take a couple of more questions. This question is from Google's asked a question last week as well. And uh again, I preface this by saying that we did bring this up last week and this is about Ramadan and uh we did say that Dave would make a video that we would have for the uh Muslim community that we'll be fasting uh during the month. So the question is about keto. If do I start my keto diet if Ramadan is coming soon? If yes, do I stay on it during the month of Ramadan? Well, you know, if if if we're going to figure out I I've written Ramadan diets for people, by the way, in the past. I have a a lot of clients who who follow Ramadan and we and I've figured out, you know, how to we've structured when you got to eat, when you're not. You unfortunately it's going to require you waking up in the middle of the night possibly andor going to bed a little later than normal. Um the key is obviously you want to eat uh you can only eat when it's dark. So you got to figure out a schedule of eating, but what you eat really is irrelevant. So, I mean, if you want to diet during Ramadan, you can do a ketogenic diet just as easily as you can do a carb diet. There's really no reason why you couldn't do one or the other. Um, so I think it's just a matter of managing your time, trying to get that first meal in as soon as the sun goes down and then, you know, hit it every two hours right after that or even hour and a half after that. Try to get your six feedings in or at least four or five feedings before you go to bed and then maybe, you know, get up in the middle of night and have an extra meal. Usually what I find with the guys in Ramadan, we can get five meals in. The truly neurotic great ones will get six in, but five is usually doable. Four before you go to bed, one in the middle of the night. And uh and that tends to work. Obviously, it's not ideal if you're dieting for a show during that period of time. But um now Sid, maybe you could answer this better. I've heard that there's rules that you can actually push Ramadan back a month if you want or something like that and do it a month later. Is that true? Well, I mean it's like anything else. um you know the this question always comes up with professional soccer players because in Europe there are many topend professional soccer players that are Muslim as well and this this this debate always comes up as a matter of fact uh during this past summer the World Cup there were many Muslims that were fasting and you know it was a debate some were some weren't um like anything else there are exceptions for strenuous activity uh especially when it is your profession uh your livelihood essentially so I mean again it's one of those things that there is some gray area as to what circum like for women for instance women that are that are sick that are pregnant uh you know essentially they're excused from fasting. Those who are sick or unable to fast or handicapped they're excused from fasting. But you know in cases where you know fair enough it's your profession this is your livelihood there there is gray area but you know again it's it's one of those things where you're you're excused in a manner where you're able to make it up later down the road. Gotcha. So let's uh wrap up with a couple of more. Uh, I wanted to get this one in from Grant Hamo. This one from our Instagram page. Hi Dave. This show is so bad I have to wash my ears out with bleach after every time I watch. Nice. How do you go about adding in cardio when you're dieting someone for a show? And how would you know if they were doing too much or too little? Well, I usually start people off at about three times, four times a week at 20 minutes. For the men, usually the women, five times a week. and I see how their body responds. You know, I put them on a diet. I give them a plan and I see if they start losing weight. If they don't lose weight, the first thing I always do is up the cardio a little bit. So, I might go from four three days or four days a week to four or five days a week. If that helps, then great. So, I I kind of judge it by now, I have had guys where I put on three days a week of cardio and they started losing weight too fast. I had to take all the cardio away from them or had to up their food. So, it that's the whole, you know, great thing about coaching. It's it's my job to use my intuition as a coach because I've been doing this for 25 years to know what the variables are that I change. That's why I can give you a diet, Sid, and I can give Johnny a diet and it might be a very similar diet because you guys weigh similar, but I might modify Johnny's completely differently than I modify yours because you guys have different metabolism, different dietary needs, and your bodies respond differently to what I'm giving you to do. So, while it looks like it might be a similar diet, it it never it evolves into something different. And that's where coaching expertise comes in. That's why I can't tell people, you know, I can't give people a blanket statement that will say this will work because that it won't it won't for some people it will. And you know what? When I put these generalized template diets out there for everyone to look at, a lot of guys just follow it and it works great for them. You know, probably 80% of the people it will work for, but not not the 20% that are trying to get on stage and and tweak their physique to the point of 0% body fat. Time for our final question of the show from a good friend of the show, Team 3C Carlos. A two-part question. Dave can't stress this enough. This show sucks. Dave, who's been some of your most famous clients? And is there anything we Well, again, it's a two-part question. Essentially, two and a half part question. You know, I'm going to cut the second part of the question because he does go on to ask about it's a good it's a good point he makes. Dave, maybe the show sucks because your advice sucks. Lol. Just kidding. How about some free giveaways to listeners like species supplements in the future? Or since I came up with the idea, give me some of that whey isolate protein. So, let's address that question and also some of your most famous clients. Um, I think that's a good idea. I think we should do some giveaways, Sid. Maybe we'll come up with some uh most creative I hate the show. Yes. uh best question of the of of the Ask Dave. So, why don't we next week we're gonna give away two prizes. So, when you guys post your questions, uh you might have to post your address or we might have to get back to you and ask for your address if we pick you. Uh the best why I hate the show and the best um question of the week will get a free something. We'll give you whether species gym bag, maybe free samples, a tub of ice. I'll depend what it is. Every week I'll come up with a different freebie. a bottle of MAC oil and uh just because you guys are participating so well. But I can't the same person can't win every single week though. So don't you know I'm just warning you guys unless you guys are that creative, you know. I don't know. Now what was the question again? Well, the question was uh who's been some of your most famous clients? Well, I think a lot of people know. I talk about them all the time. Uh Triple H obviously and um his wife Stephanie McMahon are probably, you know, the two I guess you could say most famous people because everyone watches WWE. I've actually done the diet of Linda McMahon too, uh, Stephanie's mom, and I know Vince McMahon uses all the species supplements. So, they're probably the most famous species people. Uh, obviously, another one of my great clients is Chris Angel, the magician. Um, probably I don't know if he's as famous as Triple H, but he's definitely on par with him. So, uh, he was great. I almost started working with Louis Anderson, the the comedian, too, because he's friends with Chris Angel, but he doesn't like to diet, you know, he likes to be fat. So, it didn't really work out. Um, uh, Ryan Reynolds, the actor, um, uses isolized protein. My friend Bobby Stro trains him and and I I give him advice. And Mickey Ror used, uh, Species Nutrition Products and a diet I had written for him, uh, for a lot of the for the wrestler in a couple of the movies he did after that. So, you know, I I think the actors really like and I know Lorenzo Arasco has a lot of the athletes using the his clients using the species line. I think a lot of people like the uh diet advice and the and the species line because it's a very high-end line and actors want the best quality stuff they can put in their body because when they got to get ready for a roll, they got to look their best. They don't want to mess around uh and get stomach aches or or upset stomachs or whatever the case may be. That's going to do it for this episode, but I'm looking at this list of questions and we have about I kid you not 35 unanswered questions and that is just a credit to you, the RX Muscle community. We thank you so much for the support and watching and again these are questions we're going to start with on the next episode. We've discussed, you know, moving the show live on YouTube. We've discussed moving the show to an hour format. If that's what we need to do to accommodate getting your questions in on this show, then that's something that we're going to definitely consider going forward. But again, we can't stress enough the appreciation for all your support in this show and all the shows that we provide for you here on rxmuscle.com. Special thanks to our producer Johnny Styles doing an excellent job as always. Reminder, tomorrow night, Heavy Muscle TV special episode as we preview the New York Pro. We have some guests coming in studio. Rene Schmidt, Chris Mitt, I believe we might be joined. Don't quote us yet. Don't go running around saying this. Yishna Ayala from Puerto Rico might be live in studio. Karina Nasto. Karina Nasto. Of course, she's Brazilian bombshell. confirmed confirmed to be live here in studio tomorrow night. And you never know who else is going to drop by. We're going to be negotiating Carol. You know what? There you go. Ayanna Carol will be skyping in. She's going to be doing the New York Pro. She just won the Orlando Europa women's physique category trained by my good friend Arthur Gooden. Uh she will be skyping in for sure tomorrow. So again, with between now and tomorrow night, 8:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, we're going to see who else we can get in. is going to be a jam-packed show, including analysis, live preview with Dave and possibly Lonnie Tber, an industry expert, again tomorrow night, 8:00 p.m. here on Heavy Muscle TV and RSMuscle.com. And this weekend, full coverage of the New York Pro Show. We'll see you next week. Have a good day.