I made it to Puerto Rico. Goodbye. Hey guys, what's up? We are here at the Puerto Rico Pro Anaro. First time Leurus. It's one of your favorites and still currently. So I'm getting ready to do the Puerto Rican Pro. I'm from Agaria. So I'm very excited to represent motherland. Hello. I'm here at Tim Gardner show. I'm super excited, super happy because I've done 10 shows before. They're awesome and I'm excited to be back because I'm making history in Puerto Rico. Johnny Styles here with rxmuscle.com at the first ever Puerto Rico pro show with Courtney King. She's super famous here. No, I'm really not. She is. He doesn't even know what he's talking about. But thanks, Johnny. Thank you. I really like Courtney and she's here in Puerto Rico. Finally, we did a shoot yesterday at the beach. Tell me, did you like the beach? Oh my god. beaches are absolutely beautiful here. It's my first time in Puerto Rico and I love it. You know, I had so much fun with you and JM Manion. It was a great time and I absolutely love it. So, yeah, so far so good. Johnny Styles here with rxmuscle.com in the first ever Puerto Rico Pro with the one and only Britney Terror. Britney, how are you feeling right now in this beautiful my island? Welcome to my island. Thank you very much. I'm happy to be here and I feel great. How could I feel anything other than great being here in Puerto Rico? How does it feel to travel like outside the US and come I mean we're still US but you know how does it feel for you as a as a bikini competitor? Um I love it. This is one of my top favorite things about this sport is being able to travel and meet my other IFBB brothers and sisters from all over and be able to step on stage with them and just I mean traveling is obviously the best part especially if you're coming to Puerto Rico. We know we know you're up there up the ranks. What would it mean to you right now to win the first ever Puerto Rico Pro? Oh, it would be so surreal. Um, it would mean a lot to me. That's for sure that I mean that's what I'm coming here to do is to take home that first place win so I could qualify for Olympia again this year and um it would mean the world to me. But I have competed before in Tim Gardner shows. I did the Tampa Pro in 2013. He runs amazing amazing productions, you know, very organized, takes care of his athletes, MPC and IFBB, both very, very well. So, I I'm super excited to be here and I'm super excited to be far from me. Come here closer. Sorry. Super excited to be in the mix of the, you know, whatever whatever it is. I really don't make predictions. I'm not like that. I really don't care. I mean, yeah, everyone cares, obviously. You know, you work your butt off to be up there, but it is what it is at this point. You just got to go up there and rock the stage and leave it in God's hands. I guess that's it. Johnny Styles here with RXMuscle.com. I'm here at the first ever Puerto Rico Pro Show with the one and only the giant killer, RX Muscle's favorite Giant Killer, Sean Karina. Sean, how are you feeling to be here in Puerto Rico? Um, it's an honor to be here. The first Puerto Rico Pro show. Um, glad to be here. Uh, came off of a decent place at New York Pro. Um, wasn't happy. Um, but definitely here to do do more battle and hopefully get a better place. Does it feel different to travel outside the US overseas? No, I've been I mean I've been doing this 10 years now. I've been traveling all over. So it's I I enjoy this the most part of it. So So you did New York Pro. Everybody saw that amazing conditioning you got in there. Do you feel you look any different? Did you do anything differently from New York Pro to Puerto Rico? Um personally, when I do more than one show consecutively, I get better as far as my conditioning. Um my weight is around the same today, but I'm much harder. Um much more crisper today. Um and tomorrow will be definitely a better package. Johnny Styles here with rxmuscle.com and the first ever Puerto Rico Pro Show with the one and only Lorenzo Rosco from Species Nutrition. How does it feel to be here in our island with the show? Wow. Just you asking me that question and you know I goosebumps. I get goosebumps. Yes. I'm very excited to be here in this show, especially because it's my country, the place that I grew up. And last time I did shows here was in 2012. And then I turned to NPC, now IBB Pro. I did uh Pittsburgh and New York Pro, which are the greatest shows and important shows in the United States. But this one is very special because it's my country, my roots. Yeah. We got when Lorenzo's name was called, we got a huge ovation. Now, I actually felt happy. you know, it's he's my friend and I really like how people are treating, you know, the athletes from Puerto Rico. So, you did Pittsburgh, you did New York, and now you're doing Puerto Rico. What do you think happened? What is what's different now? How's your package now between before, you know, New York? What's what's different now? How do you feel your body looks? Well, um I was very comfortable with my body the first two contests, but I made a few mistakes at the right time. I made mistakes period. Then uh now I made some adjustments. When I was competing before I was 187 on stage. Right now I'm trying to dial my body and get it right on point of 200 lb. So right now I did the adjustment that I did was more cardio, more uh taking care of with the carb upload uploading uploading the carbs. Sorry my English, you know. And um and right now my package is the best be comparing Pittsburgh and New York. Anybody out there? We know you're sponsored by Hurly Species Nutrition. Anybody else you want to shout out? Well, uh big shout out to my first sponsor, the one and only Specy Nutrition, Liquid Sun Race, Hurly Puerto Rico in the Caribbean, and I have to say thank you to all my family and friends. Thank you for uh all these years, Carlos has been helping me to to be here. Also, I have to say that this guy here, we've been friends, but he's the best training partner ever. And every time I'm in New York, he's taking care of me. You know, I live in Puerto Rico. Every time I go to New York, I'm I'm I'm king. I'm in the king on that city, you know. Styles here with rxmuscle.com at the first ever Puerto Rico pro show with our bikini ambassador Yarishna. Puerto Rico. York, Puerto Rico, York. Daniel Puerto Rico. Nutrio, Puerto Rico, Puerto Rico Puerto Rico show johnnystyles rxmuscle.com Come.