Welcome to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Monday, March 21st, 2016. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. This past weekend, the RX Muscle crew wrapped up another stellar weekend of cutting edge coverage down under at the Arnold Australia, where things pretty much held serve for what we saw two weeks ago in Columbus, Ohio. In the men's bodybuilding division, Kai Green secured another huge victory by fending off the always dangerous Cedric McMillan. That gives Kai the 20 edge over McMillan in 2016. In figure, Latoya Watts made it two for two in the early part of her first year as a defending Miss Olympia. In bikini, India Paulina was spectacular once again, locking up the wind by holding off last year's champ, Janet Lig. And in the fitness division, reigning Miss Fitness Olympia Oxana Gracina continued her reign of dominance by electrifying the sellout crowds on another continent for the second time this season. To catch all the exclusive coverage from this past weekend's Arnold Australia, be sure to check out the homepage at rxmuscle.com. After another long and productive offseason, former teen sensation turned future star Davien Hill is ready to jump back into action. Last season, Hill made a major statement in the teen and collegiate nationals where he took the middleweight crown, solidifying his presence as one of the best natural athletes in the business. Over the weekend, he'll announced that he's planning on making his 2016 debut at the upcoming NPC Junior USA, which is set to take place this May down in Charleston, South Carolina. According to Hill, he'll be coming in at 180 plus pounds, bringing his best look to date. And if he delivers on his promise, he should be right in the thick of things during the final poseown. Just about two weeks out from stepping on stage for the first time this year at the IFBB Miami Pro, Kevin Ofurum is looking armed and dangerous. Late last week, Ofurum's camp leaked his most recent progress photos, showing off what might be his best look to date. At the moment, the Miami Pro is showing off a very solid 212 lineup. And that means Ofurum is going to need all this and then some if he hopes to secure his second career top five finish. If he can handle his business from here on out and show up shredded in full, it shouldn't surprise anyone to see him competing for a spot in the first call out. Now that his first official offseason as an IFBB pro is in the books, Charles Griffin is ready to strap on the posing trunks and throw down against some of the sports best. Muscle in the Morning was able to obtain some exclusive photos of the rookie sensation as he prepares to enter into the early stages of his contest prep for the Diana Kadau Classic. Griffin has really done a nice job of packing on size over the last few months, especially from the waist down. And if he can improve on the conditioning he brought to last year's NPC Nationals, he'll definitely have to be considered a sleeper candidate to move in and make some noise up there in the top five call out. Fresh off a stellar rookie season that included a strong second place showing at Jack to Tony's Iowa Pro, sophomore bikini standout Angie Marie is back in prep mode. This past weekend, Marie posted up her latest progress photos as she enters into the next phase of her contest prep for the upcoming IFBB Eastern Seaboard, which is set to kick off just about eight weeks from now. Last year, Marie showed flashes of brilliance in her first two professional performances. And if she can build on that momentum with a good showing here, she'll position herself to have a really outstanding contest season. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com. Today I'm Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.