This is IFBB Figure Pro Heather D's and I love my Species ISO bag. If you want to be like me, go to speciesnutrition.com and order yours today. This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com in the Iron Asylum with Brett Nissen. We are here days out from the 2015 NPC California State Championships. We're here in InShape Gym in Brentwood, California. We're going to do a little back training pre-contest. Welcome, Brett. Thanks, Dave. Now, Brett, you come very highly recommended and uh we got this video of you and uh I want to be able to introduce you a little bit to the world so people get to see who you are prior to the Cal State. Um are you using this Cal State as a warm-up for anything uh after that? You know, I'm just going to play it by ear. Um, I personally don't like to think of any shows as a warm-up. Um, anytime I step on stage, I want to give it 110%. So, I'm going all out for this show and wherever it takes me from there. I'm just going to go from there. I don't have anything in mind after. I'm just going to see how I juice, see how I place, and go from there. what give me a little uh breakdown and very briefly uh your bodybuilding career history how you got into the sport you know and and how we got to the point we're at now. Well uh it's been in my family for a long time. Uh I have an uncle who's the IFBB pro Gus Malakadonis and um coming up in the in high school and stuff you know is when he got his pro card and I followed you know him and his training and he trained at my my local gym. So, uh, it's always been, you know, something that's been I've been around and, uh, I was always in pretty good shape, you know, training stuff, and I just couldn't never, uh, get that first, you know, push to actually get on stage. And, uh, finally in 2010, a local competitor at my gym said, "Man, you, you know, you should really do bodybuilding." And I was a little sketch about it, but I always wanted to. And he came in one day and he he got the signup sheet for me for the Fresno Classic. So, that was kind of the the push I needed. And I um I went and did the Fresno Classic. Didn't have much experience, didn't know, you know, posing, didn't know, I kind of winged it, did everything on my own. And um actually Matt, who's helping me this prep, uh you know, kind of showed me a little bit, but at the time he was just getting into the sport himself, so we neither of us really knew a whole lot. And um you know I went up there and uh I won the overall I mean I won the um novice uh light heavyweight and the open light heavyweight uh my first show and I got beat for the overall though and uh so it kind of put a little little spark under me. You know I um I went up there not thinking you know any placing or anything and ended up doing pretty well. So, uh, about 6 months later, I went to the sack show and won the overall as a novice. And next two years, I did the San Francisco and the 2012 Governor's Cup where I I took second both those. And both of those were pretty close seconds. Like, I I mean, I think they could have went probably either way. And that was just, you know, that was tough. It was it was hard two times in a row to have that uh very close second. So, in 2013, I came back to the Governor's Cup and I I won the overall and um I was all gung-ho about going to the nationals right after that show. And uh my son was born about 6 weeks after after the show. And you know, I like I said, right after I won the show, I the game plan was prep for the nationals. And once my son was born, it was definitely a game changer. you know, the sleep and diet and stuff were a little off for a few months, but uh this will be my first show now, um since he's been born. I guest posed a couple times last year when he was alive. And uh this will be my first show actually as a father. So, um I'm pretty excited. He's he's uh he'll be two in July now, so he's coming to the show. And now, what's what's with the belt? I see the belt is baby Brett. Uh long story, man. Well, originally I'm AI'm second. and I'm a junior. My dad's Brett. So, that's kind of where it uh originated from. But, um you know, I I went to the gym back in uh when I was first joined and little girls at the counter said I had a baby face, so they always called me baby Brett, especially when they saw I was a second. So, it kind of stuck with me. I'm 31. I'm 31 now, but it still kind of kind of stuck with me. Now, is is your son's name Brett, too? No, my son's name is Brier. Oh, okay. So, no more no more baby Bretts? Nope. Talk to me a little bit. You got some major some serious guns there. Uh you got a great back. We were watching you do some Dorin Yates uh bent over, you know, one I guess you could say reverse grip rows. Uh talk to me about what you feel works best for your back in terms of size and and width. Um you know, not just back, but all all muscles in general. I'm like you said, Dorian Nates, I like the old school, the heavy free weight. um compound movements. I mean, I know a lot of people say, you know, it's it's not how much you lift, it's how much how you lift it and machines. Can I isolate the muscles? And I agree. I mean, I I do think that those do play a part, but just I don't know, just coming up and training at an old hardcore gym when I was a kid, uh I grew up around all the heavy squats and deadlifts and rows and that's just always kind of been my my exercises of choice. So, I personally try to stick with those as much as I can. You know, this close to the show, obviously, the waist are down a little bit and uh just cuz I'm not physically quite as strong as I was a few months back with the diet and cardio and everything, but yeah, I definitely like to do the the heavy compound movements as much as possible. Now, going into this show, um preparation wise, as far as diet goes, what kind of a diet did you follow uh did Matt have you on? And also, um, you know, how tough is it for you to drop body fat? Uh, actually dropping body fat is is pretty relatively easy. I stayed pretty lean all year. I mean, I'm only probably 15 pounds difference right now stepping on the page and I was all year in the offseason. Um, but working with Matt, you know, this was a a totally new process for me. I'm as far as I know, he learned everything through you, so I'm assuming it's it's pretty similar to Stevenson. Yeah, Matt Stevenson's my my disciple, but then he took, you know, what I gave him, I'm sure, and he's modified it. So, are you are you on a relatively low carb diet or you on higher? You tend to have fast metabolism. Well, I mean, it the the last few weeks it's been been relatively low. Um, I think I even stumped him a little bit in the beginning of this uh of this prep. I mean, we started out with what he thought was going to be like a bulky diet for me. Um, we started out, you know, with uh what he thought was high fats and high carbs and stuff and, uh, we actually ended up raising things going into the show cuz I was I was kind of dropping or or not gaining the way we had planned. Um, but uh, yeah, it was it was totally a learning process for me and it seemed to work great. Uh, it was way more fat than than I'd ever consumed before. And and obviously in your head as a bodybuilder, you're you're always a little skept skeptical about trying anything new. But, you know, I I just I put my trust in him. I'd seen him prep a few people before and uh, you know, I'm I'm very happy. I'm three or four days out right now and very happy with the the end results. I mean, you look super lean. I mean, is this typical for you on stage to get to this level of uh of body fat? Yeah, I've I've I've came in really good condition like this before. I I want to say this is my best conditioning yet, but the thing I'm most uh impressed with is not only is this my my best conditioning as far as I'm concerned, but uh you know, I won the the last show I competed in as um a light heavyweight, I was right at 198 on the nose, and I'm going to be right around, you know, 210 211 probably uh come this weekend at the cow. So, you know, I put on a good amount of size along with keeping that conditioning. So, and like I said, I I fought Matt a little bit in the beginning with the the fats and stuff. I was like, man, this just seems contradictory. You know, I'm I'm eating a ton a ton of fat, and it, you know, like I said, mentally it seemed a little different, but, you know, it it it seemed to work great. And uh I I just I told him this the other day. I said, "Man, I you know, sorry I questioned you on anything, dude. I I really, you know, it worked out awesome for me." Yeah, you're I mean you're absolutely peeled here to the bone. And a lot of people don't realize that, you know, fats are integral in and losing weight. And Dave, that that video was shot about uh two weeks out from the show. I've I've tightened up uh I'd say substantially since uh since that video. I mean, I'm condition wise, I'm I think I'm right on point. Yeah. You know, it's always good to go into a show knowing you're you're at your best. A lot of guys go into a show saying, "I wonder if I'm going to be in shape when I wake up Saturday morning." you kind of know ahead of time. I'm there, you know. Yeah. No, you know, I I was just talking to my fiance tonight and going to the show, I've never competed in Southern California. I know that Cal brings out, you know, probably some of the best bodybuilders in California just based on the name of it. Um, but me, myself personally, I I know I'm the best I've been. Uh, so I mean, that's really all you can all you can bank on, all you can ask for going into a show. So, Well, congrats. I'm I'm going to be 10 or 12 pounds heavier than the last time I can competed and and just as good if not better conditioning. So, you know, that's that's pretty uh pretty happy with that. Congratulations on the uh the great gains you made this offseason and going into this show and now you got the baby boy who gets to watch you up on stage. Yeah, that's that's definitely the the highlight of this show for me, man. It was a it was a a whole different ball game prepping with a family. I mean, going into my last shows, it was just go to work, eat, sleep, train. That was it. You know, now this time it was everything I just said, but then you got to come home and still be a normal guy, normal dad and and everything. And that's definitely a little more a little more challenging, but more rewarding, too. You pulled it off. That's Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, I don't think I've been I don't think I've been too distant. Well, I expect great things from you at the Cal this weekend. Good luck. For now, we're out of time. I'm Dave Palumbo with Brett Nissen in the Iron Asylum.