Welcome back to another edition of Iron Rage, the show where John Romano and I vent our frustrations with the world and our lives. And today we got a lot of venting to do, John, because the topic is begging for applause. I will start off by saying my good friend Charlie Arms uh one of the uh truly unique individuals in our sport turned pro at the age of 60 for the first time. He did his first show at I think 59 years age of age. He was so against this when he because you know he's an old-timer. He's back from Arnold's day and you know all the guys in the 80s and when he saw his first show when he got out of jail after he was in there for eight years and he saw these guys you know putting their hands up to their ears and kind of you know egging the crowd on to give them applause. He said he wanted to throw up first and then he wanted to beat the crap out of the guy next because he said it was so nauseating that a bodybuilder should have to ask the crowd for applause instead of letting his body do the talking and let the body elicit the applause from the audience. Exactly. What's your take on the subject? You know, it's interesting because a lot of these guys think that, you know, and they say, "Well, the crowds are not like they used to. You have to rile them up." But I don't believe that. I believe if the crowd sees something impressive, they're gonna go crazy. Especially New York. If if let your body do the talking. If you're that awesome, the crowd is gonna go crazy. But, you know, it goes back to my age-old my age-old concept that bodybuilding is [\h__\h] boring, you know? So the the crowds, there is something to be said about the crowds from before, but the crowds from before, like in Arnold's day when they used to stand on the chairs and scream and yell and throw [\h__\h] and everything. That was because bodybuilding was relatively new. Now it's, you know, it's seasoned. We've been to a million shows. It's the same stuff. Nobody's doing anything different. You know, if it was like a WWE event, you know, they'd be screaming and throwing [\h__\h] But, you know, we don't do that in bodybuilding. It's supposed to be this, you know, demure respectable, you know, kind of thing where, you know, you you go out there and maintain some kind of decorum. But that's not what it's supposed to be. It's supposed to be a shouting match. Yeah. But John, Big Ramy is 300 pounds on stage, if not more. He's the biggest guy in the history of the sport. He's hit and poses. He does not have to ask for applause. I don't know if he just doesn't know because he's new and he just kind of copies what he sees. I think that's what these new guys are doing. They're kind of just copying what they're seeing out there. But he does not need to beg for applause because the applause will come. Now, I will say one thing that you are right. The reason why I think shows have gotten boring is not because the competitors are not good. It's because there's too many divisions and they get lulled to sleep watching, you know, bikini and men's physique and figure. Not that it's that those divisions are not relevant. It's just that they're not exciting because you're not seeing oodles of muscle and ripped veins and stuff like that and strided glutes as Blackman would say. Yeah. But at the same time, when you sit through 400, you know, bikini competitors, how much energy do you have to cheer when the body's gone? You want them to just finish so you can get the hell out of there and go eat dinner. Uh, and I think that's one of the problems. But I I just don't think that it looks cool to have to ask for applause, you know? I I think it just makes you look almost desperate. It's like the desperate girl, you know, you know, propositioning the guy for a date, you know. Well, yeah, I agree. Part of the problem is the promoters, you know, you're right. They have they have six million competitors in these shows and they structure the show so that they force you to stay in the seat. Now, if if if I'm a promoter and I want to and I'm and I have men's bodybuilding going on, I don't want to force the people who came there to see women's bikini sit through men's bodybuilding so they can get to to women's bikini. Tell the people what show is, what division is going on when so that those people that came to see that see that and then they can leave, right? There's nobody is going to these shows to see men's physique, men's bikini, men's bodybuilding, 212, women's bik, you know, bikini, women's physique, body. No one came to see it all. If they did, they're fine. Let them sit in the seat and sleep whatever they want. Eat their food out of their six-pack cooler and all of that [\h__\h] But most people did not go to the show to see everybody. So the promoters that keep you wrenched into your [\h__\h] seat, make sure you stay for the whole thing because they don't want the audience to seem empty when you know when a when an unpopular division is on. [\h__\h] that. That's that's not up to them to decide how long you sit in the [\h__\h] seat. When you when your divi when you came to see what you came to see, you paid for your ticket, you see what you see, and you leave. That should be acceptable. But they structure these shows so that they force you to stay in the seat. They don't let you know what's going on. There's no timetable. It's everything's off. Nothing's on time. And so, you got to sit there and sit there and sit there and sit there. And by the time the guy that comes on that you came to see comes on, you're you're in a [\h__\h] insulin coma. You don't want to move anywhere. So, you're not going to scream and yell. But, you know, to to to the point where they ask for applause and they go like this or they're going like this. Look, you can talk to the crowd. Jay Cutler used to do that. He used to come out and you can like you say, "Come on, you know, yeah, let's get going." Or, you know, to like wake up. Yeah. Because you got put to sleep by the [\h__\h] boring nature of the show. But but if if you came back in the day when it was just bodybuilding and just men's bodybuilding, you came to see men's bodybuilding. You were jacked up about seeing men's bodybuilding. You came to see Robbie Robinson and Mike Mener and Arnold Schwarzenegger and Franco Columbo and you saw him in the magazines and you were all psyched up to see him. It was exciting. Now they've made it so [\h__\h] boring and so in insanely long and arduous to get through these shows, the people are half [\h__\h] dead. So of course, you know, you got to like they're not going to be jumping and screaming and throwing [\h__\h] They're half asleep. So I put I put a lot of this on the promoters by the way they structure these shows by with this with this concept that you got to force everybody to stay in their seat that for the entire duration of the show. And I think that that's absolutely wrong. You paid for your ticket. If you want to see five minutes of the show, that's your prerogative. Leave. But but they think it's oh the the stadium's going to look empty and that doesn't look good. [\h__\h] that. If you had such a great show, nobody would want to leave. That's up to you. You're the promoter, right? But, you know, try to try to make these people stay in their seats and and put them through this, you know, 70,000 freaking uh contestants, 18 crossovers, and to to see the same guy five times. It's ridiculous. You know, you came to see a certain division, you came to see a certain competitor. When they're done, leave. Then then you're fresh. then you'll then you'll be excited and you'll be happy to, you know, cheer and yell and the guy doesn't have to do this and, you know, go like that and, you know, wake everybody up, right? You know, we're watching Arnold Schwarzenegger hit some poses on stage and I don't see Arnold putting his hand anywhere near his ear. He's not pointing to his leg or his abdominal muscles. He's just hitting poses and and and letting the crowd just react. And I remember, you know, going to the Olympia back when the Olympia was just men's body. They didn't even have women's bodybuilding with it because they would have them on separate days in separate separate states. And when you got there, you knew the symmetry round started the day off. So, you was excited. You'd be in your seat. Everyone would be talking. Who do you think's going to do this? Who's going to win? Who's going to look good? Who's not going to look good? I heard this one is this and this one, you know, you busted his head open. And as soon as the show started, it was bodybuilding. So, everyone was so excited and so energized that that they that they just there was a lot of exuberance there. Um, nowadays, you know, by the time the super heavyweights get on stage, you know, for the nationals, it's it's, you know, 11:00 at night and, you know, there's no one left in the audience usually. And, uh, you know, people are just deflated. And even still, I still see on the national stage, I I do see a lot of uh, you know, audience participation. But you know what? If the audience is not cheering, don't ask them to cheer for you because that's the worst. It makes you look desperate. It doesn't look cool. I know when guys go and guest pose, they do that because they're trying to rile the audience up. It's almost like a comedian who warms up the show, you know? But when you're competing on stage, you're you're like an art form. You're supposed to be showing off that art form. And if the audience likes the art form, they applaud. If they don't like the art form, they'll boo. If they don't care about the art form, they won't say anything. That's their jud that's their prerogative. But for you to get up there and try to like elicit a response from the audience is is just looks it looks uncool. It's like the guy who's standing on stage in the lineup and I've seen this before. I'm not going to mention names. And he keeps looking back and forth like this and like that and fidgeting on stage and and and readjusting and rehitting his pose. It makes you look uncomfortable. You don't want to see look at this person, right? You want to be a cool cat on stage, have heroic looking, have heroic music or whatever you're posing to. Choreograph your routine, hit your shots, and let the audience respond to the art form that you're displaying. What What What's worse is I was at a show this past weekend, a local show. Here's this guy. He's like 51. He's weighs probably 122 pounds, dripping in oil. Yeah. His tan is all [\h__\h] up. was dripping everywhere. He was horrible, covered in tattoos. He he he he looked he looked like a the parking lot attendant looked better than him, right? And he was standing there little squirt, you know, trying to like, you know, look act tough and cool and everything. And he's going like this and putting his ear his hand up to his ear. He was terrible. What? No one is going to scream for you, dude. Unless they're going to scream for you to get the [\h__\h] off the stage, you know? He's like, and and he's making it was such a It was such a travesty to see this guy up there acting like such a [\h__\h] It gives us a bad name, too, you know. Oh, yeah. But then you get a guy, look, if you get a guy like Chris Cormier when he did that thing with his abs, you know, like a belly dancer, you know. Okay. The crowd is impossible to stay quiet when somebody does that. They're they're going to cheer. They're going to go nuts. They did. They do. Okay. So, you have to have something special in order to elicit the response from a crowd. And if you have nothing special, putting your hand up to your [\h__\h] ear does not make you special. It makes stupid. So, you know, you got to you got to stop doing this, guys. If you want to hear the crowd scream, give them something to scream about. Don't ask for it because you're not going to get it, right? And and every single one of you that goes like this, all you're doing is pointing to your ear because no one's doing anything. I have yet to hear anybody scream because you put your hand up. Not going to happen. You look at guy You look at guys like Cedric McMillan on stage. I mean, he's got it's such a well choreographed artistic routine. He never asks for applause. He hits his shots. He's got great music. It's inspiring. It It's It's emotive. It it it it sucks you in. And you know, and then I think about the other guy who's in the same show, you know, as as Cedric is, and he's running back and forth from side of the stage to side of the stage, which is the stupidest thing you can do because no one can videotape or photograph you when you're running back and forth. And they're like trying to point at the audience like trying to get this cut, this side to cheer for him, that side to cheer for him. No one's cheering more for anyone than Cedric. And if you know what, they're almost flabbergasted when he's posing. You almost can't have nothing. You can't even talk. you want to just watch it. It's so beautiful. Um, you know, guys like uh Levrone when he would when he would uh when he would pose back in the day were like that as well. Melvin Anthony was like that. These guys never ask for applause. They didn't need to. Fred Biggie Smalls doesn't ask for applause. He just puts on an tremendous show and people just go crazy for it. That's what you want. You know, I wasn't the most graceful poser. I didn't have the best aesthetics out there. But what I would do is when I would come up with my routine, whether it be the USA, the Nationals, I would always try to do something entertaining. I would get different music changes. I'd do voiceovers. I'd do funny stuff. I would, you know, because I knew that the audience needed to be entertained because I'm an audience watcher. I'm a guy. I'm a fan. I want to be entertained. So, I would give the audience what I thought I would want. And I would get a lot of applause for it. I didn't have to point to my leg on stage. I didn't have to point to my my my arms, you know? I just performed. And like I said, I wasn't Melvin Anthony or Cedric McMillan, but I did things that were, you know, I took my physique. I had a freaky physique. I was always in good shape and I made people laugh and get involved with the routine. And that's why I got applause. And that's what the goal of every competitor out there should be today is to try to somehow get the audience involved or or or just do your [\h__\h] thing. you know, if you're that good, you know, there's two ways of looking at it. If you have some kind of really freaky body part, you know, like your calves or your abs or like you did that Cormier thing or that thing you used to do with with with with your legs, you know, that if if you have some kind of, you know, gift like that, okay, that is probably going to elicit a response because people know you for it. You're famous for it. They're waiting for it. When they see it, they react. The other end of it is like Levrone or or Cedric, we you you put on a meme routine, the applause comes at the end because while you're doing it, people are in awe. Their mouth is open. They were paralyzed because you're so freaking good, you know? And then then you get your applause at the end. But you had this little [\h__\h] I had this little freaking monkey running up and down the stage. Little tattoo guy. He looked like a little Tasmanian devil with one like this. And then he'd run to the other side and go like this and put his hand up. I go, "Are you going to hit a shot or are you just going to do this all night?" You know, it's like ridiculous. And and like I said, port. No, I have never heard the volume of the audience go up just because a guy did this. Never. Not once. Ever. So, A, guys, if you're listening, it doesn't work. B, it makes you look [\h__\h] and C, you're probably going to get marked down because no one wants to see that [\h__\h] because you should be posing. So, quit it. I have a question for you. It should Should should the judges mark down for people who do that? Would that eliminate the the begging for applause? I think the judges could put a put an end to it tomorrow if they said, "If we see you begging for applause and doing stuff that goofy [\h__\h] like that, we're going to mark you down for it because it's unprofessional looking. Look, 99% of the pro of the gripes that we have about bodybuilding shows could be eliminated by the judges if the judges would do their job. Okay? You have gyno, you lose. You don't w you don't award a guy first place who has gyno because if you do, then no one's going to get their gyno fixed. Right? This is not a plug for Dr. Blau, but it's just the truth. If you if they know that they get on stage, they're going to get marked down for having gyno. They're going to fix their gyno or they're not going to go on stage. If they know that if they go like this, instead of hitting a double bicep shot, they're going to get marked down. So I if you do if you do any of this stupid [\h__\h] you should get marked down, eliminated, kicked out, disqualified, whatever. If the judges did their job and maintained the the the the status and and the and the and the required shots and and the the um what do you call it? The the the the form the form that these guys are supposed to follow, we'd have a lot less of these problems. But they sit there and they don't do anything about it. You know, the next guy that goes like this, if he got a if he got disqualified, I guarantee you, you would never see it again. Ever. You're right. You know, I was looking on YouTube for for uh for video clips and I put in begging for applause in bodybuilding in the search engine and and what came up. Number one is Jeb Bush begging aboard crowd for applause. And look where it got him. Donald Trump beat him handedly. So don't beg for applause. If you do, you just look like an imbecile. You look desperate. It doesn't convey professionalism to the judges or to the fans. We don't like it. We It a matter of fact, it's very, very annoying and irritating. So, if anyone out there does it and has done it, look, we all have done it at some point in our career. I probably did. I've done it in my I don't know if I did it in a routine, but I probably done it in a guest posing. Let's put an end to it right here and now. And if any judges out there are listening, maybe we could uh in the competitors meeting before all the athletes meeting before all the shows, they can say, "Look, don't beg for applause on stage." And on that note, that'll take us to the end of another episode of Iron Rage. I'm Dave Palumbo with John Romano. We'll see you next time. Cheers.