fans want to know this year should we see you on that Olympia stage how high do you think you can place against the likes of a hottie Jupon a Derek Lunsford a Samson Da and the like uh sure uh top I'm Dave Palumbo founder of species nutrition I created species nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work and are backed by science From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations dosed for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. joined by the defending champion himself, Beirus Tabani. Be first of all, great to see you coming back for your title here at the show. And of course, we're going to have Far Froad, who's nice enough to translate for us. This is the first time that we're seeing you here this season. what we saw out of you last year winning the Flex Pro and then winning the Dubai Pro. What can fans expect to see here Sunday night at the Dubai Pro? Okay. Uh I am came back again in uh mas do show. I am very happy. Uh and I hope uh I am champ I champion for second time in dur. What can fans expect to see different as far as the physique that you brought last year to Dubai and the Flex Pro earning your Olympia qualification uh here in 2025? Uh this year uh I muscle mass and conditioning is uh very good. uh and I am very ready for uh tomorrow for competition. You know, I have to ask you not to open up a sore wound, but you know, last year was the third time that you were Olympia qualified and not able to participate, you know, when you sit back at home watching the Olympia, what are some of the emotions that you're going through knowing you could have been on that stage? Okay. I am uh I very sad very very sad uh because uh three time I am uh I qualify for uh Olympia stage uh and uh I could not uh visa for United States. I hope uh this year uh uh get a visa for United State uh and compete to Olympia stage. We talk about it's unfortunate when we talk about Iranian athletes and the visa problems and we're hoping that obviously that gets resolved. What steps differently are you taking this year? I know we have a new sponsor in Panata. What steps are you taking to make sure that you're going to have better success getting a visa this year? Uh okay. Uh Pana for help me for get a visa uh for United Stateates. Uh I hope get a visa. You're more confident this year or you will have better luck getting a visa. Yes. Yes. Of course. Uh uh I have uh just one wish. Uh it's Olympia. I hope you see me in Olympia stage this year. I uh uh uh I uh man I motivation. Yeah. Uh I uh I version my version my best version in Olympia stage this year. fans want to know this year, should we see you on that Olympia stage, how high do you think you can place against the likes of Aadi, Jupan, a Derek Lunsford, a Samson Da and the like? Uh, sure. Uh, top three. Top three among some of the best in the world. Be ruani Olympia this year. You see yourself top three. Yes. Two and three. Two and three. So you're going to be be fighting for top two then essentially. Yes, of course. Uh my idea too. Top two. So you're coming for it all. And the fans cannot wait to see. Ready. I am very ready this year. Well, I can tell you this on behalf of bodybuilding fans around the world. We are very much looking forward to the day that we do see you on that Olympia stage and that we can put these visa issues behind us. I hope I hope I hope your message to your friends watching around the world who so badly want to see you up on that Olympia stage. He can say he can say far if he wants and then you can he said to everyone his fans especially that you should be strong you should have consist Cynthy until you achieve your target. It's a great message from a great champion, Beu Tobani, defending champion of the 2024 Dubai Pro. He goes for a repeat Sunday night here in Dubai. Beer Ruse, thank you so much for the time. Good luck on Sunday night and hopefully we will see you on the Olympia stage in October. Thank you so much. Uh you're welcome. I hope I hope uh uh tomorrow uh uh I the champion for second time this stage. Thank you so much, my