Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm your host Dave Palumbo and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Monday, May 25th, 2015. And let's get to it. After nearly three years away from the stage, three months of contest prep, and weeks of anticipation, we can finally say once and for all that all the hype is for real. This past weekend, 24year-old muscle prodigy Dallas Macccarver made his much anticipated pro debut. And he did not disappoint. Macarver stormed into the IFBB California Pro and bested a lineup of IFBB veterans on his way to notching an Olympia qualification and setting the internet on fire. Although he hasn't given any indication as to what his next move might be, I think it's safe to say that what we just witnessed was the next chapter in what's going to be a long and storied career in the sport of bodybuilding. We also had quite a bit of action in the Grand Canyon State this past weekend as some of the best bikini and men's physique athletes in the IFBB took the stage for the second annual Dennis James Classic. In the bikini division, we saw the stunning Courtney King pick up her third career victory as she managed to edge out Arizona native and second place finisher Ashriel Ogood. In the men's physique division, Joe Cantou brought his best look ever and was rewarded with his first career victory and an Olympia qualification. If you're looking to see how all the competitors fared at this weekend's event, be sure to head over to NPCNOline.com for all the details. We would like to send a get well soon shout out to friend of RX Muscle, Mr. Incredible himself, Andy Hammond, who underwent surgery on his esophagus over the weekend. Hammond has been suffering from an esophageal affliction that has caused him to choke involuntarily. But after this successful surgery, hopefully those scary days will be a thing of the past. Andy is one of the truly great ambassadors of the sport who greets each and every day with a smile on his face. From all of us here at RX Muscle in the morning, get well, Skippy. It's no secret that there are plenty of athletes in the sport who draw their inspiration from the classic superheroes who've captivated our imaginations at one point or another. And this October, it looks like Bodybuilding's version of Mighty Mouse will be taking the stage to make his IFBB Pro debut. This weekend, Muscle in the Morning obtained exclusive pictures of 212 bodybuilder Marte Roullis, who is looking enormous at this moment. Rules told Muscle in the Morning, quote, I'm currently sitting at 213 pounds and in the best shape of my career. If all goes according to plan, I'll be making my pro debut this October at the Phoenix Europa Pro. Rules's muscle has the kind of explosiveness that makes him a standout when he hits his mark. And with his newly acquired size, he can certainly make the 212 lineup in Phoenix very interesting. Apparently, not even sleep deprivation and diaper duty can slow down 212 freight train, formerly known as Kevin Ofurum. Late last week, Ofurum released a few new progress photos, showing off a much improved look from what we saw a year ago. Judging by the pictures, Ofurum appears to have added just the right amount of size to his upper body, helping to give his physique a more balanced look from top to bottom. We're still about a month out from the Dallas Europa Pro, but if he continues to tighten things up, of can pose a few problems in the right lineup and might just find himself landing in the first call out, battling it out for a top three finish. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com. Today, I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.