Welcome back to Iron Rage. I'm Dave Palumbo and I'm joined as always by John Romano. And uh today we are going to be raging about a topic that is very dear to our bodybuilding hearts. That is called bodybuilding profiling. Yep, we've heard of racial profiling. We've heard of terrorist profiling in the airports. Uh in the Scandinavian countries, it has come to our attention. Rick Collins posted a huge article about how they are profiling bodybuilders, people who work out, people who look muscular, uh, and they are taking them down to the police stations. They're arresting them. They're drug testing them. Uh, if you fail the drug test, you can be fined. You can be put in jail. Uh, I mean, it's it's it's it's so terrible there uh that guys don't want to work walk around in tank tops. And I know we we did a story a few years back, John, talked about this about Tony Freeman getting arrested there, but this has gotten to the point uh where it's absurd. Uh John, I'm gonna read a letter before I get you on uh from a bodybuilder that that emailed me, and I want to think this is will really hit home and tell you how lucky we are to have our freedoms in this country. Uh thanks for bringing up the problem, Dave, uh of in Scandinavia with bodybuilders. I got several tickets already because uh because of this at $1,000 each ticket and nearly got four months in prison, but they luckily gave me community service. This is outrageous. The police are bullying bodybuilders here and this has brought a huge uh I guess I guess he says depreciation of the bodybuilders here. I don't even want to compete anymore. I love the sport, but this is discrimination. They have even taken my driver's license away from me because of this serious just because of steroids. I have lost my passion to do bodybuilding. I loved being big and competing, but I can't show myself outside. I can't wear a tank top or t-shirt in the summer. This is truly a witch hunt. John Romano, you don't like witch hunts. What is your opinion on this whole situation? And I mean it's it's it's ridiculous that you know they profile to the degree that they would actually uh you know arrest you. Now you know Rick Collins coined this phrase many many years ago. The guy's guilty of bodybuilding in the first degree and and that's really the truth. I mean if you think about especially now all these liberals whining about a Trump Trump being president wanting to leave the country. You know take it from someone who left the country. Once you leave America, you realize the the amount of freedom that you have here and you know the the the rights that the Constitution allows us and that the laws that were written to uphold the Constitution protect us and they they prevent the police from infringing on our privacies and violating our rights to that degree where you know that that's why we have you know the TSA you know you you'll be in a line behind the 80year-old woman who's got to take her walker apart to make sure that none of the metal bars have, you know, bombs in them. Be it it's supposed to be random. They're not profiling, you know, the the terrorists, they can't. So, you know, as much as they want to or as much as they may covertly do it publicly and officially, they cannot. Stop George Farah at the airport when I was with him. He thought it was because he was Italian looking. I said, "No, it's because you look like a terrorist." Italian? What do the Italians do? He says he's half Italian. He claims what? Yeah. He says his mother's he's he's pretty much every religion and every nationality. I don't know if you knew that, but he said his mother's Italian. Yeah, that's what he claim. The problem with Farah is is that is that you can you can very easily tell when he's lying. His lips his lips are moving. Well, getting back to the the uh the topic at hand, I mean, Tony Freeman, I believe it was like three years ago, got arrested at a making an appearance at a nutrition store or something like that. They had advertised that he was going to be there. The police showed up. They arrested him. They took him down to the station. They they drug tested him. And he even said, he goes, "Look, I'm on hormone replacement. I'm going to come up positive." He goes, "I also smoked a joint, you know, when I was in Amsterdam, you know, two days ago. So, that's going to come up, too." They're like, "Oh, we don't care about the marijuana. we only care about the steroids. Um, John, this uh kind of profiling where they're actually singling out people who look different is dangerous to society because the next thing they can profile is if you got a big nose or if you have dark skin or light skin or I mean when you allow society to pick people out based on how they look, doesn't that send a huge message to the society that we have no rights anymore. Dave, Dave, Dave, you've been poisoned by the freedom America allows you. That that's that's not, you know, our Constitution does not extend beyond our borders. We are afforded these rights in America, these rights to our privacy and our pursuit of happiness. You know, I'll just give you an example. In America, doing drugs is not illegal. possessing them, trafficking them, buying them, selling them. That's illegal. Once they're in your home and you're you can ease heroin into your veins all night long. You're not breaking any laws. You're not breaking a single law. It's not illegal to actually consume drugs because you're you're pursuing your your happiness. You have a right to do that in the privacy of your own home. So, you know, the the idea though that you can leave your home and the effect of, you know, it's like a cop can pull you over if you're driving in your car and you're weaving and it looks like you may be drunk, it's a public safety issue. So, yes, he can pull you over for that because he may suspect you are impaired. Okay? But to leave your home because you have A-50-inch chest and you get pulled over by the cops or stopped by the cops, arrested, forced to give a a sample of your own bodily fluid. That's another violation of a right right there. forced to give a a a sample um you know to for the purpose of profiling you to for their specific belief that their their assumption that you're taking a banned prohibited substance is ludicrous. But that's what happens when you don't have a constitution and a bill of rights to protect you. So, you know, in these countries that don't have that, there's nothing these people can do. And that email that you just read is is a sad sad commentary on the modern world in Europe that that this guy who has to curtail his pursuit of happiness to be a bodybuilder because he's being profiled and singled out and arrested, fined, imprisoned or given community service for for pursuing something that he loves to do. He's not hurting anybody. He's not cheating. Where does the license thing come from? Why would you take someone's license away from you? That that to me is the stupidest thing. Because a license is a right. It's if I'm sorry, a license is not a right. It's a privilege. At least in America, it is. So, you know, you in other words, if if you if you get pulled over by the cops in America and you want and they ask you to do a a breathalyzer test, you can refuse. But the penalty for refusing is you lose your license, right? But what is what is what does taking anabolic steroids and being muscular have to do with having a driver's license? It's it's a privilege. They take your privilege. You're not you're not endangering anyone's lives on the road. Maybe Jimmy the Bull might when he's on steroids. Roy Yeah. They're afraid of roid rage. Look, that that's the degree that is the degree of misinformation and false news that gets put out there that, you know, steroids cause roid rage and you got to get everybody's steroids steroid user off the road because they're going to, you know, kill somebody. That that's just that's just lunacy. And unfortunately for the people who live in in Sweden, that's a reality that you have to deal with. And as a bodybuilder, Dave, could you imagine, you know, just being ripped and lean and, you know, a little bit bigger than the next guy? You got to be afraid to leave the house. You got to wear long sleeves in the summertime. You got to appear to be fat when you're not. I mean, that's really what you got to do. You got to hide. You have to hide in plain sight. Is this uh part of your whole uh theory of the pussification of the world? basically that now now they don't they're offended if you have veins in your arms or if you have a 20 inch arm. It's offensive to people. They're they have to get these people out of society and lock them away. It it's offensive because you're scaring them. You're scaring them because you're you're you're you're more you're stronger and more powerful than them and they're, you know, weak and metrosexual. So they have to you know they have to be protected and they need safe zones and coloring books and play though and you know you know stress therapy and and you know therapy dog you know stress management puppies to play with so that they can uh you know you know manage their manage their fear you know you know your home your former our former home state Dave Mayor Delasio ha has made the entire city not only a sanctuary city, but he has also committed taxpayer money to to the to uh uh um for services to government employees the state of New York who are stressed out over Trump being president. Oh my god. And he's offering treatment centers and stress therapy, puppy. I'm serious about the dogs. They have pupp They bring puppies in to let the people you know and they they are they are you know completely caving into this you know this this pussification attitude and and that's that's worldwide now. Now you've got you know the greatest city in the world New York City. Could you ever believe in New York City that the a city known for its toughness and its and its you know the kind of people that you know you don't mess with. Could you ever imagine New Yorkers be having to go to freaking, you know, stress therapy because their candidate didn't get elected? Seriously. And that the taxpayers have to pay for that. Blackman might be going to stress therapy because when he loses when buskill development goes out of business, he might be having to join the ranks of the stressed out the stressed out New Yorkers. Well, now we all we that that was going to be my prediction on Iron Debate yesterday, but I I didn't get another turn. But my debate my prediction for 2017 is that muscular development is going to go out of business. Speak that speaking of arresting people for being too muscular. What do you think they would have done to the guy in Greece who smacked the judge if he was living in Scandinavia and that happens? Well, he got execute what I mean. They banned him for life. I mean, execute him. He's a loose cannon. He's just smacking people. I mean, you can't have that. Throw rocks at him in Time Square, right? In the in city square. Could you imagine that he would smack, you know, somebody on the street? How? Travesty. Execute. You have to kill him. No two ways about it. Well, we joke about this topic, but the the the true reality of the situation is that it's very real and it's happening in these Scandinavian countries of Denmark and Sweden and Norway. And uh you know, they can pull you off the street, they can test you, if you fail the test, they could take your driver's license, they could find you $1,000 per incident, and they could put you in jail. And you know that's a despicable uh I guess you could say I guess you could say deplorable. It's deplorable. But but it's it's it's a it's a removal of people's basic rights to do what they want, right? As long as you're not hurting people. And you know to me inalienable rights. That's the word I was looking for. Inalienable rights. And you know, it hurts me and it irks me because I know my iron brothers over and sisters over there uh just want to pursue their passion, what they love to do to compete, whether it being on a sporting level or on a recreational level. And we all should have that that ability. And you know, we should all take look at what's going on in the world and realize that we do have great freedoms here in the US and and other countries of the world. and uh you know hopefully maybe we can influence some of the policies over there. If not guys move, come to United States, get the [\h__\h] out of there because get out of dodge, as they say, because if you don't, you're not going to be able to pursue your dreams and you cannot be put into a hamster cage and be told that you can't do what you love because if you do that, you die inside. So get out. That's the odd the odd thing is Dave is that is that where would they go? And you know the funny thing is they're better off in a third world country. Yeah. Supposedly gym. Go to Oxygen Gym. Beta Bai will take them. Well, yeah. That's Yeah, that's not a third world country though. But but I mean I'm talking about Mexico. I mean, yeah, they could go to Oxygen Gym. They could go to Kuwait. That's a good But in Kuwait, you know, you have to you have to be really careful in in those Arab countries because they have a sort of uh dual duality with Sharia law and what they allow, you know, foreigners to do and it's very easy for you to offend them and, you know, get caught up in, you know, some violation of of, you know, of their of their laws. However, in a country like Mexico or all throughout Central and South America, they don't th those countries are vanitydriven. You don't you have a not a care in the world. You can do all the steroids you want in Mexico and no one is going to bother you. Nobody's going to bother you. The food is good. It's cheap. It's clean. It's abundantly available. You know, the weather's great. Plenty of great gyms, great places to stay, cheap economy, easy to live there. You can make your money online and earn dollars and spend pesos. You have bodybuilder paradise at your fingertips. Speaking of, I hear that Anthony Huge from uh enhanced muscle.com is coming down to visit you. Yes. Yes. Dr. Huge is coming. Coach Trevor, we Yeah, we love those guys. So, you'll have to uh do some videos down there because I'm sure in Mexico all all goes down there. I'm sure there's going to be plenty of injections being done on on camera. Absolutely. Do Do you know that Dr. Hugh used to be a lawyer in in in California? I know. I think he still is a lawyer technically. I mean, well, he still is, but I mean, he was he was a lawyer in in in California. His parents retired to Porttoarta. Oh, they did. That's weird. Yeah, that's why he's always there. He's visiting his parents. Oh, I didn't know that. All right. Well, you got to take him to some fun places. And uh Oh, I can't wait. He's I'm gonna He Guadalajara is a great city. He'll love it. I'm gonna take They'll do those guys will do anything. You know that, right? Uh yeah. Well, there's Yeah. I I I I think that I think there's a a a uh a relationship in the future with Romano and those Well, you got to do some video for RX. You better get your video camera out and take some video for us. Don't let him take all the video because he puts it up on his side. We got to get some some RX video down there as well. I got a guy I got a actual videographer, a really good one. He did he did Valerie's uh little video. He He's really good. He has He has one of those cameras that you go like this. It's like on a gyroscope. It doesn't move. Yeah. Yeah. And uh he follows you around and everything. He's like He comp completes a whole entire like 30 minute music video, edits it and everything for like $150. All right. Well, sign him up. Get Get some video for us down there. I I will. I'll get it. Guys, take-home message is don't uh don't take for granted the rights we have in this country to be free. I know everyone likes to complain about this country, but I always tell people when I leave this country and I go and I find and I try to eat in another country, I realize we have the best food, we have the best freedoms, we have the best opportunities here, we have the best jobs, we have the best lives here. Don't take it for granted. Don't complain. Go someplace else and you'll see you don't have it so great. Go look at Scandinavia if you want to be a bodybuilder and realize how great it is here. Don't complain about the fact that steroids are illegal here. Get a prescription or or do it any other way you want. Just don't get caught. The bottom line is that we have a lot of freedoms here we take for granted. And that's the take-h home message today. Hopefully, you're enjoying all these iron rages. John and I will be raging again next week before Christmas. Stay tuned. I'm Dave Palumbo with John Romano. See you next time.