Hey everybody, it's Bob Chick and I'm back at RX Muscle. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Heat. Heat. And we're back for another installment of the Palumbo podcast. I'm Dave Palumbo. John Romano is uh got an emergency. His wife is stuck on the side of the road, but I have a very special guest here and we're going to be doing a really uh enlightening interview. He's back by popular demand. The voice of bodybuilding, Bob Chigaro. What's up, Bob? Big Dave. people are always lot of news going on this week. Lot of news. I I see you're you've eclipsed everyone and you've actually I think you're more popular than Nick Walker today on this maybe even that's very possible. I could be indeed in seventh place. So, um I I'm I'm trying to decide where I want to start. Uh let Well, here actually I'm going to start. I'm going to break your traditional uh uh playbyplay, but I've got to ask just because I got to ask. So, I noticed on your thumbnail of the last show. Yeah. It's got a picture of me and it says in big letters fired. Yes. With with a big exclamation point. So, what I want to know from you, I was going to ask John, of course, but unfortunately he couldn't join us. What have I been fired from exactly? I know. Well, Bob, I've been doing a lot of research into YouTube and I've been trying to figure out that how why the best content doesn't get the most views because I feel like I do I've been doing a lot of content for like the last 15 years, you know, media content and you do a pretty good job. I mean, and I'm wondering why like the guys like who who who quite frankly report from their basement, we know those guys get more views sometimes than I do. And so I'm thinking I think my headlines are not sensationalistic because I I know I fall victim to clicking on a lot of these videos and because because of the title or the headlines. So I figured you got to make you got to jazz it up a little otherwise people won't actually click on the thing. So I've taken a page out of some of these other um younger Okay. All right. Fair enough. Listen, I would I just thought maybe you knew something I didn't but uh you know No, no. I I know you I I and I think that's why it's great that we have you here today because I want to get the full story of what happened. But before we get to that, I really want to talk about I'm I'm been really vehement about uh on social media lately about people trying to restrict people's free speech and and and like I said, I hate that because you know what? If one person's restricted in free speech, then then we all can eventually be restricted. And that's what's terrible about, you know, restriction of that. And that's what, you know, when Elon Musk bought Twitter, that probably saved social media in a sense because they were censoring everyone, right? I mean, they were knocking out people's accounts. Donald Trump lost his account for God's sakes. Yeah. So, free speech in this country is not meant for easy speech. It's the hard speech that we don't want to hear, right? I mean, that's the the speech or stuff you don't agree with, right? and and and I want to say I want to say thank you to you and John for uh basically backing up you know my right as well as everybody else's right with an opinion and and whether it over the line or not or if it's wordage that somebody might use or not or whatever um you know you can't really put a whole lot of restrictions or like you said it restricts everybody and then and then you've got nothing. The problem is that a lot of these, you know, these guys out there that have very big social media followings like Seabbum or or Sam Sulk or Nick Walker, if you criticize them, their fans like go nuts on you and they want to shut you down and cancel you because, god forbid you say something bad. Well, look at the Swifties, what they did for Taylor Swift. Same thing. I mean, they could literally they could literally shut your your social media off if if they're mad. And that's just not cool as far as I'm concerned. you know, you you made a We live in a different We live in a different day, Dave. Again, you and I were, you know, were brought into this business about the same time. We both been around for many, many years. And the dynamic in the landscape has changed so much, you see, the last 10 years. Sorry, getting uh getting calls in here. There's Nick. I'll call him back later. So, um, it's just it's gotten ridiculous where if you have an opinion that doesn't seem to match somebody else, it's not even enough that now they have to destroy you. They have to destroy you. They have you have to be removed. Bob needs to be fired, taken out, he's got no business in, you know, and it's like really, it's like these people clearly were not around back in the day when we had the a the magazines, right? um B when you and and just a few of us had platforms like like this type of a thing. Us with PBW, me and Dan, uh yourself, you were one of the first out there. The press conferences, I mean, this is I have been doing nothing different for 20 to 25 years. So, it's not anything that I've changed. It's clearly that the the uh society as a whole has changed. Yeah. Well, they you know, they like I said, no one likes, you know, they they want to get the new guys in there and they they want to get their little you know, buddies in there. But the the bottom line is that, you know, when you watch sports on TV, you want to see the announcer that's been doing it for 30 years because those guys had sightes. They have, you know, knowledge of the industry. That's that's tremendous. You know, I'll give Lonnie Teper credit. You know, I mean, if you look at Lonnie Teeper, you wouldn't think he would be like the M as popular of an MC as he was over the years, but he had a personality so he that he injected into the into the shows. And you might not like him or you might think he's not a good MC, but the guy entertained. He had nicknames for everyone. So during his reign, he was he was really great. And then you kind of took over that uh role and you have your own, you know, shtick and your own, you know, you know, comedic, you know, tone. People like it and some people will hate you, but the guys who hate you will watch you more than the guys that like you. And that's Well, that's the funny thing. Throughout this throughout this whole week, my subscriptions went up. My my Instagram numbers went up dramatically. Yeah. and and I get half the people on my own channel allegedly hate my guts, but they all watch. So, yes. Um, again, Dave, you're no stranger to this. Again, we've both been doing this for a long time, but it it gets a little aggravating when you you can't even throw out anything that's remotely um you know, entertaining or controversial or again, people can always have their opinions, but even though everybody's entitled to opinion, everybody doesn't have the right the same opinion. Okay? There's qualified opinions, there's people that are in the know and have opinions, and then there's just people in their basement that have opinions, right? Um I'm not a fan. Okay? you're not a fan. We're fans generally of the sport and such, but I don't have anybody in particular, you know, fan as most people have no idea is short for the word fanatic. That's true. And that's where the word or that origin is from. I'll guarantee you most people have no I don't know that's what fan meant, you know. Yes, fanatic. That means you are overly eager and and supportive of somebody for whatever reason that that it is. You like the freaks, you like the old school, you know, you like whatever. So, God forbid I should come out and say something against, you know, that particular person or whatever. And the funny thing is is the least offended person seems to be Nick Walker. Yeah. Yeah. Well, he he gets it. That's why he's all about social media. It It's interesting, you know, back in I think it was probably about 15 years ago. I I did I was critiquing a show that was in I think it was in Atlantic City and Will Will Harris was in the show and World Harris World Warhouse and we would love him but he was really not in good shape and I and I I said you know I harshly critiqued his physique. I said, "The guy is just out of shape." And and he he got so offended, you know, after preview about what I said that he didn't talk to me for a bunch of years. But the funny thing was he came in like 15th place. So it wasn't like I was wasn't it wasn't like I didn't I didn't give an opinion that was actually you accurate and you know he apologized and we made up after that. But but a lot of people take offense when you crit criticize their physique, especially when it comes from someone like you or me because they know that we know what we're talking about and no one wants to be told that they don't look good. Right. Well, listen to your point and and this is works out perfectly. I know we'll hopcotch all over the place because there's a variety of things to cover this week, but um some of it's just in the word you use. Okay. So, I took some liberty, you know, with that and I said on Jay's uh couple passes, everybody knows, Jay asked me a direct question. I didn't just bring up Nick Walker out of the blue and he said, "Do you think he can win the Olympia?" I said, "No." And then we went on to qualify it with pretty much why? And I said, "Well, you know, he's kind of got an H shape." Again, it's kind of a tongue and cheek. I mean, listen. So, H shape. Okay. So, people take offense to that. Well, it's not a Vtaper and it's not an X-frame like a Tony Freeman, but I mean, now, could I have used another word? Yeah, I could have used blocky. I could have used uh he's square. He's a shape like he's nick the brick. He's he's a fridge like Jay Cutler, right? Yeah. I could use any of one thing negate what I said and make it not true. you said actually on on the cast the other day, which I thought was kind of funny because I don't think anybody else caught this, but I did of course, right? Um you actually said, look, it it's not that I don't think that the words of this effect. It's not that I don't think Nick could win. If everybody's off, he could win. And I thought to myself, well, is that better? Like you just like you just said, if everybody's off, he can win. I mean, in effect, you're saying that, you know, he's not that good unless everybody [\h__\h] up, right? Well, that's but that, you know, in other words, you have to still be good to be able to win even when other people are off. You know, in other words, you know that he's in the conversation, but we know in the history of bodybuilding, the best guys didn't always win the Olympia. I mean, Flex Wheeler and Levrone should have been Olympia champs by by virtue of how great that physiques was, but they didn't have the mindset to be able to bring that that conditioning and bring that look on the day of the show. And that's why guys like Dorian and Ronnie, you know, decimated that that era, you know, because they were so consistent. Well, we in effect, it's again, it's all semantics and wordage. We both we both said the same exact thing with different phrases. I caught royal hell and nobody even caught it on you that you caught no flak for it. Well, because you know, it's it's the I always call it's the Branch Warren phenomenon. You know, everyone thought Branch Warren couldn't win the Olympia or couldn't win an Arnold and then, you know, but he's the guy who showed up, you know, in the best shape of his life all the time and he was at his all-time best. And when guys like Cutler, you know, didn't look their best or guys, you know, were off a little bit, he just, you know, capitalized on. I mean, he he almost won the Olympia the year that, you know, he was second. I mean, that I don't think anyone expected that in a hit if no one would have predicted that in a million years, right? No. Listen, and and and Jay um and Branch helped each other. I've been on record many times as saying when the worst thing that ever happened to Branch Warren was was Jay retired. And now he had nobody to stand next to him that looked even remotely. He was the odd man out. Bodybuilding, as we both know, is all about and and only as good as who you're standing next to. And this is why I kind of took a, you know, I did take a little offense and I think I should have when, you know, so me and Nick start going back and of course Nick had some comments and his comments were well well who the f is Bob number one which you know it's like all right fine that's cool, right? That's a play that's a play to his to his um social media audience, right? Because they he knew they'd pick up on that and then go after you on that. And I didn't even I didn't even take offense to that. Like listen, I could roll. Listen, we're Italians in New Yorkers. I mean, this is dinner on Thursday night. This isn't anything special. Right. Right. What I actually took offense to was the notion when he said, "Well, what did he win? The USA?" And it's like, "Well, first of all, what does my career and your career that are 20 years apart have anything to do with it?" That doesn't make your case uh or speak anything to you. Okay. Number one. Number two, and that's when I fired back and says, "Well, I'll tell you who the f I am." and kind of making again tongue-in-cheek remark about the eighth place thing, although we can get into that in a bit. Um, but then I says, "Look at you wouldn't even have turned pro back in my day." Now, Dave, as somebody who stood next to me at a lot of those competitions, and I would still submit to this because listen, we can have fun with this all day long. Me and Nick have kind of made peace, you know, privately on the thing. He gets it. He gets it. It's it's all in good fun and all that stuff. But I will stick by this, you know, could Nick have turned pro back in the day, you know, back in those early 90s, mid 90s. And the answer is he would have had a very difficult time because you had to win the overall back then. So now you go down the list and you go, well, wait a minute here. Who was he beating back then? Was he beating Flex Wheeler? Was he beating Chris Cormier? Was was he beating Ronnie Coleman? Was he beat And now you go, wait a minute now. I think Bob's got a point, right? Yeah. And you know, he even says like um like the two show like he says um the other day he had a Q&A which I thought was kind of interesting, right? And he he was taking questions from all the people out there and of course half of them had to do with me of course and he was having some fun with it and that's cool. I didn't have any issue. Somebody asked him, he says, "Nick, if you can compete in any Olympia, any year, what would what year would it be?" And he fired back, "I'd like to compete in the Olympia that Bob competed in." Now I know why he said that, right? which okay, so you want to go heads up with me, you know, type of thing. But I says, you know what? Let me let me take the opportunity here to to take a look at the Olympia I was in, which was 2002. Okay. Now, okay, Nick, I'm going to give you your wish. We're going to do a you know, maybe Dave, you can have your graphics, guys, on this one. But, uh, here's the 2002 Olympia. Ronnie Coleman, Kevin Levrone, Chris Cormier, Dexter, took that year off. Yeah, Jay took that year off. Yeah. Yeah. Gunther Schler camp, guy named Lee Priest, we all remember him. Yeah. Guy named Flex Wheeler. We all remember him. And guess who was in of all people, guess who was in that iconic eighth place finish, Dave? You. No, I was way down the list, but Marcus R. Oh, Mars Rule. Marcus Rule was eighth. Now, I bring that up because obviously I made the eighth place thing, but so I'll submit and then it was Orville DJ Titus Art Hatwood. So, I submit to Nick it's like be careful what you wish for, buddy, because I don't know where you end up in this lineup. I guess we can let the fans decide. That was Marcus from the from that Olympia. Yeah. Yeah. That that that right there is eighth place at the at the 2002 Olympia. Yeah. And um and then I'll give you one more. The other the only other year I could have been in the Olympia but opted not to was 2006 when I qualified by winning the Masters Worlds, but I opted to keep the microphone in my hand smartly. Here was your lineup there. Jay, Ronnie, Victor, Dexter, Melvin, Gustavo, Tony Freeman, Marcus Rule, once again in eighth place, DJ Gunther, um, Vince Taylor, Branch Warren, Johnny Jackson, Darren Charles, and Troy Ell. So, I bring this up to say, look, I know it's never fair to compare eras. You know, we've all been down that road. Who's better, Arnold or Ronnie? You know, that type of thing. It's not fair. But I just thought it was kind of an interesting hypothetical as to one would he have turned pro back in the day and two again his you know wish land of of Olympias to compete in I don't know if you wanted to be in that lineup there buddy. Yeah. Well you my my response to what you just said was number one um I think he would have turned pro but he it would have taken him a lot longer because he didn't the way he looked when he turned pro and the way he be he looked when he became a pro was a lot different. So, he probably would have had to progress a lot beyond what he was as an amateur to actually turn pro in that era. That's number one. Number two, I think the fact that he's comparing himself to you is actually so stupid because you're not saying I'm better than Nick Walker. You're just giving your critique of Nick Walker. So, it doesn't really matter. I think you achieved enough accolades in the sport to to to have the honor of of of critiquing people, right? I mean, you won the the USA, which was very difficult to do back in the day, and you compete as a pro a couple times. What I mean, what? You're not saying I'm better than you. You're saying, here's my opinion of you. And I think that's where the where the where the problem is. And I don't know why people think that you're not allowed to give your opinion to people given the fact that, you know, first of all, guys in their basement give their opinion. But you have actually knowledge and and and insight and you've been around a long time. So yeah, I have to support your every opinion you have because I don't have to agree with it, but I got to support it. So it's it's silly to try to say I'm a better bodybuilder than you, Bob. That that's not a good argument. You know, the caveat there is because of two factors. One, that I was the quote athletes rep. and two that uh I'm the MC for the Olympia which somehow precludes me from doing my job of announcing people when I have an opinion Dave which is kind of funny because again being somebody that's been around the game as long as you have you remember that they again I did I have done this for 20 years on PBW on the last rep on playbyplay with Dan Solomon doing the the Arnold for many many years on on every show on the magazine Flex Magazine, Muscular Development, every magazine you can think of, I wrote articles for. We did predictions. Um, we would all do pregame predictions of things we and and last but not least, the press conference, which was literally the day before the show where I routinely would put guys on the spot, call them out for various things, you know, try to get a little bit of hype going and stuff like and nobody ever questioned whether I should be MCing the show or not. It's it's amazing. Well, I don't see what MC seeing as a show and and and being a critique of this show. There's no conflict of interest there. I don't understand it. It's not It's not like you're Walter Kronhite on on the evening news where you have to be like unbiased. You're just announcing guys names on stage. That's part of your job. You get paid to do that. And so, why can't you also critique the show or or predict the show ahead of time? That just doesn't it the arguments are just flawed. And that's why I I went right to your defense because I like I said, I defend the right freedom of speech and and I mean, you have an opinion and that's fine and it has nothing to do whether you're a better bodybuilder than Nick or not or or you know, look, if you think Nick's gonna be eighth place, that's your opinion. It doesn't it doesn't have to be something that people agree or disagree with. And you know what? And probably you probably are getting more popular because people are pissed off that you're putting him in eighth place because so they're like, "Man, we want to see what this guy says next now." because you know Oh yeah, there was a guy I can't remember I can't remember the sports casters's name. He I was a big Jets fan back in the day. Unfortunately they're a heartbreaker but uh they won the first seven games. I I this was back in the 90s and the guy kept saying they're gonna [\h__\h] it's going to be they're gonna they're losers. they suck and and everyone would go after this and this guy they wanted to kill him in New York and sure enough they hit like the eighth or ninth game that after they had had a winning streak and then they lost like eight in a row or something like that and he was he was right you know but no one wanted to admit it because they were they were somehow winning you know and in New York you know we love winners so well they I think what what what captures most people again was when I said oh you know who the f am I I'm the guy that's going to be announcing you now right God forbid I should have an if now. Did I really mean eighth place? Well, listen. Let's Well, listen. Let's take a Let's take a look. First of all, he hasn't been on the Olympia stage for two years, and it'll be almost three years by the time if if he gets back to the Olympia. And I say that not not being disparaging, but he's got to qualify like everybody else does. It's not a guarantee. We get into that with the upcoming Pittsburgh and New York. Yeah. But let's take let's take a look at some names here and see if it's actually that crazy that he could be in that space. In no particular order, hottie, Samson, Derek, Martin, that's four. Yeah. Andrew, Brandon, Hunter, who was beaten, Nick, and I'm going to put Beu's Tobani in there from Iran because there's a good possibility. I have some very good inside info that he will be in the States. That's great. Yeah. And and I hope, God willing, that goes through because this poor kid's been, you know, training for three years, getting ready for Olympia. He wasn't able to get her because of politics. and uh and Beirus Tobani. That's eight people right there. So, is it crazy to think that any of those guys who either have beaten Nick or could certainly give him a run um you know, could place ahead of him? It's like, well, look at that. There's a game to be played. We all know that. Um the hype of you know, I guess if it's going to be a moral victory, if he ends up taking sixth or seventh, I I'm have at it. But listen, he's got his hands full. And again, this isn't against Nick personally. I don't even barely know the kid. Um, he's got his hands cut out for him because he's a freak and he's got a freaky body and that's great, but it's very difficult when you get next to the the the list of names that I just put out there that yes, he's got his hands full and first he's got to get through Pittsburgh and that's not going to be easy as I hear you got Martin Fitzwwater going in there who in my opinion should have beaten Nick in New York last year and I I'm hearing on inside that Derek Lunsford is throwing his hat in the ring. He that's that's I was gonna say that Derek's there and and look you got guys like Good Veto who are surging and you know it's not a foregone conclusion. No that Nick could win the show. It's a very difficult show. There's they're giving away a lot of money. I mean it's over 100 grand first place. It's a firstear show. It's in Pittsburgh. Obviously that's a very you know people are going there because they want to you know see Jim Manion and they want Jim Manion to see him and they want to support the show. So it's going to be like a little mini Arnold really is what it's going to be. Well, it's it's going to be a great show. I mean, good for Jim, good for Tyler. I know they're putting a lot of money and a lot of effort into this and and listen, we need another good headliner show out there. And nobody better than the press himself at at 81 years young that um you know, he's taking that next step. I've always thought Pittsburgh should have a men's open, so it's about time. And I thought I always wondered why he didn't have one. And I think it you know, it's just a lot of logistics, but you know, you know, Tyler's got that, you know, that youth and he's like, let's do it. We're going to do an expo with it. So, it's great because you know what? You got the New York and you got the Pittsburgh back toback. It make it almost gives you like a mid-season now like uh big event that to look forward to number one to go to and number two for the bodybuilders to actually cash in on because it sometimes it's hard to compete in the beginning of the year and then at the end of the year. So, now you got something in in between. Yeah. Listen and and again, Nick, I hope he's in 100% because I know Martin's probably going to be right there and he's put on some weight. Uh hopefully it's good weight, which like you say, speaking of good, good vetos in there. And he's no slouch. That kid's got a lot of muscle. And let's face it, he's not the most aesthetically pleasing either, but he's actually put together a little bit better in overall context of shape, symmetry, and proportion. So, none of this is guaranteed, but it's it's going to be interesting to see. You got Pittsburgh and then you got New York a week later. I would assume that anybody putting the effort into Pittsburgh would certainly be in New York. And and why would you miss an opportunity, right? That That's where it gets interesting though, Dave. Hypothetically, if Nick doesn't win either of those shows, what does he do then? Like, he can't really afford to miss another Olympia. Like, he's already 0 and2 the last two years, right? So, that's that's a disaster. He also can't afford to come in off his best, but at that point, you got to qualify. So, now what do you do? Do you go overseas? Go to FIBO? Do you go to uh um you know uh what do you call it? Um Dubai. Listen, guess who's going to be waiting for you in Dubai? Beus. Um, and again, I don't think under any good day. I mean, Beirus is a lot of people aren't familiar with him. Go look him up, everybody. This guy is an instant top five threat to to the Olympia. No questions about it, guaranteed. All he's got to do is get here. But anyway, it puts Nick in a strange position of, okay, well, how many how much gas you got in the tank? Number one. Then two, do do you drain the gas tank just trying to get to the Olympia? only put your worst product on stage because let's face it, it's hard doing three, four or five shows and then trying to show up at the big dance in October. So, he, you know, he better uh to his sake, I hope he wins Pittsburgh because if he doesn't, it's going to be a real interesting road. You know, I I might have hedged my bets if I him and done Detroit, you know, Fouad show um at the end of this month. He should have like, you know, had that on his sights because he could have knocked that one out, got the qualification, then done Pittsburgh anyway, just, you know, for the hype and the money and and and then at least he doesn't have there's no pressure on him to win that show. But, you know, I guess he's putting all his cards into the middle of the table and he's all the chips in and he's going to say, "Hey, I'm going there to win." and and it's a great attitude, but like you said, there is there is a actual strategy to getting to the Olympia at this point because there's not that many ways to get there and you got to win shows nowadays. It's not like you can place top three. So, you really have to, you know, and you and how many shows are you going to really do, you know, the bigger guys tend to, you know, their bodies don't really handle, you know, doing multiple show after show after show after show, you know, because it's just it wears you down. Then you get to the Olympia and you're not your best. You know, he's got some pressure on him. Let's face it, it's undue pressure and it's but it is pressure. Again, not being in the last two Olympia. Again, the first year he got injured, that's legit. Um the second year, obviously, last year he just decided to not go in for whatever his reasons are, whether they were physical, mental, or a combination of both. But the bottom line is is you're going to be the boy who cried wolf. Um and you saw his own fan base turn on him, uh you know, this last year when he didn't. Now, you know, I see his own people kind of, you know, a lot of them kind of turn the other way. But just to show that I'm not all at all a bad guy and I don't have anything personal against Nick. Number one, I did reach out to Nick privately and and we're good. Like he's like, "Yeah, I get it." He put out the shirt. I actually asked him if he had that in a 2X because I wanted one. Yeah, that was good. Maybe we'll maybe we'll put some kind of a cheesy bet or something on the shows, you know, whatever. Let's have some fun. He gets it though, right? So, we're good. But for all those who think I'm just a Nick hater, and I love that word these days, right? I'm gonna take you back to two years ago when when Nick Walker, you don't remember Dave, won the Arnold Classic, right? Be a good segue into our Arnold stuff. Um, but he won the show. He came out, crowned the winner. Here comes Arnold. Arnold gave him the trophy and walked off the stage. No interview, no nothing. Now, this was Nick's big moment, right? Like like anybody's you know, like Ali Bal thought he had a big moment and it kind of got turned around on him. Yeah, there is no script for things like this for for people, you know, we'll get into the script stuff at the Arnold in a minute. Um, I'm on my own at that point. So, Arnold just walked away and did an interview, which I thought was not cool, right? I mean, this is the Arnold is Arnold, right? That's that's what any athlete would dream of is standing in the middle of that stage with the great the one and only Arnold Schwarzenegger asking you those those same three questions, Dave. How did you train? What did you do? You know, okay, great. But that's your moment, right? And he just walked away and left him standing there. And I'm like, "All right." So, I took it upon myself to go out there and interview him because I thought it was warranted. I thought he deserved that respect. And I didn't like the fact he just kind of left him standing there. And, you know, I gave him his proper interview and gave him his his moment to, you know, relish in the victory, thank whoever he wanted to thank and move on, you know. And secondly, we were at the Olympia the well, two years ago now. You know, Nick's in the front row. He's literally right in front of me in the wheelchair if you remember. And he was kind of kicking around and I took a moment to recognize him. Um, which I didn't have to do. Again, this is not in the script, folks, okay? This is just I'm on my own to do what I want to do for the most part. Um, I wanted to recognize him. I I gave him some accolades and I told him that this Olympia stage would be much better with you on it. And I meant that sincerely. That wasn't a, you know, but again, that's a real moment. And I know he appreciated that and the fans did. So, it's not nothing personal, folks. Again, this is what people like me and Dave and other people in this industry do is we make critique and we make predictions and we throw [\h__\h] out there and god forbid like like John Romano, I'll speak for John since he could make it today. God forbid we should have any fun in this industry or or raz it up or or have any type of interest. Yeah. Well, you no one has a sense of humor these days. It's getting better now. I think that Trump was elected, but seriously, for a while, no one had a sense of humor. You couldn't you couldn't say anything about anyone. Everyone was offended and they were going to sue you over it and cancel it, right? And you know it's getting like it's even comedians I was talk I have a couple friends who are comedians and they stopped going to college campuses and you know for comedians you know that's that's a huge money maker you know college the college tour but the they said no one can laugh at themselves anymore especially at the universities because they're like everything's so politically correct and the wokeism and everything like that. So, you know, I think we're getting past that now. But, but for for people who are watching this, you have to understand that's what Bob and I do. People and there's a lot of other guys and we're not the only ones who do it, but that's what we do. We critique people. It has nothing to do about personality. What you just did, the breakdown of the Olympia, going through the top eight guys and explaining why Nick might have a problem and why Nick might have a problem qualifying is absolutely accurate. It's it's astute. It's it's it's warranted and it doesn't have anything to do with what how you feel personally about Nick Walker. It's just you analyzing who's there and what is the potential of to happen. So why people would say, "Oh, he's hating on Nick Walker." No, it's not. That's real scenarios that we're that you're setting up and that we're evaluating and and they're valid. 100% valid. And listen, I love the underdog. Like I was an underdog. I mean, listen, I took 13 years to get a damn pro card. So I I understand being the underdog. I understand being the guy that says he'll never get a pro car. Yeah, he sucks. He can't do it. He can't get in shape. It ain't going to happen. Blah blah blah. Mended Hall, Leo Meyer, Edgar Fletcher, Bob Chick. That's what I had for years, Dave, before I finally broke through and and, you know, got mine. But yeah, it's it, you know, so yeah, listen, I would I would love if Nick wins Pittsburgh or New York story. Yeah, it's great for the business. It's good for the industry. It's good for Nick, right? It's I would love to see that happen. Okay. By the same token, I'm a realist and and people like you and I that have been in this game and do have an eye because like you said, like I said earlier, not everybody that's got an eye is qualified. There's other podcasters um that routinely put stuff out that is so far off the base. And you know, I'm not going to play that semantics game. I'm just going to call them out. like muscle discord Matt. Okay, this is where I got into it with him uh last year, right? Over that whole Phil Clayhar thing, right? That whole thing was because he couldn't give a qualified answer as to why he had Phil Clayar in the top five when he ended up in dead last. Now, it was nothing against Listen, I didn't judge, okay? That's that's the way it came out. Ironically, it was Steve Weinberger who judged and and he came on Matt's show and he was whining and complaining about his placing and he thought it was a he actually wasn't alluding to it. He said it was a conspiracy. He said that Tyler Manion had it out for him and they wanted him off the stage and all these bizarre things and and then he asked the fateful question, Dave, which of course I took the bait. Yeah. I just wish anybody could explain it to me. I just wish somebody could explain and you love when you hear that. Yeah. Hey. Hey, right here. Who who better but the athletes rep. All right. To actually give you some some clarity on the situation. And the reason they did that was simple. It was no conspiracy. Do you think the judges got together the night before the show and said, "Hey, what do you want to do with Phil Clayar?" Yeah. I mean, come on. Right. But I I I get back to my I don't want to get off on a tangent here, but Matt, Mr., you know, he's got a his his podcast and this and that, but he's not an expert. He doesn't know what he's looking at. He doesn't have an eye for bodybuilding. Why do I say this? Because he kept insisting that he had Phil in the top five when he ended up in Lance. Now, Dave, you and I have been in a lot of instances of making predictions. Now, I'm going to take your Levrone prediction out. Okay, let's just Yeah. Well, that was that was just for hype and f. Let's just let's just move on. Let's move past that. Okay. But but in all general realities, you we never picked last that we thought should have been in the in the top three or five, right? It just it doesn't happen. Okay. Because we have eyes for bodybuilding, right? And I kept asking Matt, this is why I don't talk to him anymore. I can't I can't deal with him because he's not at my level or anybody's level for that matter to have a valid discussion. You and I can debate all day long on on the merits, right? But what I kept asking him, his only answer was, "Well, that's just my opinion." And I said, "But you have to qualify an opinion. Why do you believe he should have been in the top five?" Well, it's my opinion. Well, it's just my opinion. And he and it actually went on long enough to be almost a joke. And then the only thing he says was, "Well, well, based on what he did last year, I thought it warranted a call out last year." Am I missing something here, Dave? Do we I didn't know when did we change the rules? Yeah. Yeah, you know, maybe I should have done this as the athletes rep, right? What if we change the rules that you get to submit a resume of what you did last year or the year before or the obstacles you had to overcome and all that? What round is that, Dave? I'm missing that. Yeah. Yeah. Well, it's like it's like arguing with like like a like you know like a ex like a girlfriend, you know, who you're you're asking you know as men we're very logical, right? As women they're very emotional and a lot of times you you'll say why do you feel this way? and they're like, "I just feel this way." But but you have to explain to me. Otherwise, we as men can't understand what we've done wrong. Right? Because because we need to have an explanation. You can't just say it's because I think that's what you have to at least explain. Well, he had better conditioning, his full, his shape was better. You got to give a qualification of if you're going to give an opinion. If you're not going to do that, then you're not really an analyst. You're not really a critique person. You're just a You just said the magic words. This is why I can't take him seriously and I can't respond to him anymore. I just he keeps like, "Stop contacting me. I'm not coming back on your show. I want to engage with you because you're so far down the totem pole. There's people we can disagree. You and I have disagreed on hundred things over the years, but at the end of the day, we still there was always the monocum of respect and to this day, you know, listen, we can be on a podcast together and hash stuff out or have some fun or whatever, but but again, but I respect you for the years you've been in the business or John Romano or or many other I go on other podcasts. Again, I have respect for those people, but you have to be able to quantify an opinion and if you want to be taken as an expert, right? Right. I mean, look, if when you're when we talk about relatives, you know, and people argue, Italians arguing at at Christmas, you dinner or Thanksgiving dinner, that's what it really is. I mean, I mean, but everyone has an opinion and they back up their opinion with facts and and and and you might not agree with those facts. I might say the guy was shredded. You might say, "I didn't really like his conditioning." But at least we're arguing about the same things. You can't just say, "I'm I love this guy or he was great last year or or that's not that's not that's not going to cut it. I is Nick Walker a great guy? Is he good for the sport? Yeah, but that doesn't warrant him winning a show just because we like the guy. And so you have to be able to critique that. I want to move on to um I want to move on to this Arnold Classic. Um yeah, sure. Plenty to talk about there. Yeah. Yeah. A lot. So let Yeah. You've been the MC the last How many years have you done the MCing job? I think I want to say four years. I could be wrong on that. I'm sure somebody will correct me if it's not. But well, a couple at least three years in a row you've been the MC. And I thought you done. I did. I've done the Arnold seminar with Arnold for I think 10 or 12 years and then three four years ago, whatever it was I got brought into, right? Um and just just to squash any any potentials out there because there's a lot of stuff we can cover with this. Um when I was asked to do the Arnold, um I went to Dan Solomon and Jake Wood from the Olympia and I as actually asked them permission so to say. I I asked for their blessing in doing it. Now, did I have to do this? No. I'm I'm not I wasn't exclusive to the Olympia um in those terms. I've hosted shows all over the world. Okay. So, and and again worked with Arnold for for 11 12 years. Yeah. So, I thought but I thought it was the respectful thing to do because I am known in certain circles as whatever you want to the voice of bodybuilding, voice of the Olympia. Obviously, I'm I've done the Olympia for 20 years now. So, I'm very integrated in with that. Yeah. Um without hesitation, both of them said, "Look, it it's what you do for a living. Yeah, it's money. Yeah. And it's and it's we don't want to take money out of your pocket and we don't have any issue with it. Great. So, I got the blessing. So, I just want to put that out there because everybody seems to think there's this big contentious thing between the Arnold and the Olympia and there is. It's only on the Arnold side. No difference here. I think there's a competition aspect to it and I don't know who initiated it, but there's definitely some competition there. But that doesn't have any to your point. But it's way big money though. That shouldn't There is There is a competition element to it, but it's not from the Olympia side because when you compare them straight up, it's not even comparable. This is not Coke and Pepsi. This is not Burger King and McDonald's, everybody. The Arnold is a qualifier, right? Even though it's the biggest one, it's a qualifier for the Olympia. But I'll tell you where the competition is. It's not. And the show is not the competition. No, the prize money is the competition. But bro, even that even that I'm going to push back on you. Okay, let's let's examine that. Yeah, the prize money is was $2.1 million at the Olympia, right? The nobody's even approached $1 million. Remember the Arnold is an imitation. So that you can't compare apples to, you know, apples here because they don't it's not Coke and Pepsi. For those again that the the the competition of prize money doesn't even exist. Arnold just this last year raised it to 500,000. Okay, if we go back two years ago, it was a h 100,000 less than that. It was only like $200,000 to win the Arnold. Remember, he put an extra hundred grand on it a couple years ago, literally because they were having a problem getting enough competitors in it. This is a fact, okay? I'm not making this up, okay? They had to slap an extra hundred grand on it because they weren't getting the numbers or the interest in this is in the Arnold. Okay. Yeah. $200,000 for the Arnold. Now when they he just said, you know, they bumped it to three. That's when Nick went in and, you know, they got some some names. Okay, great. Now he went to F. So he's been playing catchup for years. Okay. Against against the Olympia. Yeah. Well, he announced over, you know, he did the 500,000 and then Jake had to go and and bump it to six. Okay. Yeah. I mean, maybe we'd hear something about Arnold raising it even higher. Look, I think it's great for the athletes. That's where the Absolutely. That's where the competition is, I think. Well, listen, it it has I mean, who would you say? I talked about the prestige of the Arnold and it, you know, how it's taken a hit over the year. Listen, the the prize money again was less than half for just until two years ago, okay, when they bumped it up. But Bob, the lineup is great at the Arnold now because they raised the prize money. So now you're getting Olympian lineups at the Arnold, which you weren't having before. Correct. And and keep it in mind, and I I know you guys brought this up the other day and it's because it's true. He did give a Hummer. So yes, the prize money was less, but he gave the Hummer and he gave the watch, which was worth 50 grand or something crazy. So those accolades were in there, too. But guess what? Over the years, the Hummer went away, the watch went away. The Terminator watch, I know they had a year or the ring or whatever it was. All that stuff went away, and what was left was a $200,000 payday. And it started to uh have an impact that athletes, again, just the prestige of the Arnold wasn't enough. Everybody wants to know why the 212 isn't there. I submit a couple years ago I actually had a conversation with Bob Lurmer who was in charge back then and he was kind of giving me the the the you know his uh take on you know they're not getting any interest just they're going to can it because they don't get they barely got enough interest and I says how much you giving away in prize money he says $5,000 you know true story David and I and I go Bob 5,000 so the guy who wins is going to lose money and he goes well and this is a direct quote I love Bob I thought the prestige of just winning an Arnold would be enough. No, no, it's Guess what? It's not. Maybe it was one at one time, but that day has come and gone. So, yes, I'm I'm all for them increasing the prize money. It increases the Olympia and every other show around the world. Uh B is increasing his double this year of what it was last year in Dubai. And so, great for the athletes. Again, great for the overall sport. But let's not get confused. Again, there is no competition between the Arnold and the Olympia. It just it just does not exist. It's not a competitive competition because the Olympia is the Super Bowl. It's a money It's a money thing. And I I'm going to ask you. I'm going to put you on the spot. Who do you think will get to a million dollars first? Do you think it'll be Arnold? You think it'll be the Olympia or you think it'll be someone in the Middle East? Uh well, you know what? I would go with either the Middle East or the Olympia. And if I was a betting man on Jake Wood, I would probably say the Olympia because uh you know, one, they got deeper. Well, when I say deeper pockets, listen, Arnold could write a check right now for a million dollars and he wouldn't, you know, sneeze, right? So, it's got to do with business and this is where people are, you know, well, why doesn't Arnold do this? Why doesn't the Olympi do that? There's an ends and a means to business. I mean, there is an ROI and there's a component to it. Yes, Arnold could just write a check just as Jake Wood could write a check. He can make it a million tomorrow and without blinking an eye and probably just use it as a tax write off. But it it you know in business it does have to have a return. You know this Dave, you're a businessman and have been for many years. So you know will we see that million-dollar payday? Probably at some point. But keeping in mind also the o again the overall which can't be discounted. We've got almost you know we've got every category to uh pay in in terms of the Olympia. the Arnold only had half and again overall purse again 2.1 million versus under a million. So, and you can't discount that because Samson from what I understand um his payday wasn't wasn't half of 500. He didn't get a check for 250. He got a check for second place as it was to the old money. So, you know, he he got a check for like I don't know 120 grand or something like that. Big difference. Yeah. Yeah. It's true. it. I I just find it interesting because I I'm I'm waiting for the day where we see the I think if there is a competition and I don't know if there really is. It's kind of maybe a virtual competition. Whoever gets to a million first will be the guy that everyone remembers. And so, uh I I'm for the athlete. I know you are too. So, I'd love to see Nick Walker or Samson or Derek, you know, take a million dollar paycheck home because that's going to set these guys up for the future, you know, if they're smart. And I think that that was something that never occurred when we competed. you you weren't really set up for the future. You were set up maybe to, you know, to buy a house and maybe, you know, and get your kids in college, but you weren't set up to have a, you know, retirement, you know, fund essentially. And you can do that now without that. And listen, that's again, that's great for everybody. Again, you're seeing the, you know, Pittsburgh Pro emerge now, $100,000 payday. Again, we got shows around the world, the Middle East. Again, Bodai, he's put his money where his mouth is and he's willing to to put that up. Um, again, the Arnold's put it up. The Olympias put it up. So great. I hope it continues for the sake of the athletes because nobody ever got into this game for the money that we can all agree on. But as per the Arnold Dave, I know you got some great questions on the why I wasn't at the microphone. Yeah. Yeah. So I want I want to let me let me put a clip clip up here. Bob, can you kill four minutes while I get the clip? Yeah, sure, man. Go ahead. That was I'm used to I'm used to four minutes of dead. I was That's an inside joke. Hold on. All right, I got you, bro. No, I got it. All right, here we go. let's play this club. But it's all fun. The key thing is is that we pack the house that everyone has a good time. And the other thing that I liked about the competition was the way move you moved forward. I mean there was not one single second. This was a lag time because I always for years and years and years I always was complaining the day after the competition. I said, "If you edit this show down, you can edit it down to an hour and a half, two hours. Why are we sitting there for three and a half hours?" Because of stupid talking with the MC. I said, "It's just a makeup dialogue." And then all of a sudden, now we have an MC that doesn't do that. We go right into it. We see right away the most muscular man in the world on stage and bang, we go into it and we go through the whole thing and then the the guys get introduced. The guys, you know the name, you know the history, where they're coming from. End of story. I don't want to All right. So, that obviously was was a direct shot at you. Um, I I'll say it if you don't say it. It was definitely uh basically saying that you were, you know, telling jokes or wasting time and that's why cast took so long, which I I I really can't support that. I I I that's not the case. First of all, the show went faster this year because they had less categories and listen, David, hang on, Bob. Unpack that for us because I I Yeah, let me let me dissect that. Let me tell you how stupid that is, especially coming from Arnold. First of all, it was completely unwarranted. Um he could have thanked David Bay for doing a very nice job. And and listen, before anybody wants to make a conspiracy out of that, me and David are close friends. Um he's a good guy. We love David. I primarily got David started in this business. I give I've given David more MC jobs than I've given myself over the last five years, 10 years because I don't do a lot of the smaller shows anymore. And David's, like I said, he's a very close friend of mine. So good for him. And he did a great job. That said, first of all, this was illplaced. There was no reason to bring up anybody, including me. All right, number one. Number two, if you had such a problem with me and and how I do things, why would you have me back three more years? Yeah, that's So, number three, again, he's bitching about his own show being too long, and I'll assume he's talking about, let's just say, the past 10 years, right? Whatever. Right. Well, listen, you're the one that had the the Painted Girls on stage. You're the one that had all the categories back then. You're the one that had the Strongman event on back then. Um, you're the one that had the two guys painted in gold from Las Vegas balancing on top of each other's heads. Okay. In the halftime, you did all this. This is your show, Arnold. Okay, I'm going to put this out. It's your show. You're the promoter. You can do whatever you want. Why did you have all this stuff packed into there then to make it a three and a half or four hour show? That's on you. That's not on on the MC. And I wasn't even the MC back then, right? But and the funniest thing of the entire thing that he said was you know the stupid MC they talk too much basically is what he said whether he's talking about me or others as well right the problem this the past year wasn't that I was talking too much or anything it was that there was nothing but dead silence on the stage as per the directions and the the script if you want to call it one of the producer of the show that's it so there was no somebody I'm just out there randomly talking about the weather and who produced Donna? I mean, who was producing the show? So, Brian Powers, I you could consider him. He's the the he's the guy that runs everything pretty much. Okay. He was brought over from Comic-Con a few years back from what I understand. Did a great job. San Diego Comic- Con is huge. Everybody knows. And he was brought into the bodybuilding world. Now, listen, much like I couldn't go into Comic-Con and tell you what to do. You know, to think you could come into the world of bodybuilding and tell me what to do or anybody else is ludicrous when I've got my whole life experience into this game, including 20 years at the highest level at the Olympia and working with great like like people like like Robin Chang and other great producers that we've had over the years. So, he's the one that put together I don't listen, I couldn't even get a meeting to to get the the production or the script or anything like that. I asked for months um whether we could get together. I had some great ideas or at least I thought they were great um for production, different set designs, different never got one meeting, never got really even an answer. I never even had a meeting when I got to Columbus. There was nothing that was put in place. At some point, I got this feeble script in front of me and I'm looking and listen, everything's pretty much regular. You know, you start the show that you know this guy comes out, Jim Manion comes out, Arnold comes out and says something. um you know, national anthem, whatever. All that all that pre- stuff that we do. Then I come out, get the show going, ask everybody if they're ready, Dave. And then we go with the show. Okay. All that's pretty clearcut, pretty basic, nothing crazy. Now I get to, you know, we get to the first segment of whoever's out there. Let's just say it was Bikini Girls. I finish and then it says in the script, go to commercial. Now the commercials, everybody who was there knows, they don't show for whatever reasons, okay? They don't show it on the screen if you're there live. It only gets shown for the pay-per-view audience. I says, "Okay, no problem. How long is that?" That's a minute. Okay, listen. Not a problem. A lot of people don't know this, Dave. Uh, you may not even be aware of this, but there are six commercial spots during any Olympia in the past 20 years that I can think of. There are six commercial spots that I have to fill in for throughout the night. Let me let me let me stop you for one second. What I remember in the past, they used to show the commercials up on the big screen. Why don't they do that anymore? I mean, wouldn't that make sense to give people, you give you a break, you can go back and get a drink of water. It makes sense to me, but I for whatever reason, again, it's not my call. Okay? But they don't show the commercial there. Okay? Listen, like I said, there's six commercial spots during the Olympia that I cover for that nobody even knows because I'll just delve into something. Okay? We just saw our top 10 bikini girls. We'll see uh we'll see the ladies back in a little bit. Uh but you know what, folks? I can't help but think back to 1980 when it was Joe Weider that instituted the first ever MissOlympia compet and in my ear I'm getting okay coming 10 nine eight seven six right okay so and uh you know what folks thank God for that or we wouldn't have these ladies on here today all right we're ready with our top that's what you hear there all right during that one minute now I say and coming back to the Arnold right okay we're going to go to commercial. Okay. Do you want me to I fill for that, right? No. No. You're not going to fill for that. Are we showing it on the screen? No. Okay. Um, what do we do then? All right. Then you're coming back to me. No, we're actually going to go from the commercial straight to the commentators backstage who was Fouad and and Phil and I whoever else that a couple years ago. I said, "Wait a minute. Wait a How long we going to them for? Two, three minutes. Are we showing that on the screen?" No. So, wait a minute. I've been doing this for for a few minutes. Um, so you want to go to a one minute commercial followed by two to three minutes of of commentary and then you're going to go back to me. Yes. So, what do you what am I doing for four minutes? Nothing. Nothing. You have a live audience. You have 2,000 people sitting out there watching a dead state. It's called going dark if anybody knows the industry. L. Yeah. So, you want to just go dark for four. Do you know how long four minutes is on a live stage? No, it's a long time. Yeah. Hey, filling in for 30 seconds or a minute is hard enough. Four minutes. Yeah. So, I go, "Well, it's not going to work." Like, what? Like, that's seriously, why can't we show the thing? No, we can't show the, you know, we can't go to that. We can't show this. So, you just want me to do nothing? Yes. This was put in place by Brian Powers and his Emmy award-winning, and I saw he put his little uh statement out there, Emmy award-winning, worldclass production team. This is what they came up with. Now, as you can imagine, this is exactly what happened. We went to it. I actually took it upon myself to explain that we were going to go be going dark. So, I just didn't finish my sentence and stand there like an idiot for four minutes thinking that that I blew a fuse or something. Right. By the way, during this time, there's no music, nothing going on, nothing on the stage. The stage just goes dark with the exception of the light on me for some reason. They keep that on, which was stupid. But again, just production errors. Right now, Arnold's sitting down in the front row, bro, right where you've seen him for all these years. And I'm looking at him and I can see I can almost read his lips. I mean, I'm not that far from him. And he's going, "What's going on? Why is there nothing going on?" Arnold didn't know what was going on. is what you're saying. No, he's watching the show and I can read his Dave, I can read his lips. What is going on? Why is there nothing going on, right? And I see his assistant Daniel kind of peel off and then I see Brian Powers come out and and he ducks down and talking to Arnold and then he comes over to me and I'll I'll leave out exactly what words he tells me, but he basically want you know he tell hey cut the stick. I go, "What stickick?" I go, you're the one that and I some other profound words of wisdom which I shot back telling him to basically uh how do we put this Dave? Uh maybe you should go make love to yourself as words of of that effect. Um and I says, "This is your production. You planned for this. I told you it wouldn't work." And he I says, "So what do you want me to do?" He says, "Don't do anything. You got it. So, this was the plan, right, from the brain trust at the Arnold in the production. This is, listen, it was no better. I don't want have to, you know, fill this up with boring detail for everybody. It was, it was just as bad in the UK, uh, two weeks later, um, which I was already contracted to do. Um, they had no expediter. They they introduced some guy to me in the UK that's never expedited the show as the head expediter. Wow. So you can only imagine how that I had to actually recruit a guy that I knew out there to actually help out in the back where it would have been a complete train wreck. But um it was at that point that I I found Brian because I never had one word with him after that uh exchange. Finished the show. Everything was fine. Everything was cool. And um at at the at the uh athletes meeting of the UK show, I went right up to Brian who was sitting up in the front, pulled up a chair right next to him and told him this was unacceptable. Um it it was it was not only rude, but I mean it was like why would why would you I tried to help you out and you guys still blew it because you didn't want because you think you know everything. And um I told him at that point I said you need to find somebody else because I'm not lending my name to such a disaster of a show. I don't care if it's the Arnold or anything else. I've done local shows that were produced better. So that's when I exited out and I says, you know, I wish you the best. End of story. So nobody was fired. Nobody was anything. I just told them I wouldn't be back and I never heard anything back from them either. So cool. Interesting. Yeah. Uh that it sounds like that there was this that seems to be an issue with the pay-per-view live stream. Actually, Arnold doesn't pay for they give it away for free, but the the the live stream versus the live audience, I think there has to be some kind of um connection. Dave, like to your point, show the damn commercial. Number one, they used to do it back when Weer was producing the show. I remember I used to see old Why wouldn't you give more bang for your buck to to the people that are paying you the money? Number two, I you they I know they had the capability of showing the backstage because when I went there uh about an hour early from when we were starting, it was on the screen, right? The guys in the back doing the commentary, doing pregame or whatever they were doing were literally on the big screen. And I go, "Oh, so you can show that there. Why don't we just do that?" And of course, the director at the time, this guy Tony, was a nice guy, but he didn't know what he was doing. They've had a different production crew in there every year that I've been there. So nobody knows, you know, up from down of what they're doing. And then they would continuously change the script all the time, which again, Brian likes to come back and you weren't following the script. I just follow was W was you following the script when when I called Jim Manion out and you walked out on the stage? Were you following the script when you just came out unannounced for no good reason or nothing? Let me ask Well, hang on. Hang on. I'll give you the the GL. Were you following the script buying when you decided to walk out and uh introduce the guy I was supposed to introduce the uh sponsor of the lifetime achievement award. Um so who was at the the guy who's got the Ashwagandha company from India. Nice guy. Yeah. Nice guy. Brian come out said no I got this. I got this. I got this. So he takes the microphone. He introduces the guy. He comes out to the middle of the stage. Arnold obviously didn't know what was going on. He comes out to the podium. Ryan's in the middle of the stage with this guy. He takes the award from him and leaves him standing in the middle of the stage and walks over to the podium where Arnold is and the poor guy's just standing like an idiot. Was that in the script? Jeez, I don't I don't remember that being in the script either. So, it's uh No, it was a big train wreck, man. So, it it seems to me as an outsider because I don't have any horse in this in this race that your celebrity nature because you do have a celebrity nature. you know, look, you've been doing the Olympia, you've been MCing, you do a great job. I always I always com no matter how we're fighting or argue, I always commend you because I you do a great job with the appreciate that. And um you know, it seems like there was a clash of of of egos here. Like in other words, like you know, maybe you were bigger than than the Arnold in in this the production crew and and it looked like there was like like an ego fight here and that maybe you know you couldn't take the instruction or you couldn't at least do what they wanted them to do and you had a better idea and and so therefore you guys clashed and it didn't work. Is is that I think honestly Dave I I don't uh disagree with what you're saying but yes I think there was I I think they still look at me as the Olympia guy. Um and as that has escalated over the last couple years I I think that doesn't help. They still see me as the um I know I caught some grief. Believe it or not I actually caught some grief last year because I was mentioning the Olympia too much. Now this is a this is a direct quote right now. So, and if you notice this year, like I mean there was a couple of instances I got to call it the way it is when they announced Brandon Curry for coming out. They announced him as two-time Arnold Classic champion. This is again, anybody can go watch the tape. Okay, I don't know. The guy who won the Mr. Olympia, he's the, you know, keep announcing, you know, somebody uh, you know, was Olympia champ or they they took third in the olymp. Well, of course, I'm going to announce that. Why wouldn't I announce that when this the whole very essence of why anybody's even in this show is to get to the Olympia? But they don't like that. They don't. And if you go back and you watch, you know, David mentions it a few times in like like the Brandon Curry, some people aren't even mentioned as Olympia champions. And it's like that's as petty and as unprofessional as it gets. There's no reason for that. And you are a qualifier for the no matter how you dice it. That's not nothing to be ashamed of. You're the biggest damn show we got and it's Arnold for God's sakes. Right. Right. I think it's kind of petty. I'm I'm I'm a little rubbed the wrong way with the pettiness that's going on between the Olympia and the Arnold. I I I I don't know. It just it seems it's unwarranted. I like it's all on their end. Yeah. I like the prize money battle because I think that's good for the athletes, but I don't like the pettiness. The pettiness is unnecessary, I think. Well, they again they again you're this is not Again, this is truly apples and or this is not Coke and Pepsi, okay? people that they're not competing to see who's the best. Arnold's got their thing and their stick and they've got a great expo which has been much bigger than the Olympias traditionally over the years. And you got Arnold. Arnold's Arnold, right? And then you got the Olympia, Joe Weider, 1965, the history, the Super Bowl of They're two different things. We don't have to fight. There is no competition, right? And again, you go to your show to get to our show. So again, it's not a knock or to belittle you. It's just that's the way it is. I I love going to both shows. I I there's a different chemistry and a different feel to both shows. I'm treated very well at both shows. I I I like both production teams. I like the fact that there's there's an internal battle kind of the way Muscular Development and Flex Magazine were battling back in the day because it raises the level of everyone. But sometimes the pettiness could I I think we can get rid of some of the pettiness. If they don't want to use you, that's fine. I think you're, you know, at this point in time, you know, you're the kind of the MC everyone expects to see the, you know, the the Michael Buffer out there, but, you know, that's fine. You know, I don't think it they can pick whoever they want. I think that the pettiness is is is a little silly because that it's unnecessary, you know. Well, come on. They were they were flying banners over the Olympia last year in Vegas of the Arnold. That's how petty they are. They had those, you know, those trucks they they rent with the signs on. I saw it. I took a picture of it actually. I saw it. here. Now, first of all, what I don't know what that costs, right? That let's just say it's 20 grand. Okay? Right. You you just took 20 grand and flushed it down the toilet because other than yourself who happened to be out there to see it. Nobody's out on the Vegas strip going, "Hey, what's this Arnold show?" You know, and I mean, talk about petty. It's like what what do you think that that gained for you by spending any amount of money to have a plane flying by with Arnold Classic? Yeah. You know, when when you're talking about a show that's not even coming for six months, this just that is the very definition of petty, useless, and and why are you engaging? What what fight do you think you're engaging in here? Yeah. So, like I said, it like I said, clashings is good for business. It's good for the athletes. Uh I'm sorry you had to go through that and hopefully, you know, moving forward, you know, everyone could be friends again. But uh I do appreciate you uh coming on the show and and you know giving your opinion because like I said I support that 100% and I think we made some valid points and hopefully the audience out there understands that as commentators as analysts this is what we do. We give our opinion. You might not agree with it. You might hate it. You might love it. But you've got to respect our right to say it. And I'll defend your right to say it. I'll defend you my right to say it and all the other analysts out there even if I don't agree. And uh thanks once again for taking time. Whoa. Hang hang on. You you can't dismiss me yet, Dave, because we have to address what the athletes rep. Oh, yeah. Right. I forgot about that. Okay. All right. Let Bob Let me just say let me say my piece and you and I'll let you say it. Shoot, brother. Bob was 100% the athletes rep for I don't know how many years it was. And I do appreciate that, by the way. Thank you. You did do a good job. You did do a good job when you athlete. And then at some point, the athletes rep no longer became relevant. I don't know when or why or how or whatever the case. And I knew do know that at at one point you were actually trying to organize a union which I thought was great too but no one supported you. So for that kudos for you that. But at some point there was no athletes rep anymore. And it was kind of like people just you know called you the athletes rep because you were the last athletes rep there was. And I said I was it was actually an argument we had but it was actually me defending you. I'm like listen Bob's not the athletes rep anymore. He was the athlete rep, but he's not the athletes rep. So, you can't really hold him accountable in a positive or negative way because he's not the athletes rep. And then you just recently came out and said, "Listen, I'm ceremonially the athletes rep, not the athletes rep." So, is it was it is it accurate to say that? Yeah. Uh, honorary is is the actual word I use. So, I'm going to really skip through this because again, it's been been so played out, but yes. Um, yes, I did try to organize a union back in 2001 or two, somewhere around there. Um, unfortunately it did not get a lot of play. There was a handful of guys that were interested. Um, so it didn't get anywhere. And that's okay. Listen, I had there been a union then, they'd be in a much better position now. Thank God for sure. Right. But that's here. But that's here nor there. Okay. It was through that that we actually got the athlete rep position because I said, listen, we still need a voice. Okay. Even if we're not going to do this union type thing, association, whatever you want to call it. Yeah. the athletes should have a say in their own uh well-being and their own future. You're right. Wayne at the time, who you know was president, actually agreed. He says, "If you guys want a rep, elect a rep." So, he made us jump through hoops and but instead of me, it was Shawn Ray who did it because I was still competing at the time and Shawn was retiring. He was getting out and he was always very active and vocal as you know, and you know, the athletes and getting more money and all that jazz. Okay. So, long story short, he goes out, gets these votes that Wayne said he needed to get, and some odd votes, whatever. Great. He's the athlete rep. That lasts about 10 minutes because Shawn didn't feel like he was getting the respect he deserved. He didn't feel like it was uh, you know, getting anywhere really, you know, with a meeting or two that he attended and he was clashing heads with them. I know that's hard to believe, but um, so, so Shawn said, "All right, I'm out of here. I'm done." So, this obviously left a vacancy. Now, being that I'm the one who started the entire thing. Yeah. Um Jim Manion came to me and he says, "Well," he says, "What do you want to do?" And I says, "Well, somebody's got to be the rep. I mean, listen, even though I'm competing, you know, it's probably not that much of a conflict. I you know, I would like to do it." He says, "No problem." So, they they posted it up like a job application thing at work online somewhere and um there was no other applicants. Let's face it, nobody else was really interested in the job back then. Yeah. So he appointed me as the official athletes rep, right? Which was all over all the magazines, Flex Magazine, NBC News, it was in everything. Okay. So it wasn't like it was a question. That's for all these people. They're calling me the self-appointed rep. I mean, no, he was the you were the rep. You were definitely the rep at one point. Well, I mean, it's it's so funny when they It's like, do you think I just showed up at a meeting and bunk my ass down next to Jim Ann and said, "Hey, what's up?" And he go, "Hey, check. What are you doing?" Ah, I'm gonna be the athletes rep. Oh, okay. Uh, hey, can I get you something to drink or eat or anything? Or I mean, that's cool, right? Oh, here. You got any proposals? I mean, bro, listen people, we've got 10 years of official minutes that Rob Wilkins has, which I'm actually going to get my hands on just for posterity. Yeah, because we used to actually do, and Dave, you remember this, we actually used to do the official meetings at the Olympia every year, right? Judges meeting and then we would have an IFBB Pro League meeting. They would do the they would do the minutes. They would do the roll call. They would do the the the last year's business, last old business, new business, and proposals. So, I put in proposals for years. Things like the 212 division, the bikini division, the women's physique division, those are all mine that I put in there. So, for those saying, "Well, what did Bob ever do?" You know, listen, I did a lot of things, okay? I can't even remember half the stuff we got passed. But, but again, here nor there. No, just just to just to qualify, you didn't create the divisions. you put in the the request for the divisions and then they approved their or disapproved. Well, yeah, I put in the idea. So, I would put a proposal uh that we adopt actually was a 210 back then, but yeah, a 210 division for those athletes that would qualify. They have to be 210 or under and then all the criteria, right? I would present that to the pro league and then we would vote on it and they would say, "Okay, all in favor I, you know, pass." I did the same thing with bikini. I did the same thing with women's physique. I actually wrote the criteria for women's physique. So when you go read the rules, I wrote that. But anyway, I don't want to get caught up on what I did, didn't do. I listen, I did plenty of people, okay? So that's not the issue. So about eight, nine years ago, could be more or less, but we stopped doing the official meetings because they changed the business dynamic of the IFBB as you'll recall also. So we weren't under the 503 blah blah blah and all that stuff. So they went to a different business model, LLC incorporated, whatever they did, which doesn't require that you do th those meetings. And Jim quite frankly said, because I would come up with stuff throughout the year. And he's like, I'm like, why do we have to wait until the Olympia to do this? And he's like, you're right. You know, we can just do this anytime really. So we got rid of the official meetings. In my eyes, that that made All right. So there is no really official position anymore. We don't do official meetings. But do you do you think there is there should be an elected athletes rep? I mean it's we it would it would seem like it would be logical to have one, right? It it would, but it's it's here's the problem. Okay. We're not a union. Okay. Again, I tried that stuff. It wasn't going to happen. No, I know. Not still. There needs to be someone who advocates for what the athletes want. Don't you think? Well, I continued to advocate for the better part of 10 years in what I consider an unofficial position because again we didn't have your personal opinion which is usually pretty pretty accurate but but it's still your personal opinion. No one is voting and saying well this is what we want Bob for more money. Keep in mind the IFBB has never made any any uh conversation on it. There never been any official thing. There is no Bob's not the rep. There is no official position. It just was status quo for the last 10 years. Like you said, I know, but but I'm saying I think there should be an athletes rep. I I think that that it was a good idea and you actually you did some great. You were the athletes rep as well. I'm all for somebody else at this point doing it because people elect you, but I'm just saying if if if I think there should be an athletes rep who reps the athletes and so if they have if they don't like something about a show or the way things are being done, someone can advocate for them, you know. Sure. Listen, again, I did it for years, even in what I considered an unofficial position because again, the IFBB never said a word. Not that I am, not that I'm not. I just continued in my same role. Um, and quite frankly, I'm the only one that has done anything over 20 years of any significant nature for these athletes. And that that goes from just recently, I was looking into uh some of the athletes getting their paychecks uh from from uh some of the major shows. Again, I've written, you know, uh uh letters to to countries, um you know, saying that, you know, this guy is an IFBB pro in good standing, blah, blah, blah, blah. There's a ton of things that I have done in just my own personal capacity of being this again, what I call honorary athletes rep. So, that's where, you know, people like, well, I don't understand and I don't get it. And it's like, I can't explain it any easier than that. The reason I'm saying it's honorary is because it doesn't preclude you from being able to critique the athletes is all I'm saying. So, Oh, nor should it because advocate for the athletes doesn't mean you can't say I don't like the way Nick Walker looks on stage. I mean, they're mutually exclusive, you know. You're exactly right, Dave, because like, and I've tried to explain this like look at even as in my full capacity as the official athletes rep. I don't represent the athletes individually. I'm not their manager. I'm not their liaison. I'm not a union steward. Okay? I would work in the capacity in a general nature of the the betterment of all. Um, half the stuff I proposed didn't even have anything to do with the the men or the women. It was like in a general sense. Like just to give you for instance, like years and years ago when I was with bodybuilding.com, you'll remember, we used to do the the beach shows, you know, the ones on Venice Beach. Yeah. Those are those are not technically non-sanctioned. They're not IFBB. They're not NPC. That's just an independent show that they do that bodybuilding.com would would promote. We would have a tenth out there, Russ, you know, all you know, the Ducas, all that. I actually had to get the rule changed because according to the rules, you could get suspended and or fined if if you did a non-sanctioned nonapproved event. I had to go to the IFBB, put a proposal in and say, "You can't do that." Okay? I have an obligation to my company that they're having a business there. Listen, I'm not on stage. I'm not handing out trophies. I'm not I'm not uh championing some other federation, some alphabet soup federation. And I got it passed. I got a pass from the pro league to say yes, they we they cannot stop you uh from doing anything other than competing. I'd put that proposal in. Yeah. And that that even went to guest posing stuff. Technically speaking, you could go do that um if you wanted to do it because again, you're not part of some other federation. But you can't preclude me from making my money, right? You know, and my chosen profession, but just to give you an example. But so, um yeah, this is the way it kind of went until recently. Then it's like, well, oh, this is a conflict of it's all right. You know what? Listen, I've done this for 20 years. Okay. Yeah. Somebody else can have at it if they want to do it. Yeah. It would be a conflict of interest if you were the athletes rep on on paper. That's why I'm saying I think there should be a real elected athletes rep and then you could give feedback to the athletes rep as a guy who has good insight into the industry. Hey, this is what I think you should do or not do. And then they can take that into advisement. But I think there should be an athletes rep who advocates for the athletes, who doesn't critique the athletes. Probably someone who competes would be a good person. And then and then guys like you and me can give feedback to the athletes rep, but they would be unbiased and they would be just advocating for the athletes. And I think that there should be an elected person. Well, one I say, have at it. Anybody? If you want to write into the pro league and see if they'll make you the athletes rep, God bless you. Um, and two, guess what everybody? I got nothing holding me back now. So, you thought I had an opinion before. Uh, now I really don't have any reason to. And Dave, you and I have talked plenty of times off the record or off the air that the the stuff I put out is is mild by comparison to any real any real shop talk that we talk about. I tell people the pre-show is way better than the real show that we do. So, oh my god, we'd both be cancelled for life. But anyway, I hope that I hope that clears up any mis you know uh communication or uh you know any just gray area that anybody would have well you said you were the rep now you're not the rep. It's like which one is it? It's like listen it's it's you used to drive a Chevy now you drive a Ford. I mean so yeah you don't drive the Chevy anymore. It's this is just logic okay it's not hard. It was an official capacity, then it was in an unofficial capacity as I don't know, we just didn't have official meetings and stuff, but everybody considered me the rep. I'll give you a good another good example. We were well past the the official quote meetings and all that stuff when we had the split with Raphael and the uh IFBB Europe call. Right. Right. I was called on as the official athletes rep to go to Pittsburgh. And if anybody wants to look it up, you can. There's a video with me and Jim, okay, where I go to Pittsburgh, we sit down, we kind of go a little Q&A of what's going on with the whole thing. I was in the capacity of the athletes rep. It wasn't an we weren't having meetings and stuff back then. I was called on by athletes. I was called on by, you know, promoters. I'd made changes still in the last 10 years. The current scoring system. You went Yeah. You went there because they you wanted to help Jim and you wanted to clarify what was going on. I mean because of course very confused by what what but again this this wasn't an official again we don't have official meetings so take your pick but you went there as as a favor you know of course but I went there as the quote athletes rep which again nobody's ever told me I'm not right and even up until recently that the scoring system we use is from a guy I brought in and helped him uh you know create the program of the current scoring system we use today that's from my efforts of bringing him and introducing him to Tyler and they liked what he had. They liked the program. That's the current system we use. Oh, the computer the computer program that tabulates. Okay, I got you. Yeah, that's that's again that that origin is from me now. Again, the scoring is still the same. It's just it's now computerized. That's all. It's Yeah, it's way better, way cleaner, just you know, less uh uh you know, issues. And um and as a MC, as any MC will tell you, it's a lot easier to read because I'd have 12 different programs from people that you go that it's like, well, this is okay. If this is shaded, that means they did pose you don't want to read the wrong the wrong names. That's the worst of of worst that you can possibly do. Trust Trust me, I had my Steve Harvey moment at the Olympia a couple years ago, you know, when they when they actually gave me the the wrong winner and it's like, oh jeez, it's like Yeah. Yeah. That's not fun. That's not fun. Um, and you know what happened to Wayne Demilia when at the was it the 97 Olympia when Paul Delet almost killed him on the uh the Queen Elizabeth or whatever that because they they messed up the placings and he lost like 20 30 grand or something like that. Well, everybody listen everybody thought it was a conspiracy. It's like look people sometimes it's just a clerical mistake. I mean somebody had it up wrong. What does it mean? You know, and I've said for years, Dave, I mean, it's like if you if you think some of the moves that they've made over the years were political, I'm here to tell you that then these are the biggest bunch of idiots that I've ever met. Why would you have a guy win eight times in a row, right? Why? Why? Listen, the smartest thing to do for business if you want to go with the guy lose Yeah. Yeah. would have would have been back in 2001 when Jay arguably could have beaten Ronnie. Listen, I had Jay beating Ronnie. Okay, let's just go with that. You don't think it would have been good for business to have Jay beat the the champ and then come back for the rubber match in 2002? No. Or again, I give a hundred scenarios of of this guy or Victor or that guy or whatever. Yeah. No, that would have been the the the political play. A guy winning seven times in a row, eight times in a row is not good for business. No, it's not fun. It's not fun after a while. So, if if somebody is doing this stuff on purpose, I I'd submit to you, like I say, they're not very smart and and don't know really what's good for business. So, well, you know, stop with all the con conspiracy stuff, people. Okay, this just doesn't make any sense. Keep giving your opinion. Whether I agree with it or not, I support your right to do it. And thanks for joining us. And we're going to wrap up today's show. Of course, I'm Dave Palumbo with the voice of bodybuilding, Bob Chickerillo. We'll see you next time.