 nayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayayay I'm standing with Bob Chicarillo at the Panetta booth. It's like sanctuary here because there's about 100,000 people in this place. Yeah, 90,000 are here in the booth. But you know what? To be expected, Dave, because we are the best there is when it comes to the fitness industry, the Ferrari of the fitness industry. And you've got the right colors, too. You know what? It's our heritage, bro. Listen, it's all about Italy, brother. We know how to make things. That's right. Pasta and bench presses. That's right. You know, it's funny because I heard for the first time ever in the history of the Arnold, maybe you could tell me, because you know statistics, too, that they actually sold the expo out that no one could buy tickets. That's what I hear as well. But you can see it's a packed house. And this is back to specs before COVID days. What do you think the number is that you have to sell out on? Is it 100,000 tickets? I mean, I have no idea. But all I know is you can't move when you get out there. But you know what? The industry is back full force. Took a little dip there with COVID like the whole world did. But the bodybuilding fans are out and they're alive and well. And watching a big show last night, man. We had some talent on that stage. I'm going to ask you that in a minute. But I wanted to ask you about, I like controversial topics with you because you're not afraid to say what you think. And I always support your right to say it. I appreciate that. Even though I almost lost my press pass after that last year. But anyway, Mike Sommerfeld comes into this show after being told at the Olympia his height is what his height is for the rest of his career. Why would this guy come in at seven pounds over thinking he was going to be a height at a different height? You know, this is one of those things. Who built the pyramids? How did life begin? And what the hell was Mike Sommerfeld thinking? Your height, you just got height. We just went through this whole thing at the Olympia. Very big controversy. That was in October, Dave. November, December, January. Here we are. Yeah. Your height wasn't going to change. You knew what weight you had to come in at. And listen, we keep things real, right? He screwed up. Yeah. Him, his camp, his training, whatever. He's ultimately the one responsible. That's a $100,000 mistake. Listen, you didn't come in two pounds off. He came in seven pounds off. Okay. That's a monumental error. Again, I don't know what he was thinking. I don't think it was an error. I think he felt that he was going to be re-hided. That's what I heard. And why would he think that? Listen, none of us are getting taller, bro. No. Better looking? Possibly. Okay? Debatable. Taller? No. None of us any taller, but certainly not more than three months ago. So I don't know what they were thinking, but that was a big error. I would like to clear up one thing. He was never offered the opportunity to compete in the Open. Right. I heard that too. It's never going to happen. Okay? So especially at this level. Why would they reward him not making weights? Correct. And you're in a different division. I mean, I know it's bodybuilding, but it's still a different division. That wouldn't be fair to somebody that's in the Open who maybe didn't get an invite and taken away from somebody who did meet the criteria, whatever that criteria be. So listen, live and learn. I think the bigger question, Dave, is where does he go from here? I hear he's doing the UK, Arnold, in two weeks. His days were already numbered prior to the Olympia when the whole height gates came in. Okay, so now you know where you're at. Now you know. Bro, he's already in contest shape, and he's seven pounds over. Seven pounds more down, it's not going to be a better physique. Go to the 212. Take your chances there, but his future is not going to be in classic physique. If he wants to continue to improve. Well, bro, talk about a defeating. Listen, bodybuilding is all about making improvements, right? Putting on muscle, refining your physique. It can't be about, this ain't like wrestling in the collegiate era. Let's look at it from a business perspective. He could have won $100,000 here. Would you have dropped seven pounds? Well, here's the problem, right? Not at the last minute. I'm saying prior to coming into the show. Yes, because he did it at the Olympia. Yes. So he should have been better prepared. You're $100,000 on the line and a big title, right? And he's Mike Somerfell, right? He's one of the best bodybuilders in the world for his division. So, yes, I would have. But past that, he's got to look at the future now. And, again, in my opinion, again, his future is not going to be in this class. You think he should go 212? I think he should go 212. He's already 212. I mean, he can't really gain any more weight. He's around that weight now, correct? Yeah, yeah. If he went to 212, he would be battling Keyon for the title. Yeah, I agree. No question about it. He's that good. And you wouldn't have to restrict. What kind of physique would we see out of Mike Somerfell if he had an extra, not seven, but ten pounds on him? Because now he can go to 220 and come down to, you know, 12. Yeah, so I think, I don't know, again, maybe call me crazy. But I know you have. Yes. But, you know, he's got to get a better strategy. The business of bodybuilding always has to be followed. What's in your best interest? What's the future? But him fighting his own height, he's not going to win. The fact that he thought he was going to be re-heighted, I still can't come up with the rationale. How do you get re-heighted an inch taller? The only person who was heighted at this show was Wesley Visters because he wasn't at the Olympia. Oh, yeah. And that's fair, right? Yeah. Because, now, Wesley Visters' height's never really been in question. No, but that's his height now for the rest of his career. Correct. And Somerfell was gotten at the Olympia again four months ago. So, again, bad strategy. Maybe he was going to stretch a little bit before. Stand up on your tippy toes. Do the hair thing. No, he had about 25. He looked like he was from the 80s with the hairspray. Good luck. Well, unfortunately, it didn't elicit anything except that's a lot of work, a lot of money, and a lot of effort to do absolutely nothing here at the show. Hairspray, too. Now, let me ask you this question. Obviously, the show is going to be tonight, the finals. What did you think after pre-jointed? Initially, I hate Andrew Jack. I love Andrew Jack, what he brings. Thought he could have won the Olympia without much argument. Hottie, I thought, came out looking a little flat. Nick, when the first came out, looked great, and then he started melting. Every pose, he got worse and worse in terms of spilling over, and he was a water bag by the time we got to the end of the pre-judging. And you've got to give Nick credit. Nick comes in. I've always given him credit for a few things. He's very consistent. He's a freak, and he's very muscular. He can hang with anybody from the side, and the back in particular. He wins both back poses, yeah. You know, he's phenomenal from the back. Now, from the front, that's where I got more of an issue. Again, I'm not a fan of... Front double, and the ab thigh, and the last breath. For me, but that's why you've got many different poses, many different rounds. Sorry, Milos, we don't have 50 rounds, and we're not going to be here until 3 in the morning. Sorry, bro. The three-quarter back pose, we'll get into music. Spike the calf. Spike the calf. But he's in the mix. Personally, I think those three guys are interchangeable tonight. Hottie seemed to come back alive a little bit more. He's still very formidable. I still like what Andrew Jack brings. So I don't think there's a decisive lead right now. I think I would honestly tie those three guys. Whoever comes in tonight and nails it, I think wins. I agree with you. Now, given what you just said, going flash forward to the Olympia now later this year, who's the guy who's going to be the guy to beat? I mean, obviously, Derek's Mr. Olympia, but who's the guy that you think has the most potential to potentially win this Olympia? Andrew? Well, I've got to stick with Andrew because, again, I thought he could have won this past year. Again, you can argue on a couple cases, but I like what he brings. You can't count Martin out. He had a bad day at the office. But much like Pittsburgh, he had a bad day there, and then he rebounded at the Olympia, and boom, he's a contender. I didn't think he looked bad yesterday. I think his tan was turned yellow. It was yellow because he was like the wicked witch on the melting. He's not going to like you. You're going to be added to his list of the press people. He likes me, actually. I don't know who he was referring to, but he seems to like me. He told me that. But I keep it real. But he's still a contender. Listen, bad day at the office. That's why you play different games. You can't count Samson out. I don't like his direction. I don't think it's necessary. I can see that being either a huge, too big, you think? Here's my problem, Dave. He's never lost because he wasn't big enough. His Achilles heel traditionally has been conditioning. We've seen Samson in real condition, what I would say the 95 percentile of conditioning, once. That's when he won the Olympia. And I firmly believe that when he did the France show two weeks before or whatever. Right. It was better. That helped him because he got in even better shape. All that mass, all that muscle combined with the conditioning got him the title. Well, then last year, I think he overdid the conditioning. He overdid it. Don't reinvent the wheel because you blew it the last two weeks and you brought it down a little too much. You already were Mr. Olympia. So to me, it's like, bro, the pendulum does not have to swing all the way. To me, 350. Now you've got to lose 60 pounds and come in tighter. And he's not a spring chicken. He'll be 40 this year, I think, or close to it. Yeah. So I wish him the best because everybody knows I'm a big Samson fan. Yeah, no, he's got a great physique. I love his physique. I've been touting him for years. I don't know if this is a strategy I would use, but you know what? Let's see what it does. If you can bring it down and get in shape, then it works. Let's keep in mind, right? Keeping it real. This is a guy that took a lot of flack for not having a real coach. No, and his wife. Well, guess what? His wife got him an Olympia title. That's true. So you know what? Maybe sometimes we're not the ones that have the crystal ball. What do you say to people? The last question. What do you say to people? Like, you always see the new guy on the block because it's usually the Instagram pictures. Everyone's like, oh! You know, like Mo Foda, for instance. Mo Foda. I love Mo's physique, but I knew when people said, oh, he's going to be top four here. I'm like, well, on the internet, you know, Instagram maybe, but, you know, he's not there yet. But, you know, when you see the new guy on the Instagram and they're always touting them as the next great thing, I mean, what do you say to people in that regard? Instagram is la-la land. It's fantasy land. Listen, the photos, we don't even know what to believe. Half of them are Photoshopped. The other ones are enhanced. So you really don't know what you're getting. Now, in Mo Foda's defense, MoFo, I like to call him that. Big MoFo. What a great nickname. He was in better shape last week. He made a tactical error. I just talked to him earlier. Oh, he did. Okay. And he... He down too much? He kind of... No, he was already there. He was there, and then they did the carve-up, bring it down. And it's like, bro, you were already there. He should have done nothing different. He should have done nothing. Land the plane. And I think he's going to correct it. I think he's going to do Detroit. Okay. Great move. Listen, right now you've got a bunch of shows right in a row with Detroit. You've got the UK. You're crazy not to hit all three. He's already in shape, but he's much better than what he showed last night. But as you know, as I know, a lot can change in the last 48 hours, bro. And a lot of times, more manipulative. The voodoo shit, at the end of the day, will do more harm than good. I did this for 13 years. Right. But do you think that he did something wrong, or do you think the pictures were just maybe better than they should have been? No, no. He was that good. Oh, he was? Yes. Again, you don't need the protocol. If you're already there, leave it alone. I always say, the less you do, the better at the end. I remember Sean Ray. Guys like that I would watch back then. We all grew up together and competed. Most of those guys would do nothing. Right. Nothing. They would sit there watching the middleweights until they got out. They weren't stuffing their face with rice cakes and sawdust and honey. They did nothing. If you're already there, leave it alone. Eat the same food you've been eating the whole diet. Oh, and Dave, probably the most, you're a top trainer. You know this stuff. Here's a PSA for everybody out there, for me and Dave. I'll speak for both of us. When you cut your water off and you keep bringing in food, the food can't go anywhere. No, it gets like cement. Bro. That's why you got to use fiber lyser. Water is the transport for the food. So when you cut off the water, everything's right here. That's where you end up with that. It sits in your gut. That's where you end up with that Captain Kirk, that high gut-looking thing. Google's your best friend for Captain Kirk. Star Trek. Shatner still looks great, man. Hey, that's why Shatner's still around, because he didn't over-carb. All right? Great talking to you, Bob. Dave, always a bloke. Let's see if we're right. Come tonight, who wins? I agree with Bob. I think it's still up for grabs. As you always know, bro. I may not always be right, but I ain't never wrong. Thanks, man. Good interview, man.