Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and today's guest is an men's physique pro, international model, and expert. I would call him an expert in human nutrition and heart health. The man I'm talking about is Trevor Coritson. Welcome, Dave. Thank you for the very generous intro. I don't know if I'd call myself an expert, but uh I know a lot on the topic. I actually just presented my thesis on cardiovascular health. So, let's get into it. Where do you want to start? I Well, I wanted to get you on here, number one, because I promised I was going to get you on the show. You and I have been emailing, you know, communicating with each other. You got you got the pro card. You obviously are into health and fitness. And you actually have a very good uh academic insight into health, nutrition, supplementation, all that stuff. And I and I like to get people who have actual degrees so that when I talk to them in an intelligent manner, they could actually give me the science of what's going on. Sometimes I'm the only person presenting science. So I don't want to be the only person. I want to have someone I can actually ask questions to. This is something that you you you find very important, the heart health of people who work out. And I think in the light of the fact that we just had the Dallas Macccarver autopsy revealed over the last two days, I think this is in a very appropriate interview. First off, explain to me what your uh your schooling is so that people understand where you're coming from. So, I have a chemical engineering degree. I'm a registered nutritionist. I'm currently doing my masters in human nutrition. I'm pretty much done my masters. I finished all the course requirements. I'm just about to do my research project. Um, I agree with you like academia is important, but there's also something to be said for real world knowledge. You know, I've been I've been competing since I was 15 years old. I did my first show when I was 15. Um, both are important. You know, it's kind of like Chris Aceto. I don't think he's ever tooken a formal nutrition course, but the guy is a freaking genius, right? So I see both sides of that and you kind of have those two those two schools. You know people say like I want science, I want science, I want science. Then you have you know the people who are like well real world knowledge is the most important. The answer is they're both important. How do you balance you know all the schooling you're going to with the training? You know it sounds like it's almost like you even told me you ran home from school just to do this interview because you have like you don't have two minutes to yourself. Yeah. I literally presented my thesis yesterday. I didn't think we were recording today. So, you basically sent me an email. Um, I was like, "Okay, Dave, I'm done teaching at this time." I literally sprinted home from the university, took off my dress shirt and blazer, put on a t-shirt and a carne and did this interview. Um, my answer to that is I never turn down an opportunity. Um, I'm very blessed to have so many opportunities. I just try to make the most of every day. You know, we're all given 24 hours. capitalize it. And you know, as much like sleep is important, don't get me wrong. You know, I I think all of that, but I think people use as an excuse. You know what I mean? Like I've I've slept maybe three or four hours this entire week. I'm still kicking. You can see in the video, you know, I got a little bit of bags under my eyes, but it's not like I'm going to drop dead or anything. I think people underestimate what they can achieve because they don't push themselves out of their boundaries. I I wish I looked as bad I wish I looked as good on my best day as you'd look on your worst day. So take that as a compliment. Let let's talk about heart health. Okay, as we know from the autopsy, Dallas Macccarvis seems to have passed uh by having a heart attack. He had a you know almost a complete blockage in his uh the the descending coronary artery that supplies the blood to the left ventricle there. You know that t that seems to be a typical uh you know death blow to most people who have that. what what would cause something like that to happen uh in such a young man like him. Okay, so first of all, heart disease and stroke is the number one killer in North America. Very very important topic regardless of if you're using steroids or not. Using steroids, even just, you know, a responsible testosterone replacement therapy dosage puts you at a significantly elevated risk for developing heart disease and stroke. The problem with using steroids is what they do is they decrease the elasticity of your arteries, right? So the way I try to explain this is your arteries are basically like tubes that the blood flows. So if you have a really elastic and flexible artery, it can expand, right? The problem is is when you lose that elasticity and you have a small amount of plaque buildup that that artery is going to get smaller and smaller and smaller and then when the blood tries to flow through more and more pressure generates and then eventually you have a heart attack. So that's basically what happened to Dallas. We'll get through other things that will, you know, reduce your artery elasticity um later on in the show, but basically that's what happened is it's kind of like you got this tube and if it's not elastic and you got a buildup of plaque, the tube gets smaller and smaller and smaller and then when blood tries to go through it, pressure builds up, builds up, builds up, builds up, and then eventually you have a heart attack. Well, you have a heart attack because the blood flow is not getting to where it's supposed to be, which is to the to the the heart muscle. But let me ask you this. In a 26 year old guy, you don't usually see a 90% occlusion of of a of a coronary artery like that. Is that a genetic? I I I I likened it to a genetic, you know, stroke of bad luck. Essentially, it I wouldn't actually say it's genetics. So, the problem is right now the main testing method we're using for heart disease and stroke risk factors are things like blood work, you know, like your cholesterol levels. You can also test, you know, your endothelial function, inflammation markers, things like that. The problem is is that the early stage of heart disease is athoscerosis, right? A buildup of plaque in your arteries. Those tests don't test for that. Now, there is a new machine that's becoming popular. The problem, as you know, with, you know, doctors is they're very, very old school. You know, like something new to the market, doctors won't start using it for 20 to 30 years after that, right? So there's a there's a new thing. It's called a meridian DPA machine, digital pulse wave analysis. What that does is it can actually test the elasticity of your arteries. And the scary thing is Dave is that it basically re it generates a really really nice readout and it'll tell you the arterial age of your arteries. We have I have tested some of my clients who, you know, are in their early 20s who, you know, started steroids very very young, eat way too much red meat, don't do cardio, they do all of the things that we know increase your risk of cardiovascular disease. They have the arteries of an 80-year-old man. Wow. What What do you do when that happens? I mean, is there any way to reverse that? You can reverse it. There are supplements that will help. There are lifestyle changes you can that will help but it takes time. You know, you can remove plaque from your arteries. People think that once the plaque's there, it's there. It's not. Plaque is kind of like body fat. It will you can remove it. It's not easy and it's going to take time. It's kind of like stubborn body fat around like your midsection, right? It can't like it's going to be the it's it's going to be an effort. It's going to take a lot of effort on your part, but you can remove that plaque. But it's it's terrifying, Dave. You know, and and the thing is is we've tested 80-year-olds who, you know, have followed a healthy diet their whole life. Yeah. They're healthier than some 20-year-olds who've tested. Well, don't you think there's a genetic component to that? Because I mean, a 26-y old guy with a 90% inclusion. And then you have other guys that are, you know, fat slobs their whole life. They're 350 pounds of just blubber and they have clean coronary arteries. So, there has to be a genetic predisposition. Well, Dave, there's a genetic, you know, as I do, you know, as well as I do, especially bodybuilding, there's a genetic component to anything. I mean, like look at Ronnie Coleman. The guy had eight kids, That's that's a genetic freak. That shouldn't happen, right? So, yes, there is a genetic component. Um, age, like age is a big one. As you get older, your risk for cardiovascular disease increases. Sex, men, for whatever reason, are more likely to develop cardiovascular disease. And what's really interesting, and I've been trying to find a scientific answer for this, but if you're First Nation, so if you're mateies, you have a significantly elevated risk of cardiovascular disease. Interesting. I don't know why, but interesting, though. Hey, well, I hear that people who bald easily more easily have a higher risk of cardiovascular disease, too. Right. I'd never read that. And uh I've read that statistic. Yeah, I've read that statistic that the bald men who are prematurely bald have a higher incidence. I don't know why, but here's all right, let's let's get back to the problem at hand. Bodybuilders are going to eat a lot of food, okay? They're going to lift a lot of heavy weights. They're going to take steroids. How do we keep this population of of of people healthy because not all bodybuilders are have blockages of their arteries. Okay, not all big bodybuilders have all the same side effects. So, it it seems to be there, like they said, there is a genetic component. But how do we what do we do number one to diagnose these things before we have a fatality like happened with Dallas and number two is are there precautions that people could take to prevent this from happening? Okay, great question. So, first off, some of the main things that increase your risk factor for cardiovascular disease, lots of red meat. I know bodybuilders love red meat. I know red meat is awesome in the offseason when you're trying to gain muscle. Really try to limit your consumption of it. And if you are going to eat red meat, try to eat as lowfat red meat as possible. Try to make it grass-fed because it has a much better organic uh a much better omega much better fatty acid profile. It's higher in omega-3s, lower in omega sixs. Cardio is another great thing you can do to prevent cardiovascular disease. Cardio, it increases the elasticity of your arteries. When I say cardio, I mean cardio that actually gets your heart rate up. walking on the treadmill for 20 minutes. That isn't gonna do anything. You know, you want to be on the stepper. You want to be doing it. Hit it hard 20 to 30 minutes two to three times per week. Really, you want to get that heart rate up. You want to be like literally gasping for air after. That's one of the best things you can do. I know big guys, they're scared about burning calories. 20 to 30 minutes of of cardio for a big guy is only going to burn like four or 500 calories. you can slam, you know, a a weight isolate and targetgo shake after your cardio session and get that right back in you. Um, those are those are uh two main things. Get blood work done frequently. Check your cholesterol, check your endothelial and inflammation biomarkers. If you have high cholesterol, get on a cholesterol medication. If you have high blood pressure, get on a high blood pressure medication. Even like one of my best friends is a medical doctor. A lot of people think that if they start using a cholesterol drug, they have to use it for the rest of their life. That's not true. So steroids are known to negatively impact your cholesterol levels. So if you're halfway through your cycle, you get blood work done, especially if you're using something like Trend and you know your HDL is like zero, get on a cholesterol medication. And then supplements. Supplements really, really help. This is something I know you preach all the time. an omega-3 supplement. It's not expensive. Take it, guys. Like, omega-3, like I did a major literature review on omega-3s. Omega-3s will improve muscle insulin sensitivity. They'll improve body composition. They'll prevent cardiovascular disease. Like, everyone should be using an omega-3 supplement. And they're not expensive. I mean, you can even get one at Costco for like $20. Yeah. You know, it's uh I think it's a it's a it's a host of different factors that you really have to uh be aware of. But, you know, here's the problem. You know, Dallas was essentially walking around as a ticking time bomb. He didn't know it. Um because a stress test is not going to tell you if you have a blockage necessarily, especially if you're in good shape. We know that. Blood work's not going to tell you if you have a blockage. An echo cardiogram is not or an EKG for that matter. The only thing that's going to tell you is something that visualizes the coronary artery vessels. We know now that we have these cardiac CT scanning machines that that can visualize these these vessels. Have you had any experience with that? And I've been recommending that people spend the money even though insurance doesn't cover it yet and and pay to see what what's going on in there. This way you know if there's a problem or not. That's the best method 100%. The problem with it is it's very expensive. So that Meridian DPA machine I was talking about, that's a brand new machine. and it's only been on the market I think eight or nine years. It is going to revolutionalize cardiovascular disease because literally this machine it's about $7 to $8,000. It's not expensive. If you Google Meridian DPA practitioner and then where you're located, you can find someone. They'll do the test for you for a h 100red bucks and it will show if you have any blockage in your arteries. It will show how much plaque buildup you have. Basically what happens is they put a little tip on your they put like a little tip on your finger and then basically by the light absorbing properties of hemoglobin it can tell how your arteries are and if there is a blockage. But how could you tell if there's a blockage in your coronary arteries by testing your finger? It basically shoots light through your finger. It goes through your heart and back and then basically like that's like that I'm trying to explain it in like layman's terms. So basically it's like it's a big loop like you know how your heart works right like everything blood basically goes to your heart get un oxygenated blood goes to your heart gets oxygenated goes throughout your body and then you know does it mechanism action and then goes back to your heart right it basically does that from your finger and then it can see how much of a blockage it has on the way back sounds pretty pretty high-tech. Yeah. I mean, if if it's accurate, I mean, because um the problem is it's not going to tell you where the blockage is. I'm I'm assuming. I mean, it's not that good. It won't specifically. Basically, this would be kind of like a pre-screening method. Gotcha. First, this is a first step. If you have a problem, then you go to the next step, which would be the cardiac CT. What you would do is you would get this done maybe once a year, right? And then you can see how everyone has some blockage, right? Like even if you're the healthiest person in the world, you're going to have some plaque in your arteries. That's life. But it will tell you the extent of the blockage and it'll tell you the age of your arteries and it'll basically it does like such a nice print out and it'll basically show you where your value is, normal values are. It'll show you where you know high risk values are, extreme high risk values are. So basically you get this done once a year and then if you say okay I'm still in the normal range I'm good. Then you know if like let's say next year you get it done and you notice that you went from the normal rage to the at risk rage then you would want to do further testing to see where the slack buildup is if there's a possible blockage that could happen but it's a really good pre-screening test. I mean the machine's only 7 to $8,000. So I mean you could even buy one yourself or you can get the test done. It's about a h 100red bucks and it literally takes three minutes. Wow that's cool. Maybe I'll buy one and start, you know, screening people right here in in Cape Coral, Florida. People can come down and I I'll I'll screen you guys for heart for heart disease. You know, these life extension clinics that are out there, they probably should get one of those machines. It would be a great diagnostic test for people, you know, who go into the clinic to to get tested. It's It seems like it takes two seconds, huh? It does everything, Dave, too. It also does like your pulse rate. It does your blood pressure. It like It's going to revolutionize cardiovascular disease testing. I promise you that. in 10 years it's going to be at every doctor's clinic. Do you think uh I mean you're involved in this in this industry with the heart you know diagnostic testing and all this stuff and and do you think in the future we're going to see some kind of you know I've heard this they said this 10 years ago they would be able to inject something into your blood and little nano particles can go in there and they would actually like clean out your blood vessels and eat all the plaque away in the blockages. You think we'll ever see something like that? I don't. It sounds It sounded too good to me too. it. The thing about stuff like that is it would have to be selective in its mechanisms, right? It's kind of like if there was a legit myioatin inhibitor, it would cause all your muscles to grow. Like it would cause your sceal muscles, like let's say your biceps, but it would also cause your cardiac muscles to grow. So things like your heart would also grow. So if a legit myatin inhibitor was on the market, it would work, but you would die in two years from an enlarged heart. So same thing with that. I mean, like, if you're injecting something that's going to break apart plaque molecules, like I don't think it would be selective, and I think it would cause a host of side effects. So, the only thing I could see happening is somehow they could have like a tool that could actually go in your arteries and like scrape it out. Almost like when you go to the dentist, they like scrape plaque off your teeth. Yeah. But I mean, with how invasive that would be, I think we're talking 30, 40 years. Well, you I guess we could all dream and and fantasize about stuff like that happening. All right, so let's let's let let's um say that you got this 21-year-old bodybuilder. He just he's been using steroids, you know, for three years. He's eating, you know, 8,000 calories a day. Um he doesn't do any cardio. He way trains. He's he's hyper muscular. What's the first thing that you would suggest that he do? Okay. To get health screened, I guess you could say. And how often would you recommend that he do these things that you're saying? Every six months. Every six months. So, you want to go every six months. And what are you going to do? Blood work? What kind of workup? EKG, echo cardiogram, as much as he afforded to be honest. Full physical. Um if basically the first thing I would do is I would say take every supplement that you know to prevent cardiovascular disease. So fish oil, fish oil is a really big one. Antioxidants, vitamin C, vitamin E. Coenzyme Q10 is a great one. If you're going to use co-enzyme Q10 though, you have to use the ubiquininal version. That's basically the oxidized version. It's absorbed way better. Ubiquinone, it's pretty much useless. I mean, I've got links to all these studies. Like I sent you my thesis presentation so you can actually upload that. Feel free to upload it so everyone can actually read these studies if they want. But ubiquininal in humans has such a poor availability it's it's it's useless. Get the ubiquinol. It's like three or four times more expensive. There's a couple other things you could take. Um the amino acids lysine and proline. That's what your body uses to make collagen. And collagen lines your entire cardiovascular system. Collagen is huge. That's why you're hearing about all these people taking collagen supplements and things like that. There is quite a bit of truth to that. Collagen is the most abundant protein in the human body. People think it's muscle. People think it's cle muscle. It's not. Collagen is what your hair is made of, your teeth is made of, the entire lining of your body is made of. 30% of all muscle in a 30% of all muscle in a human 30% of all protein sorry in a human is collagen. Um and then electrolytes are a big one. Magnesium almost every single athlete is deficient in magnesium. Potassium, not just potassium, your potassium to sodium ratio. The problem is most people they're going to eat way too much sodium and not enough potassium because what's potassium naturally found in fruits and vegetables. Not very many people are eating the recommended servings of fruits and vegetables, so their sodium to potassium ratio is way off. So, I don't really think supplementing with potassium is necessary. Instead, I would probably supplement with like a good quality greens powder. Two or three times per day. I mean, the more greens, the more potassium, the more antioxidants. Um, I know I'm sounding like a hippie here, but like kale, it's so good for you. Any dark green bitter vegetable is just so good for you. It helps detoxify your liver. It helps your liver create bile salts needed toize fats for digestion. Um, dandelion root, milk thistle, kale. If you can get those herbs, they taste like crap, but they're so good for you. Yeah, I'm I'm a big kale I'm a big kale fanatic. I actually like kale better than regular salad greens. I use I make salads out of kale all the time. Now, uh Trevor, um you uh had mentioned to me in in some of the emails that we exchanged back and forth that and uh Boston Lloyd's dad, John Lloyd, who just who was a very good bodybuilder back in his day, um underwent a uh had some kind of a blockage in his descending uh coronary artery, similar to what we're talking about with regard to Dallas, and he had surgery recently, and I know Boston had it on his page. He went out there to help his dad out. Um what what's your uh relation with uh John Lloyd? Boston's just a good friend of mine. Um basically when Boston found out his dad was in the hospital, he sent me an email and he's like, "Hey Tre, like this is what happened to my dad. What can we do to help him?" He knew I was um doing my masters on cardiovascular health. So I sent um John's dad, sorry, Boston's dad, John, some products. Um I work for Inotech Nutrition. We make a product called Cardio Flex and it basically has all the products I talked about. It has vitamin C, it has antioxidants, it has co-enzyme Q10, has electrolytes. So I sent him a couple bottles of that. I sent him seal oil. Seal oil is actually the best fish oil you can use because it has EPA, DHA, and EPA. So I basically sent him those products. I said, you know, start using these daily. And then I basically explained everything else I we talked about this podcast. I said, limit your red meat consumption. I want you to start doing cardio. Obviously, just got out of surgery, so nothing too intense to begin with. Um, make sure you're getting lots and lots of fruits and vegetables. Watch your sodium intake. Don't smoke. Limit alcohol consumption. And another big one is stress. Stress is huge. And this is kind of a do as I say, not as I do, but there was a really, really good meta analysis done where they basically looked at how many hours people worked. And there was a direct correlation to people who work more than 40 hours per week and dying of cardiovascular disease. Yeah, I'm I'm dead. I'm I'm definitely on the list of overworkers. That's for sure. But I I I always rationalize it this way. I like what I do. So it's to me it's work, but it's play, too. So I don't know. I don't know what how my heart assesses it, but I like to rationalize at least that I'm not really working that hard. Now, you know, you you keep bringing up red meat, and I want to ask you this question because the American Heart Association made a statement about a year ago where they said that saturated fats are not a that we're no, we're taking that off the list of of a inc of a risk for heart disease. Uh it's it hasn't been shown. It hasn't panned out through all the studies. And I always said this, I didn't believe that saturated fat necessarily caused heart disease. I'm a big believer in the fact that sugar consumption which causes excessive insulin release is a much greater uh risk factor for cardiovascular disease because of you know the production of more cholesterol in the body uh than say red meat is and what is your data told you with regard to that? Okay, the answer is both. The problem with saying saturated fat is, as you know, there's many different chains of fatty acids that are lumped into that saturated fat category, right? Yeah. Coconut oil is technically a saturated fat, but coconut oil is a much different saturated fat than something that's found in, let's say, like pig lard or bait, right? Yeah. It's a mediumchain fat rather than a long chain. So, this is what I said about the grass-fed beef. If you look at the fatty acid profile of something like grass-fed beef, most of the saturated fat in there is actually medium chain triglycerides. And even though it's saturated fat, they're not that long chains. So, it's actually not going to be a negative factor for developing cardiovascular disease. The problem is is that all the beef people are consuming is from cows that are fed corn and soy, which gives that animal a very unhealthy saturated fat profile. Right. Right. Just like trans fat. So that so that's the problem is the problem is not necessarily the red meat. It's the red meat we're eating here in North America. It's full of hormones. Cows should not be fed corn. If you look at their the room in like their stomachs, feeding a cow corn is like feeding a lion chocolate chip cookies. I'm dead. Serious. And the reason why we're ru we're ruining the ozone layer is because cows are actually allergic to corn. That's why they're pumped full of antibiotics because they're constantly Imagine if imagine if you were lactose intolerant and I fed you nothing but dairy. You be farting up a freaking storm. And that's wrecking that's what's wrecking the ozone layers. You're feeding cows a food that they should not be eating because it's cheap and all farmers care about now is is is you know get as possible slaughter it and make and you know sell it. So that's that's the problem. It's same with eggs. You know organic freerange humane eggs those are those are they're not even the same food as a 99 cent Walmart egg. So saturated fat, as long as you're getting it from a proper natural source, it's non-issue. If you're getting your saturated fat from refined foods, terrible. Even worse than saturated fat is trans fat. Out of everything you could eat, the worst thing for cardiovascular disease is trans fat. Sugar, if it's natural, like if you're eating an apple, it's not going to hurt you. If you're eating refined sugar, 100% very inflammatory in the body. Cholesterol. Poor cholesterol levels are linked to inflammation more than anything else. Sugar is very, very inflammatory in the body. Sugar is horrible. Sugar does nothing good for you whatsoever. You should not be eating refined sugar, corn syrup, or anything like that. There's there's there's really nothing good for you from sugar. I agree with everything you said. Final question of the day. Give me your top three diagnostic blood tests that will give you a good assessment of your cardiovascular health. Cholesterol levels. You want to get everything tested. HDL, LDL, total cholesterol, total triglycerides. What about particle size? That too. That too. That's that's two. Okay. When when you get it again, the more you can get tested, the better. Um, when you get it tested, you don't want to just look to see if you're in the normal range. You also want to see the ratios of things, right? That's very important. You also want to test endothelial inflammatory biomarkers. If the are you gonna upload my my presentation that I emailed you? Yeah, if I can, I'll try. Yeah. Okay. Because if you upload it, then I specifically go through what to test, what the normal values are, and what the at risk values are. Right. If you can't upload my presentation because it's too big, I'll write you a free article where I basically say what to get tested. Yeah. The normal values and the high risk values. Okay. Because doctors are stupid when it comes to this stuff like like literally like there's so much misinformation out there because they're trying to sell cholesterol medication. How about homocyine levels C-reactive protein? Are those important? Those are endothelial function biomarkers 100%. They're very important. Okay. Now something I read and I was told I've done a lot of research into this. They said that particle number which I guess you can you can get by using NMR machines. particle number of of LDL and HDL is more important than the the totals that you're seeing on blood work. Is that is that gonna do you feel that that's going to change over the next five years as that becomes more available that testing? Here's the thing, Dave. Like when it comes to cholesterol testing, you'll have one person you'll say the most important thing is your HDL to total cholesterol ratio. Someone else will say the total number of particles is the most important thing. Someone else will say your particle size is the most important thing. The answer is they're all true. It's kind of like when you're dieting someone for a bodybuilding competition. Is it their diet that's the most important? Is it their training? Is it their drug cycle? It's all three. You know, you you really can't put one over the other. So, if you want, I'll write you an article where I basically go through what to get tested, what are the normal values, what are the high-risisk values. But basically, you want to all cholesterol factors. You want to test endothelial and inflammatory factors. That's things like C-reactive protein, creatinine, things like that. Okay? You also want to test how your liver and kidney is functioning. People often forget that one and they think, you know, hey, I'm not doing a steroid cycle. I'm not running any orals. I don't need to test my liver. If something is wrong with your liver, that's a red flag that something is wrong with the rest of your body. Because what does your liver do? It detoxifies your body, right? So if something is wrong with your liver and it's not detoxifying your body properly, something in your body is wrong, right? You have high like having slightly high liver enzymes is actually normal if you're an athlete because you're constantly stressing yourself out by doing by working out, right? Yeah. I'm talking like if you're double the normal range, something is going on in your body and you need to basically put on, you know, like your Mr. Mr. clue pad or whatever to figure out what is wrong. We we could probably talk about liver enzymes because I I I have my own theories about that. I I see that heavy weight training definitely influences those those liver enzymes. And a matter of fact, it throws them sometimes two, three, four times higher than normal. And I I I don't I don't I know guys that get tested, they get liver sonograms and they're fine. So weight training does screw those up. So sometimes it's hard for a bodybuilder without taking two weeks off from the gym to really assess what their liver function is. But I agree with you. I think it's the total health of the entire body. And Trevor, I know we're a little out of time now, but I want to thank you for coming on here. If you could definitely write that article, I'm sure our our viewers out there would love to read what tests they should ask their doctor for or their cardiologist for because after all, if you don't have your health, you don't have anything. It doesn't matter if you have 20inch arms. And I appreciate you taking time out of your busy schedule. I know you you're all over the place and filling us in on this very important topic. Dave, I'll write that article for you and then I'll also include my email address on there because this is something I'm really passionate about and this is something scary. It's it's it's not a coincidence that every bodybuilder dies of something cardiovascular disease rated related, right? So, I'm going to write that article for you. I'll have my email in there. If you get your blood work done and you read the article and you're still confused, send me an send me an email and I'll help you interpret results for you. So, thanks for having me on, Dave. It's been a pleasure. And you have a Facebook and Instagram page, Trevor Corinson. If you want to check him out and contact him, I'm sure you can go through there as well. For now, we're out of time. I'm Dave Palumbo with another exciting episode of Live with brought to you by SpeciesNutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. We'll see you next time.