Welcome back to another episode of Iron Rage, brought to you by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo. And uh this is the show where we express our disdain and outrage at our world we live in. And I'm joined by the best rager of them all, John Romano. Where are you nowadays? So, you in South Carolina or Mexico? Today I am in South Carolina. All right. Well, tomorrow it could be different. That's true. Well, John, today's topic is uh something that you and I know a lot about and it's it's about mocking people. Now, you and I mock people all the time and we make fun of people, but we don't do it in the gym setting and we certainly don't do it at the expense, okay, of someone who could possibly be getting hurt or or doing something that's dangerous to themselves at the gym. And a story uh just surfaced this past week. It was all over social media. It actually made it all the way to the New York Post. A guy by the name of Connor Tisdale, he's an Australian guy from Brisbane. He uh took a picture of an old woman doing or I he might have taken some video of a woman doing a pull down. and it looked like she really didn't really know what she was doing and uh he made some lewd stupid comment about it and uh you know basically mocking her and people were outraged because they they they likened it to gym bullying uh where people are are making fun of people making them uncomfortable to go to the gym because they can't do what they want there. They have to worry they're going to be judged or or they're going to be a picture taken of them. It's going to wind up on the internet. Uh to me the topic of gym bullying really was not what it's about. It's about doing the right thing at the gym. If you know how to work out and you see someone not doing what they're supposed to be doing or doing something dangerous, my first inclination, and I do it all the time, is to go help that person out and ask them if they need some instruction. Some people might say, "No, we don't." But a lot of people will say, "Yeah, I'd love to." Because you know what? Most of these people are beginners. They don't know what they're doing. Um, I think the kid's a douchebag because he didn't go and offer help knowing that he knew what he was doing. Obviously, the kid has a good physique. He obviously trains. Um, so, uh, Johnny has a picture of him up on the screen. This is the kid. You know, he's got a good physique and you can see the woman over there. She's an older woman. Um, I don't know what what was so what he thought was so funny about an older woman not knowing how to work out. What's your take on the subject? Well, the first the mistake you made was saying the kid had a good physique because now you've just empowered it. So, uh, well, you know, I I I think these people in the gym fall into two categories. The people working out. There's definitely people like this old lady who don't know what they're doing, who are doing something potentially dangerous and and you know, and if I mean, I see them all the time and I'm just like you. I go and help them because I cringe. I think at any moment I'm going to see tendon fibers flying through the air, you know, and it's it's going to be a horrible mess. And I go over to them and I say, um, you know, excuse me, but if you keep doing that, you're going to kill yourself. So, would you like some instruction or would you like to continue, you know, on your quest to do irreparable bodily harm to yourself? And nine times out of 10, they accept, they gladly accept the help because they either don't want to get involved with a trainer, can't afford it, don't want to, you know, can't commit to it, whatever. But they do want to go to the gym and work out. And, you know, they're grateful that somebody who knows what they're doing came over and helped them out. And that's part and parcel to the camaraderie that, you know, we grew up with working out in the in in the hardcore gyms back in the day. Now, there is a contingent of lunatics out there that use gym equipment to invent some kind of, you know, wacky behavior, and you can see it on awkward gym moments.com. I mean, there's just people that do the wackiest, craziest [\h__\h] and they're out there either looking for attention or trying to do the most bizarre thing in the entire world. I don't know what their reasoning is, but there's I I think that category of person deserves to be ridiculed and mocked because obviously that's what they're looking for, right? But so, I mean, give them what they want. But in this case of the old lady with this, you know, kid with the mediocre physique is um you know uh something is egregious. And I think that that is why Planet Fitness is enjoying along with its pizza Fridays and Tootsie Roll bowls on the freaking countertop. you know, the success that it is because they promote a judgmentfree zone where morons like this are discouraged or or kept from, you know, eliciting this kind of stupid behavior, right? Well, also, I mean, if as a prelude to this story, uh there was a Playboy playmate by the name of Danny Mats who snapped a shot of like an overweight woman in in the woman's locker room of all places and put it up on her social media and she got slammed by everyone and she's got lawsuits against her now. I mean I mean what would possess a beautiful hot woman to have to make fun of an old grandma who's trying to just stay in shape and be healthy in a locker room that's private. I mean people are just so stupid. I mean the dumbest things they do. There's no compassion. There's no heart. There's nothing where they say you know what I could look like this some you know in the future. Uh, or you know what? How did I feel when I first went to the gym and I didn't know what I was doing and I was walking around like trying to emulate and copy everyone? Go, if go if someone would have come up to me and helped me and there were people that have done that over the years to me when I first started going to the gym. I was so thankful that they spent a couple minutes just to point out a few, you know, uh, mistakes that I was making. So, I don't know what's getting into people with social media. They think they got to be complete, um, you know, superstars. Here's the picture of the the the Playboy playmate with the picture she put up. Almost like making it seem like ew, you know. Um I I don't get it. I don't get it, John. How do people not see that this is not the right thing to do? Well, first of all, she's not beautiful and hot. Stop doing that. Stop glorifying people. Well, she's in Playboy. So what the po Look, you and I learned how to work out by other people helping us. There were no personal trainers back then and it was it was camaraderie that got us through. That was the whole benefit of of a gym rather than working out in your basement is you had the camaraderie of you know the gym members, your friends, the people who you were working out with. So I I think that however this got to the point where you know you can use the gym environment to to to you know take pictures of people and ridicule them especially in a locker room. I mean, my god, you know, is there no no place sacred left on earth that you got to worry about somebody taking in a locker room and then plastering it on social media making fun of you? That that's just that is the most aberant antisocial, you know, horrid behavior that I that I that I can imagine. And, you know, this person the people that perpetrate this kind of behavior deserve, you know, a tremendous repercussion from that. And and this cannot go on, you know, without reprisal. She should be getting sued. She should be getting thrown out of the gym. She should lose her Playboy playmate credentials. And, you know, whatever else you can do to her to knock her down a few pegs because obviously her ego is taking control of her her entire being. And that's terrible. You know, we put these people up on a pedestal. Like, it's why I'm chastising you for saying the guy's got a great physique and and this girl is hot and beautiful. she that kid has got a mediocre average physique and this girl is barely even good looking. So, you know, take that it don't glorify them when they get they get their egos filled up with, you know, accolades from people thinking they're, you know, beautiful and hot or a great physique, then, you know, this fuels the fire. They're obviously socially inept and they have this idea that because they think they're so hot and so great that they can go ahead and put down people who aren't. And that's just that's just not right. Uh Johnny wanted to just me to make a note that we are live actually on Instagram for the very first time. Johnny rigged it up. So if people want to watch on Instagram, you know, once this show ends, you can go watch the replay on uh on obviously on Instagram, but it'll also be on YouTube later. But Johnny, I want to qualify the one thing. The only time it it is uh politically correct to ridicule people in the gym is when there are people who know what they're doing who do nutty [\h__\h] And you mentioned this kind of before, but I want to give a good example. Back in the day when you used to go to the gym and you've seen this firsthand with Steve Blackman and he would read an article like muscle damage article where he where he would do um like ballistic type, you know, uh preacher curls and you saw him hurling the weight around. I mean, I think that would be like an an acceptable uh person that you could make fun of and and get away with it. I think it would be an exception to the rule. Well, in I still wouldn't take a Well, maybe I would, but Johnny's putting up Johnny has some video. Johnny, put that video up this crazy lunatic guy. Johnny can't John can't see it, but but this guy is doing this wacky crazy jumps and stuff like that. this guy you can make fun of because these people are are purposely doing stuff that's nuts like you said. You know, they're dancing on the treadmill. They're like they're jumping up on top of, you know, uh crates and stuff like that. That's funny because these people are obviously athletic. It's not funny when it's an old woman or an old guy or a [\h__\h] person or someone who who has a handicap who doesn't know what they're doing. That's not funny. So, look, you and I have the best sense of humor around. I think at least maybe we don't, but um uh so, you know, but there's an appropriate time to make fun of people and and have a laugh and then there's an inappropriate time, you know. Well, but but also, you know, in the interest of preventing somebody from getting hurt. I mean, you brought up the Steve Blackman with the preacher girl. Okay. So, you know, he reads an article. It says muscle damage is, you know, going to create growth. and he figures, well, I'm gonna create a way to create muscle damage. Well, you know, you could stand in the freeway and let a truck hit you. That would create muscle damage to some degree, you know. Um, you could jump off a building. That would create some muscle damage. Or you could load up the preacher curl, you know, bring it up and then let the weight slam down and then catch it at the last quarter of an inch and let your tendons, you know, snap to, you know, to to almost a breaking point. Well, which you know tendonitis and you won't be able to to scratch your eye for the grievous pain. So, you know, I'd like to if if you if you like the guy and he's your friend, you want to say, "Yo, bro, you know, stop that. We're going to take your picture and put it on Instagram, you know, but but once again, that's acceptable because that's kind of like these are people who know what or supposedly who've been going to the gym for a long time." But so, you have to really make a distinguishing factor between something that's appropriate and not appropriate. And this kid obviously stepped past the line. this woman step past the line. this playboy play playboy playmate I guess you could say by making first of all you never take pictures of anyone in a locker room that's a private area okay on the gym floor different story if you see someone yourself out there and I'm going to challenge all the bodybuilders and fitness people out there who are watching this if you see someone doing something wrong go up and help them suggest that you have a better way a safer way if they don't want your help they'll tell you to get lost don't worry about it do a good deed Because you know what? Most of the people in the gym who do things wrong are not doing it because they want to. It's because they don't know any better. So have a little compassion and be a helpful person in the gym and have some tact when you go up and do it. Don't approach them like, you know, you're, you know, the superior being that knows all about everything. just, you know, say, you know, excuse me, but, you know, I was I've been watching you do this exercise and, you know, it just looks to me like you're going to hurt yourself. Would you mind if I showed you the right way to do it? Yeah. You know, and that that's the right thing to do. And, you know, that kind of that kind of attitude breeds, you know, a good environment and it and it bolsters our image out there because as it is, we're not looked upon as very desirable people in any walk of life. So, uh, you know, it helps if if you promote a little goodwill and a little, uh, ambassadorship, right? You know, to our kind and go out there and, you know, be be, you know, be a kind person, right? Well, I mean, even Arnold Schwarzenegger did an article recently that was released where he said that he was the most insecure person of all time. And when he would go to the gym, he would be there for so many hours because he figured if I worked longer and harder than everyone, I just would learn the right way to do things and I'd be better. And he said, "So I learned by out of fear." He goes, "Uh, and so most people who go to the gym are very scared, especially new people. They don't know what they're doing." And they they do would appreciate people who show compassion and help be helpful. And after all, that's all you could possibly do in this world is give back. There's nothing you can take with you when you're out of here. Look at all the deaths we've had this past week. We don't I'm not going to go into that. We talked about that on the Heavy Muscle Radio Show. uh who as an add-on. Can you believe that uh Carrie Fish's mom died? Debbie Reynolds. Broken heart, man. Right. Right away. The next reminded me of Menser brothers, you know, Mike Menser died and then two weeks later, Ray Mener died, you know. Crazy. But um yeah, it's ter it's terrible. I mean, this there's a ton of them. There's a whole slew of people that are dropping dead left and right now. I I I can't believe it. I had a friend of mine in Chicago was found what in his bed in the morning dead crazy just uh nobody knows why yet. Yeah. So you know this time of year it seems to happen more often than not. I don't know why stress of Christmas maybe with the new year coming on. John, we're going to see a lot of people going to the gym who've never gone before. If any of you guys out there see someone who needs a hand, stop a minute. Stop your workout. Go over there. Lend a helpful hand. do a good deed for the day. Try to do one good deed every week. If you do that, you'll be that much better. And John, uh we have uh I think we have uh the Oh, no. We have the first the first heavy muscle radio show of the year will be on Monday. So, I think that you, Chris, Cedo, and myself should do it together, you know, since it's the first show of the year. So, absolutely. We can make all the predictions for the for the 2017 calendar year. What will happen? How about that? Well, I I think we should take I think we should start a we should start a death pool for muscular development. I think they're dead already. See who can guess what day I think they're dead already. Isaac Hines made a couple posts on social media that he thinks that they're that they're no longer in business. So, well, he he thinks they're no longer in business already. I don't know. Well, he's suggesting that they that they owe so much money. How the hell are they still in business? which that's questionable whether they are or not, you know. Well, well, we'll see next month if the if the magazine comes out, right? See if the website's still on. Yeah. Yep. All right, guys. Be nice to people in the gym. That's the take-home message here today. Dave Palumbo with John Romano for another episode of Iron Rage.