Sasserati after going 0 for four wins two straight. I created species nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back. And we're live for another edition of Heavy Muscle Radio. Of course, the we I'm talking about is Chris Aceto, the technician, the real technician, and myself, Dave Palumbo. And Chris, we're here on a Monday afternoon. The day is getting away from us. I had to have uh some uh stitches taken out of my gums. I had a tooth removed two weeks ago and I went to the gym and I had to drive the kids someplace and so we are here recording. Dave, you had a busy day. Yeah. Mon Monday is a is a very is a very dangerous day to record on because you you know I always say you never know what could happen on Mondays, right? Oh god. I just somebody somebody asked me to take a to call me today. I said it's an impossibility. They said they texted me back like an hour later. They said, "Take 10 minutes." And I didn't respond. And then they just texted me right before we started the show. Take you take two minutes. Yeah. And I text them back. I have no minutes on Monday. It's not. No. No. No. It's every everything I I think everything takes two minutes, but but actually it doesn't. And um it's uh it's sad because like if I think if I have to be someplace and I know I'm really like 20 minutes away, Yeah. I'll leave it like with 19 minutes to go. So then I got to try to make a minute up on the way there, you know. So, you know, I put the GPS on whether I know where I'm going or not because I want to make sure that I'm going the fastest route and and it gives you the the estimated time of arrival, which is usually very accurate, right? Yeah, very accurate. I always have to try to like get there like like 30 seconds ahead of time, you know, just to say I beat it. I beat the estimate, you know, like I've reclaimed some lost life that I was that I might have had if I didn't get there 30 seconds earlier. So, that's that's great. I actually went to uh took the kids for this Father's Day weekend. I took them to Adventure Island, Chris. I don't know if you've ever been there. It's a water park. Where is it? Water park in Tampa. How was it? Good. I love parks. I don't go I don't go often, but I I I when I go I It's one of those things I say, "Why don't I go? Why don't I come?" Yeah. We gota We got to get you your family and my family there. Like I gota Your kids would have gone crazy. My son would have loved hanging out with your your uh with your kids. They'd probably be arrested. Yeah. Take You know what they do? They take rough housing to too far. And that's No, that's my son. He might The problem with my son is that he's got a rough house with his sisters. And so if he had like someone who could kick his butt like your sons, you know, I think it would be more of a challenge for him at least, you know. Yeah. So, so we, you know, I don't I'm not a ride guy. Like I'm I'm I don't know why I have this un there's really no fear why reason why I should be afraid, but I'm afraid of the rides. I don't like to go on like the roller coaster go upside down, everything like that. I can do it. I can suck it up, but I I it's it's just not an pleasant experience for me. So, but the water park for some reason, like I guess when the water is involved, like if you're in a tube, even if you're like a thousand feet in the air, they don't drop you down like you know, you know, straight down. They they kind of like they want the ride to last. So, it kind of goes like this. So, even though you're a thousand feet in the air, you know, or 100 feet, you're you're going at a little spit of a slow rate. So, I went on I went on 99% of the rides there, which I was shocked that I did, but I did do it. And my um what I found out Chris is that my you know we I bought the kids the speed pass which means you don't have to wait in the line because I I don't I can't wait in lines. It's it was really for me. It wasn't for the kids. It was for me because I can't wait in lines. I would rather pay triple than wait in the line. Exactly. It was an extra $40. The worst The worst is if you go to like a buffet like a wedding or the Olympia or something you have to wait. I will just do this. I I won't eat at all. I just can't can't wait for food. Yeah, you're like me. We We have no patience. So, I bought the speed pass. The problem with the speed pass is that it's so fast, Chris, that as soon as we get off the ride, they want to go again. And every ride they they they need elevators on these rides. Every ride you have to walk up 40 flights of steps. And and I'm the one who's got to carry the big raft because, you know, the I can't let my 5-year-old carry a raft up the stairs, right? So Chris, by the end of the day, I I I was I looked at my Apple Watch, 20,000 steps, 44 flights of stairs. You couldn't 44. And believe me, I felt every one of those flights of steps. By the end, I was I was like in like a like like a hallucinogenic state because the park closes at seven. So it's 6:40. I figured, all right, they're going to kick us out already, right? Nuh-uh. There was no one there. They're like, "You can go again. You can go again." We must have gone 10 times up this I must have climbed 10 flights of stairs to get to the top of this thing. I They're like, "Let's go. I got to catch my breath. I'm gonna have a heart attack." I said, "Can you give me a second before we get into the into the raft and go down the thing again?" The the kids the kids love it. They they love they parks. I went with my friend David and his wife and they were they're um he's he's about 10 years younger than me and he today calls me up. This is two days later delayed muscle soreness Chris because he probably doesn't eat enough. No, he eats a lot but he's like I'm in so much pain. He said I can't move. He said he goes my calves hurt, my feet hurt. I said you know I'm not that bad. I said maybe I have better endurance than I think. So, all the swimming I'm doing and the cardio I've been doing lately, I guess it it paid off. And notice it's I'm lighter, too. Because I'm lighter, I can move a little, you know, if I was 250, I would I would be in they would have had to take me out of there in an ambulance probably, you know. Oh, yeah. Listen, you know, when you're 250 or more, right, just walking around the mall is when it wins you. It's I you can't go to amusement parks when you're when you when I was 300, I didn't want to do anything, Chris. People be like, "Oh, let's go here. Let's go there. I'm like, that's all right. Uh, I'm going to go eat and I'm gonna go to a movie and maybe go home and sleep. That was it. But that's you got you gota live movie, right? Would you go to a movie and not make it through? You'd fall asleep. Yeah. Sometimes. So, what I would try to do is I would take a nap before I went. Yeah. So, I wouldn't fall asleep. Yeah. Otherwise, you would. Yeah. I I remember I went to a movie with I think it was it Greg Kovac. He was snoring so loud that that he people like around him, but no one was no one wanted to say anything because they were like in back. I said I had to wake him up. I'm like, Greg, you're snoring so loud. No one could hear the movie. I said, and you know what, you just mentioned Greg Kovac and I thought of him recently because I met him, oh my gosh, it was really way back when, you know, there was no internet and very few people knew who he was and I was hearing Greg Kovac and uh yeah, I heard that name. So, I went up to Toronto. It was the dead of winter and we were training at um there was a Weer gym there. It's called uh no Arnold's gym. There was Arnold. Someone was ripping off. Do you know who tried to rip off Arnold's name for Arnold's gym? Who? I don't want to say because I I'm not sure for sure who it is, but it's it's odd that person would try to rip him off. It was called Arnold's gym and it was a great gym. Oh, yeah. I I remember that. But wasn't the guy named Arnold though, too? Yes. And I will say, Dave, that I was doing Smith machine shoulder presses. Oh, he did a lot on there. I know that. Yeah. With 315, no, 275. And I thought that was great. And I looked over and I saw the biggest person ever doing 405 shoulder presses on the Smith like it was nothing. It was Kovac. Oh, was it? And he just looked crazy. I mean, I'd already been out to LA a million times, you know. He just looked crazy. I think he used to I think he used to shoulder press on that Smith machine like 600 pounds or something like that. How Dave he was doing 405 and it was like up down up down up down up. No, I I think he I think he would go up to six plates on each side of that thing which is which is insane when you think about it, you know. Yeah, he was a sight to behold. And I remember I didn't know his name and I think I text Jay or something and Jay's like, "Yeah, it's Kovac." I already huge Jay Jay had Jay I think Jay had a picture of him somewhere where when Jay was like you know like a in shape you know offseason in shape like two he looks small and he looked like a like a child next to Kobe I I would walk around in 320 and I looked like I was nothing compared to him. That's how big he was and he's because he's tall. So he he um he had some insane strength in the gym. People don't realize he told a great story that there's a real I see it someone posted as a real where you know he went to this bench press meet when he was like 18 or 19 years old or something like that and the biggest bench there was like 450 and it won the meet and he was like I'm doing that for reps at home already you know and and like Dave true another true story at that time so this was probably um I think I'll give you the now I can date it this must have been around 1995 or so. 1995 cuz Mike on the Arnold in 95 and that was the other I heard uh and and Mike in the gym I always say like he was like the white Coleman. I mean 675 deadlifts, four five four five bend over rows like the nothing nothing. he could pause and, you know, hold it at the at his like breast bone and pause it and then go back and do like 10 reps easy with 405. And he told me he went up to Canada for that muscle mag like there was a muscle mag opening and he met Kovac and he told me I I trained with the strongest guy I ever worked out with and you know I asked him who it was. He said it was Greg Kovac. So I'd heard the name twice. So for Mike the strength because Mike was insanely strong for him say like I just trained with someone who buried me in the gym. Not buried him but you know uh strengthwise was far stronger than him. It was Kovac. I I'll give you a good example like when I would go to the gym with him and work out. You know, like when you go there with someone like let's say I went with Kevin Lebron, right? Who who's known strong guy, but he's he's a top pro, great physique. Like him and I would squat and we would be squatting the same, you know, we'd be doing the same pl the same weight essentially. Um because, you know, we were both big guys around the same size. When you go with Kovac, it's like you just started working out and you're with the guy at the gym who's been training for like 10 years and he's so far ahead of you that you just you can only hope to what be there one day. That's how far ahead he is. So like I'm doing my weight and then I I got to take I got to add his plates onto the on top of what I'm doing because I'm not even close to what he's lifting and I'm lifting a lot of weight, but compared to him it was like, you know, he was like, you know, in a different league than than I was in, you So Dave, because we're on the same wavelength, where would he have made his fortune? Hollywood stars or maybe Which show was that? Where would Greg Kovac have made fortune? He he should have been in in WWE is where he should have been. Absolutely. But you know what? He was so nuts about training and everything like that, eating. I I don't know if he was I think he was too rigid. I think he was too lazy to be honest with you because he didn't like to do anything but work out, eat, and sleep. That was it. And you know what? He was making so much money that he was getting like to go to Europe the guest post. He'd ask for like 10 grand plus two first class tickets for him and his wife and they would give it to him because the Europeans were cra you know he was so he was like bigger than life you know for I would say for a good five six year period he was making like some serious cash you know um and when Muscle Tech was sponsoring him he was making serious cash after that I don't know why they dropped him I think they had an argument or something like that and that was he really kind of that's when he kind of fell off after that because I think he was used to all that money and he wasn't just he wasn't making that kind of cash anymore and um that kind of was and then and then he had some injuries and I I don't know what happened after that. He just when heated on stage he he stood with the motorcycle stance, Dave. So the motorcycle Lee Haney's not liking that motorcycle stance, huh? Yeah, I don't know the all the scuttleb butt, but um so what is he is was Lee Haney criticizing? By the way, Lee Haney contacted me. I'm we're going to get him on the show. I was supposed to get him on today, but he never responded. Maybe we'll get him on next week. What What's uh Yeah. What was he saying? He doesn't like the way the guys stand these days. I don't I don't know. I only saw like I've seen a couple like Instagram like post, but I didn't listen to what he had to say. So, it's hard to like comment on what he said if you don't really know what he said, right? It alluded to the idea that guys this day and age stand like, you know, legs bent, arms up. And then there's a picture of course of Lunford who, you know, king of that. Yeah. He's he's he's he's the king of the the uh I bought him a Harley-Davidson with his prize money just so he could practice the stance. He doesn't ride a motorcycle, but I figured if he gets on the motorcycle and that wide stance where he bends his legs, it's like perfect for our form. Well, you know, I think I think I I understand what Lee is saying. And I I personally don't like the when guys are too wide out to the side with their arms. I don't like when they're out like this. I see that a lot. I don't like when they bend their legs too much either. But you know what? I understand why certain guys do it because it's it's cheating a little bit. Like flex wheel I think had the greatest answer for h how to pose your body. He says find a way to hide your weaknesses and show your strengths. He goes that's that was what I was a master at doing. He goes, "You never see me in a weak pose for more than one second." He said, "I would be hitting transitions. I'd be moving." Dave, what if the handlebar king Derek Lensford stood in the Harley stance at the Arnold or didn't, he was still winning it. And if he stood like he was on the Harley or not, or if he was at the ballet like I guess Lee wants him to stand straight up and down at the Olympia, he still wouldn't have won the Olympia, right? In other words, you know what? Judges are not really judging your stance other than to see condition, muscularity, detail, and to some degree flow or lack thereof flow or lack thereof condition. H. No, I I I I see what you're saying, but I also see I I think that uh some some people it's like the let's forget men for a second. Let's go to the women. You know, the bikini girls and even some of the wellness girls when they lean over too much and they open their legs too wide from the back and they're standing from the back. I mean, yeah, the audience love it. I'm sure the judges don't mind it either. They're getting like a free gynecological exam with these girls and it I understand why they do it when they lean over more. their the skin on their re on their rear end kind of stretches out so it doesn't if they don't if they have a little wrinkle there it disappears but it it just looks inappropriate. It looks like you're trying too hard and I think that's what Haney means. Not that Derek looks bad. It looks like he's trying too hard and he doesn't need to try that hard because he's got such a great physique anyway that you know like Arnold said, show the physique. Don't hide away when you pose. It's the same thing when you're standing. Don't overdo it. It's like it's almost like you're trying to overcompensate for something that's not there when he already has everything that's there. He's he's he's clearly, you know, Mr. Olympia, you know, guy. So, I think that he might overdo it is what what Haney was was implicating. And in that sense, I do agree with Lee. I think some of these guys overdo it and and they look a little weird on stage when they do that. You can ask Lee. So, I don't want to put words into his mouth, out of respect for his eight titles. Yes, we'll ask him. We'll get him on the show next week. So, uh let's see what else we got going on here. Sass wins two in a row. Let's talk about that. He's got to be Isn't it funny? Four shows the guy does and doesn't can't get the qualification for the Olympia. Now he's number five he wins and he said, "I might as well do number six, too." A lot of guys would have stopped, right? He does number six, wins that. What What's his I I We're supposed to get him on the show, but what's his mindset now, Chris? He's got to be feeling pretty good about himself, I would. He feels great. He feels great. He's got It's It's a great question. And yes, you should have him on the show because he has a good mindset. He has a mindset of a Does that make sense to have a 40-year-old over like when I first started coaching him, he was 29. Does that you know what I mean? So, you know, a 29y old would get second in two shows and shut it down for the year. Yeah. you know, a 40 year old, you say like, you know, I'm 40. How long can I do this? And and I'm right there, right? So, I'm going to the next show, which he went to, and the next show, which he went to. So, he did four shows where he didn't get the qualification. He stuck with it. He got the qualification um in Canada at the Super Show and then took off to Spain. It almost looks like Angel Cderon, who come in a second here. He looks like he's kind of pissed off. Like he should he feels he should have won the show. I don't know if I'm if I'm putting words into into his mouth. It's not there. But he looks a little disturbed, doesn't he? Yeah. I mean, he had the you know, he's in Spain. He's from Spain. So, it it you know, you have all your fans there saying, I'm sure you got it. You got it. You got it. This is the best you've ever looked. Um, but you know, I he's, you know, not getting by Sass in the show. No, Sass is a lot bigger than he is, too. And the conditioning is the same. So, I mean, it's wonderful that he can do an open show and place that high. I mean, I think that's that's a definitely a feather in his cap. But, well, you know what this show does, Dave? Is this show, you know, it makes me think of the Olympia because everyone's asking me like, you know, who's going to win the Olympia? I'm like, I don't know. And that's a true statement. I don't know. Um I wish I could say, you know, someone I coach, but I don't know that. Angel could not even win the 212 New York Pro, right? He didn't win it. He got second in New York in a 212 show and then he does an open show and he presses Sass, you know, in certain poses, you know. I I thought Angel was better in the side chest. Yeah. Um you know, he's he's very comparable in the front lat spread. Um surprisingly comparable, very comparable, the most muscular. So um imagine that here's the guy who can't win the New York Pro 212 and a few weeks later is pressing someone like Sass. It just goes to show you, you know, at the Olympia it's a game of inches. You know, you have the people we keep talking about and everyone's competitive. If somebody's a little off because he wasn't at his best in New York, but here he here he was at his all-time best and this this shape in New York, he would have crushed it. Unless unless Dave unless the other thing is that in New York he had to struggle to make the weight and here you know he didn't and it allow Yeah that's true it's a that's a defin 216 and the difference between 216 and 212 is monumental for some people yeah I agree with that look you know what this wasn't a [\h__\h] hard show I mean it goes back to what I what I've been saying you for the last I don't know how many years now he was saying why don't more people do some of these European shows you know it it just doesn't make sense to me I don't know why they're not doing it uh I mean we got a show next week Chris in Dubai it's probably it's it's probably just as comparable to travel to Spain than it is to go to you know get a hotel in Pittsburgh or Chicago or you know five hours from New York it's not really that bad I mean come You know, maybe the plane ticket might be instead of 500 bucks, 200 bucks, but you might make it up on the hotel and if it was you, Dave, you could get those in Spain, you bring back those Winstrol uh 10,000 Zambon Zambon Winster. Yeah. Yeah. You'd make you'd make a hundred grand. Yeah. You know, it's funny. I went into I went into the pharmacy in Walmart pharmacy the other day. I wanted to get a box of insulin syringes because I like to use the for glutathione. I like to use the bigger this 27 gauge insulin syringe. I don't know if you've seen them. It just draws up much easier because if you I'm doing a full CC, I don't need to use the 30 gauge. It takes forever. So, I go in there, they're like, "You would have thought that I was I was trying to rob the place." They looked at me like I had 10 heads. Now, I don't know if they just I think they just changed the law or something. In Florida, you can buy syringes. It was completely legal. So, I said, "You know what? Screw it. I'll just go on Amazon and buy a box." I always buy it on Amazon. You can't. Now, they won't ship to to Florida and Amazon. So, I don't know if they they must have changed the law in in Florida. Before you can order whatever you wanted, it didn't matter. Now, you can't get surrendered. Dave Dave, you can let me put a a plug in for Portland, Maine, where my my real estate values are tanking. Uh, if you if you bring if you're a drug addict. Yeah. Bring in one syringe to the city of They give you 100 clean syringes back. Oh, really? Really? Gota go. But if I'm a You got to be a drug addict though to do that. Is that what it is? I don't know if there's if there's a loophole. Maybe I should go in. It'll be my first YouTube. Uh I'll start my YouTube station. First reel. Your first good reel. Yeah. I'll go in there and I'll I'll find one needle because they're everywhere. Everywhere you go, you see needles. Oh, really? There's that many drug addicts, huh? Insane. There's nothing to do up there. 10 needles and I'll see like a thousand and then, you know, I can mail them out to people who need them for their There you go. I I don't know. They must have but I felt like a criminal. I don't know why, but it's weird because I you know, usually I just go in and get whatever I want, you know? Now all of a sudden like they're they're like like what do you need it for? I said well what does it matter? I said I I I want I I didn't know you had I didn't know you needed an explanation as to why you want a box of syringes. I said she's like you need a prescription. I said I said since when? She's like well you can buy I I can sell you a box of insulin syringes. I said, "Oh, well, what what's the difference? I want an insulin syringe. I just want a 27 gauge insulin syringe." She's like, she's like, "No, that's not an insulin syringe." I'm like, "Well, what the I said, it's the same. It measures insulin units." I said, "What would you call a 27 gauge syringe that looks exactly like an insulin syringe?" See, Dave, why don't you say this would have been a good rant at the store? Well, I didn't want them to kick me out of the store because I'm in there all the time. So, I didn't want to start in trouble. So, and I had my kids with me. I'm like, "Let me hold on. Let me ask you a question." I said, "What is what differenti like what would you can you show me a box of insulin syringes?" So, she brings out the box. I said, "Okay." So, it's it's got the same orange cap on it. It's a one cc. It's a continuous thing. There's no You can't change the heads or anything like that. And it's 30 gauge. Does the Is it the 30 gauge that that defines it as an insulin syringe to you versus the 27? Is that where the Is that where we're not communicating? She's like in this is an insulin syringe. I said, "So, it's the 30 gauge." Get it? You know what? You know what the gauge? The gauge measures how thick the needle is. She like, "Who would use a a 27 gauge to to to take an insulin shot?" I said, "Give it to you. We want to know. Did she give it to?" I said, "Well, it works." I didn't want the 30 gauge because Titan Medical sends me the 30 gauge. I wanted a 27 gauge insulin. She had the things, but she wouldn't sell three, but I had a prescription. But my point was, you'll sell me a box of 30 gauge insulin syringes, but you won't sell me a box of 27 gauge insulin syringe. It's the same thing. It still says insulin syringe on there. So, she's like, "You're wrong." I said, "All right, bring the 27 gauge box out." She's like, "I don't know why we're doing this." I said, I said, "I just humor me here." She brings the box out. I said, "Can you read what it says in the box? It says 27 G." She said, "Yeah, it says 27 gauge G." Uh, I said, "Yeah, read the next word." it. Oh, it says insulin, doesn't it? She's like, I don't know why it says it on here. I said, because it's an insulin syringe. It doesn't matter that it's the syringe that makes it unique. It's not the tip. I said, "Yeah, she still wouldn't sell it to me." Even though I proved to her that it was still an insulin. Okay. So, I'll go back to the I'll go I'll go tomorrow, pick up the I'm gonna I got to go find some dirty needles and turn them in Maine. That's that's that's the 100ution. Yeah, Lee. I gotta go. Lee's right. I got to go to the veterinarian. They'll give a vet will give me insulin syringes, 27 gauges, but not the but not the pharmacy where I want to actually pay for them. You know, by the way, Lee, I I got to you got to come to the U. Next time you come to the US, I got to send you to uh the one of the water parks with my kids because Lee will go on any ride. You know, Lee Lee is like, you know, Lee's looking for people to go to rides with. My kids are fearless. They'll go on every ride with Lee. It doesn't matter. I went I went on the Troy Alves is up in Maine staying at my place. Oh, he is. What is he doing up there? Yes. And um he he came to Maine to stay with me a couple times before shows. I didn't know that. Yeah, I know. But what about now? Why is he there now? Well, when he came, he told me we we have this little condo on the beach and maybe 50 yards from the condominium is uh like a beachside amusement park. Oh. Troy said, "When I get Chris, when I this was I mean, we're talking like 2010. He said, 'When I have kids, I'm going to bring them back here and I'm going to stay at your place and I'm going to bring him on all these rides and hang out and eat junk food and cotton candy and all that stuff when I'm no longer bodybuilding." And he came uh last year, this this Yeah. same exact time last year. He's here the full week. Do they do they give uh prizes at the at the thing if you get Oh, yeah. They have all those. Yeah. Yeah. It's like Coney Island. It's like, you know what I mean? Chris, I I got it. I'm gonna Dave Dave Troy's the only one the only guest ever that I have to say. Troy, you lose that key. Call lockmith. I know how Troy is. Like, just had it here a minute ago. I think she got locked in last year. I went down to visit him and when I got there he said, "Oh, good thing you came to visit today." I'm like, "What?" I'm thinking like the kids must have like ruined the the inside of He said, "No, we locked ourselves out." Oh, no. [\h__\h] So, he didn't lose the key. He knew where it was, but it was I I because I took the kids music. I took the kids to the Dave and Busters. Have you ever gone to Dave and Busters? So my kids, we we've been conquering all the like video game places and my son hits the jackpot in all these places. Like you spin the wheel and he gets like he won 2500 tickets in one place. I don't know. So we go to the we go to the Dave and Busters and I buy them all cards and I buy myself a little car, too. So I can because they like when I play the games with them, you know? They they it's like uh and I figure whatever tickets I win I'll just give to them so they can buy those cheap ass [\h__\h] that they give away in the like $500 and you get like a little like get this little little crystal here. Yeah. Um, so I'm playing Chris and I like to play the ones. It's it's basically it's basically gambling for kids. Okay. So I play the they're really slot machines, but they're really not slot. You just spin the wheel and it and it's, you know, you can get anywhere from like five tickets to, you know, a thousand tickets, you know, if you hit the jackpot. So, I spin the I just sit there all day and play that thing because I I I'm hitting thousand. I must have hit six or seven. It got to the point where I'm like, I know I'm going to hit a thousand again. My son said, "You're not going to hit it again." And it would land on it. I said, "It must be like a Someone's giving me a Father's Day gift." They said, "Luckily, you guys can benefit from this." I won 8,000 tickets, Chris. I think that might be a record. And uh what? They cashed them in for little toys. They cashed them in. They This is This is what they 8,000 tickets. That's what they This They got this It cost me $600 in buying them the cards, but they got this and and and there was a couple tickets left. 500 tickets left. I got a diet coke out of the next 500 that was left. But and and this thumb tack right here was uh was about 65 tickets right here. It's it's the greatest scam of all time. Even the guy at the place, they had you know what they had? They had a um you know the claw machine. Yes. They had a human claw machine for 15 bucks. They they strap the kids in and they lift them up, hoist them up. I you know I got a video on my on my Instagram. I'll put it people haven't seen. They hoist the kids up there for it was worth the 15 bucks just to take the video. They they had to do it because they saw all the other kids doing it. They had to do it. Hold on. Funny [\h__\h] Can't make this stuff up. All right, that was the place they won. That's That's the crap they won. They won like surfboards and blow up surfboards and bananas. There's There's Shayla, my little one. Five years old. The human the human claw machine. Chris, how funny is I know Lee's watching this and saying, "Man, I he definitely would have done it if he was there. There's no doubt. He would have fit right in that little that little harness thing right there. Can you imagine, Dave, when you were little if they had like a Dave and Busters like that or something? Oh my god. Yeah, but my father would they would never have taken us there. They would have been too cheap. They never would have spent that. That's why I overspend on them then because I know that my my my parents would never have taken us there. That That's the trap, Dave. That's what like when my kids were little, we'd go to like the the movies and we'd buy like 400 candy bars because my mother would like make us take an apple to the movies and we only to the movies like twice a year. Chris, but we used to I I used to my parents would drop us off, my friends and I off the it was like 250 for the ma matinea and we would first go to the candy store and we would buy like whatever candy we wanted because it was only you know it was 50 cents a piece or whatever it was 25 cents a bar and we would load up and they would give us a bag with the with a soda in there or something like that and they'd send us to the movie theater with no money so you you had it because we had all our own food they wouldn't let me buy a popcorn nothing there because it's too expensive. Same boat. I told you. I told you Lee loves the claw machine. I knew he did. And you know what the funny thing was? The candy they sent us there with was actually better than the the movie candy. But for some reason, the movie candy and the movie popcorn always tasted better. I don't know why. The whole idea of you get to go there and buy something and just the whole it's the you got to have the Yeah. the entire experience. That's right. That's right. you guys are. So, yeah, that was uh that was yesterday. We had fun on Father's Day. What did you guys do on Father's Day? Uh yesterday I we I ended up driving for Reed to Vermont because he is got Yeah, he had he had to move in yesterday. So, I drove up there four and a half hours, dropped him off, came back four and a half hours. Why is he starting so early? Well, they don't have enough housing for juniors and seniors. She's going to be a junior. Mhm. And so you have to get your own like off-campus place to live, an apartment. Oh, okay. I've been trying to help him find an apartment and it's like impossible because there's there's a lack of places available. I'm surprised you haven't bought a place like an investment place to rent to the uh the college kids. I thought of it yesterday when I dropped them off. I said the money I could believe me I could figure it out. get a four year. I I Exactly, Dave, what I thought when I dropped him off. But anyways, yeah, because it's it's guaranteed money. They got to find they got to live someplace, these kids. 100%. And uh so I I I brought him up there, so we had to pack all his, you know, bodybuilding stuff and his clothes. So Oh, that's right. So yeah, because he's got the team nationals coming up in a Yeah. I'm worried like, you know, he sent me pictures today and I'm like, h this this is not the way you look in real life. like I know what he looks like and pictures he looks like he's 40 weeks out. So I said we have to get the lighting down or you're gonna I told him you you could pull a Jay and a Jay was when Jay was 19 imagine Dave prepping for the T nationals he'd get in his car and he'd show up at my house at no later than 7:30 on a 3-hour drive. So that means he left his house at 4:30 and he'd eat one meal at and then he'd drive back. So he had a he spent how long did he spend 20 minutes? Go through some poses in my kitchen, eat a meal, and take off. That's crazy. He was working too. So part of it was he'd have to get you know Jack he had a thousand things going then he'd have to get back to the job and he do it he was doing like I think a double split in those days anyway like that would be meal one at meal two you know he was always doing something he was uh he was you know exact same the only thing that's happened is like time went by this there's no difference Jay's the same at 19 as he is at same regiment, same vision, same goals, same strict, same, you know, soldier like he was doing. It's crazy that that that you know that he he you know is I think what you do early in life sets really the tone for you know your what you do later in life. It's just it's it's so true. I don't care what people say. Well, I mean, that's bodybuilding or sports at a good at a young age is is the a great template for going forward because if you can get into any sport that's really regiment regimented and and makes you uh requires discipline, when you get done, everything's easy. That's why I Yeah, you you want to laugh, Dave? God, it seems like yesterday, man. Look at Dre. He's still pretty He's pretty big there, too. At at for a teenager. Yeah. He uh he called me and said, "Uh, I won my class. I I didn't win the overall." I'm like, "Who beat you?" And he said, "Oh, some kid." And I said, "How could he beat? You must have They didn't think your legs were crazy. You didn't have He said, "No, his legs were better than mine." I'm like, "Who?" It was Branch Warren. There he is. Branch Warren. It's like when Dave, I told you when I when I prepped Cormier for for when he did that natural show. Yeah. It did the like the pose down at the nationals and he left Gold's Venice and I I blew his ego up. I said, "Nobody's beating you. You're going to the world championships and going to win." And I was stunned when he called me and he said, "I got second." Thought it was a crank fake call because and and Chris Chris was not natural the entire year, but Chris was natural point that he could for sure have passed a a drug test, right? and was smaller than he was a few months later when he competed at like the USA or something. he just wanted pro card and he thought like right um it's not like he was natural training for the USA but he wasn't on a lot of things and so he decided you know I'll just go off and you know what might have been like five months later I I'll do this show where they're picking the winner to go to the world championship so I'll get my pro card that way and like like Jay you know he called me and he said uh I got second I'm like it's an impossib said, "Who on earth?" He said, "I don't know. Some kid from from Texas with big arms." It was Coleman. That's crazy. We hear so many stories like that though, you know. I mean, nobody even knew Cole. No, it was impossibility to know Coleman. Chris, I told you the story. I this is not even on the same level as that, but when I went to the Junior USA uh in 200 whatever 1994 was my first national show and and I'm like well actually it was the week the week before I went to the the I had won the Metropolitan Heavyweight class. I went to the the suburban championships in Jersey that was John Keer show the week after that. Doug's like Doug Wentz is like pull the bob. He's like ah just let's throw some tan on. Let's just go. You're in shape. I said all right we go there. I'm thinking there's no one's gonna beat me at this show. And I'm backstage and I see Doug's got like this worried look on his face. I I said, "Doug, what what's the matter?" He goes, "Uh, I know that kid. I competed at like Teen Nationals or something like that. Teen America with him, some [\h__\h] like that. He's he's good, you know? He's he's I haven't seen him in a while." I said, "You think he could beat me backstage?" He looked like he was smooth as could be. He's like, "Ah, I don't know." He goes, "So, I get on stage. We get after prejuding." I said, "So, what do you think?" He goes, "Well, it's between you and him." I said, "Well," I said, "Do you think I got him?" He said, "Well, he looks pretty good under the lights." I said, "He looks smooth backstage, though." You know, I was shredded. I wasn't, but I wasn't I wasn't huge. I was about 228 at the time. And Derek Wit wins the heavyweight class. You know, I see him the next week at the Junior USA. He wins the Junior USA overall. And then six months later, and this is 94, he drops down to light heavyweight. I don't even know how he made the weight. And he wins the uh light heavyweight class. Yeah, I think he beat Rod Ketchkins who was like the at the time was the favorite and that was the year Deo won the overall and he got That's right. I I beat him at the Team USA. He probably was training for a week. No. No. Are you kidding, Dave? Uh, he has a So Bob Guskin tells me there's no one gonna be Hey, rest in peace. By the way, Dererick's no longer with us. But I was at Bob Gruskin's house and Bob told me, "No one's going to beat you at the show." Bob never says that. Right. Right. Right. He gets a call from John Keer. Right. And John Keer wants to put Derek Teen USA. Oh no. And you know Bob did everything that he could possibly do to discourage John Kemper. Talk him out of it. Kemper. Keer and um and Derek were training partners. Oh. Like was like a kid all the way on. So uh so we get to the show and um you know some people can't hide their true feelings and I mean they're just brutal honest backstage and Bob Guskin's backstage and and Derek Witza takes his clothes off and Bob looked like he had seen a ghost. Rudy, Rudy, you're right. My whole life is about second places, but it's all right. It's better than it's better than last place. The Saserati of New York. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Derek had this like genetics like I mean when he hit shots like like things happened to his physique that weren't there before he hit the shot. So he was standing around. You would never know all this stuff existed until he actually flexed. He he he had one of the the best speed tapers ever from behind. Yeah. Oh yeah. When he would stand, he would hold his hands out. He stood like a motorcycle guy, right? And he had he had Kai muscle where even when he wasn't in condition, if he flexed it like there everything was strided. Yeah. He was it was crazy genetics. He had crazy. He I I think he had no money. I think that was the problem, Chris. I think he was like, "No, he had no money because Bob told Bob told me that, too." Actually, I I beat him and Bob told me the next day straight out, "You'll never beat this kid again." He said, "Holy [\h__\h] that was Bob, you know, you'll never beat this kid again." And so he must have told So Doug Doug definitely knew who he was. So that's why Doug got nervous when he saw him backstage. You know, he knew I think it was either the Teen Nationals or um the the T- Nationals or the uh Teen Mr. America or something was like six weeks later and I had planned to do that and Bob told me Derek was going to do it and he said you'll you won't beat him. He says if he loses three pounds, you know, five pounds, whatever, he'll kill. And and that's exactly what happened whatever show that was. And like demolish, but you can at least say you beat him once. So that's that's Yeah. Yeah. That's why I love to say, "Oh, I beat I beat I beat Derek. It's like um Martin Fitzwwater can go around telling people he beat Chris Bumpstead, right?" Yeah. So hey, look, every there's always everyone could lo anyone could lose a show at any time. Remember that. I always tell people unfort that is damn true. Yeah, I remember Tom Prince. I don't remember he was predicted to win I don't know if it was a nationals or USA. He showed up and he looked hor I heard he was like in withdrawal from something but he was horrible. He was like 14th or something like or 12th or you know I was like yes I beat I at least I beat Tom Prince right you know all the guys are saying they they beat Tom Prince but he was horrible you know and then he came back the next show and wanted to turn pro but it was um anyone can have a bad show it's just the way it goes and uh you have to keep coming back the key is to get back on stage and then compete a lot of people quit you know if they don't look their best and they Tom came to and stayed with me for like a month. Oh, that's right. You did mention that to me. How did that arrangement happen? Um, same person who hooked me up with uh Mike Franis was um was it Lwick or was it Marty Demerian? One of the two. But he was um he when he came up he was in a offseason he was getting ready for the Florida which he he won or he won his class. Yeah, he won his class because he wanted to kill me because he didn't win the overall. Oh, it was your fault. No, thought I He I thought like a lot of people I brought him down too far, which might have been true, but you know, he came in like diced and sliced as me, Los would say, but he was he he was gigantic. Was that 95? Early it was 90 might have been 93. Oh, see I didn't know. I never had heard about him. And then I went to the Nationals in 95 because Doug was doing that show and that's the one Don Long won. And and when I remember the first call out, Tom wasn't even in the first call out. And then Keer, see John Keer comes back in. John Keer said, "I want to see another call out." And he and he he wanted to see Tom Prince in in that call out. So they added him because that's when Keer was still had, you know, he was pretty he had power and, you know, they had respect with all those guys. And all of a sudden Tom's standing next to Don Long now and they're like, who's going to win the show? And so Tom went from not making the top five to being, you know, second place there. And I think a lot of people could have made a case for him actually winning that show. He looked really good at that show. Looked great at that show. Don looked great at that show. Yeah. Yeah. That was like a a great look for Don and and Tom. I know exactly what Tom looked. Tom looked great. I I was like, you know how like when I don't know if you guys who watch the show, if you do this, but when we whenever I would compete, I always like try to figure out like who can who can who can beat me? Who's the guys that I have to worry about? Right? So, I' you have a short list in your head, you know, assuming you're good of who can beat you. and Tom wasn't on my list because I didn't I didn't know who Tom was. And I go to that show and I'm like, "Well, I got to add another guy to the list, you know, because of people we have to beat now." And and I got to actually compete against Tom in the 96 Nationals. It was actually a few shows, but definitely that it was the USA first with Titus and him and then the the Nationals when Jay won. Yeah. And Tom was second and Orville Burke was third, I was fourth. So, you know, Tom was a freak, you know. He he had great genetics, you know. I think, you know, maybe mentally he wasn't the best, but he was genetically really really gifted, you know. Yeah. He was super wide structure, big freaking Yeah. hamstrings. Lot of web glutes. He was a little awkward on stage with presentation, but uh he was uh he was put together like a brick [\h__\h] house, that kid. Yeah, man. He could have gone long. He could have gone far if he had the the right mindset. I think but he was a he was a former swimmer. You know, a lot of endurance athletes who went on to become bodybuilders Yeah. become really good. And like and like I said, I I know I've thrown this floated this theory out there before, but I I think that people who go from endurance sports to bodybuilding, it's like it's like some some kind of priming of their body. Like they just respond better. they get like more grainy looking the muscle I'm I'm convinced that there's like a hyperplasure going on of the of the muscle cells when you put them in oxygen debt but you don't really notice it in endurance sports because the muscles don't get bigger and but then when you go to switch to like a bodybuilding type you know where hypertrophy is is is paramount right because you have more muscle you know nuclei there the the cells can get you have more potential to get bigger so it's like it's like almost like bodybuilders should first go from endurance sports and for like five years and then you you switch them into bodybuilding they probably be better for that you know Tom was a swimmer so his upper body and his legs improved you know whereas if you sort and with me I I noticed my legs were were were hyper respponders more so than my upper body probably because running you know you still you're pumping your arms but you're really using a lot more leg you know yeah I think he was a sprinter though in uh oh did both oh so there you go he did some I think 200 individual medally or I know. Yeah. Oh, you're talking about swimming sprinter. Yeah. But that's uh but you still train Chris like for endurance, you know. He probably swam, you know, 40 minutes a day, 50 minutes a day just straight, you know. That's that's endurance right there. I swim in the pool at night. I I want to I like man do I freaking get winded. But um I've worked up to like you know I do like 40 laps but I I do it in stage. I do like interval training. I do like I do like eight laps. I take a rest. I do eight reps. It does eight laps. Checks emails and text messages. No, I don't. I don't. I I I but I do check my pulse on my watch making sure I'm not going through the roof on the pulse. Yeah. If you if you check you I don't know how guys you do that, you know, and start when you start checking emails in the middle of a workout, you you're through. you're done. The only thing the only time I'll do that is if I'm sitting doing like pedaling a stationary bike or something like that, I can then I can check stuff like that. Then it doesn't matter. So, but yeah, you want to get a good leg workout though, go to those amusement those water parks, Chris, and climb those climb those stairs up to the top of those uh those podiums, those park. The last time I went to the D, you hit the nail on the head. The last time I went was last August on like the hardest day of the year. I took my would have been 10-year-old and his friend and we went on endlessly and like I was dead by the end of the day. Felt felt like I walked 20 miles. Yeah. I I you know how like there's these people Chris in the bodybuilding world that think that if you if you squeeze your glutes and you get on the stair master, you're getting that you're going to bring your glutes in better. They don't think it has anything to do with diet. They think it has to do with working out. You mean that doesn't work? We should we should what we should do is if you have a client, Chris, who can't get glutes, send them to like these water parks for the day, you know, and we'll do a controlled experiment. We'll have one guy who just eats low carbs and we'll have one guy who go to the park, you can get the free eat pass. I have the free eat pass, Chris. It means you can go to any of the restaurants in the park as part of your package. It's like 40 bucks. Um because you know if you go get a hamburger there it will cost you a hundred bucks in those in those water parks. Chris, we had two meals there and I I couldn't eat another meal there. The the food is so there's so much grease on the food. It was even I you know even me with my metabolism after two burgers. The grease is probably from April. They haven't even changed it. I I couldn't eat I could I I literally my blood sugar was zero when we were leaving the park at 7 o'clock. I said we got to go. I gotta get a good dinner. We got I took the kids to eat like Japanese food. I couldn't eat another another burger. Another chicken uh what is chicken tenders? French fries. Chicken. Yeah. Oh my god. I was ready for I I couldn't do it again. I could did I'm sure I would have burned through it because we burned a million calories. I couldn't do it. I don't even know what they put in that. They make McDonald's meals seem healthy. Whatever they serve at those parks. It's horrible. Disney's worse. Disney's probably worse. Disney has better food choices, but you'll spend thousand dollars on food at Disney. Lee, Steve would go to water parks and watch guys climb the stairs for research. I love you, Lee. You're hysterical. No, but seriously, if you don't if you have a glute problem, I'm going to send one group of people. We'll have we'll do a a control sub, a controlled experiment. Five guys go to the the water park and they got to walk a minimum of of 40 flights of steps for the day. 20,000 steps total like I did and just let them go on all the water slides. Believe me, they'll get the money. So, I'll send my kids with them. They'll they'll get plenty of exercise. And then the other group we put on low carbs, Chris, and we just put them on a stationary bike and just, you know, something like a recumbent bike, nice and low intensity exercise, and let's see who gets leaner. Okay. Well, you know what? It goes back to uh Bob Guskin I always used to say. It's been on my mind a lot lately because I his a photo of me and my son showed up. Did I send it to you in front of his house? No. Oh yeah, he did send it to me. Yes. Yes. Yes. And he said uh he always used to say like you know you got to burn the fat. Yeah. And you know what he I mean for everything that he knew he would say it would always be stop eating meaning eat a lot less or you got to expend more you got to do cardio but he would never get into like you know never crossed his mind about this certain exercise going to peel down your glutes. Not that glutes were important back then but every time I've ever spoken to Doug or Gruskin himself directly Doug and Bob delivered always the same message. Stop eating so much. They they really felt that bodybuilders ate too much. Um at least that's the message I got from Bob like ah you don't eat that much food you know. Yeah. Often often out of his mouth is you you don't you don't that was a repetitive statement. You bodybuilders don't eat don't eat that much food. I and I learned that from so I I take away a lot of food from the guys I people I help. I after because what happens is you know you go from 250 down to 200. You don't need the same amount of food you were when you were 250 anymore when you're 200. And I think a lot of guys forget sometimes to reduce the food if they're not if they're not losing weight. If you're losing weight, you don't have to. But I'm saying if you're not losing weight, you have to reduce the food, right? I mean, it's just it's just logical. And they think they're going to lose muscle. These guys and women same way. Women don't lose m by the way. I don't know if you I know you've worked with a couple women over the years. I I don't I've never seen a woman lose muscle. You can start you can give them air to just air. You're not gonna eat today. We're just gonna give you air. And they do not lose muscle. I don't know what it is. There's some kind of evolutionary preservation mechanism in there. Probably from years of like the cave women not having food and they have to preser conserve energy for the childbearing. Women don't lose muscle. They lose only ex they only burn stored body fat. They do not lose muscle. Even if you don't feed them, they don't lose muscle. Yeah. I've never I've never not that I've prep many women, but I've never used the words you look flat today. No. Yeah. And they don't get flat either. That You're right. That's exact. Oh my god, Lee. Did she Did she Did they finally book those flights? Look at Lee. What did Lee say? That's why the Nigerians are good bodybuilders. Not much food on Serenetti being chased by lions. No. All they eat is protein. They don't eat any carbs. That's why they that's why a lot of those Nigerian bodybuilders get become diabetic later in life because they're they're not used to eating carbohydrates, refined carbohydrates. Um but they're used to eating fat and protein. That's that that that's a a known fact. A lot of African-American, you know, people have diabetes. They call it the sugar, right, Chris? Yeah. And it's because they don't they're not good carbohydrate metabolizers because that's not how they evolved. They evolved eating, you know, game, you know, wild game, you know, which is, you know, lions and tiger, whatever they hunted on the on the, you know, elk, you know, I don't know what was running around there. So, same thing with the Eskimos, you know, they found that the not the Eskimos, the Inuit Inuit Indians, which are like by the Arctic Circle or something like that. Those those Indian there's no carbs up there. All they eat is like seals and and and fish and fatty fishes. Their fat content of their diet is is crazy. They eat a basically ate a ketogenic diet. And when they started eating refined carbs because they bec, you know, they came in contact with modern, you know, civilization, they all were getting, you know, type two diabetes from it. They they couldn't they couldn't handle the carbs. Once they came in contact with modern civilization, their health went torpedoed into right the toilet. We we yeah we are we are much more than you try this refined food so that you can kill yourself. See a lot of people say Chris oh yeah but the caveman's average lifespan was only 35 years back then. Yeah because they would get killed by like a like a like a wild you know cat or something like that. There were there were predators back then that they would get killed. They wouldn't die of like heart disease back then or they'd get an infection and they would die or they would, you know, they would get a a rotten tooth in their mouth and they would die. But no one had heart disease or cancer because they were eating what they were supposed to eat, you know. So, it's a trade-off. If you want to live a long time and you want to have good modern civilization, you gota you got to balance that with a decent diet. So, my my suggestion is don't do what I did because I bought the kids a cotton candy machine. They were hawking me, driving me crazy for this cotton candy machine. We were in the store. I said, "Fine, let's buy it." And we were making the cotton candy. You know, you swirl the thing around and it's like this like, you know, cottony stuff. And you know, I I don't eat sugar. You know me. I don't eat that crap. But I'm like, "Let me try it." You know, they they're gobbling it down, right? They're like bouncing off the ceiling at this point. I'm like And I So I had a couple of I said, "You know what? I forgot how good cotton candy is. That tastes pretty good. You You are the You are the worst, Dave. And so am I. Because this is where you get that from. What you already alluded to earlier. You're the kid. Someone would take you to the circus and you would ask your parents for cotton candy and they'd say, "No, it's, you know, a dollar." Or you are 45 years later and you buy the entire cotton candy machine for your kids. Yeah. because that you know that you or I would have wanted that machine and your parents would have smacked the [\h__\h] out of us probably to not even you couldn't even think about wanting the machine you know. No, you wouldn't even you wouldn't think about asking for the dollar to get the candy the answer. Oh my god. That it's you know what it is? It wasn't even the cotton candy. It's the process of making the cotton candy that the kids were like they were like so enamored with this whole process like like it didn't even ma they didn't even my son didn't even eat the cotton candy he was eating a few pieces he liked the whole idea of the machine spinning around and all that stuff you know so it's it's the exper it's the cotton candy experience that's more valuable than the actual cotton candy itself and that's that as as you know my as I become you know as my parenting as my kids get older I should to say I I start to learn more about parenting and it's the experiences that is the important thing. It's not necessarily what you do. It's just the whole experience of it. So kids kids just want to be listened to. Yeah. Yeah. So what So Chris, what you and I do is we do everything that our parents wouldn't let us do. Yeah. No, that's what we do. That's very And it's the little things. You don't you you could when my kids were kids, you didn't have to even buy them a toy. You just give them a box to play with. You know, my father like get out of that box. You're gonna You hurt yourself in that box. I I feel guilty like sometimes like when it snows and the guy comes to like take care of my snow, right? Like father would get us out at 8 a.m. to go hand shovel the the Oh, yeah. There's probably a lesson that I learned from it. My lesson that I was learning, he probably thought was hard work. My lesson was there's no way I'm ever doing this when I grow up. Chris, I was so I wanted to shovel everyone on on the block. I would shovel until I couldn't I couldn't even move and then it was dark out because I I loved the money. I couldn't I said the I said the most bang I'm thinking as a kid the most bang for your buck people will be willing to give you the most money because I delivered newspapers. I ra leaves but I cleaned people's cars. The most bang for your buck was shoveling snow because everyone had to get out of the house to go to to go to work Dave. So, I would pray for snow. I would just every day I would go, "Please snow." It wasn't that I wanted to stay home from school. I wanted to shovel so that I could make all that money because you get $20 at a time for shoveling a walk. You do five walks, that's a hundred bucks. Where does a kid that age make a hundred bucks? At least not back in the 1980s that you couldn't do that. So, it was in where I grew up, kids would go, it was like competitive. Yeah. Oh. Oh, yeah. You would be, you know, battling the other kids. Nowadays, try to find a kid to shovel your walk. You can or give them a hundred bucks. They won't do it. No, it's unbelievable. I My father, right before we brought my father in Florida, um they had a snowstorm there. And and I said, "Dad, who do you hire to do this the walk?" He's like, he goes, "There's no kids. There's adults walking around shoveling snow." I'm like, "What?" Oh my goodness. Yeah. These adults come around with snowblowers and they're try. It's like a the adults realize there's more money in and in and snowb blowing and clearing people's walks than there is in going to work and and working a real job. Yeah. Thought that was pretty funny. The kid kids are not doing it anymore. They got regular adults doing it now. So, no, they're they're they're buying Bitcoin. Courses. Forces how to be an influencer. That's a good idea, Chris. Uh, shovel snow and make your snow cones with the with the shovel stuff. That's another thing. Did you ever buy the Snoopy snow cone machine? No. No, but we we the one time I had the ingenious idea of making snow cones with food colored in sugar. Me and my we had to be like eight and seven. We got so violently sick from eating the snow. Because you the sugar you probably put too much on there, right? No. From We got sick from the snow. The snow was probably like who knows what. Oh, wow. It was dirty. Never eat yellow snow, Chris. Right. The weather pattern probably blew back, you know, from the west like acid rain had turned into like snow. And the if anyone knows anything about snow, you don't eat yellow snow, right? Yeah. You know what yellow snow is? Of course. Dog snow. The dog with the dogs pee on the snow. So, yeah. No. So, I bought a Snoop Snoopy snow cone machine years ago for the kids. This is before my own Logan and then Arya were kids really young. It's so hard to crank the freaking thing because it's not automatic. It's like a hand crank and it takes the ice cubes and it shreds them. But you you'll blow your rotator cuff out trying to get that trying to get hook to do the thing and get enough ice. They're like, "We need more. We need more." I I I can't I I'm going to have to get surgery on my shoulder if I do this if I crank this thing. They don't have the upgraded one for the wealthier parents who want to spend They still sell the same Snoopy one. It It's like from 1970. It hasn't changed. They have You think they would have upgraded the the engineering of the thing and put a little bit of an electric motor on there at least to shave the ice for you, you know? Push button. The cappuccino machine. Just push. Oh my god. be snow cold machine this. All right, let finish up. Tell one Jay Jay Cutler story. The guy wants to hear the story again about the Jay dig in the ditch when he was 10 years old. Oh, dig in the ditch. Yeah, his father would let him quit. Yeah, they they had a uh tell the story. They had foundation company, concrete foundation. It's it's it is it tells you possibly, and I think Jay may agree with this, everything that you need to know about Jay Cutler. that he had a bunch of brothers and they were digging ditches and to lay foundations and it was a, you know, family business. So, family business, you got to, you know, pull your weight and it was pouring out and it was cold and they were digging the ditch and digging the ditch and Jay was just like, you know, completely exhausted, freezing. I forget how old he was. I think he told me he was like 10 or something or maybe he was maybe he was 13 or something. But uh and all the brothers were digging and uh he asked his father, "Can I can he get out of the ditch because he's tired and cold?" And his father said, "Get back to work." And he his answer was, "I'm I'm a 10-year-old kid." And his father said, "Get back to work." So, you know, that one little snippet in time did not mold who he is, but it gives you some indication of, you know, where he came from and the idea that hard work was instilled into him at a very young age because, you know, Jay, he's a workhorse. Yeah. Nowadays, the kids would have sued the parents probably, right, for making him get in the in the ditch. Jay's Jay's a workhorse and you know, of course, he doesn't need to work one more day in his life, but I text him all the time and, you know, 14-hour days are very common. Yeah. In fact, you know, he's in Vegas and I'm in Maine, so a lot of times I'll text him, I'm thinking like, "Oh, what am I texting him for? It's, you know, it's it's it's it's only 5:00 his time." And he texts back in seconds. I'm like, He gets up he gets up super early. Yeah. He gets up early and stays up, you know, the whole nine yards. You know, gets early besides the, you know, still eat good, train, you know, he's doing business all day long. And that that foundation was set probably bodybuilding, but probably when he was 10 years old doing manual at such a young age that there's nothing wrong with that. Yeah, I challenge anyone who's on who has a schedule like Jay does, like I do, who who's busy all the day, I challenge you to try to take five days and and don't do anything during the day. Don't work at all. You go out of your freaking mind. I I'll lose I if you know now I have kids so I can if I'm with the kids for the weekend, I don't have to I can not work because I they're distracting me. But Jay doesn't have kids so his work is his passion. I mean that that's what he he likes doing it. He might overdo it, you know, and maybe he works more hours than he should, but that's just his, that's his mentality built into him. But if he didn't work, he, you know, it's like, you see the old Italian, my grandfather, 92 years old, on the roof repairing the roof painting. Like, what are you doing, grandpa? He's like, he goes, the minute you stop moving, he goes, you die. He goes, so meaning what he really was saying to me is that if you don't do something that that you enjoy, that you're passionate about, you're done. That's it. You might as well pack it in. There's no reason to be here anymore, you know? So, you got to find something that you really enjoy doing. If you can actually make money from it, that's even better. If it's not just a hobby, but you know, if you do find something that you actually enjoy doing and you get paid from it, like what Jay does or what you do or what I do, uh, you're going to work more hours than you ever would if you were working, you know, as a on a nineto-five job. That's for sure when you work for yourself. So, 100%. Just the question is, can you find something that you love doing and make a career out of it? And if you do that, I promise you, you'll be one happy camper the rest of your life. And on that note, Chris, we're going to wrap up today. As we say every week here at Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. We'll see you next week, guys.