And my son's now 14, so it all started with that. Got you. Uh, and he was like, "Dad, are you going to compete again?" I said, "No, not really." And he said, "Can you do like one more?" Cuz I never really saw you on stage. And I was like, "Fuck. All right, I'll do it." I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations dosed for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. I'm standing here with our classic physique champion, comeback of the year. He's going back to the Olympia. Mahmud El Dra, also known as El Dra, a good friend. You're back. I guess so. Yeah, I guess I'm back. Yeah, got it. But you're not back in the open. You're back in the in the classic physique. How the heck did you make this weight? Um, so I retired, right? I know you were done. Yeah, I was done after my back surgery. You know, doctors were all like, "Yeah, tell us what happened just quickly." Uh 2020, blew my disc, had surgery, uh can't bodybuild it again. That's it. That's what the doctors told you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um and then my son's now 14. So it all started with that. Gotcha. Uh and he was like, "Dad, are you going to compete again?" I said, "No, not really." And he said, "Can you do like one more?" Cuz I never really saw you on stage. And I was like, "Ah, [\h__\h] All right, I'll do it." And but I didn't want to, you know, go back to the eating the way I was taking all the stuff that I used to take. So I was like, I'm going to do classic just for fun and see how it goes. And on my YouTube, I was like, all right, guys. If I do top five, I'll continue. How many YouTube subscribers you have now? On the Arabic channel, I have almost 1.5 million. Uh I did a new English one, so guys, go follow that. Only has 13,000 now, but it's Oh, you're starting out. You're starting out. Yeah. So then top five, I was like, "All right, I'll do another one." Mhm. And I I can't I'm I'm still registering what happened right now. So, you didn't expect this? No. No. You look like the clearcut winner to me on stage when you walked out. I'm like, "Holy mackerel, he's back." Coming coming into the show in my head, I'm like just top five after 3 years not competing is, you know, an accomplishment. I I the thought of going to the Olympia again was just out out of the equation. You didn't think it was even a possibility? No. Especially that I asked I coached myself for this show for this season and I when I wanted to do classic I actually approached two coaches and I said I want to do classic and they both said you don't have the structure for it. Well I guess they were wrong. Yeah. I go to the Olympia. So now why do you think you have such a popular YouTube channel? Cuz you have a lot of followers especially the Arabic channel man. Um I just talk I just vlog my life. I show everything. Um you know I have different hobbies aside from bodybuilding. I'm I'm a sim racer, too. Like, yeah, actually, like leagues and stuff. And yeah, I have a whole secret Instagram account that no one knows about. Really? The GT4 world champion follows me on No Way. Really? Yeah. Yeah. I'm actually serious. How long you been doing that? About a year and you're already like at a high level. No, it's it's very competitive and difficult, but like uh it my content is kind of like rage bait. Like I just crash a lot and I lose my temper. I see. All right. So, he's just doing funny stuff. Just Yeah, but I actually do race for fun. Hey, you're going to the Olympic man. Congratulations. I never thought I'd be interviewing this guy cuz I know he had a major back surgery. They told you you'd never do workout again. And they What did they have to do? Clean out the uh the bone in there? It was all the stenosis was covering the nerves and the disc exploded. So, I actually lost an inch. There's no disc space between my L5 and S1. It's bone on bone. So, you had actually be even lighter than you thought you would have had to be. If you would have been your old height, you could have been bigger. I I shrunk an inch. So, maybe that helped a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. No, that made it harder for you cuz you can't be as heavy. I No, but when you're shorter Oh, well, I guess so. It's less weight. Okay. But yeah, my my brain is I don't want to mess you up. We're not doing math right now, Dave. All right. What I do want to say is congratulations. It could have happened to a nicer guy, and I know a lot of the fans out there are super happy. I appreciate you, Dave. Thank you so much. Thank you guys.