Welcome to muscle. in the morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Monday, May 16th, 2016. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. After weeks of anticipation this past weekend, bodybuilding fans from across Europe finally got what they've been waiting for as the IFBB invaded Birmingham, England for another jam-packed rendition of The Body Power Pro. In what may have been a bit of a foregone conclusion, a downright nasty ruly Winkler came in and dominated in impressive fashion, putting together what may have been one of the most impressive looks we've ever seen from him. In second, the prophecy held true with a jaw-dropping performance by rookie sensation Nathan Dasha. In third place, Michael Cafalanos popped his head out of hiding for the first time since the Levrone Classic, managing to hold off the consmate professionalism that is Ronnie Raquel, who finished in fourth. And rounding out the top five was the freak himself, Paulo Almeida, who brought his best overall look to the stage. They weren't having all the fun over there in the UK last weekend. We also had a bit of action state side as well down in the panhandle at the IFBB Florida Grand Prix. In the classic physique division, Darren Charles continued his reign of terror by showing up guns ablazing to collect another decisive victory by squeezing out the rapidly improving Shaun Harley in Bikini Open. One of the better versions of Tatiana Debbecue that we've ever seen took care of business and held off a strong surge from Christina Ortiz and Adriana Hill to earn her first victory of the season. And in Masters, the stunning Kerrion Brown was completely dominant on her way to locking up her second win of the year. Straight up the I95 Cardo, we had more action in the bikini and men's physique divisions at what turned out to be a very competitive Eastern Seabard Pro. In Bikini, Bianca Berry showed up and collected her second career victory, holding off a strong surge from rising third-year pro Adrien Krenshaw, who took a close second. In the men's physique division, Michael Ferguson booked himself a return trip to the Olympia stage by putting together an awesome look to beat back a strong performance by second place finisher Carlo Gonzalez. We also saw third place finisher Michael Bevans continue to trend upward by coming in with his best look ever. Ladies and gentlemen, as of today, we are officially four days out from getting things underway at the New York Pro. And the incomparable Matt Charles is looking like he's going to hit the stage as the biggest thing to take the city since King Kong. Over the weekend, the man who could lay claim to having one of the biggest upper bodies in all of bodybuilding knocked out his final pre-show shoulder workout and seems to be getting bigger and scarier with every last rep. Match Charles has the sort of big crazy physique that New York crowds go nuts for. And I'm sure he's hoping that those final applause are in celebration of the biggest win of his career. Citizens of Toronto, lock up your windows and doors. Put away the women and children and get prepared because there's a real life monster heading your way. His name, Foued Abiad. Over the weekend, Abiad leaked some of his latest set of progress photos, showing off a downright ridiculous level of 3D muscle that we quite honestly haven't seen from him in the past. Last year was far and away the best season of Abiot's career with two big wins coming at the Orlando Europa Pro and Vancouver Pro. But after a tumultuous yet productive offseason, Big Hos is coming into this show dead set on making sure everyone knows that Fuad Abiad is back healthy and just about ready to leave footprints all over the middle part of this contest season. So to all the competitors out there planning on heading into Toronto, don't say we didn't warn you. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com today. I'm Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions. And make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo! Woo!