A Blockbuster new article just came out and you will be shocked at who is a verified federal informant. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. I haven't seen the sun in a week and a half. Look, they just came out. Look at that. I love that fight. And we are back for a blockbuster after hours. I am Dave Palumbo joined by John Romano. Actually, somehow you it's I feel like we're parents that like uh the kids are sleeping and we get to have a little playtime before they wake up. Yeah, we have a little time together before we get infiltrated. Yeah, this is going to be a good show. We have a special guest coming on. I'll announce him in a little bit, but uh we've we've known him for years, years. He's an industry icon in the sense that he knows how to No one can dig up dirt better than this guy. you know, one of the most probably one of the most feared men in in our industry. He was I I think a lot bigger during the uh the get big years. It seemed like that was his his heyday. But he he he I think he honed his craft. He just got really good at what he does because I mean this guy can find out anything. Yeah, I mean the he fi he files foyer requests and you know he he just does it all you know and um no man this is I I I mean this this is going to be a tough show I think for a lot of reasons because there's a there's a lot of ways of looking at this or a couple of big ways of looking at this and you know unfortunately the two um subjects uh of of this uh con uh controversy are no longer with Right. And they were friends of ours. Uh, and some and as Greg would say, good guys. So, um, one would beg to ask, you know, why why are we is could this be construed as dancing on a grave is what I'm trying to Yeah, it's it's it's a tough show, but I think it needs to be mentioned just because it's it's it's the the the topic, believe it or not, the topic is relevant because I think in today's world where people sell peptides and SARMMS and pro hormones indiscriminately thinking that that that that it's legal Um, it's not. And I've been telling people this for a very long time. I mean, Rick Collins obviously of Legal Muscles are a very dear friend, right? And Rick, you know, I he's the first person I go to whenever someone says, "Oh, it's legal." I'm like, "Rick, what is 99 times out of 100 he says, "No, it's not legal." Well, no. What he says to me is, "Stay away from it." I wouldn't recommend it. you know, well, he knows me because he knows if it's not legal now, you know, it'll just give me a minute. But, well, you know, it is because there's a lot of stuff that's in a in a gray area. But the problem is just because the the the DEA hasn't made something a controlled substance doesn't mean that it's legal to sell because if it has drug-like qualities or it's, you know, if you take for instance like people who sell Viagra for for research purposes. Okay. Now, if you're telling people what the Viagra does and and other people are, you have influencers who are saying you take Viagra because it gets my dick, you know, hard and but yet on the site it says it's for research purposes, then it it's really not. You're trying to defraud the government so you can sell the stuff, you know, to people who are going to pay a less of a price than they would if they went to the company that, you know, Fiser that makes Viagra. So, right, there's a it's a very it's a very slippery slope. The problem is that so many people do these things that it's impos as Rick would say it's impossible to prosecute everyone. But so it's it's it's a flip of a coin. So you don't the more the people who are the most successful are the ones who get prosecuted. Right. Right. Right. Well, it's also interesting to note that that the influencers who actually receive a commission off the sale of illegal stuff, they're not prosecuted. None of them. Well, they use because they're usually used as witnesses. That's them. Exactly. But they're never prosecuted. So, what's going on? Hey, there he is. We've already started. So, we started Well, well, while we're beginning, can I just say a shout out? We're already on. We're already on. I see you guys. I know we're on. I just wanted to say to the people out there, Jerry Montineeri passed away. So, I just wanted you guys. Yeah. The Montaerie brothers. So, I wanted to give Jerry Montineeri a big shout out. And you know like rest in peace family. His family good man. He was a good man. His brothers the Montaineer brothers. Great. Great gym in what? Connecticut right? Oh yeah man. Evans all super gym up there. Yep. So New Haven they you know. Yeah. New Haven. I met them when uh I started working with Evans Pani back in the in ' 06 07 area time frame. And then um you know I went up there a few times and saw them and they were great. They really supported that whole crew up there. PJ used to work out up there and all the guy. Yeah, man. And all those guys that were up there. And so these guys would they were so supportive that they were at every show that these guys competed at. So I remember when Evan used to compete, they were in the audience screaming the all of them. And they they would travel too. If Evan We did uh the Junior Nationals, we did the Nationals. They they went wherever he was. I mean, it was it was crazy. And Jerry was a unique guy. He was a very good man. You know what I'm saying? So uh you know, and he'll be missed because that gym's a legendary gym. I've been up there many times. You know, I used to go up there to see my uh you know, my little brother. He's not really my little brother, but you know, Amelio Meella, who was uh you know, with Snookie. That's how I know Snookie and everything. But I'm just saying uh you know, and Millio Jerry actually mentored Emilio and Jerry was like a like a big man on the scene. I'm I didn't I didn't know about his you know, Millio called me, but I missed his call. Otherwise, I would have went to the funeral. I know that uh Steve Weinberger was there and a lot of guys. So, you would have you would have ventured up there. Yeah. Well, I go up there every, you know, once in a while. Yeah. I didn't know you I didn't know you left uh Westchester County. Amelio's like family to me, you know. So, that's why everybody That's why Joseph would have had to pick him up, John, and drive him up there probably. He would have I would have Joseph would have went but uh yeah, Jody was a great guy, man. I don't know if you guys know. I I I gotta put it something out there because I hear a lot of people using this wrong. This is my I'm channeling my my father right now. S um when and people say this all the time. I hear even Patrick BD David says it. When you use the term had, okay, which is the past participle, you can't say had went. It's had gone. Did I say I would had went? You said Yeah, you said I had went or something like that. And but you know, you're not the only one who does this. I correct a million people. If you say I went to the gym, that's right. But if you said I had went, that's not right. Had gone. Had gone. The reason I say this is because I hear a lot of people misusing it. And if you make yourself conscious of it because you it just as my father would say sounds lowbrow low brow. Yeah. Yeah. Here in the south they add a couple extra words like you know in in there too like had had what was that girl said to I drank I was I was drank a coconut water while I was shopping. Yeah. Yeah. That's the right word. And she said she said you you done had did drunk at or something. See, that's a different language. But but I'm talking about people who actually speaking English, you know, and they use the the wrong the wrong tense of the verb. Well, there's a there's a lot of those that bug me like regards, you know, or irregardless, which is not a word. I used to say that irregardless is another one, you know. Um people say laxidasic instead of laxidasical. Right. Right. Right. There's a bunch of them out there. They just go get it. Sugar Ray Leonard. I remember Sugar Ray Leonard years ago when he was winning. He goes, "I I got hit so hard. I was just discombobulated. Discombobulated." You know that down south. I remember when they were like, "G, we eat biscuits and gravy." I'm like, "What the [\h__\h] is biscuits and gravy? What do you dunk like you dunk little bread balls in in that grave? What the hell is that?" You know what I'm saying? Larry, Larry, what's up? We're talking about people passed. Greg, we have to mention CJ Cynthia James. Oh my god, I talked about her on Muscle Radio, but yeah, she was Holy [\h__\h] Such a dear friend to me. And you know, um, just one of the most amazing people in our industry. I mean, she's responsible for more posing suits and men and women probably than anyone else in the entire industry. I mean, oh god, she did a lot of that from the freaking 80s. I used to be with her down there when Bob Bonham would be running shows like, you know, in the in the mid 80s, you know. So, she was I know that what did she pass away from? You know, I gotta interrupt you for a second. Dave, what what's the link? How do you get other people where where can people I sent I sent our guest the link? No, no, no. Yeah, for him for him to post for other people to watch it. Oh, it's just it's on RX Muscle YouTube channels streaming live. That's what I thought. Who are you talking about? We have a special guest coming on. Who is it? Am I Is it a secret? Yes. your ex-girlfriend. Yeah. From uh or ex-boyfriend from the sound factory. Yeah. You guys are so bad. Uh I mean I mean is it the dentist? He can't come on. All right. Sorry. Who's at the dentist? I mean really that screws up AI want to show you a great picture. I showed this on heavy muscle radio but it's worth reposting it. So C Sergio Oliva Jr. posted a picture of his father with CJ. This has to be back a long time ago. Look at Look at how young she is here. Wow, dude. That's where I remember her like that. Yeah, she changed very little up until not that long ago. She She was like a little mother to all the girls at the woman's extravaganza, too. Remember when when Bob would Every girl I ever knew competed got their suit from her. Every single mother. Every single one. Well, she would be backstage with the machine. She made me suits backstage. She Yeah. She adjusting them and stuff. Yeah. Oh man, I remember her forever. Forever. She took took what she did seriously. That was awesome. She had a heart. She had a problem. I talked to Ron Goldstein, you know, her husband, boyfriend, whatever. I think I would think they're married. And uh Ron, you know, who's Ron is a great great great human being. and he said that she had been she I she had like something like 90 uh emergency room visits like over the last year and a half or something like that because she was always having problems ambulances and she he's like this was just another one he thought and then she just she just didn't make it. She just passed. You know, it was it was heart. She obviously had a weak heart and she was dealing with some problems with that. And I saw at Mel's show over the holidays in December, you she was telling me, "Ah, you know, my health's not great, but she always said that to me." So, she wasn't really a big complainer. She just like, "Yeah, I'm a little tired." You know, and wow, it's all right. You know, she looked good to me. And yeah, so I guess it just she was a she was such a good girl. I knew that girl forever. She'd be like a mother back. Was she 65 or 60 or something like that? 60, I think. Right. Oh, she's just a kid to us. I don't How old was she? John and I. Everybody knows her. Every single everybody. Who doesn't know her? Yeah. Yeah, man. If you've been if you've been competing in this industry for a few years, you know who she is. Exactly. From the mid 80s. I know that girl. Yeah. She was 59. She was 59. Wow. So young. Yeah. She was only a couple years older than me. Yeah. That's the thing, man. you get our age, you know, you start seeing like a third of the people, a quarter of the people you went to school with are already gone. You know what I mean? My sister's one of them. You know what I mean? It's just Yeah, that's right. That's right. You know, it's it's just you're like, "Holy shit." You know, sometimes you're like last man standing. It's like unbelievable. My childhood friend, you know, all gone. Yeah. A lot. We especially when COVID, you know, blew through here, we lost a bunch of people. Yeah. that it's just, you know, you just sit there and you say, you know, cuz you, you know, John and I are, you know, about to be 65 and [\h__\h] and we're uh, you know, Jimmy's already at 65 and George is a year or two older. Yeah. So, we start, you know, become a lot of your friends all all the time. Every couple months I'm like, "Holy [\h__\h] another one went, you know." So, Greg, is that early Parkinson's you're shaking from or is your No, I'm just like sitting here like, "Am I shaking?" Another guy. I'm doing another knee. You know the knee like this. You know, you know why? Hey, what's up, guys? Hey, George. You know why, Dave? I have to leave at 140 because I got to run to do my taxes. That's why you actually pay taxes. Yeah, of course. What do you do? Don't worry. Nobody's gonna pay taxes anymore. No more taxes. No. What do you What do you pay taxes on? What do you mean? Not my good looks because I don't have that. No, you do your you do you report all your eBay money and everything like that? Well, yeah. Got it. They send you we got all kind not just eBay. She sells on everything. But you know Yeah. But I you know we You do a lot of cash though, too, I'm sure. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, if the government's watching, I report everything. Yeah. They're they're cutting they're cutting to like 2500 IRS agents. Dude, you remember back in the drug dealing day when I was like drug dealer, I used to always have to say, well, you know, personal training because, you know, you got big cars and [\h__\h] you buy a house. Well, you luckily you had a gym to wash your money through, right? Well, yeah. You know, but I was I was like, [\h__\h] forget about it, you know. Yeah. I I used to do all your personal training, you know. Did you Did you buy a lot of equipment like with the with the cash you were making? Oh, yeah. Are you kidding me? We paid I didn't uh lease anything. No leasing. Bought. Boom. You owned everything? Wow. Everything. I owned every piece of that equipment. Every piece. What was the most expensive piece you had in there? Oh, [\h__\h] I mean, I had all like circuits of n the old Nautles was my favorite, you know, with the chain driven. I had circuits of David equipment. I had like a room with just David equipment because a lot of the old people like to sit there on that, you know, they don't like to be around, you know, the guys slinging weights and cursing and throwing weights around, you know. I uh I mean, I had uh uh I loved Flex gym equipment. remember flex, you know, the bic isolator and all that [\h__\h] and ham contractor. Uh I don't remember the mo the most expensive pieces were always the treadmills and stuff like that, you know. Maintaining them was always a pain. Yeah. Well, we had a guy that had to come all the time to maintain there was compounded in Mexico because all of the electronics had to get we had to bring it in from the United States. So we have to go into Texas with a suitcase and put, you know, circuit boards in there and then, you know, smuggle them back in. Oh, that's Yeah, that's But that's the big expense with a gym. It's the cardio stuff. All the cardio stuff cost a lot of money. And we bought all those treadmills. I didn't lease none of that. Most people cash. That's why you had cash. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I was, you know, I was selling. Nowadays, they just leased the whole lot. What What was the treadmill going for back in those days? But Oh, Jesus, Dave. I don't know. 78,000 10,000. Oh, they were that much. Yeah, they were expensive. We had top We had like Life Fitness treadmills. We had the top-of-the-line ship. Wow. You know, I just thought of something for George. George should come out. You know how they have treadmills and steppers? They should have a machine. It's like a surfer machine. You get in it. It's like a surfboard. I'm sure they probably over waves and [\h__\h] like that. How about that, George? George, you got to see my 5-year-old Shayla on that surfboard you gave her. She's Oh, man. It would it would have been perfect today for them to She's kneeling and she's standing up on the thing. She's looks like she's ready for the you know for the Well, let's make a trip. Dave, I can't There's no waves where you are. Zero. Zero. Come out here for for for a whole day. Dave, Dave, do you ever wonder what your kids' view of Georgie must be like? They love him. They'll think he's They got like he has to think he's the coolest. And he Right. He comes with cookies. Serve George. He takes him to the beach. Wait, George just said there's no ways where Dave is. Trust me for him though. When you say I bought my son a um an ebike, John, which is like kind of but it's it's like a pure ebike. So it's almost like a dirt bike really. I mean little things. They go like Yeah. Oh, they're so I got on the thing. I was like, "Holy mack, it's cool." So my friend Paul is like really he he's into dirt bikes. His son is into dirt bike. Yeah. They they rode their whole life, you know, out here in Cape Coral. And so like my son thinks he's the coolest guy because like he could they could talk like dirt bike talks. I see like I'm just a dumb body. He's cool though. Yeah, he's cool. Yeah. Yeah. Dirt bike. Packs are like 10. I see the kids like your son's How old How old is your son now? Is he eight? Nine. Nine. He tells people and they're going over these jumps and stuff. They're they're going in parking lots, you know, and going in and causing havoc. Luckily, he doesn't know about that yet. He's still to ride the bike. What do you mean? He's already been doing it. It's funny you say that. I just The question is how much? Yeah. I just saw a kid hit in the front of a car yesterday. He was on a path on a uh you know there's a road you know the main road and then there's you know path along the road like not a path you know that you walk on path and uh sidewalk and uh he was like doing a jump on a ramps he was 12 years old and he went into a car straight on now he didn't get hurt he got a little banged up you know but he he [\h__\h] up the front of the car and he was freaking out cuz he's a little Spanish kid you know and I told him bro I watched you the whole time doing wheelies and [\h__\h] you know and uh he hit this car, dude. They would he [\h__\h] destroyed that bike. And the mother, he was like scared. The cops would came and everything. And the mother, he's like, "I can't call my mother. He's going to kill me. She's going to kill, you know, cuz the mother bought him the bike, you know." And the mother was this hot Spanish chick. She must have been like, you know, like my my girlfriend's whole family. They all have kids when they're like 15, 13. The mother, the mother was like 20. She looked like she was like [\h__\h] 20. The kid's like 12, you know, but uh you know, your mother was hot, but I could tell he was getting it when he got home, man. She's like, "You little [\h__\h] you know, cuz the cops were there." No one cops said to him, "Hey, listen. Not for nothing. You're 12. I did things when I was 12 and I got my ass beat to so whatever happens, you know, cuz the kid went right the the cars was stopped and the kid jumped over, you know, up the curb. I didn't right into the wasn't paying attention cuz [\h__\h] nuts. We used to crash into into park cars when we were kids riding our bicycles. Remember? Yeah. But this kid smashed into the car. The car was stopped. It was an SUV and he went into it so hard he pushed in the bumper and [\h__\h] That's how that luckily kids are very That's a great story for Dave to hear. Yeah. Yeah. Kids are very resilient. You know what I want to ask Dave? Dave, how I watched your video, right? By the way, that was [\h__\h] awesome video. Oh, yeah. And I comment I comment on that video and my comments got a lot of comments, you know. But I want to say how the [\h__\h] at the end of the video they have that picture of you like five ways like this. How the [\h__\h] do you stay grainy hard all year round? What in God's name? I just had that I have a crazy metabolism, Greg. And I don't know and I don't eat enough. So I'm trying to keep my weight down so that because I don't want to get I get big if if I eat too much. When you're chronically starving, it's easy to say that. Yeah. But I just have I have I have a really I don't think I prod I remember when I went for stem cells originally before I got my shoulders done. You know, they supposed to take it out of your fat cells. And the guy said, "You don't have any fat cells." He's like, "I've never seen anything like so. They had to do it out of my hips. They had to take it out of the bone marrow, but but yeah, I mean, I just don't have any fat rags." Dave is [\h__\h] sick, though, because I'm gonna be honest with you. That one, you know, we're at you're at the end and you're like sideways. And uh you're so [\h__\h] hard there. I think that you're harder than a lot of the guys. He is. I'm like looking at that [\h__\h] I'm like, how? There's no there's like the ab I do have skin. Greg, did you see that exhibit in a museum called the called the bodies? Oh, yeah. I didn't go see him, but I haven't seen that's Dave a lot. That's that's that's them coming to life is Dave. He's like a cadaavver. No, I issue on him. It's just muscle. It's funny you say that because I was saying the other day to my girlfriend, "Holy [\h__\h] Dave." You know, we wa I watched this channel where they have cadaavvers, right? And the guy talks about like so here's the [\h__\h] bicep and here's like you know your in you know like your gut and [\h__\h] like that right and I'm watching I'm like a [\h__\h] looks like Dave there's no [\h__\h] fat. I mean like like how the [\h__\h] do you stay like you're you are grainy like hard like like you're I have no fat on my body and I can't explain it so I don't know. It's past that. It's past grainy. It's what I'm saying. There's no [\h__\h] It's cadaavverish. It's like the skin is gone. It's all gone. It's Dave. I think it's genetic. He's got dangerously too low fascia. You have to start eating some junk food. Yeah, but all the time he does. I've been with him eating I I have pictures of him all the time. Eating pasta and [\h__\h] like that. But how [\h__\h] how the [\h__\h] does he stay? He's as hard as any guy on the Olympia states. So, Mr. Olympus is not even harder than him. There's no way. Yeah. A lot of people have been asking for part two, believe it or not. Then, um Well, yeah, we're talking I'm talking to Alexi, the guy who made it. We're going to get him on the show. We should get him on next week, maybe. Yeah. And um maybe do something at the Olympia. That's what we were thinking about. That's a good idea. A lot of a lot of us are at the Olympia, so he could probably capture a lot of people on on video and interview people and stuff like that. Uh, probably needs to go to New York too because I have a lot we gota if I want to get all the people from my past. A lot of them are New Yorkers. So, he probably should make a pick. I think that's where he should [\h__\h] that whole Olympia [\h__\h] Well, he can get you. He can get my sister. He can get like Willilhelm. People like, you know, like who like you know I grew up with Wilhelm. I'm I gotta ask him about that special that IGF that he always Dave has this IGF that can get your dick like really big. It's a special IGF. He used to tell me that. I love Frank William. He's a great guy. He used to tell me like he has this growth this IGF. He knows his IGF. You know, Frank, he's got that Frank and I went to Barcelona together. What's he buy steroids? We I love Frank. He's a [\h__\h] He's got that. But he's got that voice, you know. Dave Dave's got this [\h__\h] IGF. This [\h__\h] thing makes you dick really. And I'm like, what is it? Like IGF? What? Like I like 52 or something like that, you know? And I'm like, what the I see and Trey, you know, I'm not I used to talk about that all the time. I used to, you know, it was I'm pretty good at this. I don't need that. But I'm just saying like, holy [\h__\h] I I grew so fast like I got so put so much muscle on because, you know, I was so scientific about what I did and I was a hyperresponder obviously that these guys that I hung out with on a regular basis and Frank was one of my best friends. They they they thought there was something I that that I had some kind of secret or something like that that I wasn't I wasn't revealing to them. You know what I mean? Like there was some something that I must have that they don't have. You know what it was was willpower, you know, and and an obsessive compulsive desire to be the best. You know that that was what I had. Yeah. But he was talking about the visually God, you know what I mean? Like he he he was obsessed with the fact I had big feet and big hands. So I think well I don't have big feet or big hands but I'm pretty good. I think you grew. You grew like that because you came from doing cross country for all those years and then just ready to I I definitely it it has to be some sort of Yeah. like a metabolic enzyme shift from years of running and switching to bodybuilding and I Well, look, it's the guy Sam he was a swimmer and and also the guy Eddie strong. Yeah. I'll tell you why. probably has something to do with, you know, the ex the extensive running that I was doing because even when I'm on no drugs, I have no body fat. Now, I don't grow as well. Now, if I could take a little bit of HRT, I I I I'm a hyper resppondent to that. But but the leanness, I don't need to do anything to be that lean. That's that's that has to be like a metabolic shift that my body went through probably from running 10 miles a day for five years straight. David, it's just genetic. Well, I think it's genetics. Look, you could change your enzyme systems in your body. Your body adapts, right? If you put your body in severe oxygen debt all the time and you're and you're running 10 miles every single day and I'm not jogging. I'm I'm running like because I'm training for cross country. I'm running at a very good You're still running now? No. No. This is years ago I'm talking about. I think your body metabolically shifts itself to use fat more efficiently. But Dave, I'm a hyperresponder with the steroids. I [\h__\h] two weeks I'll be jacked. But not you're [\h__\h] shredded. That's not normal. Well, that's I don't I I think that I think that's separate from the the the you know the ab my ability to respond to drugs. I think I just had But even when you were [\h__\h] 300 I remember when you were 300 lb, you know what I mean? I you know, so I know I see. Right. But let's All right, let's say everyone you were [\h__\h] ripped. They tested Lance Armstrong for his ability to buffer lactic acid. And they found that his ability to, we've talked about this before, his ability to to buffer lactic acid, which is what causes the burn in the muscle, right? When you're training, is is like a thousand times better than the next best person, right? So, when he's riding up a hill, he doesn't feel pain the way you or I would. So, how do you beat a guy like that? You can't. No. So if he if he bodybuildered then then he his muscles would repair quicker. I was we don't know about that. He just doesn't feel would build up. Dave it it's he's an endurance he has the endurance gifts. He doesn't have a hypertrophy gift. He's an endurance gift. So you know how is he maybe he was he was obviously born that way. So I don't know. So I obviously have metabolic enzymes that that that metabolize fat at a in a much more accelerated rate than the average person does. And I probably upregulated those from years of running, from bodybuilding, from, you know, dieting, from, you know, just everything I've done. And then obviously drugs accelerate that as well. So when I was 300 pounds and I'm taking four, I use a GH a day with, you know, steroids and IGF-1. Obviously that upregulates that ability. So now I'm 300, you know, lean, you know. So it all goes together. It's everyone has their gifts. I wish I had flex wheel structure, but I have Dave Palumbo's metabolism, you know. Ronnie and I eat at Outback together and he's looking at me, his arms about I told told the story too, 25 inches. He's sitting there. We're both guest posing in Fargo, North Dakota, and he he actually has the audacity to say to me, "Man, how do you stay so lean?" I said, "Are you kidding me?" I said, "As you sit there with your 25 inch arms and your whatever he had at the time, five Olympia titles, I said, you have your tasting ass. What What about bioatin negativity, Dave? Do you think that you have some of that going on? I don't know cuz I don't really have a propensity to put muscle on very very easily. I you you know introduced drugs. Yes. But not like uh not just I'm not like a naturally not a big guy. So I don't know. I don't know. Victor Victor Ki tested a bunch of those guys. Yeah. Flex was negative, wasn't he? Oh Richie Gaspari. He was part not you got to be like it's it's not my statin negative. It's like some defects in it. Yeah. I'm sure that you know anyone who's a hyperrespondent probably has some defects in in myostatin production probably. So how do you explain your injuries Dave from lifting too heavy weight for your shoulders? I think my I think my problem is I'm super hyperflexible and that's not really a good thing to be when you're a bodybuilder because yeah you won't tear muscles but your joints get beat up because there's too much movement in the joint. So movement the joint grinds too much. If you have a tight joint you don't get joint problems you just tear muscles. So, what about the low body fat? What? What if the fact that you're low body fat? You don't think that that has anything to do with you getting injured? I mean, like this. No, because I never got injured in the gym. Never. That's something your grandmother would say. I just wore away my shoulders because I had too much movement. Skinny skinny's gonna get hurt. Don't strong men gain weight for the competitions? They gain like 50, 60, 100 pounds. If you The heavier you are, the stronger you are. That's just Yeah. Let You know what? I I also have a funny story. I told Chris this on Heavy Muscle Radio on Sunday night, but it's worth repeating. So, I go to the airport. I I I'm bought four Siberian cats over the last like two months. So, I had to pick up the last one. So, my take my kids. We go to the airport to meet the woman. And this woman, Renee Smith, is there with the kitten and the kids going crazy in the plane. And she's talking. She's like, she goes, "You're a bodybuilder, right?" I said, "Yeah, yeah, yeah." She's like, "You know, my ex-husband, you you might know who he is." I'm like, "Who is he?" Uh he invented the Smith machine. Can you believe that? How funny is that? Her husband worked for AR uh Vic Tanny, you know, and Jack Elaine. Oh my god. Now, according to the story, because a couple of our viewers looked it up and and said that according to the the story, it's Jack Elaine invented the Smith machine, but this guy Smith is the one who promoted it and because he worked for Vic Tanny Gyms and he's the one who made it popular. So, I don't know who invented it or who didn't. Maybe Jack Lane took credit for it. I don't know, but it's named after this guy Smith who's his her exhusband, which I thought was pretty, you know, there's always there's always a bodybuilding full circle. Even when I'm going with animals and, you know, and stuff like that, I always run into people that know someone in the bodybuilding industry somewhere, which I didn't even I never even thought that, hey, a guy by the name of Smith invented the Smith machine. It doesn't, you know, I just thought it was it was what it was. But, uh, it's pretty cool, right? I wonder if he made any money off of it. Well, it got his name tag to it. So, Oh, yeah. It's called Well, who knows? Yeah. Imagine there was a machine called the Valentino machine. That would be like a toilet. They It's already got a name. It's called a toilet. Who didn't John Crarapper invent the toilet? That's why they called it the crapper, right? Are you serious? He was a Civil War general. John Crarapper. Yeah. Holy [\h__\h] Did you even know that? Did you know that they used to shp that one? Wait, Dave, did you know that you they used to wipe their ass with their left hand, right? They didn't have [\h__\h] toilet paper. I believe it. They were That's why they always say when you shake hands, you got to shake hands with your right hand. Well, no. And the Middle Eastern people, you know what? That That's why they don't You don't sh That's There's John Crarapper right there. That's why the punishment of getting their hand chopped off in those countries. He died in 1910. John. Wow. He was an English plumber and businessman. He founded Thomas Crarapper and Company in London and the plumbing equipment company. His notability with regard to toilets has often been overstated, mostly due to the publication of a 1999 fictional biography by a satistave. Dave, who who invented the enema? I can I finish? Hold on. Can I finish? Crarapper held nine patents, three of them for water closet improvements such as the floating wall. He improved the Sbend plumbing trap in 19 in 1880, inventing the Ubend. Uh he did the trap too. We've invented that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's he's the company owned the world's first bath, toilet, and sink showroom in Kings Road. Crarapper was noted for the quality of his products and received several royal warrants. Manhole covers with Crarapper's company name on them, West in Westminster Abbey, have become one of London's minor tourist attractions. That's funny. So, there you go. I thought he was a Civil War general. I guess he wasn't. He was But he he was a he was a plumbing expert. They look he's forever known. You say, "I'm going to take a crap." Right. Yeah, man. Yeah. Wow. My father That was my father's favorite expression. My father either was taking a leak or he was taking a crap. And he did a lot of an awful lot. I don't know why, but he he was always in the bathroom. I I I'm going to print that guy's picture out and put it on my wall. He should be your hero. Craig, he is my hero. The guy who invented the enema, the or like, you know, the hand, you know, the the fleet enema. I thought you invented that. Well, you know, I perfected it. No, he he he popularized it. I perfected it. Yeah. Gotcha. He introduced it to men. Invented by Jack Delane. Rudy Smith promoted it. There you go. Yeah. Here we go. What about Larry Scott? Did he invent the preacher bench? Scott bench. Remember Scott Curls? I think they just I think they just called him Scott Curls because he did them. I don't think he invented the bench. Scott curls were reversed like this, right? your palms facing down. That's a Scott call. But they used to call the preacher bench the Scott bench because he used to do it on the preacher bench. No, it's a preacher curl. Preacher curl bench. I thought it's because that's in the monastery. That's how to do curls. H or a preacher. They teach you how to do that because if you're a preacher, that's how you know you're old school. Somebody just wrote to me was talking about that like should I be doing Scott curls on my I actually have a B a bystar it's like an incline curl machine that's cool you're talking about Larry you talking about like the one like uh not Nebula the one that I had the flex where you sitting in there like this and curl like that yeah that's that's a cool machine where you put your arms in the pad they can actually move like this but you can do those reverse too those are good for forearms is that you guys remember the Kaiser equipment It was on on the had the air pressure. Yeah. Yeah. That sucked. Bob Bonner had that. Bob had that [\h__\h] [\h__\h] But the air machines, George, the air machines would break down. Bob would be and the hose the hose connector always was crap. Yeah. It's a [\h__\h] air pain in the ass, bro. You remember bicep? The first one where you're up like this and curling like that. The pads, you know, you were up like that. That was the original. It was a good Yeah, but it it was probably very It left your bicep in a very precarious situation, I'm sure. I like the multi the one where you sit. You know that was a great circuit when they had Jack Delane. They had three different circuit. They had the Nless circuit you with all the Nless equipment. Then they had Jack was a badass bro. He used to remember he like at 70 years old he [\h__\h] I actually have a with a tugboat in his mouth. What did you say Larry? I have a bystar curl machine that was invented by Larry Scott and I was invented by Larry Scott and it Larry the only one I've ever seen like it. There's I've never seen anything like What was special about it? What was special about it? It's It's like an incline curl. Um but there's pads that your uh triceps go against and the handles are out wide and you curl up like kind of like this. It's just a different movement. He's talking about the one I had. It's almost like you're not you're not moving at all. Seated incline curl with Larry. You got you got to go. He's talking about show one time in your gym and show us pads against your gets your arms like the flex bolator. I told Dave to put it up there, but like this put up my on my website. You can see it all. here. I trained at Jackal and because I trained at the one in Portchester for a bunch of years, too. Yeah. Everybody trained at Oh, the one in Portchester. We put all the equipment there. That's when Steve Mcculie was the vice president. Yeah. That place was was badass. He hire I remember before it opened the switch of valleys. He hired me and a couple other guys to do the person to do the first personal training in all of Jack Delanes. That was a great gym. All the bodybuilders trained up there. That's started really working out. Did you know they're all they were powerlifters so they got to order all the [\h__\h] It's like $4 million worth of stuff in that gym. They had the best free weight room I've ever seen in the Jackalania. So Dave, do you remember Bill Day? Do you remember him? Yeah, of course. Yeah, we used to go to the gym at 2 in the morning with Dr. Mike. Dude, he was a great guy. I don't know what ever happened to him. He used to talk to I used to buy equipment from him all the time. He would talk to himself when he would train. Come on, Billy. Come on, Billy. What are you doing? And people be looking around like, "Who the [\h__\h] you talking to?" Right? Then he squat. He put the bar right on his on his I heard he would squat without holding on to the bar. Right. That's what he used to do. He'd squat with like [\h__\h] 600 pounds on his back when he touch like this. Would stand there. Come on, Billy. One more, Billy. One more, Billy. Right. Sometimes he'd hold on to the hook. Did he have a good physique? He won some shows. He went like, you know, he went to Westchester, but you know, he had to go up against a lot of good guys, you know, but he was very extravagant. He had the hair like don't touch the [\h__\h] hair, you know what I mean? With the hair and [\h__\h] you know? Oh, Doug WZ was head trainer. Yeah. Yeah. Doug WZ was after after me. Yeah, that's I was training with Doug. We have a we have a guest on on the panel we're gonna bring on now. John, you want to introduce him? Yeah. Um I've worked with this guy for a long time. We've known him Dave. It's got to be decades that this guy has been uh in in our purview. um one of the best, probably the best investigative journalists I think we've ever run across and proving and taken on some extremely controversial topics over the years. You either love him or you hate him, but um his name is Anthony Roberts and here he is. What's up, my friend? Where is he? I know Anthony. There he was. I saw him in the waiting room. He was fine. I know Anthony. We have to have technical difficulties. It's not a show investigation. He'll he'll sign back in yet. But it's not a show of He He contacted me and he said, "Listen, I got some information on some people. It's embodied is that you know, they're both deceased, but they were federal informants to some degree." And I think it's important you got to talk about it anyway, said because think there's going to be articles articles They're already out. Yeah, the articles. I don't know if a lot of people have seen it, but he's going to come on and tell us what he discovered and what he found out. Here he is. I think we got a phone. Oh [\h__\h] I know Anthony. Holy [\h__\h] What's up, guys? How you doing, man? You in years. Holy Christ. How you doing, Craig? How are you? Very good, man. How you doing? It's been a long time. Yeah. Yeah. God bless. Last time I saw you was at uh Strong and Shapely, right? Yeah. New Jersey. You're talking like 20 something 30 years ago. It was a long time ago. It was a long time ago. Yeah. I don't know about 20 something years, but it was a long time ago. Is Anthony a good guy? Anony's a great guy. I don't know. He had He's in a great guy status. Yeah, he's good guy, man. He just has a bad connection. Is he frozen? Oh, is he frozen again? He looks like Robert Dairo right now where he's frozen. Robert Dairo. You looking at me? You talking to me? Talking to me. I remember I saw that movie when I was in You might have to use his phone. Basic training. Yeah. Wow. Use your phone. You got five years. Talking to me. Walking here. You must be. Yeah. [\h__\h] He's a disgrace though. I say that when I'm driving somebody in Uber. I'm driving somebody Uber and the guys guy get he's talking to someone on the headset. I go, "Are you talking to me? No, my friend. I'll go. Okay. You guys see the conversations I have in there. Oh, man. He's switching to his phone. Okay. Okay. I'm glad you you're communicating with him. That's fine. Yes, I am. All right. Okay. Oh, man. Was asking me about stem cells. How are they? Are you still with that stupid bottle of stem cells you got there? No, I'm not. No, it's a new bottle of stem cells. Look at my arms. Oh my god, they're growing. No, you you actually look big. I was going to say he looks really good for Did you buy him stem cells at Walmart? He's what is he? What are you 67 now? Yeah, I'm 67. I I I weigh 230, right? But that's too I I want to get a lot lighter. You got to better lighten up, bro. Huh? You better lighten up. Well, because I want to I surf and and I I try do the Yeah. The lighter you are, the longer you live. Yeah. How are you getting so big with all your MMA training and all your surfing you do? You would think you would get small. I don't know. I'm getting lean. He eats He eats cookies. No, I'm I'm lean. I'm getting I'm getting But you're big. I'm saying you're pretty mighty. You look good, dude. I know, but I'm not even lifting weights. That's Are you kidding me? No, I'm What I'm No, because what I'm doing is I'm doing more like uh punching. Well, I'm I do that training, but I surf got arms. He has to be working out with weights a little bit. He has to be. But, you know, paddling when you paddle on that surfboard, that's that's a lot of Yeah. I was so this morning I surf for about an hour. Most surfers have like 12 inch arms. They don't have He has like 18 inch arms right now. But he had them to begin with. So now I don't know why they're I don't know why they're growing like that. I don't want them to grow. What do you want? What are you taking? I don't want your arms. I'm taking I'm taking 200 300 milligrams of of antinate a week. Well, that's that's my John right there. He's growing. Why is that? Is that too much? No. No, it's fine. And then he's on stem cells too, John. Right. Well, I'm not on stem cells. I did my due diligence. I told the guy I want to see I want to see the the patients that he's that he's been dealing with in his office. All right. What was it? Monkey monkey monkey stem cells or something like that. It looks like a stem cell shot. It looks like an like an energy shot. Stem cell shot. This No, this is in in a oil suspension and you spray it on under your tongue. Suspension. Yeah. You inject it once a day. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, you heard of me? Big ass needle like an 18 gauge [\h__\h] pin alone and and and uh and test suspension. No, what I did is I kept asking him question because I'm asking questions, you know, he's making all these claims and then I go try and search him on Google. I go, "How come I don't see you're not putting down as a doctor? You're telling me you're a doctor and you and you do research? Richard Rodriguez was a doctor." So, you know what he tells me? The guy tells me I don't want to be because I can't make claims. I go, "You can't make claims. Nobody wants to hear hear a salesman get come on come on a show and talk about they want to hear the scientists. You don't have to talk perfectly, right? But if if you're the one to develop it and I want to see all the people you've been you've been dealing with supposedly you've been helping people on stage four cancer stuff and I go and the only way it's going to work is if if I go off if if you take my blood right and then and then I'm I'm the role model and then you take my blood every week to see how what's going on and how I'm performing and changing. Anthony Sabbelloo makes a good point right there. knows what. Oh my god. Yeah, sure I do. I measure cookies all the time. Yeah. Yeah. He's using like the tablespoon measure for for those of you out there. By the way, every every cookie of his has five milligrams of dianabol in there. So, if you eat enough of those things, you're No, I can just picture him with the dianabol tablets and he's got cheese grater and he's the bowl of dough and he's like graating the Can you imagine how many cookies he'd sell if there was dianabol in those cookies? Oh my god. Diana there. There is It's not They'll have you arrested. It's not dianabol. It's it's it's the Captain Protein energy that's in there. And when you eat cookie, you get the energy. That's what you get. the positive energy and positivity is what makes you grow. Now, now here here's a basic lesson in in in advertising. All you have to do is say, "Here's the cookie. Here's here's the arm. So, I got this is how I got my arms by eating these cookies." Be at least at least a couple thousand people. We're gonna find out like Steph Curry failed the drug test in the NBA and they'll be like, "What? I I don't know. I didn't I all I heard was these protein cookies. They were delicious." He goes, "I put on a few like 10 pounds." It's like for the heroin with a poppy seed bagel. Dave, I made a whole batch of keto. There you go. Oh, beautiful. That's what I love. Those are my favorites. Keto, though. These are pumped up. Yeah. Pumped up with what? Dear antler. It's my It's a It's a secret Captain Protein. You know, you know what? I have an I do have an idea for him, John. You should make Here's the here I'm throwing it out there. Don't Someone's gonna steal the idea if you don't do it. a coffee flavored cookie. Okay? But you're going to use mushroom extracts in there like turkey tail or lion's mane because the the mushroom extracts have a coffeeish taste in them anyway, right? And I want you to make me a coffee keto a keto coffee uh cupcake. Oh, so why do you want TCC coffee keto cupcake? Why do you want the co the mushrooms in there? Because I think it's good for mental focus. You can sell them as a performance like food. Cookies putting protein putting putting the ingredients in. You can even put little pieces of espresso like chips in there. You know, I've seen chocolate bar espresso beans. Use Yes, you can buy You can buy mushroom extract powder. Yeah, you can buy that. You don't have to put a lot in there. You just put a little bit. No, that's what Okay. Because I I make bagels, too. I mean, I I've never tasted a coffee cookie. They have they have cookies you eat with coffee where you dip them in the coffee. But they never made a coffee flavored cookie. I think I shouldn't even be giving these ideas away. Someone's going to steal my idea. Oh yeah, somebody. They can steal the idea they want. You It's the marketing, Dave. It's the marketing is is you could have you you could sell [\h__\h] crap. Know you need you need massive marketing. Massive marketing. You know that without massive marketing, you're done. Toast. You just like the misfit toy. He's like Mr. G. He's He's a genius, but he can't get an internet connection. Ah God, I know. What the hell? Yeah. So Dave, maybe the thing because I had no injuries. Nothing. Right. Right. And I can I run on the assault treadmill. I sprint. I I I train. And it's all because you eat the protein cookies. All right. I stand corrected. There's Italian cookies with coffee flavor. All right. Well, I I want a coffee cookie with for Mr. G. A keto cookie. Are you going to get Think about that. Text me keto cookie with the mushroom in it. John, text me text me the fl the flavoring. You got my number right. And you're gonna you're gonna name it. You're gonna spell co you're gonna spell turisu. Listen. You're gonna call You're gonna spell cookie with a K, George. Okay. Coffee keto cookie. The triple K. Triple K. Yeah. How about a spaghetti and meatball cookie? And you can call it cake cube, but not gonna work. I want, you know, I want Italian flavor. Spaghetti and meatball pizza, maybe, but not a spaghetti. Eggplant Parmesan ice cream sundae. No, but here's my thing. Why Why do all the This is what you're gonna do, George. This is what you're gonna do. You're gonna go get unflavor I mean, you're gonna go get decaffeinated instant coffee. Okay? And you're going to put that in there, okay? for me because I don't want a ton of caffeine in there. Uh, and because people eat a lot of these cookies, they'll be wired out of their mind. So, you want you want decaf instant coffee. Add it to the sprinkle it into the mix. Your your keto cookie. What about the mush? You don't want the mushroom, too. And then you put a little mushroom extract to get some turkey tail, some lion mix. Yeah. The whole point the whole point of me making my products was always to to drive the macronutrients in. Right. Well, when you do this now, you can get now you can charge the prices you charge and no one's going to complain because it's it's a performance cookie now. So, well, they can complain all they want. I mean, Georgie Georgie, your your cookies aren't driving macronutrients anywhere. What you want what you want to do is there is All right. What's up, Anthony? Hey. Hey. All right. Much better. Much better. All right. Since we're since we're running low on time, let's let's get right to it. You did you've done some research. Tell me how, first of all, tell me how you got involved in this research project looking this stuff up, why you did it, and what you found out. Yeah. So, basically, when Transformics Peptides went down, uh, I pulled the court documents. What year was that, uh, Anthony? That was 2018. Okay. Yeah. So I pulled the court documents and buried kind of on page 22 was a reference to somebody known to the grand jury with the initials BL and I published an article about it and then Boston Lloyd reached out to me and was asking like hey did you hear anything about like informants maybe or you know do you know anything uh you know what's my exposure as a sponsored athlete and when he passed away unfortunately um that was kind of a a green light to to foyer to file Freedom of Freedom of Information Act request. So that you know when he passed maybe like a day later I filed that request to just see what was going on with informants and whatnot and you know specifically on his name and to be honest they actually didn't redact the foyers correctly. So they left Jerry Ward's name in as another informant. So so this company gets busted. This is the company I know Boston was promoting these peptides for a while. That was the company he was working for. And I didn't know Jerry Ward was also working were involved with the same Boston. Boston was technically an owner. He did tell me he owned 33%. He was getting some pretty big paychecks. He told me for for He did. He did. He He had a contract with them that said he owned 33%. I told him he was crazy, by the way. I told him, "You're nuts." I said, "You mean for what reason?" Like, there's like 10 reasons that that that could be Explain why it's illegal. Anthony. Yeah. So, this is a legal th this is specifically the introduction of unapproved new drugs into interstate commerce. Uh, a lot of these drugs, these peptides like IGF-1 LR3 or CJC-1295 or MK-677. Uh, these drugs have have not passed through FDA approval. Now, so what these guys do, and I'm sure most your you know what, most of your watchers are going to know this. What these guys do is they put not for human consumption because it's it's not legal to sell them for human consumption, but you know, labs can sell it for a reference standard or whatever. So, they throw this on there and they think, "Well, as long as the website doesn't say, right, here's how humans need to take it or here's the appropriate dose for a 200lb man." Uh, they think they're in the clear. And then they typically also pay someone. So they say, "I can't say it's for human consumption, but I can pay someone to say it's for human consumption," which is obviously completely incorrect. So yeah, so it's it's basically it's misbranding. It's introduction of unapproved drugs into interstate commerce. You know, every time they make a deposit, right, it becomes money laundering. Every time they send out a package, it becomes mail fraud. uh they make a deposit and it's bank fraud and there's like a dozen or two dozen crimes that they commit every time they make a sale. Interesting. You know, I remember when Boston when told me because Boston was so transparent. He he called me up. He's like, you know, the feds came to my house and they were asking about this this this uh peptide company that I'm involved in. He goes I said, I'm I'm assuming you told them that you you know you don't talk to anyone without a lawyer. He goes, no. He goes, I have nothing to hide. I just told him come on in. I asked if they wanted a drink. I'm like, "Oh my god." He admitted like a dozen felonies. He was like, "Yeah, uh, they got a package. He's by customs." So, I said, "Yeah, send it to me." And then it was leaking white stuff and and I repackaged it and I remailed it. It was It was phenomenal. Like the amount. Yeah. On the other hand, you have Jerry Ward saying, "Oh, I never took them. I I I promoted them and I and I had them ship them to me and I had a $200 a month stipen that I always used, but I I never actually took them. Like he's not admitting to personal use. That's the that's they don't they don't care about personal use. Jeremy was a good friend of mine. I I find that crazy. So was Boston. You know, the weird thing the weird thing is that they're both not alive. That's those really Yeah, that's the kind of weird That's the weird part about this whole thing about this after they're gone. Boston ties dangerous. Boston had a very almost a naive about him about certain things. And I think that, you know, you you and John, you know, that's why he was so honest about everything because he just he's like, "Well, I have nothing to hide. Yeah, I use these peptides. I you know, I promoted them. I s I sold you know, I own part of the company." Like he he I don't think he knew that to not say anything. He just was like, "Yeah, well, this is what I do. It's not I'm not doing anything wrong, I guess." Right. And so, he just thought that telling them what was going on was nothing special because they already knew. They asked me about it. Oh, they already knew. They They already knew. They If you watch Jerry Ward's old videos, Yeah. Jerry says like, "Hey, when the feds show up, you know, they know what you're doing already." So Jerry, other than not admitting personal use, uh, these guys were several months into the investigation. So they didn't show up to start the investigation, they they really showed up to Jerry's house and and to Boston's house to put a bow on it, right? Because they they charged these companies with conspiracy. They didn't charge them with any of the actual crimes. They only charged conspiracy. So you really need testimony to to make that work. So because you usually need an underlying crime to to and they they chose not to they chose not to indict over the they were selling steroids. They were selling methyl one testosterone. Wow. They were selling methyl stemolone dimethazine. They were selling SARMMS right. They were selling uh GW-501516. They were selling everything you can sell. And all they got hit with was conspiracy. Conspiracy between mail fraud and conspiracy. This is the This is the Transformics company itself. You're talking about the owners. Yeah. Jerry and Boston, they admitted a ton of crazy things. And obviously they didn't have a lawyer with them. They admitted me by the way. Yeah. Which is insane. You know, that's crazy because I was good friends with Jerry. We used to go out to dinner. My girlfriend still talks to Erin. his his wife. To this day, they talk you Jerry was a very had a very popular YouTube channel. He had to know that what he was doing wasn't wasn't legal. And you know what? I don't know why he did it because he had a lot to lose. He was making good money, you know, from his channel. So, I don't know why he would roll the dice on that. But, you know, people make a lot of bad decisions and they just maybe they got arrested secretly. You know, you find out like uh well, he obviously they came to him and he cooperated with them. Greg is what was what Anony's telling us now, right? Uh um to be honest, I don't think they were I don't think they were ever in danger of of being arrested. Like the way these conversations went down, I can't I can't believe they ever thought they were in they must have gotten sat down and the Fed said, "Listen, we don't care about you. Tell us everything." because they just admitted they they were giving them text messages. Jerry was like, "Here, here's my text messages." So, they must have really believed they they were just in no danger at any time. Are you saying it was in the supplements? Like Jerry had a supplement company. No, no, no, no, no, no. This is a this is a different company, Greg. It was a peptide company that they were promoting. Jerry would promote it on his on his channel. I don't when I would go out with him and we go to dinner and his wife and we never talk about bodybuilding. Just like Lee Priest, I go out with Lee. Lee comes to my house and stuff, we never talk about bodybuilding or steroids or any of that [\h__\h] We It's the last thing we actually talk about, you know? Well, Greg, you and I never talked about that. All the times we've hung out, we've we've never talked about steroids or bodybuilding. I don't talk about that [\h__\h] I can talk about what diner we're going to go to. Yeah, there you go. I I think Boston was on I really think that Boston was under the impression that well, you know what? If these guys are so openly going to give me money and a percentage of the company and everything like that, then then there's nothing to hide. Everything's in the open. If anyone asks me, I'm just going to tell them what's going on because it's not it's not illegal in my mind. I think that's how that that's a very important point, Dave. What happen what you do is you convince yourself that you're not doing anything wrong and bearing of the fact that you are, but But you've convinced yourself. Richard Rodriguez is probably the greatest. Okay, here's a guy who who just blatantly sold steroids online out of the upstairs from a gym and he said he was a doctor. He portrayed himself. I was telling Anthony yesterday when I first met him was what I had I had contracted Flex Wheeler and Kevin Levrone to do an appearance for me in Mexico. And right before the trip, Flex calls me up and says, "You mind if I bring my doctor with me? He must know my He must know the sheep doctor." Yeah, bring Yeah, bring your doctor, you know. And he brought Richard Rodriguez. And then And that's how I met Richard Rodriguez. That's right. That's funny. But but you you gotta you gotta admire the hubris that you know in in in running through $10 million worth of sales and steroids online. He made the most of anyone right in one year I think he told us right but they didn't rat on guys did they didn't they didn't right so I don't really consider them like I mean no Richard did the time but my point is that you know Richard I meant like you know Boston and and and Jerry gave information about the guys who own something let me just add something to this they got like Boston was making between like call it 10 and 15k per month from these and he was in on on sweat equity and he started thinking they were they were robbing from him. Both Jerry and Boston pretty much openly said these guys are stealing from me and they parted ways by this time and both guys thought you know these guys soaked me like these guys just robbed me. So, you know, the Feds show up, they want to talk about some guys who ripped you off, you know, that that stiffed you for 10K or 15K, call it 12 and a halfK, right? The Fed show up, they want to talk about your old partners who screwed you over and they say during the clear and we already have the case made. I I don't see that as as snitching to be honest. You know, they weren't trying to get themselves out of trouble. They were almost trying to get themselves into trouble with all the stupid things. Well, I'm sure they were given immunity, right? By talking to them. I suspect they probably testified to the grand jury because when I see memorandum of interview and I see what a prominent role and especially because they're they're getting hit with with conspiracy instead of the actual substantive charge. I can only imagine at a later date they both got immunity and probably they both talked to a grand jury and and somewhere down the road if it went to trial obviously I'm sure they would have appeared on a witness list. Yeah. And I I think this is a you know look we all love Jerry, we all love Boston and everything like that but you know a lot of guys are not willing to you know if they're doing something wrong they're not willing to to take the the onus for it and they're going to try to if they can get out of it and they have an easy out they're going to take it. And I'm not I'm judging anyone on on doing that. Everyone's got to make their own decision what the right thing to do is. You know, you know, I chose to, you know, suck it up and and do the time, whatever. You know, other people have, you know, gotten out of it. I don't know if it would, like with Boston and Jerry, it wouldn't have changed anything probably on the outcome of the person they, you know, they gave information about. But, you know, the right decision when when the feds come to your house is to say, "Call Rick Collins. Here's his card." I don't you shouldn't really talk to a Fed without without a lawyer present because uh I think I think that's who they called actually. Uh transform Rick you don't want to pay pretty much no one else to call. Yeah. And uh you know Rick's the best. I love the best all you can do is incriminate yourself. all you can do is incriminate yourself and they can use that information asked me about the whole thing when it was going on. He asked me what he should do. And I I basically told him he should shut up, but he uh wasn't going to do that. But uh the do conspiracy, that's the easiest charge they can make because they don't have a very solid case. So conspiracy is just like a a big wide fishing net. They did the same thing on me. They didn't have they never caught me with anything. So they charged me with conspiracy and that that's just a it covers everything, right? Don't have toically nail you on a specific thing. It's just conspiracy. Uh basic uh saying that you plan to do this. That's it. That is the charge. So, um yeah, w with regards to that, ask me about it. So, I suspect uh w with regards to that, I think they picked conspiracy because they were after Transformics's supplier. Uh Transformics ultimately also rolled. I mean, like I'm not saying Jerry and Boston rolled. I think this is a very different thing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But like I'm not saying that at all. Um fully support their their actions to be honest. Uh but Transformics eventually rolled and they I believe probably got their supplier taken down. Just my own speculation based on what I've been seeing. And they also rolled on their customers which is super dick. Like they they gave up customers who then got sanctioned by athletic bodies. Oh really? never seen that that that that they gave up a customer list and now these guys had like their titles stripped and it was a CrossFit couple CrossFit athletes, you know, weightlifters. Uh yeah. No, Transformics is is the villain here. It's it's not it's not Jerry or Boston. Yeah. I Yeah, it wasn't like Jerry and Boston went and testified. Yeah, but I still have to stress to you if if if the feds ever come to your house for whatever reason, look, a lot of body bills use steroids and they get them from different places, China, overseas, don't talk to anyone. Say, look, I don't do I don't deal with my own business. Talk to my lawyer. That's it. Because that's how Martha Stewart went to jail. I mean, we talked about this, John, you and I, back when I was had my case. She purged herself because she should never have talked to the the prosecutor without a lawyer present. She then they got her for lying and then then they she wound up doing five months in prison. Marcus Stewart went to jail because my my boy that I just went out with Friday night, Charlie Gasper was the one who broke that story. A matter of fact. Oh, he did? Yeah. She just saw him. He broke the story about her doing that insider trading [\h__\h] right? Well, no, she didn't go to jail for insider trading. She went to jail for lying. Lying? I know, but she was doing all that and then uh she told Charlie Gman recently, "Fuck you." You know what I mean? Like they Oh, she did? Oh, really? Just because he broke the story? Yeah, because he's the one who brought it out into the open and then the feds went after him. But this whole this whole stuff like with Transformics and [\h__\h] I I'm sorry, but I feel like like like like they're like fishing in a fishb. They know that bodybuilders got something to lose. It's not like the weed dealer. You break, you know, you go some guy selling crack and [\h__\h] in New York City. He's like, "Yo, that ain't mine. What's your name?" My name is [\h__\h] Your Mother. That's my name. But if you got a house, you got a little family. Got [\h__\h] going on. you know, we're gonna take away your family, we're gonna take away your house, and they're like, I what do you want to know? You know what I mean? And it's it's like fishing in a fishbowl. Do you really think that are people carjacking cars or robbing houses to support their steroid habit? No. Do you really think like, man, we're going to clean the streets and [\h__\h] all these people taking like, you know, transformics or whatever the [\h__\h] you know, the the, you know, the world's going to be a lot safer if we start busting these guys taking peptides. It's it's so stupid to me. Go chase real crime. There's other [\h__\h] going on in this country that you should be worried about. You know, kids taking fentanyl and all other [\h__\h] and you're worried about some guy trying to take a little [\h__\h] you know, MK-677. You know what I mean? Like the up. It's like fishing in a [\h__\h] fishbowl. But that's been the argument. That's been the argument for decades about the whole, you know, anti-steroid movement. It's like like come on, you're bothering us for hormones. Why? But we have something to lose. That's why they got to make it look like they're doing something. That's what it is. Well, these guys the this particular prosecutor's office has been in this game for a while. Like I've been watching them for like Why do you think they went after this particular peptide company? Like almost the past decade, these guys have been in this game. So they're they're for whatever reason uh they're hyperfocused on, you know, they took down Steve Wood from SNS or Serious Sports Nutrition or something. They've been they've been knocking people down for a while. Like this is this is their deal uh in this particular office for whatever reason because they need to look good by making big busts. You know what I'm saying? Like it looks good. We just took down this peptide company. Wow. We got the streets are going to be safer now. You know what I mean? Like, holy [\h__\h] what a crime ring that is, you know? Meanwhile, you got people carjacking cars. Go to New York City where there's savages everywhere. You know what I mean? There's roaming packs of 13-year-old little [\h__\h] that jumping people and [\h__\h] And you're worried about some guy. I'm going to take a little legandrol, you know? You know, I'm trying to get my body bigger. I'm trying to, you know, be more fit, more a little healthier, try to get some muscle. They're worried about that [\h__\h] right? You know, that's again, it's like fishing in a fishbowl. You know, that's the that's the way, you know, I remember going to Carnival upstate and they had [\h__\h] these giant trout and you're swimming in like a giant uh like pool and they give you Duchess County Fair. Yes. The Duchess County Fair. John knows cuz John used to live. Yes, John. Trout pond. That was so cruel. These fish were like this big and they're swimming around in like a a kitty pool. Like a It's a harpooned them with the end of the fishing rod. I mean, dude, you go in there, you get a fish. You want to go fishing, you get a fish right there. It's like, dude, how can you miss? I could choke and grab one and [\h__\h] Like, I'm noodling and everything. But what I'm saying is, you know, they're worried about some guy taking 677 or some company war. We're selling freaking legend. Don't say anything. You know what I mean? They're worried about that [\h__\h] right? But then you got all this other [\h__\h] There's other nutty [\h__\h] Bath salts and all this other [\h__\h] that people are getting whacked on. this [\h__\h] to me it's an easy bust. You know what they need to do? We need to make a name for ourselves a little bit. We gota we gota make a big bust. How can we get some and you know they get the shuttle and confiscate so they get the money and it looks good. We made this bust, you know, $3 million we got, you know, from this company because they were selling MK-677. [\h__\h] hey, you know, it's that's that's the way I look at it. You know, it's you got other [\h__\h] in this country you got to worry about. the savages everywhere and you're worried about some bodybuilder schmuck trying to freaking, you know, and then they know that you got everything to lose. The simple solution is just to legalize all this [\h__\h] and then they don't have to deal with it. I mean, but uh yeah, you know, we got for that to thank for that. Schwarzenegger back in [\h__\h] what 1990 911 were supposedly, you know, they used to say he didn't want Lee Haney to break his record. I don't think it's that. But, you know, he's he's so far woke, you know, he was like, you know, that should be, you know, definitely should be regulated illegal. You know, that [\h__\h] wasn't illegal back then. You know what I mean? It was just a it was like getting uh prescription drug. You know what I'm saying? It wasn't antibiotics, right? Now, it's like holy Christ. But, you know, if you think if you think about it, like what is a peptide? It's a it's a protein, right? So, I mean, right? If if it was orally, in other words, they sold it in the supermarket or you put it into a a protein tub, you probably could eat it and then no one would say anything. But because it's in a little vial where you could add some water and inject it, it all of a sudden becomes illegal. You know, it's you're in jail with crack [\h__\h] dealers and [\h__\h] What are you in jail for, bro? I was selling [\h__\h] kilos of crack. No. What are you doing, bro? We were bringing in all that [\h__\h] heroin and marijuana for And what are you in for? I was selling MK-677, you know. I mean, like, holy [\h__\h] Really? You're a [\h__\h] criminal, you [\h__\h] We don't want any to sit. You go sit over there. We don't want to associate with you. You're a criminal. It's one step up from a from a child. Holy [\h__\h] What What's going to What do you think that? What's going to happen with all these tariffs now on this stuff? Is Is the price going to go up? All these chemicals? Yeah. No, they're going to go down because we're going to make it all here in America. That's right. There you go. That's right. Made in America, baby. Can we find Can we Yeah, we got to make We got to open a compounding lab that does this legally. That's Yeah. Yeah, we could do it here. You got to do it here. No, it would be No, we would just produce the raws and then sell the raws to China. China can make their own stuff. Every country can take care of themselves. They can fight for themselves. If they can't fight for themselves, then they don't deserve to exist. Ain't no gang gonna come in in any one of our towns in our country or any gang take over anybody in the US because every man stand up. Wait, now you got the woke left. You know what they're going to say? Look at Donald Trump. Because of him now we're create. They're making their own drugs in the United States. The you know making everything here. Pod Podesta she's got 370 bill. You know who Podesta is? Yeah. John Podesta. Yes. Gajesta got 300 before Biden that crook left. All right. They gave him they gave him $370 billion. $370 billion. They're funding all these all these idiots who are protesting. Oh, you're protesting. Oh, you want you want money? You want money being sent to to to Pakistan to to start a gay Sesame Street? That what you want? You you have a question of Hold on. Why are all old men obsessed with the news? John, you ever noticed that? Old men love to watch the news and [\h__\h] scream at the TV at the TV. Hey Dave, am I an old man? Greg and I watch have the news on all day long. That's right. We watch f You have to be informed, David. By the way, by the way, I I want to just give you a Jimmy the Bull update. Spreading the spreading the alarm, telling people I got to wrap up the show, but Jimmy the Bull called me the other day. He sent me all his blood work. He he was he thought he was having a he thought he was on his deathbed again and he was having thought he was having pancreatitis, but he didn't have pancreatitis. And he he had a full body scan, John, from the neck down to his feet. And uh the only thing they found was was that he he was old. That's what they told him. And he had some like residual kidney stones that have been there probably for 20 years that they told we knew. And uh he Yeah. Everything is just calcified and he's, you know, but nothing is wrong with him. They He's completely healthy. 100%. No, he doesn't want to be though. He's so healthy because he goes to the VA every couple of days. That's right. He was say he's greatly relieved. I want everyone to know Jimmy the Bull is fine. He was supposed to come on the show, but I didn't send him the link. He'll probably blame me even though I know he's probably driving and he wouldn't come on anyway, but I knew Anthony was coming on. So, I wanted Anthony, thank you for coming on. Thank you. Thank you for having me. Where can people read that story that you wrote? It was really good. It was on good. Yeah. Yeah. It's on uh thinkststereroids.com is the first part and then I'm going to kind of do more of a deep dive into the the law and the drugs and all that for a part two next week. Gotcha. Okay. Great stuff you're doing. Keep the keep up the great work. Thanks for coming on and filling us in. And uh Anony's the best. He's my guy. Yeah, you're a good man, Anthony. Is there anyone you don't like? I love Anthony. I I know my I know you love him, but is there anyone you don't like? My girlfriend. You better like it. She's She's uh No, my girlfriend. She's good. She's the best. You guys are like you. You know, I figured you guys should have a TV show, Greg. She's gonna go cut the grass. You know, think about it. Think about what a great TV show, John, they would have if they got him like almost like the pickers and all these other crazy shows. Him and his girlfriend going at night in the in the in the the 300,000 mile car, picking up junk at people's curbs, and then bringing it back, refinishing it, and then selling it on eBay. I guarantee people would love the show. Could you imagine the furniture tied to the G personality? Could you imagine all the furniture and like cables and chairs and [\h__\h] that are tied to his car? Like you would be a TV c even though you say you already are. You would be a TV celebrity. I'm telling you. Remember that scene from the Beverly Hill Billies where they had all the furniture tied to that would be Greg. Greg would they would be out picking and you got the Honda there. We do put that and the couch is tied to the top. I know you do. That's why someone's got to film this. And then you can have a scene where you come in and Greg's got the head and he's got a paintbrush and he's replend him and ask him if this has any value. Wait a minute. Look what I found. I'll show you what I just found. Hold on. Ready? It's not Lee Haney Sandro. Look, it's a little Bobby Kennedy. Bobby Kennedy. Bobby Kennedy. Somebody tore out his head. Are you gonna fix it up? Uh, no. You gonna fix it up with like paint it and stuff like that? Yeah, I'm gonna fix it. I'm I'll fix it. Are you going to do You should do it and sell and and and send it to RFK Jr. Wait, are you just going to fix it up or you going to mold the rest of them? No, I'm gonna I can make a mold out of that. No, seriously. Why don't you Why don't you do some of your little artwork on it and send and and offer to send it to RFK Jr.? Yeah, be dazzle it. I got an idea. Make the American flag out of his face. No, Greg. The Chia Pet stuff. The Chia Pet mush. Put it on there. Make it grow. No, the flag. Make his face the flag. like like like like the I think you should I think you should fix it up and I think you should send it to RFK Jr. Maybe it'll come on maybe it'll come on our show and I'll show you another one. This is me. I need to put the sunglasses on it. But right here, look. Who is that? That's Curly from the Tree Stoes. Oh, is it? Yeah. I thought it was uh what's the guy Harvey Weinstein is in jail for a little Greg threw on. Look, I put a little If I put sunglasses on. Put the shades on, Greg. He does look like you. You're right. More more than Uncle Fester does. Yeah. Well, thanks, uh, Anthony, for stopping by. Thank you all for joining us today. Uh, we are wrapping up today's festivities. Next week, we're going to try to have Alexi on talking about the Dave Plumbmo documentary. There is a you can download the uh the soundtrack. We did put up the link before. For now, we are out of time. I'm Dave Palumbo with the entire Whack Pack and John Romano. We'll see you next week. Made in USA, baby.