Thank Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Tuesday, August 18th, 2015, and let's get to it. Apparently, Chris Tuttle is a glutton for punishment because he's now just under nine weeks out from making his second pro appearance at the Phoenix Europa Pro. And new photos have surfaced of a massive looking Tuttle who claims he's currently sitting at a hulking 238 lbs. Earlier this season, Tuttle debuted in spectacular fashion with a strong showing at the New York Pro in the 212 division. But if he hopes to make the 212 cutoff in Phoenix, he's going to have to really suffer to drop another 20 plus pounds. But if Tuttle can manage to pull it off, there's going to be a lineup of competitors that are in for a world of trouble. It looks like star Bllock has been nice and cozy with the Stepmill as of late. New photos surfaced this week of a much improved looking Bllock as she enters into the heart of her contest prep for the upcoming Wings of Strength Texas Pro. The competition in Texas promises to be hot and heavy as competitors scramble to snatch up the few precious remaining Olympia qualification spots. But with the improvements she's made and a little bit of good luck, Bllelock stands an excellent chance to make some magic happen on stage in her home state. Good luck star jumping jer will Batman. David Henry is looking pow bam impressive. After sticking to his usual script of flying so far under the radar that he's practically subterranean for the entire contest season, new photos have surfaced of a downright scaryl looking David Henry. Just over a month out from the 212 Olympia. From the waist up, Henry might be the most destructive force in the entire 212 division, but bodybuilding is all about balance. So, it'll be interesting to see how his legs match up to his worldclass upper body come Olympia time. A few weeks removed from making a pro debut that's been nearly two decades in the making, Big Ron Partllo is back in action, doing what he does best, hammering out reps on a leg press with so much weight that he might officially be classified as a human forklift. Partllo has been one of the most colorful characters in bodybuilding for years, and placing top 10 in his pro debut in front of his hometown crowd has only added fuel to the fire. And trust me when I tell you, the best of big Ron Partllo is still yet to come. Less than one week out from stepping on stage at the IFBV Tahoe Pro, it looks like Iron Mag Labs athlete Bojanna Vaselvik is ready to hit the stage at full throttle. Vasel Jevik has already reeled up four consecutive top 10 finishes on the season and has quietly been one of the most consistent athletes in the figure division. But despite all her success thus far, she still has yet to hear her name called out as champ on an IFBB Pro stage. But with a little bit of added incentive in the way of an Olympia qualification, perhaps Tahoe will be the place where we see Bojanna make her move and call Checkmate when she earns her first trip to the Olympia. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. Brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com. Today, I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And make sure to follow us on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram.