Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm standing here with Brad Row, our men's heavyweight second place finisher. and a new IFBB pro card holder. Uh Brad, in 2002 I was second in uh to Tony Freeman and I did not get a pro card. You're going home with a pro card. You got to be very happy. I I am very happy. You know, it's bittersweet uh for me because, you know, I'm a traditionalist and I know all the hard work you guys put in. How many guys, so many great athletes never earned their pro card cuz the way things were set up, but uh you know, this day and age, I look at it as I'm 30. You know, I got a small business. I want to get married. And I'd be stupid to pass the opportunity. There's so many great competitors out there. You never know when your chance is going to come along. So, I'm going to enjoy this tonight. I'm going to sleep well. Take that card, my friend. I'm I'm going to sleep well and uh you know, I can focus on life a little bit and becoming, you know, a a good pro bodybuilder, putting on the size that I need to to be competitive. You've been working with Chris Cedar for a number of years now, and he's geared or steered your physique in the direction that it is now. Uh talk to me a little bit about the changes that have occurred over those last few years. Oh, simplification. That's that's the biggest change. Make it too complicated. Chris is just so easy. You know, it's half the time you don't even think you're dieting and, you know, at a week out, you know, I'm squatting 600 lb and bench pressing 400 and it's like, I shouldn't be doing that. Do you actually lift people lift that much weight in Venice, California? Yeah. Yeah, there's a couple of us. You know, I'm one of the stupid East Coast guys. Look at you like you're crazy there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, uh, you know, Chris is is so easy to work with and he's on the ball. Um, you know, we've made some great changes. It's been pretty much a year that we've worked together and I've probably put on about seven or eight pounds of solid muscle and we haven't had an offseason to work with. Um, right after nationals last year I had surgery and I was out for 8 weeks from the gym completely. I had um uh stem cell injections in my uh pec tendon. Um I had a micro tears in there. So it works, huh? Yeah, it worked pretty well. So but I couldn't do anything for 6 weeks. Where'd you get that done? Um right over uh at a place in Venice called uh DISC. Um it's kind of a new procedure they came out with and uh you know pretty much it just accelerates the healing process in the area but you have so much inflammation during the procedure you know during the first 6 weeks that you can't train at all because a weakened tendon. So I went 6 to 8 weeks without training at all and then it was a couple weeks of you know getting a pump back and right into prep for USA's. So we've never had an offseason to work together and I'm excited to you know let my body recover for a little bit and finally be able to pack on some size for the first time in my career. Well, you have arguably the best set of legs on stage and uh obviously Kevin Jordan, who beat you, has weak legs in comparison. Uh did you think maybe the legs would push you over the top and give you the win in the class? I thought it was going to be the conditioning. You know, um my legs have always been big, but they've never seemed to really help me out too much. You know, past lineups, they I've always told, you know, your your legs overpower your upper body, but that you see guys with, you know, toothpick legs and crazy upper bodies placing higher than me. So, you know, I don't think it's really assisted me that much. Um, I knew that we just had to come in crazy condition and detailed in order to be up there battling. So, and that's what we did. You know, we Chris got me peeled just like I asked for and now we have a standard to set too. So, it's going to be tough to keep matching this. Congratulations. Thank you very much, D. Brad Row, new IFB Pro card holder, second place men's heavyweight.