Heat. Heat. This is Lewis Judel here with rxmuscle.com here with the men's overall bodybuilding winner, Brandon Thomas. Brandon, this is your first open show and in the open class. You won the novice at the at the uh Europa last year. We talked about we talked earlier. So, and this is your first open win, man. Ronnie Kleman Classic. This is not a small show in the competition in your class and the overall was very steep. Yes, sir. It was. I mean, it's nothing I really I can say that I do. I mean, I have a excellent support team. My wife, Cory Matthews, my uncle Kurt. I mean, these guys help me out. And it's not a one-man ordeal. It's a dayby-day fish chicken. Everybody knows the name of it. I mean, nothing really changes. cardio, same old thing. But it's just a god-given physique that I have and I just work on it. Like Arnold say, I take the clay and put it together and make my masterpiece. That's what I do. Very good. What's it like working with Cory Matthews, man? Uh, fairly easy, actually. I mean, we have the same body type with him being pro. I mean, he knows a lot of ins and outs, little tweaks here, tweaks there to kind of help me bring this in better and bring this in better. So, I mean, working with him is easy and an honor all at the same time cuz I've been with him since he was a amateur. So, you're going you went off you went novice. You went novice overall last year. Ronnie Coleman Classic overall winner this year. What's your next step? Clearly you have a you have a national caliber physique. Um, next step either nationals or USA's. We'll take it from there and we'll see how everything goes. Can't make any promises right now. I understand that, man. You going to go get a nice meal to eat tonight? Oh, yes. What's What is an overall champion of the Ronnie Coleman Classic eat? Triple meat, triple cheese, extra ketchup, water burger. Oh yeah. Notice this guy did not smile one time throughout the entire interview. And we start talking about food. This guy just lit up. That's what I love to do. If you don't love to eat, you don't need to be a bodybuilder, period. Sorry. I mean, that's just part of the game. Are you the dessert guy or you just like meat? Uh, mainly meat. I'm carnivore by nature, but at times I get my ice creaming ice cream cravings. So, maybe tomorrow we get a little Dairy Queen action in something like good like that. You know, something something. I like I like where this is heading, man. I like where it's going. Have two more weeks to be pretty nasty. So, I'm about to get as nasty as I possibly can. Well, you've earned it, Brandon. Congratulations on a huge overall win here. Everyone that's won this show has gone on to do something big, bigger, and better. I wish you the best of luck at USA Internationals if you go there, my man. Congratulations. Thank you, RX Muscle. Brandon Thomas, rxmuscle.com. What?