Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Quest Nutrition. Visit questnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and tonight's guest of the evening is the new New Zealand and Arnold Australia men's champion. He's our good friend Brandon Curry. Hey you guys, what's going on? What? You're like a world traveler now. You're all over the place. Kuwait, you know the Australia, New Zealand. I mean, uh, did you ever think you'd be, you know, traveling so much and competing and doing so well? Well, you know, I get the free before I Miles. It's it's uh you know, traveling as far as international with Scitec, you know, it's just a part of the a part of the job with them. So, I'm used to getting around, but uh doing so well, you know, that's uh that's what the plan was and we just glad we can make it happen. Now, we you and I think spoke I think it was right before the Olympia and we were talking about what it would take for Brandon Curry to get to that next level. uh all those expectations that everyone always had on you and and you know the talent that we knew that was inside of you. Uh it seemed like you had to go thousands and thousands of miles away from your house all the way to Kuwait to Oxygen Gym and chain with the camel crew out there for the best to come out in you. So I guess the question everyone wants to know is what did they do to you over there? What what potions did they give you? What magic did they work on you? Why was your trip over there so successful? I think uh I think it has more to do with like the throwback mentality uh when bodybuilding was more hands-on uh less technology just more you know coaching your face every day. same guy who's uh writing your your diet up and writing your your your protocols up is the same guy that's in the gym with you uh p pushing you through the workouts and uh you know it's still a team atmosphere as well so you got a lot of second opinions but I mean these guys are all all in and and uh their eyes are on you you know all day uh we training multiple times a day so you they may look at you three different times a day uh to make sure that uh they're making the proper adjustments that they need to make. So, I think when you're in an environment that is so inclusive and so uh specific to to bodybuilding uh that you know you get some uh good things happening. Say that you were more focused uh over there in Kuwait. I mean obviously you don't have your kids around your wife, the responsibilities of life. I mean you're kind of like you said in a training camp so to speak. Was that good for Brandon Curry to be in that environment? I think it's good. I think it's good for me. I think it's pretty much good for anybody unless you just can't handle uh the you know the kind of like the solidarity of the the matter or just being uh to yourself and not having much else to do but bodybuilding. Uh yeah, it was definitely uh productive for me. I don't see how it could not be productive. I don't see how you cannot focus when that's pretty much the only thing you really have to focus on. Do you feel that like because like I talked to guy Sister Nino who told me that he wouldn't he would look no better in Kuwait because he he he works so hard here and he's such a nutcase and he writes down everything he does. Um do you feel that you get distracted when you're in the US living in your home I think uh you know life life in itself can definitely uh uh you know bring up the challenges. I mean, that's a part of bodybuilding in general, different challenges of bal balancing life and balancing bodybuilding. I kind of disagree with you on the guy situation. I think, you know, maybe uh he has a mentality where he does uh maybe more than he needs to and if he has the right eyes on uh 24/7, maybe he'd uh not do too much. You're right. Who knows? Now let's let's uh take us through what happens when first of all you get you must get someone contacting you whether it's Beta Badai or someone calls you up and says hey Brandon you know we think you're great a good talent we think we could really help you we want you to come to Kuwait right is that how it pretty much gets presented to you well you know I I briefly at the 20 what 16 Mr. Olympia between prejudging and finals. I briefly spoke with Abdullah who was working with Victor Martinez last year and basically I just you know gave him a compliment on the work he he had done with Victor Martinez. So briefly we discussed and talked about uh possibly me going to Kuwait cuz he thought he could he could make me a top six in the world. So you know I said well we'll talk about it later. I got to come to Kuwait for the Kuwait pro. and we discussed it a little bit more and he already had kind of like a plan designed out uh for for what's going to happen in 2007 season already. He had already been following my career. These guys study bodybuilding. You know, they really really study bodybuilding. It's like the the number one subject. So, he he knew a lot about me already and he had some things laid out and I just made the agreement that we were going to make it happen. So, that's just how it went. And so, you get on a plane, how do they fly over there? First class business. No, no, no. I mean, I'm sure you can negotiate what you want to, but just give me just just give me just give me over there. Let me let me get my work done and uh you know, let's see what's going to happen. I'm not I'm not I'm not a diva. So, that's good. So, you save some money on that. So, they give you they throw you a little extra food when you got there because you saved them some cash. You get there, what happens? They pick you up at the airport. Every guy has, you know, different different things that uh they, you know, different different parts of the agreement when they go over there. Um, I'm sure we we don't always have the same agreements as you know what we're going to do, how we going to get there and what's going to go down. So, airport like who picks you up? Uh, yeah, man. We you get first class treatment, man. We go straight through uh the uh the visa thing. They come they come actually in the airport and come get us and definitely uh bring us out first class first class treatment. We don't have to really look around for them. Uh we were not lost. They found us and uh escort us through. So, and we went I know I went straight to go eat as soon as we I got there. We had some sushi and stuff. So, it was all good. So, now you you where do they put you up? Like where do you stay when you're there? Like what kind of a living quarters? Well, we stay right next door to the gym. There's a a high-rise apartment complex right next door to the gym. And we stay right next door. It's just right, you know, just right literally next door. So you got kitchens, you know, a couple bedrooms and uh you know, basic basic accommodations for each each athlete, two athletes basically to one uh one apartment. Okay. Who who is your roommate there? I was staying with a Keem Williams. Okay. Okay. So obviously still there getting ready for New York Pro and you guys get along. Of course, man. He's he's a laid-back guy. So am I. And you know, we we both speak the same language and you know, we come from we can relate to each other. So, we got along pretty good, man. Okay. You know, it's a lot of downtime. Get to know people, you know. Sure. Uh it me and his personalities, you know, we kind of clicked, so it was easy. Like, what do you guys do during the day? Do you like play video games? I mean, we watch movies. I What do you What is there to do when you're not training? Well, you know, uh you know, the team is more into the video games and the movies and stuff than me. You know, I can sit around all day and do nothing. Be cool. You're very mellow. I couldn't do that. You you don't need you don't need much entertainment, right? You just melt. Yeah. I mean I mean if I'm not talking to my wife, you know, hit me up and calling me and talk to the kids and you know maybe taking a nap or eat my next next meal, but you know I I I enjoy uh watching the king play some video games, you know, catching a bit of a movie here and there. All right. So you you keep yourself busy. So you let let's say you what time do you normally wake up over there? Do they wake you up or can you get up whenever you want? uh you know we got our own uh we got our own responsibilities in the morning depending on whether you're doing cardio depending on if you got an AM workout or not. So uh or depending on if your coach has told you he wants to look at you so there's been some times when you know I typically get up you know around 8 7:00 but if coach calls me told me he want to come look at me you know I got to meet him at the gym at a certain time or he may meet me at my bedroom at a certain time you know to come look at me you know if I ain't answer my phone or whatnot. So, you know, it's just a it's just a matter of everybody has a different schedule depending on, you know, what what stage of the prep they're in. Now, are your meals delivered to you or do you have to go out and get them? How does that work? How does the meals situation work? Well, well, you know, we got a cafe. There's a cafe in the actual gym. Okay. So, you know, that's access to food in the gym pretty much. Uh 20, you know, I guess they had they stay open pretty late. It's not 24 hours, but they it's within region of meal time. So, you can get your meals there. But I had a prep company called Esmart that uh was delivering my meals every day uh according to, you know, whatever adjustments we needed to make. So, made things real easy. So, so they have actually a Kuwaiti meal prep service that will make your meals and deliver them to you. They have plenty of meal prep uh services out there. Really? Healthy healthy food is a big deal. So, there's several different businesses that compete for that uh that uh kind of uh market. I didn't realize that. Huh. That's interesting. So like what time would you normally weight train during the day? Uh you know I I actually was doing a morning session you know with cardio or fasted and then I would do afternoon session and then uh depending on the day the body part we get a PM session as well. Mhm. The dieting process getting you ready for the New Zealand and the Australia Arnold. Um how is it differ? How did it differ from your what you've done in previous times in the past? Was it more food, less food, different types of food? Uh, considered I was uh substantially bigger, it was more food. Didn't really seem like more food because I was just as hungry. Uh, but it was nothing set in stone, you know, nothing rigid. Everything could can change on a day. So, we may discuss something we were going to do the day before. He looked at me the next day and it totally changed. So, you know, I may not know what I'm going to eat after I I train until, you know, he he sees me after I train. Then we know what we're going to eat. So, I mean, I know what I'm going to eat for breakfast until, you know, I go over to the gym and pose that morning. So, you know, everything's just played by ear. Obviously, training, the hardcore training was was was good for you because it pushed you in the gym and it probably pushed you past your your comfort zone, which is what a lot of us stop at, the comfort zone. Um, were you shocked at how your body was responding once you actually started dieting down for the show and starting to drop the body fat because you had a very granity hard look on stage I've never seen from your physique before. Uh, you know, you know, I'll be honest with you, through the whole process, I didn't really self-evaluate much. There wasn't a lot a lot of mirrors around it. You know, I could look at full body as I was in the gym and and I was posing in front with the guys. So every time that they were really much evaluating my physique, I was kind of evaluating my physique at the same time. So uh I would go back and get the pictures later and I would evaluate some things and be like, "Wow, things are coming in good." But you know, I I try not to get excited too fast and I want to see the finished product before, you know, I'm actually going to say, "Ah, you know, this is great." So you know, I was still just waiting to get to to the end before I actually got excited about, you know, how the process is going. So everything went smooth to the end. So, I was I was more than satisfied. Were you nervous going into that that first show in New Zealand? Because I mean, here you you spent all these months in Kuwait probably. So, I'm sure there were plenty of people out there who thought you were crazy and you know, you you sacrificed a lot being away from your wife and your family. Um, were you kind of nervous like, man, if I don't win this show or if I don't look really good, I I don't know what I'm going to do. You know, I guarantee I was probably the least nervous person at the show. sacrifice you made, you know. Well, you know that that and you know, you know, we talked with Mo. We seen Mo on a several occasion. He looked at my physique. You know, he was very shocked. He had seen me uh previously at the uh the Asian uh Arnold in China and that was the last time he seen me. So, he was very very impressed when he saw me like that right off the plane. Uh still holding a bit of water. So, uh he was he was definitely thinking things were going good. So we, you know, we got to prove and of course I trust my coach Abdullah and what what his eyes are telling telling me or telling him. So as long as he's uh comfortable and he's not freaking out about nothing, I know we all good. Yeah. Um when you got up on stage, obviously you see yourself backstage and you looked at the pictures after prejudging. Were you impressed with the way you looked? I mean because that's important. Uh yes, I I was definitely, you know, uh proud of what we could do in the time that time that we had and time that we was able to manage. Uh so yes, I was definitely satisfied with what we we brought to the stage. But of course, as a bodybuilder, you looking to pick things apart and critique things for the next event, the next outing. So you know, that went on too. So you know, we got some big plans going into to the Olympia and we got plenty of time. So, we'll be working on uh make making sure we fill in the gaps come come September. Now, now you beat Dallas Macccarver in New Zealand, who arguably was better maybe than he was at the Arnold in in the USA. That's debatable. Some people think he is, some people think he was, but he was good there. You beat him handedly. And you had to I have imagine that you had to have said to yourself, "Man, I should have done the Arnold USA." Why didn't you? Well, you know, we was in the camp. We had a discussion about it and, you know, we just we just wasn't, you know, the Arnold has a process with entering the shows. You got to get early, put put in all your information. You know, I had the invitation, but as far as sending all the info out there on time, I wasn't able to do it with the amount of time that we getting ready, but basically, you know, the boss said, you know, we don't want to do the Arnold, and I was cool with that. So, you know, whatever the game plan is, the game plan is. And, you know, I don't regret it one bit. I think uh I I think it was interesting to sit back and watch what happened after Arnold. The only thing that may be hurting is my pockets. Exactly. I was going to say that's $120,000 or $130,000 payday um for Cedric Millan. How do you think you would have done against Cedric at that show? Do you think you would have matched up well? I think I would have matched up really well uh with Cedric at that show. Uh considering um considering the look, you know, I know everybody said, you know, Cedric of course was bigger. Of course, I'm I was bigger as well. My condition was on point. So, I think it would have been a good match to to be on stage with Cedric. Uh he's a bigger guy like Dallas. So, you know, it's it's uh it would have definitely been interesting. So, but we get to see that in September. So, yeah, we'll see that at the Olympia for sure. All right. So now you got to you're back in the States obviously with your family and you I know you're you're jetting all over the place with your with your kids. Obviously at some point you got to go back to Kuwait and start preparing for the Olympia. When does that occur? Yeah, we we get back after Body Power pretty much. I guess that's end towards the end of May. I I'll get back to probably Kuwait right before Ramadan before things get serious out there. So uh you know and we'll have a a long stretch going into the Olympia. So, I'm really, you know, I'm I'm looking forward to getting back, but I'm also, you know, enjoying the time I have at home right now. I can be and I'll be traveling back and forth. You know, it's it's weird being back. It's weird training and it's weird being in the same areas if you know that in my smaller circle. So, it's been cool to see everybody. And I told the Keem it's like you go to sleepaway camp for the summer. That's all. You know, you got to just you come back and then you got to get you got to readapt to your life. Your wife Bry's a saint by the I don't know if she's listening, but uh the fact that she was was able to hold down the fort without you, that was a great uh obviously a great thing on her part. Now, do you think at some point once you get the system down that you might not have to actually go to Kuwait for so long to prepare for these shows or do you think it's something that you you have to do at this point? Brandon, did you catch that question? As far as you know, you know, I guess I kind of caught it. it was kind of broken up, but I think you you probably elaborating on uh not having to go to Kuwait for as long uh in the future, right? But uh yeah, it's definitely going to be a part of the plan. Of course, you get that top Olympic qualifications and you automatically qualify. You make a decision where you want to compete early in the year or not. So, that would determine whether I'll be in Kuwait early in the year or not or whether I'll wait, you know, just to prep for the Olympia. So, you know, so you know, hopefully we'll get to the point to where, you know, unless I want to just just win an Arnold uh classic, then we'll get to the point to where we just prepping for the Olympia. So, that's definitely a goal. Can Brandon Curry win the Mr. Olympia competition? Of course, I can. I mean, that's is that's a dream and bodybuilding for me. That's number one reason why I took it as a hobby and as a serious uh uh you know trying to be make a career out of it is because I thought and I believe that when I saw Ronnie Coleman lose the title in ' 06 to Jay Cutler. I thought I saw the impossible happened and that inspired me to uh do something that I never thought you know was possible for me. So you know that's that's that's what I'm on a mission to do and I think uh right now we're I'm on the right track again to make some things happen. So, well, congratulations on the two big wins in New Zealand and the Arnold Australia and all that momentum you have going into the Olympia. Enjoy your family for the next couple months and then of course you'll be back to Kuwait and uh we'll have to get a little update from you uh prior to the Olympia. Of course, man. Anytime, man. I'll let you know what's going on in the camp and uh you know, we get you get the updates as we get them uh as the changes and everything happens in Kuwait. Thanks a lot and uh once again, congratulations. All right. And that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live with brought to you by Quest Nutrition. Visit questnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and we'll see you next time. Heat. Heat.