All right, guys. This is just it's the typical insanity of my life. My my wonderful cleaning woman was slow as Here's one little one, but that's not the one I want. That's not the one I want. Hi, Princess Leia. Come here. Princess Leia. Hi. Hi. Hi. Can you believe this? I'm at 57 years old. I'm climbing on the bed so you get cats. Come here. Come here. She's probably scared cuz you're here. Yeah, she's looking at you. Come here. She's like, "What is this guy doing?" Oh. Oh, there goes There she goes. There goes Lily. There goes Lily. There goes Lily. There she is. We should bring you in. We'll bring you cuz you got to be butt. Let's put her. This is Lily, my blue cream point Siberian. We can go over here in the light. Get a better view of her. Oh, she's my youngest. She's You got a dirty butt. You got a dirty butt. All right, you're in. You're going solo really is the one that needs to go. He's my big boy. All right. This is Sparkle. She's my calico Siberian. And see how beautiful. Black and red and white. All right. You're going. You're going. You're going. You're going. You're going. Yes, you are. Ready? Groomer gym. Supermarket. I'm moral. We're going with you. Oh, you know what I wanted to show you guys? Legendary Foods sent me their new protein donuts. These things are bad ass. The owner Ron, who owns Legendary Foods, used to own Quest. And as you know, I have a very long-standing relationship with Quest since the beginning. And listen, look at these things. These things are zero sugar. There's carbs in them. There's some carbs in them. There's zero sugar, though. And they high protein. They're really good. Just I'm going to give you one, too. These things are bad ass. I'm telling you. Legendary foods. I get all the prototypes. They just hit the shelves. All right, guys. So, we're we're heading to the groomer. I'm bringing my two cats. I have four cats total. I have four Siberian cats. Uh my two big white ones are fluffy. They need to be groomed more frequently. These guys really didn't need it, but they probably need their claws clipped anyway. So, I'm going to take them for I'll take them cuz I have a running uh appointment once a month with the groomer. So, two will go today and another two will go in in a month. Then we're going to hit the gym while the the cats are being groomed. So, that gives us an hour and a half. So, we hit the gym. We're going to knock out some back and show you how I use my jumbo Palumbo grippers. And then we're going to hit Sam's Club. Now, Sam's Club is like Walmart like on steroids. It's uh everything's in bulk, but they, you know, they get good stuff. So, I got to get my I got to get garbage bags. I got to get get paper towels, you know, all the stuff. I lettuce for my tortoises. I have my goalpagos tortoise, you guys. I think sort of the last episode. He He's He started out like this big. Now he's like this big. And he eats like two two complete heads of romaine lettuce every day. So Sam's Club is great because they have quantity discounts. And so he's he's he's hit the quantity uh the portion where he needs he needs to get a lot of heads of romaine lettuce to last me the week. We'll do that. Uh you never know what else I might buy there. And then Jesse and I going to we'll probably go eat first. So um I think I think we did we go to um Kdoba last time? No, we didn't. So I'll take you to Kdoba and I'll show you what I where I eat. I have a a little loop of of beautiful things that I go to on a regular basis. And uh this is one of the the lunch spots that I hit. And then we got to get back to the office because my bookkeeper is there. Aman's there. We're supposed to have a a conference call for species. And then we're going to take a look at the studio because Jesse is back. Obviously, we got our lens in. I don't think you guys know what happened, but we ordered a lens. Um, a new camera and a lens from Amazon. And the lens actually showed up as the wrong lens. meaning someone took the the the expensive lens out of the box, sent back a crappy lens to Amazon and rather than them getting rid of it when it came back, they put it back in the inventory and I received it. It happens an awful lot unfortunately. Good thing about Amazon is they'll refund you and we bought it from BHB uh to make sure that we got a really good lens. And so the lens is installed, the new camera's installed, we uh changed the backdrop, we went back to the uh the repeater banner. Um I don't know. I'm I'm I'm still not sure how I want the backdrop to look in the studio, but we're we're going to experiment with that. I'll show you how the studio looks. We have I It's almost like a lounge now. We have like u couches in there and uh we have a it's a much more uh zenful state there. You know how they always say fang funue. We're trying to like get a little fun fune going in the studio and uh I'm feeling it. I'm feeling it. I'm digging it. So, we'll go back and do that and then you never know what else. Uh I think Oh, I have AI have a bikini competitor coming to pose for me today. So, I don't know if she's going to want to be on camera, but if she does, we'll we'll show you that as well. All right. Well, stay tuned. Heading into the groomer. My groomer is uh a Patriot Pets right next to my pool guy, Pinch of Penny. I got everything right next to each other. Everything's all organized. There we go. Horrible crazy day. I I actually I had my cleaning room in the house. I couldn't find cats. So, I'm like we were looking He wasn't filming. I'm looking at the bed. So, I got >> Okay. So, which ones do I >> So, you have Sparkles. >> Okay. So, two pods, please. >> I fig I was going to bring the other two cuz they really needed another another grooming day, but you haven't done these guys, so I figure you can just clip their nails. We got Sparkles and Lily. >> Yeah. Let's see. >> So, Sparkles is the calico and Lily is my blue blue cream. >> That's Lily and this is this is Sparkles. >> Oh my goodness. Dirty bum [\h__\h] >> Yeah, this is Say hi, honey. >> She's a She's a lover. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, you're pretty, too. >> She's a blue cream point and she's a calico. >> Baby, look at those eyes. Beautiful eyes. Where are you going? >> Yeah. My son is like super excited not to have school. I got >> All right. Off to the gym. Cats are at the groomer. and we're going to get a quick workout at Crunch and then uh we'll hit Sam's Club. Even if the cats are done, we'll still we're going to still run around, do a few chores, let them hold on to the cats for a few for a little bit. For a little bit, little bit. And I got to I I I know he's he's thinking we've already filmed this from yesterday, but I got to take the car to the car wash cuz my kids made a mess yesterday. It was raining and they got mud all over the back of my car. So, it's it's it's driving me crazy. I'm driving around in a dirty car. So that as well and then it's back to the office and we have to deal with all the craziness over there. We are currently changing over some of our systems and automating them a little more and that's always scary because you know you get used to doing things a certain way but we we got to we got to update to the the 21st century here. So that's the uh that's the update. There's my favorite bagel stuff by the way. stuff in there. I don't know if you can catch that on camera. I'm a big believer in full range of motion, too. As you can see, and if you have trouble, you know, remembering your arm set back, you just look up in the weight as you're pulling down. I see guys pulling to here. They're doing this. They're not doing anything. I'm going to pull all the way down. I don't take a wide grip either. Dorian Yates, I saw a video he did once where he was saying it made a lot of sense. The further you wider you go, the weaker you get a curve away from your body. So the closer you are the hands, you're going to get the same pull from the last. You're going to get a much stronger contraction because you're stronger when you're closer. And I I I completely completely agree with that. I never did wide wide grip. I don't know how people go out here and do it. There's no I have no strength here. So I try to get in around a little wider than shoulder width and that seems to be perfect for me. I want to tell you a funny story. So when I was at my biggest or on the way up, my legs were so big that I You see this? You you couldn't this thing wouldn't go up high enough. I couldn't get my legs on there. So, the guy at the gym that I trained at had to drill few holes for me. This thing doesn't work quite used to be able to pull it completely out. So, he drilled a hole because I couldn't I physically couldn't get my leg under this thing and I couldn't, you know, you need to hold yourself down. So, this thing goes like up here. I mean, my legs were were massive as you guys probably know. But, I don't know if any of you guys have that problem, but I gave you these the new machines today. They go up a little higher than normal. But it was it was funny though. I said I said, "Tony, you got to you got to drill this thing out for me." And he's like, "No problem." But he did it. All right. We're going to do bend over rows. If you don't do bend over rows for back, I hate to say it, but you're probably a [\h__\h] You know, you're not looking to have a huge back. We had one of the best backs of all time. Dorian Ace probably and second best back. Ronnie Coleman. Hey, row. You got to row, man. If you don't row, you ain't going to have a big back. Doesn't matter how much you lift. Free weight row. I do all free weights. I told you it's the only way to get a complete development. See, you have to do angles so that I I I actually look like I'm actually lifting something. Back in the day, it wouldn't matter what angle you shot it from, I was lifting a lot of weight. I was lifting a lot of weight, you know, always looked good. Now I have to like rip that. Try to make the angle look like more impressive. So I actually look like I know what I'm doing. We're going to do some one arm rows now. Another stable. I see I don't see many people doing it because you know why? Cuz you got to do each arm individually. It takes longer to do this set and it hurts like a mf because let's face it, it's just not comfortable. You got to stabilize this weight. So I'm warmed up now. So I'm not going to go to lighters. I'm not going to go to lighter weights. It's only the rice in my heaviest sets and get a nice stretch in the bottom and drive it back. I like to use the rack. Some people use a bench. I like to use the rack as actually my bench. And what I'll do is I'll actually hold on here, put one leg back and roll the weight right to my lower abs. You know, I don't just talk to talk. I walk the walk. I talk about free weights. I tell you guys to do free weights if you want full development. You want to get thick and you want to get massive and I do it myself. Even at 57 after all the surgeries I had, you can do free weights and do them. We finish up with seated rows. I didn't even do machines this time. They're all free weights just for you guys. We did pull downs. We did bent rows, one arm rows, and seated row machine. Sometimes I'll throw in another on the machine. I'll show you the machine. I'm probably I might maybe I'll do one set just so I can show you how I I what I like to end the workout with. But I'm going to do now that I'm warmed up, there's no reason for me to do, you know, four sets. I'm going to do one set here of the heaviest way to do and I'm going to get a good good a good contraction in there and I'm going to move on and finish up with the hoist movement and then we'll be done. That's it. That's that hit it hard, heavy, lower reps, full range of motion and three weights and you'll build a big back with these. What I do is as I'm pulling back, I throw my chest forward. That's the best way to get a good contraction going. All right, I'm going to finish off on this machine. It's pretty similar to a pull down, but this is actually machine, so it really concentrates the movement a little bit. Can't go crazy heavy on here, but you got a real good contraction in the lats. And so they do all those rowing movements, bent rows, one arm rows, seated rows. I feel like I want to end with like some sort of a pull down movement. Even though I kind of did it once again, this whole this racing machine actually your whole body moves in the machine. So it's kind of cool. See, you're getting a an amusement park ride while you work out. So let's see. All right, last exercise. I always finish off with hyper extensions. To be honest with you, every workout that I'm in the gym, I finish off with hyper extensions. Whether it's back day, leg day, or arm day, it doesn't matter. All right, let's just do one set, 15 reps. I just feel like it, you know, keeps my uh my core tight. I do abs almost every day also in my house on the floor. I do crunches and uh so I like to do the lower back to balance it off. Uh it's good for your glutes, too. Can squeeze the glutes at the top, but it's really the lower erectors that are going to stay nice and strong on here. Uh you want to find I always say 40 45° angle is perfect and it's a good way to end your back workout. In the in the old days, I would usually rotate hyperextensions with deadlifts. So, if I didn't if I did deadlifts, I didn't do hyperextensions. I don't do deadlifts anymore. So, this is what I finish every workout. I'll hold my phone. It's pretty heavy. All right, guys. I hope you enjoyed the workout that uh we did today. It was a hardcore free weight back workout. We're going to run to the market now. Uh we might run get the car washed. I have a bikini competitor coming in. We might come back to the gym, watch her pose a little bit. But uh for now, we are out of here. Once again, get in, get out, and eat. Oh, you know what? We're going to eat first. That's what we're going to do. So, we're going to go eat and then we're going to go to the market. Eat as quickly as possible when you leave the gym. If you're rough season, I should see you shaking up that pre post-workout shake right now. Two scoops of ice, one scoop of carbise. Gulp that down and then you can take your time and do what you got to do. All right. Get a little chicken, rice, beans, a quudova. This is my uh my regular dive. You guys have seen this before in other videos I've done. It's it's on my what I call the loop. The loop of Dave. It's called the I have uh all my stores and all my little businesses that I go to is in one big giant loop. So I just I can directly drive in a circle. So the whole course of the day and knock everything off. The next the next stop in the loop is the Sam's Club. And the loop after that we will loop back and we will hit the car wash. And then right after the car wash, the next set of stores over is the groomer and we will pick up the cats. Go back. All right. This is uh I'm very predictable. I order the same thing every single time. She even knows my order. She runs this whole place. This whole this whole joint. White rice, black beans, chicken. I don't get the spicy chicken on my stomach. And I don't go with all the cookie sauces cuz you see these cookie sauces, they taste absolutely delicious, but that's what you know comes up any later. All right, so I go right for lettuce, regular lettuce, some guacamole. Can't go wrong with avocado, right? Monossaturated fats. And my spice of choice is some fresh cilantro cuz I got to I got to give a little Mexican flare to this, right? So you see this nice cilantro and that's it. I got a bottle of water and I'm good to go. >> All the chicken is so fatty there. I can't even eat it. But terrible skin. >> Yeah. Do you need me to >> res I'm consistent. I'm consistent. >> We all know you wear the girl. >> She's either in the parking lot. She's already making the ball. >> Yummy. All right, we're halfway through the shopping experience. Roma hearts. This is This will last 3 days for my tortoise. They'll eat this whole package in 3 days. Uh we got to get the kids a little inflatable. Something fun to play with in the pool. This is the great You guys want the best allpurpose cleaner? I use this for everything. You can clean your car with this. You can clean your countertops. You clean the floor. You can clean anything. Glass. It's It's the greatest. I I learned about this at the car wash. The guys that detail your cars, they told me this this is this is key. You if you don't have this in your house, you're crazy. This is the best allpurpose everything. And I got my laundry detergent. Got to have some nice smelling. I have all these things that spray the scent all over my house. I got to do a refill on them. I'm a big cucumber and pepper person. I always I eat them raw though. I don't cook them. Cut them up fresh. Fresh. All right. If you want garbage bags, this is the place to get them. 200 bags for 16 bucks. And look, the new lavender scented. Can't go wrong with lavender scent, right? What else did I throw in here? Oh, I got to have my mono saturated. That's avocados. And I got my my Propel for electrolytes here. >> I drink those at the before I go to the gym. All right, guys. We are leaving Sam's Club loaded with groceries. Actually, the big groceries, like I always say, all the big stuff we got here. We're done. We're going to head to the car wash. We got to pick the cats up and uh we got to head back to the office. We got a lot to do. Stay tuned. Thanks, guys. Oh, wait. Can we make an appointment? >> Okay. >> All right. Thank you. >> We're done. >> And we're heading back to the gym to check out my bikini competitor and then heading home. We got a lot to do still. We were debating whether she should do fit model or bikini, but she's too big for bikini. I asked Steve Weinberg, he told me definitely bikini. So, she's going to be doing 50 and over. I know it's hard to believe that she's over 50 years, but she's 50 years old, but she is. So, it's just goes to show you what training, eating right, taking care of yourself does. I I don't I think you got like like maybe one or one or two lbs left. I I don't I don't think you have any more than that. What do you weigh? I'm thinking like one I mean the lowest I'm thinking like 2 lbs down and then carb up which will probably bring you back to like 120 and then take out some water and you're down to 818. So I think we're about that 118 120 range. I think it's going to be stage weight. We might just change the composition over the next two weeks a little bit. I don't think you need to get that much leaner though. I think this is a good look for you. I think you've changed a lot in the last two weeks. Yeah. A tremendous amount. So, this is this is a really good look for you. I'm I'm happy. You should be happy cuz I don't I don't I don't give compliments. You know, these guys know I don't give compliments at all, you know, unless it's warranted, you know. Yeah. It's a good look. This is I I don't see anyone beating you over 50 years old. I don't see anyone beating you over 50 years old, but I might be biased. So, All right. So, we just got to see Mandy. She looks great. She's going to be doing 50 and over and I just talked to her doing the women's bikini open at the local show, the regional show. She doing national qualifier and she going to go to Masters National. So, hopefully she got a pro card. You know, this is just another day in the life of Dave Longo. You know, I'm running from here running there, but you know, she's from Naples, so great that I got to see her. You know, sometimes a lot of my clients are, you know, live in other countries. They live in other states. They have to send me emails, text messages, which in today's day and age is is is easy, but it's always good if you can see someone in person, you know, for a few minutes. And uh but we got to we got to get out of here. We can't hang out. We got to go back to the warehouse. I got to bring the cats back. They're in the car right now with the air conditioning on. We got to drop them off and then we got a lot to do still. I want to show you my new fish tank and some other cool [\h__\h] So, let's go. Actually, doing the car. Told you I was going to do the car wash. My kids day makes an absol They can be in the car for 10 minutes. It looks like the car's never been washed one time. Okay. I I got to get the dirt off this floor. Never ever challenge a man with a vacuum cleaner in his hand. Very dangerous. Am I exaggerating, Jesse? Look at that. That's That's from 10 minutes of them being in my car today. I still love him, but I can't drive around with dirt like that. That recorded on there right here. Yeah. >> That's a dragonfly. And it says mom in in Asian writing. And it's funny cuz I went to a psychic once and not my sister, someone else. And he he actually said to me, he goes, "Uh, do you have a a dragonfly tattoo? Uh, something in honor of your mother on you." And it freaked me out. I was like, "Holy, this guy had no idea." And so, yeah, that's what it means. I got it for just in honor of my mother. I got to get my heat. All right, I want to show you my new discus fish. Um, you can see the the white ones, the white rounds with those beautiful red eyes. They are mother of pearl discus. They're very expensive. They're like 100 bucks each, those fish. And I have three of them. And I got the three super red melon albinos in the back. I don't know if you can see them. And I have some I don't know if I don't know if I had these albino iridescent sharks the last time either. My kids wanted those, so I bought those. But um, these discus are are absolutely gorgeous. These are like the pinnacle. And these things will get like this big. So I actually have See the big one there? That's a full grown one right there. But that's not a white one, obviously. These are like, you know, I love white animals. I always tell you these are these are the like, as far as I'm concerned, these are the best of the best. Let's give them some food. So maybe they eat. They'll come out and play a little bit for us. Watch these things. These things are just majestic. And these are freshwater fish. These are not saltwater fish, but these are they call the discus fish the king of the freshwater fish. There's a reason because of how beautiful and majestic they are. I have that one angel fish still left in there, too. He's looking a little ragged. He's pretty old, but he's still hanging in there. He's eating his uh his fish flakes. And the fish tanks are back. And we're going to head over to We're going to head over to see some of the animals in a little bit. I have some baby boas I want to show you. We had a we had a litter. You guys haven't seen that yet. I'm going to show you the litter. We're going to go upstairs. We're going to take a look at the new studio that Jesse and I have been setting up and I'm going to show you how we uh what we did to it. So, come up. We're here in the RX Muscle Studios right now and we are setting up things. We have the repeater on the back here. We are uh if you look around the studio, you can see we have couches set up. We have new lights. We have a lot of stuff going on here. We have fake microphones here. Uh we have uh I don't know. We're doing a lot of stuff here. Okay. I don't even I don't even know what time it is. We've been going all day long. If you guys have been following us, you know it's been a really long day. Thursdays are get things done day. I still have to go downstairs and do some animal stuff. Um, I don't know if you guys want to follow me down and check out some new cool stuff. If not, say love me. If you do, got more to do. All right. The last time we talked and I was in the snake facility. I believe I believe I showed you some eggs that were in the incubator. That's this tub right here. I just peaked in and I'm happy to say they are cross the patch. We open this tuna roughly. The babies can go back into the eggs. Let's see what we got here. Come here. Bring that camera up. Oh, yeah. They went back in. But if you look, see these little slits right here? Going to zoom in on that. That was made by the baby snakes. They have a little egg tooth that cuts the egg. And I saw there was a there was a little white one sticking its head out there, which is what we're looking for. And um but what happened was when I opened up the snake container, it got scared and went back into the egg. What they'll do is they'll sit in that egg for a week, once they cut the egg, and they'll usually just stick their head out. And what they're doing is they're absorbing the yolk sack. So imagine like a human has a a little umbilicus or a little belly button there. Well, when these snakes are buried to leave the egg, the egg yolk, which is what's been feeding them all these months that they've been in the egg, or 60 days, I should say, gets absorbed into their belly button, into their body, and they use that for energy for the first 2 to 3 weeks of life. So, they really don't even need to eat anything. Um, it's kind of cool though because they sit there with their with their with the their head sticking out of the egg. You know, we might show you something. We do this a lot. Let me see if I can find my scissor. Get my scissors. What exactly is going on? See the steak? Since it already kind of stick its egg already, there's no sense of not finishing the job here. You peek in there. Now, you can see a snake in there. Feel that little This is like the amniotic fluid. I guess it would be equivalent in the human. Um, but there's snake in there. That's not an albino. You can see that's a regular one. This one, I believe, with the albino. Let's see. This one's not albino either. It's another snake. See what this one is. I believe this one's an albino. Yeah. Zoom in here. Yes. See that whitish yellowish snake? Here we go. Yeah, there we go. That's This going to be a snow carpet python. Hopefully, it's at least an albino. We'll tell if it's a snow when it comes out. And we're going to put these guys back in the incubator and we're going to let them finish absorbing their yolk sack without disturbing them. And probably in a week, we're going to see some or in a few days probably we're going to see some of these guys come out. However, we also had a boa litter. So, now pythons lay eggs. Boas have live births. So, the babies come out alive. I mean, they come out no eggs. And here is a a beautiful leopard boa that I produced. Baby, look at that. If you like black boas, those are pretty dark. And here's another one that I believe is a the one I'm trying to produce, which is a T positive albino leopard. You can see this one's much lighter. So, two beautiful boas. I got a whole bunch of them in here. And uh once they shed, if you go to the Muscle Serpents University YouTube channel, you can watch my snake videos. All right, guys. We're going to wrap up today's a day in the life of Dave Palumbo. You know what? Today wasn't even meant to be a day in the life of Dave Palumbo. It's always the day in the life of Dave Palumbo, but I wasn't going to film it, but Jesse was nice enough to come out here. We were setting up the studio with the new camera, the new backdrop. He, this guy has gone above and beyond. You know, I applaud him. He great job, Jess. And uh when he was out here, he's like, "Why don't we just shoot what you're doing?" I said, "I got a lot of crap to run around and do it today." He's like, "Let's film it." So, we filmed it all and we're going to end today. And it with it was such a hectic, chaotic day. We're going to end it in nice, peaceful in my mango tree grove here. Look at these mangoes hanging out here. Look at it. Fell off. This is fresh mango. Look at the size of this guy. These are like steroid mangoes. I'm telling you, I bought this tree. I don't even know how long ago now it was. It was probably about 8 n years ago. I planted this thing and there was like one or two mangoes on it the first year and I was like so happy. Now there's like 30 40 mangoes on this thing. This is these are the best mangoes I've ever tasted. I bought the tree specifically cuz it was a kind of mango that doesn't have like the like all the little stringy stuff in there. My son and I ate ate two of these yesterday. You would think that we were on crack the way we were we got they were absolutely delicious. And uh that's why I live in Florida. That's why I need sanctuary and wildlife. And uh it grounds you. Remember, you can be chaotic during the day. You could be running around like a lunatic, but you have to have something that's going to ground you and bring you back to nature, calm you down, lower your blood pressure, allow you to kind of de d de-stress as the day goes on. And although I'm going to go back and do a lot of work, don't get me wrong, before but I'm going to jump in the pool and swim, too. That's going to de-stress me again. But I need nature. You always got to have a little piece of nature around you. Even if you live in the city, buy some plants, buy plants for your house. Get a fish tank. Whatever you got to do that's going to bring you back down and put you in touch with nature. I promise you, you're going to feel a lot more peaceful. Dave Palumbo, I'm going to say Dave Palumbo, I want to thank you for joining me for another day in the life.