kind of an update video, I guess, on column van Mogurt. A French fan of his spotted him, I guess, in Thailand on a little motorbike. He had just gotten a fresh tattoo of a dragon on the side of his head, so he kind of shaved the side of his head. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here with an RX Muscle rant. All right, I just saw this video the other day, uh, kind of an update video, I guess, on Colum Van Moger. A French fan of his spotted him, I guess, in Thailand on a little motorbike. He had just gotten a fresh tattoo of a dragon on the side of his head. So, he kind of shaved the side of his head. Has this dragon tattooed on there and the French fan was asking him, you know, why he got it. And he said, "I like dragons, you know." And uh I guess after a little bit of conversation back and forth, it turns out that Colum had admitted to him that he moved to Thailand. So, he's now living in Thailand. I believe he's he looked like he was smoking some weed, you know, it looked like he was kind of chilled out. That's true. You just did a new one. Yeah. Ah, it was painful, huh? It was painful. Oh, I s it was okay. Okay. Just Wow. It's super nice. It's fun. Why did you do it? Oh, cuz I like um I like dragons. Okay. I see you like also Japan, I guess, because this is like Japanese style also over there. You did a lot again. Oh, that's crazy. Super nice. Thank you, dude. How you doing, bro? He kind of looked on the smaller side. I know he had gotten big for a while. He was going to make a comeback and compete. He looked like he was considerably downsized. I don't know, you know, what his, you know, mental state is at this point. Obviously, he went through a lot of hardships over the last couple years. You know, he had those two accidents. Well, three, I guess. So he tore his bicep, he tore his patella tendon trying to you know go down the side of a mountain and then he jumped out of that second story window in his house and you know luckily I don't know miraculously didn't have any serious long-term damage and he survived that you know came back and competed you know and then he lost his brother. So, it's been a tumultuous several years for column and this guy had, you know, so much potential coming out, you know, initially when he was really young and then coming up into this industry. He got that part as Arnold Schwarzenegger in uh the movie about the Weer brothers. He looked like he was poised to, you know, take Hollywood by storm, possibly the bodybuilding world by storm. He was super marketable. Everyone liked this guy. He was he had a you know a cool you know attitude about him and uh cool look and uh you know sometimes as they say the longlaid plans of mice and men often go astray. He seemed to have strayed off the path. I don't know you know if this is a good sign or bad sign that he's living in Thailand. It looks like he's kind of like trying to just kind of stay off the the grid so to speak and kind of maybe refine himself. A lot of people go to Thailand and the Asian countries to try to, you know, balance their self off and find some sort of peace with themselves, maybe find the meaning of life, you know, kind of like the Razer's Edge movie there or the Razer's Edge book. I actually did my term paper in high school on the razor's edge probably by Somerset Mourn who uh you know in the movie Bill Murray goes east to the Asian countries to find out you know who he is and live on the razor's edge so to speak but maybe that's what Colum's doing as well and I hope look I hope he finds happiness I hope he finds peace I hope he could find you know solitude and maybe kind of rediscover and reinvent himself and come hack better than he was before, make a comeback, whether it be in bodybuilding or just in life, in business. I mean, the guy is a very marketable guy. He's a very people like him. I think he can even if he didn't want to compete again, he can certainly make money in the industry, whether it be a clothing line, nutrition line, or or or something related to marketing himself in a physical fitness, you know, type of way. Possibly even going to acting. I don't know. I don't know what he wants to do. I don't know what he's passionate about right now. He's obviously very passionate about that dragon tattoo that he has on the side of his head. And I guess we're going to have to just wait for more updates from Colum. I I have a feeling we're going to he's going to lay low and we're not going to hear very much about him for the next year or so. And and I think that he's going to reemerge kind of like a caterpillar coming out of his cocoon as a butterfly and and and you know show us what he's learned, maybe some of the lessons that he's gone through and maybe some of the insights he has into life. Now sometimes you have to go through that metamorphosis and really mature into who you're supposed to be. you know, some people they become, you know, self-destructive and they they and they they wind up, you know, never recovering from a situation like he went through. But there's obviously a reason he's still on this planet, okay? Because there was a there was a couple close calls that this guy could have certainly been, you know, gone and he's not. He's still here. He's still in good shape. He's still healthy. So, I'd love to see a Colin Vogger comeback. I think all the fans out there would love to see that. I I just hope he's doing well and I hope he knows that, you know, there's a lot of people in our industry who love him and and and really care about him and if there's any, you know, need for him to reach out, he can certainly reach out to me anytime he wants. Not that we've ever spoken, but I'm always here and I'm sure there's a lot of other guys and a lot other people in our industry that really care about this guy and want to see him do well. I have a feeling that he got spotted by accident by this French fan and that's where this video came from. uh otherwise we probably wouldn't even have known that he was in Thailand and and now living there. So if you go to Thailand, maybe Gary Strider can kind of find him somewhere because Gary lives in Thailand. He's been living there for many many years. He loves it there. Or if any of you guys go to Thailand, maybe you'll run into Colin Vaner and find out what he's up to. I only wish you the best, Colin. Find peace, happiness, and balance. And we're always ready for a great comeback. Dave Palumbo with an RX Muscle rant.