Ronnie Coleman health update on this episode of Heavy Muscle Radio. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we are live for another edition of Heavy Muscle Radio. Today I got a special guest host, John Romano, the original, the originator as we say, joining us here. Chris Aceto is on vacation in Miami. And uh John, unfortunately on the one day you decide to come on and join me as a guest host, we have a million stories happening, which I guess is a good thing because uh we can report on it. But one of the terrible things you never want to hear is that Ronnie Coleman has been hospitalized in the UK. Undisclosed reasons. They say he it was a serious hospitalization, but he is stable and reports will come out. You know, whenever I hear something like that, I always it always my mind is boggled by the fact that people don't give you information. Uh, and the only reason I could suspect that that might be the case is that either ser very serious or they're afraid that they don't well they don't really know the details yet of whatever happened. What do you think is going on with Ronnie? I irrespective of the severity of the malady, the fact of the matter is is that Ronnie Coleman, for better or worse, is a public figure. He's ours. And if something's wrong with him, we need to know what that is. And so why is this cloaked in mystery? I mean, be transparent. The the ridiculous thing is that the statement that was released says, you know, no no details, respect the families, you know, privacy and no speculation. How are you you're going to just give us a a you know, a taste of the what the thing is and then tell us not to speculate? I mean, come on. Just open the books. What's wrong with the guy? I mean, we're going to find out eventually. Right. Right. Fu, look, Fu and Abad had that that motorcycle accident. um you know a week ago, right? And everyone knew about it and people said you know they he wanted a release and have you know what exactly happened but everyone knew he had a motorcycle accident. People were texting him I I know I did and you know telling him you know wishing him and praying for him. We want to pray for Ronnie. We don't we don't even know what to pray for though. We don't even know what's going on with him. the the I know Ronnie since and you do too since the early 90s and uh you know it's I feel like he's part of my family almost and it's uh I'm worried because I don't I I don't know if it look when you if he fell and broke his hip okay that would be terrible right but it's not life-threatening right you know it would still be a terrible thing because he already has problems walking but if he if he had a heart attack or something like that for god I mean that that's you know that's dangerous so I I you know I think as fans and as people who care about him. We just want to know is is his life in danger or is it more of just an inconvenience like what happened to Fuad? You know, you know where he had Well, I mean I if if they're not going to give us details, then don't give us anything. You know, someone leaked it. You know what the problem is, John? There's always some like uh aid in the hospital or nurse who is a bodybuilding fan or is a bodybuilding themselves or a bikini competitor and and she sees Ronnie Coleman rush to the emergency room and she calls her friend and before you know it the game telephone everyone knows Ronnie Coleman's in the hospital. So they got someone's got to say something, you know. Well, that's even more reason for not if you don't want us to speculate, you know, give us the give us the truth. give us the information that you have up until now. I you know it's look, you like it or not, Ronnie is a public figure. He belongs to us to bodybuilding. We are his fans, his friends, his extended family, however you want to look at it, we're bros. And for you guys to keep information like this of a severe nature secret, and then on top of that asked to not speculate, that's just nuts. You know, I mean, what what do you expect us to do? Just sit here and say, "Oh, we're gonna wait until the next, you know, the news flash comes comes out of the out of the compound, you know, we don't need Li footage. We don't need Li King footage, but we want at least give us something to listen, right? Something I mean, you know, if you if you are going to if you're going to appeal to us, Yeah. you know, then then give us the full the full monty. Don't don't just give us this little, you know, snippet of reality and then expect nobody to speculate when you're talking about probably one of the five most popular bodybuilders ever in history. Yeah. Yeah. I I mean, I couldn't believe, you know, I he's even uh it even made uh TMZ. Well, you know what it is? This is why because we no matter what we have this conjur cadre of douchebags that follow this sport that are just dying for the next, you know, bad news come out so that they can blame drugs, blame the lifestyle, blame, you know, that it's going too far. Blame the fact that they're dropping like flies because, you know, if you become a bodybuilder, you're never supposed to die. You got to live forever. Otherwise, you're going to get aspersions cast your way because you have the audacity to do something as human as dying. Yeah. Yeah. You know, Ronnie's pretty resilient and and I and I like I said, I I I love the guy. Send him so much I'm sending him so much prayer and healing energy and I I thought that was a Ronnie Coleman update I was getting. Yeah. Same here, man. know it's it's like but at the same time serious medical condition tells me that I I think heart attack you know or I think fell down and broke his hip. Those are the two things that come to my mind as like uh that just pops into my head and I don't know anything about what happened whatsoever because right I mean and I don't see a break broken hip as a serious medical illness or a serious medical thing. So I'm thinking you know I have to think heart attack what or what what happens or or stroke or something like that. I don't know. Or he fell and smashed his head on something. I mean Yeah. I mean something like that. But I mean I mean Fouad Abiad had a serious medical issue. He he crashed his bike. I mean and and they and they told us. Yeah. Yeah. Right. I mean like Jesus. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's a real disservice to the fan base really when you know you you're not thought of enough to be told more than just this snippet that they let out that you know does nothing but re it does nothing but spark you know conversation and and and conspiracy because you don't have any facts. Why aren't they telling us any facts? They're not telling us any facts because it's severe, it's life-threatening, it's this, it's that, it's going to. So, they they force the issue just wrong. It could be that they don't know. You know what? Maybe, you know, like sometimes you get like a like a pain in your side, you know, it could be an appendecttomy usually, although that's pretty, you know, they can diagnose that pretty easily. But maybe he he dropped and, you know, passed out or just tell us. Just tell us. That's all. Either way, we we all love Ronnie and and that's the only reason we're even spectating. Exactly. We love Ronnie. We want to know what's wrong so we can direct our healing energies in the right absolutely right avenue. I just I I just a lot of accidents lately happening though. I mean Fuad was a ser I mean do you see how messed up he is? He's like No, I didn't see I didn't see surgery and he's like you know I mean he seems like he's in good mental spirits but when it comes to motorcycle accidents I like to know very little. Yeah. I mean, but he he he got pretty messed up it looks like. I mean, he's like I said, he's a tough son of a [\h__\h] and uh I know he'll get over it, but you know, it's not fun. It looked like he had some surgery on his neck. Gez. And I mean, he you know, it's neck neck is ne That's never good when you get a neck injury, right? No, no one wants to get a neck injury. So, I don't know. It's uh once again, dangerous. There's a lot of dangerous [\h__\h] going on out there. You got to be careful. We we live in dangerous times because we have dangerous toys. Yeah. You know, you know, 100 years ago, we didn't have motorcycles with 250 horsepower that weighed 300 lb. You know what's more dangerous than a motorcycle nowaday? Have you ever seen these? I I bought my kids these scooters. Have you seen these little electric scooters? Yeah. The Razors? Yeah. No, it's a scooter. It's an actual You're on It's like a scooter, but they go like 10 miles an hour. the kids ones, you know, you know, maybe if if you're lucky, you get a 15 mile per hour one, but I got news to you. 15 10 15 miles an hour is very fast on a scooter. It's like it's like that's like going that on a skateboard. Oh, yeah. Absolutely. You crack your skull at that speed. Yeah. My my ex-wife Barbara, I think you know Barbara. Oh, yes. She her her I'm friends with her husband and he he texts me. He goes, "Oh, Barbara got really [\h__\h] up. She [\h__\h] broke her wrist." I'm like, "What happened? She was one of those like going like 20 miles an hour on a scooter and hit something and flew off the thing and and broke her wrist and and scraped her whole face up and uh you could really hurt yourself. Those scooters are more dangerous than than the little extra electric bikes and uh and motorcycles. Richie Gaspari and I were in were in uh uh Northern California, Sac uh San Jose to do a a podcast and we rented those. We were going to go to the gym and we you know they have the I think it's Mint it's called and they're these scooters that you just you just grab them and you you swipe your credit card and you take them and then you leave them wherever you want. You know it's like a electric bike service in the city. So, we rent these scooters and I'm going we're at the hotel parking lot and we make this loop. He goes around back behind the the entry and the next thing and then he doesn't come back out. I go, "What the fuck?" So, I scoot around all back there. He's on the ground upside down with the scooter on top of him. Oh [\h__\h] That he hit, you know, the parking thing the those cement things that you block your wheels when and that denote the end of the parking spot. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The curb. It's like a curb, right? He He ran into that. It went and then the thing went like those I'm telling you the most dangerous things you could ever do. Those scooters are definitely dangerous. Hold on. Oh, wait. Hold on. Let me uh I got the pictures. I'll show you Fouad who I also been sending prayer. I've been saying a prayer for him every day because it can happen any of us. Any of us could happen to So that was we know any details of the crash. What happened? Yeah, probably looks like he broke his neck. I mean, no, no, no. I mean, the actual crash. Oh, yeah. I don't know. I don't know of him or I'm not sure. That's got some nice hardware in him now. Yeah. Yeah. [\h__\h] But he's in good, like I said, good spirits. He's showing, you know, I look I would have done the same thing. He looks really He looks He got the crap beat out of him. You could He's not happy. You know, look, he's got some serious like, you know, scars and stuff like that. But see, the the thing that compounds the severity of a motorcycle accident is the ancillary injuries that you get just by being not encapsulated. So, if you're wearing a t-shirt, you're [\h__\h] because you have road rash all over your arms. You know, if you weren't wearing leathers, leather pants, you got road rash all over your legs, which it looks like he has. And that and that just adds to the misery. I mean, if you break a bone, that hurts enough. But then you got to have road rash on top of that, smashed fingers, you know, all kinds of other stuff that you get injured minorly with when a with a bike crash. It adds to the discomfort of the major injury. Yeah. Yeah. You know, though I when I see him walking like that, it reminded me like after I had my um aorta surgery. Oh god. How I was walking the halls. I was with the with the gown with your ass hanging out in the back. You don't even care. They're like, "You got to walk." And you're just walking. I'm like ass is luckily I have AI have a pretty I'm pretty lean. I have a pretty good ass. Some people look pretty and I got a tan you know who has it doesn't look too bad either. He's in good pretty good shape. So but yeah I mean you got to do it and it's everyone's in that same stupid hospital gown you know that's like you would think John how long is the the the hospital business been in business at this point for hundreds of years or whatever. Can they please invent a new gown that that that functions better and looks nicer? Why can't someone come up with a It costs the same thing. Can we get someone to do a redesign on the hospital gown, please? I I I never had to. Whenever I wear those, I just I'm just able to pull the back around to the front and covers everything up. Or you can wear two. You put on one one way and one the other way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's It's not so easy when you when you have when you have a catheter in or something like that. Well, I think that's you know, they do it for access, you know, if they ever got to rip that thing off you and get to your vitals. I mean, they they don't want anything, you know, holding them back, you know. Yeah. Yeah. By the way, I don't know. I don't I don't make those rules. Yeah. I you know I before we go into the next story, I I have to um I took the kids to Orlando. Is that was that where Logan won the got I gotta put up the thing. My son is is is you know he's a he's a troublemaker. You know he's he's probably I probably was exactly the same as him as a kid, right? He's so confident though in himself and and he's very you know oppositional. So like if you tell him to do one thing, he wants to do the other thing, right? So he he's obsessed with these these carnival games, you know, that you can never win, right? And you know, you have to throw rings around a milk bottle. They're impossible games, but he's, you know, he's really into basketball. And so every time he sees anything where he can shoot a ball, I'm like, wrote Logan, I'm like, these these games are rigged. No one wins these things. Certainly not, you know, n big prize. Yeah. The you can't get it in. the backboards are bouncy and the balls are too bouncy and and they and they make the the basket narrower that the ball barely fits into the thing, right? And so this they they had I guess they weren't having a lot of business and they're like, "Oh, you know, I'll let them try it." Because I said, "You're not going to be able to do because my my daughters wanted to do it, too." I'm like, "You guys can't even reach the basket." So, of course, the two little ones, they couldn't even reach the basket. He can He's got an arm on him with this kid. He can he can fire that ball. So, I'm like, "All right, you know what?" I said, "If you want to do it, do it." I said, "I'm videotaping you, though." Because I said, "You're never going to get it in." I said, "You're wasting your money." But everyone else got a gift. If that's what you want your gift to be, the 10 10 bucks or 20 bucks, whatever it was, for the three basketball shoots. I said, "Fine." What they charge for that now? Well, again, because you get trying to win something. It was It's three shots for how much? It's like 10 bucks or something like that. Are you [\h__\h] kidding me? Yes. Yes. It was 50 cents when I was a kid. We're at SeaWorld. So, he, you know, I I'm going to videotape you. So, here we go. I love this. He claims he's going to do it. He dribbles between his legs. He's like a stud. Man, he froze up. That is straight. Oh, the woman before he went, John was telling him, um, you got to ar the trick is to arc it in. He's like, don't tell me how to shoot a basketball. You know, I know what I'm doing. I said, "Oh, boy." He's my father like to the tea. So, here's the third shot. The third and final. Oh, he's sucking. He suck it. I can't believe this kid is the lucky kid. I can't believe it. You get it. He high five. Daddy wrong. Wow. That was a high five. He was He was blowing me off. You are good. I'll tell you, he is a clutch player. This kid hits it. When the when the buzzer goes off, he hits it. Third shot he hit it on. You know, everybody there knows he won. Oh, because I made a big deal about it. You know, I had to see I'll doubt him at first, but once I he does it, I have to celebrate. No. Yeah, you got it. It's big. So, he's tell him he can't do something, he will do it every single time. But every kid's like that. Yeah. All that. What you got to do is tell him he can't do that. That Oh, boy. I I said, you know what? I said they probably thought we were hustling them. You We should have gone double for nothing. I should have said on the third shot if he hits it. I said, "Give us two two two prizes because uh we went it's like I it's like the the the movie the hustler or the color of money where they go in there with they hustle money that that was Logan and I doing the the hustle on the uh on the carnival games." So, but we had a good They actually swam with the dolphins. I haven't put those pictures up yet. They swam with the We all swam with the dolphins and uh That's an incredible experience. I did that. Yeah, we had a dolphin experience. Yeah, that's wild. Dolphin actually, they're so strong they can actually pull you around the the the the grotto there. Oh, yeah. And they take you around. It was really cool. We had this one like female dolphin dot her name was and she was, you know, we did all the counters with her and there was these two people had just gotten married. They they probably were at least 350 each, you know, weight wise. And when it was time for them to get pulled around, they had a they had a call in a reinforced. They had a call on the Ronnie Coleman Dolphin because couldn't pull them around. And they knew that before they because they went last like, "Oh, sometimes we like to share other dolphins from other pods, you know, and they want to come over." And so, uh, you know, Ronnie Coleman here is gonna is gonna pull you around. This is like older like 60-year-old dolphin that's like, you know, probably won the Mr. Olympia of the dolphins, you know, Charlie Arms of Dolphins. And and the reason I know that's why they did it is because as soon as their ride was over, we got Dot back and and and that one left and Dot came back. No one else picked it up except for That's hysterical. We're so v visually uh aware of what's going on around us, right? So anyway, that was uh that was Yeah, we had a fun weekend. We got a little rained out. We went to the water park Aquatica on yesterday on Sunday, but it was it was we got a couple rides in, but it was rainy the whole time. So it always rains in Orlando. I lived there for a couple of years, man. There's more rain I've ever seen in my life. Yeah. Yeah. It It sucks. But you know, we had such a good time the whole weekend. It was It was fine. Cool. But that was that. All right. So, let's get I want to talk about the um before we get to the I want to talk about the Liver King here because before we talk about the uh the Flex Pro show that Rubio Mascara Nextzilla one, let's get to the um let's get to the Liver King thing. So, what do you think about this whole Liver King? Because the Libert created this image of himself as this ancestral caveman Neanderthal who eats, you know, bushes in his backyard and, you know, eats livers and bull testicles and bone marrow. And look, we all knew it was like somewhat of an act, right? You know, and he has bushy beard. He looks like Grizzly Adams. you know, he even though he lives he lives in a really nice house, he makes it look like he lives in a cave, you know, he looks he hasn't showered in in in a week, you know, which he may not have. I don't know because he was acting kind of kooky in these videos. So, evidently, I guess, you know, there was that this Netflix documentary that I have not seen, by the way, about him that was negative. And I guess Joe Rogan brought it up and so he had uh challenged Joe Rogan to a a fight or something like that. Yeah. Yeah. Went out to Austin, Texas where Joe Rogan lives and he was in a hotel there and he was saying I we're let's fight and then they fight. He was he wasn't saying I'm going to kick your ass. He was basically saying you'll probably choke me out but I'm gonna enjoy it. To me the whole thing sounded like a big publicity stunt, but he was acting like really weird like like he was on drugs. Like he wasn't really co he was saying some kooky like you know non-coherent [\h__\h] His pupils were totally dilated, right? I mean, he looked like like he was definitely on on some kind of drugs, probably hallucinogens, you know, but and I don't know what happened, but all of a sudden we get this report from Alex Jones of all people. Alex Jones who like, you know, outs like, you know, the World Trade Center bombings, you know, before it happens and like polit Alex Jones was reporting on the liver king, I have no idea. I just also and he says the liver he has got news that the liver king is going to be arrested, which he was right, by the way. and they went to his hotel and he's getting he got arrested for like terroristic threats on Joe Rogan. Now, first of all, the liver king is documenting all this and he's has it on his Instagram. If you're gonna if you're going to go kill someone, right, or or or not you're not going to tell everyone what you're gonna do threaten him that he was going to kill. They wanted to fight him, which really what he which really meant, John, he wanted to get on podcast with Well, yeah. He wanted, of course, he wanted publicity, you know, which is exactly what it sounds like is happening. Like it almost sounds like maybe there's a lull in the Liver King like uh popularity because of the of that Netflix document. It almost seems like he's trying too hard to get more publicity. And I don't think he thought he was going to be arrested, but I think once they said that they were coming, they came to arrest him, I think he saw that as an opportunity to get more publicity off of this, especially because he knew he didn't do anything wrong. What are they going to do? What what could they possibly arrest him on based on for what if if he was making threatening statements? That's, you know, you you can't say I want to fight someone in an MMA. I mean, I don't It depends on the context and how he said it and who he said it to. You read you saw what he did. Yeah, but I I didn't see it. I didn't No, I didn't see it though. I I saw a video of him and he didn't it didn't come off particularly cuckoo bird. He seemed like right. It just sounded like he was nuts. The problem is is that, you know, you got to watch these people who are nuts because they do nutty [\h__\h] you know, and you don't expect them to do it, but we have so many mentally ill people wandering around out there because there's no facility and no programs to help them anymore that we just we're faced with having to live among them and this is the [\h__\h] they do. So, you gonna trust him? You gonna say, "Oh, he's only kidding around because he's Liver King." You know what? Or do you take the threat seriously? You You know what? Really, when you think about it, isn't deliver king just a a much more successful Mr. G. Look at this guy. Can't you see George doing this? Oh, yeah. No, him and he's going to walk in. Look how happy. Okay, mate. Oh, yeah. Good tidings. Good tidings. Hey, Primals. Good morning. Good morning, Primals. I just did a great morning with my queen. Now I'm going on a walk with the boys. I don't know if you heard it's my get out of jail party today. We can't go to the Beyonce concert or we could. But what we're choosing to do is obey the laws of Texas and be grateful for being able to party with family today. I mean, he seems like he's a lot more sober the day after going to jail. I'm convinced that he absolutely was was was on some sort of drugs. He He's kind of a wacko, man. I mean, look, I I look at it this way. The guy scammed his way into your wallet. All right? He he he did not do any of what he purported to do to gain his physique and his look and whatever. He he made all of this [\h__\h] up to sell his product. And and I think if you gota you got to scam people into following you and believing you, this is the kind of [\h__\h] that ends up happening. Karma's a [\h__\h] Can't you see George doing this stuff? At least at least Georgie would be doing it with in the undertone of of you know, you know, making yourself better and you know, believe in yourself. You know what I mean? Well, he was doing that initially until the until it got to Rogan. He's been Yeah, but no, he's doing it to promote himself. Georgie wouldn't want any promotion. He would just want to, you know, he didn't even want to sell that many cookies. But, you know, I mean, it's the difference is he is delivering is doing this for himself. Georgie would be doing it to help other people, right? Well, I mean I mean you could it's okay to make money while you're motivating people. Yeah, but he's not motivating any. He's acting like I think I think Yeah. Look, I used to watch his videos. I mean, they they were very creative. you're going to watch that and that's going to make you go to the gym and eat right and you know do your cardio that now he's he's lost he's lost his mind a little bit so you know a little bit he's totally gone but I I think that he I think that he was on some sort of drugs and you know you know what happens success is is it is a very slippery slope and I'll tell you why because when you're that popular you got four million followers everyone knew who he was everyone's talking about the liver king that's a lot of success, you know, and you know, it feeds your ego. As much as he's like, you know, giving back, you know, you could tell that his videos, he put a lot of creative energy into them. Sure. And he has a staff of people that were helping him film them and he was making money selling products, which is, look, at the end of the day, if you have a supplement line and you are you're the main driving force of the marketing behind it and everyone knows who you are, there's a certain level of like, you know, satisfaction that comes with that, right? I mean, you can't help it, but get that. And then all of a sudden, now all of a sudden, everyone's down on you. They, you know, they out you for using, you know, $11,000 a month in steroids and GH when you said you were natural. And the documentary comes out on on Netflix, you know, pointing out that he's a phony. People are suing him, right, for for for promoting his ancestral tenants as the reason why he looked that good when actually he was taking, you know, juice, right? And now all of a sudden, he's not so popular. People don't like him anymore. And he went from being so beloved to being dislike because he scammed everybody. That's why if he was well he scammed legit anyone who knows anything about you know look the guy's still trained hard but he's not appealing to the guys who know anything about it. He's appealing to the his appeal is to the guys who don't know anything about it who he can con into believing that if you eat raw liver you're going to look like me. Right. You know or take better yet take his raw liver pills. Right. Exa precisely. So he once he was exposed he felt like I guess you know like people didn't like him anymore. So he had to start and I think that's when people start No. But what happens John is you're not getting high anymore from what you're doing. Right. You start getting high from other things. Let me try experimental hallucinogenic mushrooms. I'm going to micro dose them at first. You know how that works. Sean, people micro dose him in before the macro dosing. Micro doing and then he's starting to do these kooky videos where he's talking like like he's from Mars or something like that, you know. See, I I put him and Sam Sulac in the same category. I I want to hear this explanation because I put him in the same category because up until Sam competed, they were just personalities of their own making. They had never accomplished anything in our world to make them noteworthy other than the image that they were promoting. So Sulac is promoting this bizarre idea that you can drink chocolate milk by the gallon and you know eat eat you know [\h__\h] food and train and get big despite the fact he said he does that. He never promoted it. No I know I that's exactly my point. It was it was Sam Sule was on a mission and he shared his journey with everybody. Liver King is promoting a lifestyle and an ideal that's fake. So Sam Sulak's real, Liver King is fake. So they're in the same category because they're influencers who, like I said, up until Sam competed, never participated in our industry whatsoever, but gained a tremendous amount of popularity because of what they were about. And one of them was about something fake, and one of them was about something real. What happened to the fake guy? He's got arrested. His life is over. He's going to be miserable. What happened to the real guy? Turned pro. He's got a promising career. He's looking, you know what I mean? You gotta You gota You got to follow the good energy you put out. Yeah. Yeah. This is when he was uh before it was Sorry, I didn't see him come out. We were making your coffee. Coffee's ready. Oh, good. Please, can I have can I have the coffee? Yeah, it's going to be an espresso. What? An espresso. Do you need any like is when they taken him. He was strolling. It took him like whenever I needed to. And I'm going to also do everything that I can with the amount of time. I'll try and explain the little least amount that I'm going to. We We agreed on 12. Correct. 12 minutes. Correct. There's 12 ancestral tenants. You know that? I do. Yeah. They're actually principles. Principles. And I asked another man how much time how much time I have it. He said non zero. He was obsessed with the time of how much he was going to be given before he had to come out. He he wears two watches on his hands, John. He had one on one arm, one on the other, like as if they weren't going to be synchronized or something like that. He definitely different time zones. Yeah, he he definitely is losing his mind a little bit. You know, I I think his mind was lost longer. I think he was dying to get himself onto Rogan. Rogan wanted no part of it and uh it would have been a great I I think it would have been a cool interview, but I guess for it wouldn't have done anything for Rogan. It would have only helped Liver King and that's why Rogan didn't do it. I I honestly just don't think Liver King is interesting enough to warrant a Joe Rogan interview. No, it's it's not he's not he I mean what what is he gonna say? I I screwed over. I, you know, lied to people. And uh I think his his videos are still interesting. I like to watch him walk around his yard and eat berries and [\h__\h] like that. I think I would like I would like the guy if he did this. I would like him if he got on some platform and said, you know, I cooked this whole scheme up, you know, 15 years ago. And I thought if I could f get people to believe that I ate like a caveman and lived like a caveman, that I could make a lot of money promoting that idea and the products that support it. And you know, I I took it too far. I did this. I did that. I lied. I scammed. I cheated. I did this. I did it all wrong. And I'm sorry. And I wish I could do it over again. I do it differently and here's how I would do it differently. Right? So, but and and then I would say, well, you know, there's a guy who just, you know, fell on his sword. You'd be realized the jig was that the jig was up and it was time to come clean. And if the jig is up and you come clean, the public accepts you back into the fold. If the jig is up and you lie about it and keep denying it and don't do it, nobody likes you. Yeah. You know what? I guess in the worst case scenario, John, if the liver king falls any further from Grace, he could always join the Wack Pack, right? If he join Tuesday afternoons, you know, become a Wack Packer. I mean, he'd fit in fine, right? Yeah, we'd have him on. Sure, he could become a regular, you know, he could go to Alabama with us next year, you know, and and hang. He's got a lot of money. He could maybe he could fly us in on his private jet. Yeah, I don't think he's got that much money. But uh yeah, he so at the worst case scenario, Brian, his name is Brian Johnson, you could always contact me and join the Wack. We'd love to have you. We have you on. Rogan doesn't want you on, but we we'll take you. Yeah. Yep. And you know what? Mr. G is looking for a job, I think. So maybe he I I think pairing Mr. G up with the Liver King would be absolutely amazing. They could make Neanderthal cookies and and you know liver cookies. Yeah. And he's a good he's a good businessman, John. That's what George needs. George, he needs that. That I'm I'm telling you that the the dynamic those two would create would be mindboggling. If the Liber King is listening, we got your we we we got your soulmate right here. According to this guy, his net worth is 310 million. I don't know. Would you look that up? But no, isn't Valentino worth a couple million though, too? Yeah, Valentino's worth like four million, you know. How could he be worth 310 million? Do you realize how much money that is? How much you would have to sell your company for, you know, to be worth that? What supplement company right now is worth $300 million? He's making a lot, I know, on on on his website. I don't know what it's lately it's worth if he's making that much. It's crazy though. Think about it. It's a lot of money if he is worth that. It's a lot of money. I don't know how it could be worth that, but it's a lot of money. Trying to pull it up on Google. I don't know what the Liver King net worth is this. It's Well, Liver King's net worth is estimated to be approximately 12 million. His wealth is generated from various businesses, blah blah blah. However, Liver King claims his wealth to be 310 million. Yeah, Liver King claims that. Let's see a tax return. We'll have Ron Norman read it. Well, Google pulls from everything. So, you know, it it sounds a lot more reasonable that he's worth 12 million, which is still a lot of money. That's a lot of money, too. Yeah. I mean, that's he can live a very very comfortable life. He doesn't have to work the rest of his life if he doesn't want to. Yep. You know, just don't get yourself arrested, you know. Yeah. Because that eats up cash like an animal, man. You know, lawyer bills. I don't think that this guy is is dangerous in the very least. First of all, he came to Austin, Texas, which is where Rogan's located now. Stayed at the Four Season Hotel. He didn't stay at some little shanty town. He brought his wife and children with him and his video crew. He's certainly not going to document a terroristic attack on Joe Rogan. Okay. On video with his kids and wife there. That crazy. This was a huge publicity stunt that went arry because he was too [\h__\h] high on whatever he was taking. Yeah. And he he came off as being nuts rather than just being a guy like, "Hey Joe, let's go fight in the MMA." He came off as being a little kooky. And you know what? That's what got people weirded out. And I think the cop, from what I understand, the cops asked Rogan if he felt threatened. He said, "Yes, that's his town. He probably brings an enormous amount of business into into Austin, Texas, John." And they're like, "Get this [\h__\h] guy out. Lock this guy up." You know, ex I mean, look, King has lawyers. He did it. But but I mean you you cannot blame Rogan and you can't blame the cops. There's enough lunatics running around out there that you got to be careful. I mean you know you don't know what they're capable of. They wanted to evaluate him. I think that's why they took him in. I think he should be evaluated and I think that somebody should be following him around because you know pe kooky people do kooky [\h__\h] You just don't know whether it's going to be violent or not. Do you um do you think that he is dangerous or no? I think I I I think that people who have a mental issue certainly could be dangerous and I think that needs to be looked at because here's what happens. Let's say every he's liver he's just kidding around. He's a liver king, you know, and then he actually he actually [\h__\h] somebody up. He hurts somebody, kills somebody, does something wacko off the off the cuff and everybody's, "Oh, we knew it. We knew he was crazy." Well, then why didn't you do anything? Do you think he's like um you know how Colin Van Moger like lost his mind and was doing drugs and stuff like that? You think he's like in that category? I don't I don't think I I think he's more mellow than that. But I think he's got he the guy is definitely got I mean my opinion is is that if looking at his behavior it's doesn't appear to be normal. So my opinion is is that since his behavior does not appear to be normal, it warrants some kind of investigation to make sure the guy's not dangerous. That's all. You know, it's so amazing though. You know, it's always these guys that like and and I mean he's not that short. He's 5 foot seven, but it's always these like shorter guys that have these like complexes where you know they have to like he should have just been so happy that what he you know what I would have done if I were him I would have never you know lied about what I was doing but because I'm pretty transparent but if if I would have got I would have said you know what yeah it was a publicity son I everything that I sell I believe in I take it myself I believe in it is it going to get me looking like me no it's not going to probably look but I train my ass off you know, yes, I'm on hormone replacement. I'm on a few things, but but I believe in these. He should have just apologized and that and that and left it at that. Right. Like I Right. There's no reason to try to like justify it. He should have just said, "Look, there's been plenty of people that have been caught doing stupider [\h__\h] than him." And and if and if and if he did do that, you know, was transparent and owned up to it, then fewer people would think he's nuts. Right. Right. You know, I mean, right now, all of us think he's [\h__\h] nuts. That That's what we think based on his behavior. You want to change our opinion, change our your behavior. He doesn't feel good about himself inside because of what's going on. And he he's taking substances. Look, we've both tried it, none of most of us. Except Greg Valentino, of course. He just u he just gets his gallbladder removed. But um I bet the liver king could have helped him probably keep his gallbladder. Yeah. And is this the Deliver King's calling us. Hold on. No way. No, it's not Liver King. Um, and I he he he went on that slippery slope of let me do a little bit of these drugs to make myself feel a little better and and and and he did too much and that that's what happened. And when you do too much, you start you you you slowly but you know surely go past the line of of sane versus nonsane. He sounded insane in what he was saying. That's why the cops arrested him. If he would have sounded coherent and been speaking, you know, very coherently about what's going on, I don't think anyone would have arrested this guy. And I don't think that Rogan would have felt threatened by him either. But he's like probably thinking if this guy's on drugs, he might do something that it normally he would not be capable of doing. And and then he makes this then they make statements like he's you know was what $11,000 a month on on on juice. Who who take who spends $1,100 maybe 11 grand? You know what it was John? I think they were trying he he was claiming that he was buying growth hormone from a a legitimate like compounding farm. How much is that? 1,500 bucks. I mean, it's not 11,000, but I mean, yeah, let's Yeah, it's probably like a couple a couple grand maybe. But yeah, they everyone has to bolster everything up to But the point But my point is is if you say, "I'm taking $11,000 a month worth of drugs immediately." That guy's [\h__\h] nuts, right? You're not you are not helping yourself, okay, by making such claims. Why don't you say, that's like believable. That's what like the most of us would be hardressed to spend on a on a cycle. Even if you're buying growth from directly from Lily, it doesn't [\h__\h] matter. When you say [\h__\h] like that, it immediately makes you sound nuts. And on top of everything else that he's done and said, what's anybody going to think he goes to Austin and tries to pick a fight with Joe Rogan? Of course, if I was Rogan, I'd say put a [\h__\h] net over this [\h__\h] guy. You know, he according to this, he actually confessed to taking $11,000 a month in steroids. Yeah. Who the hell was someone was making a shitload of money selling these drugs to him? If that's what you and I have done enough drugs to know how much $11,000 Even if you bought it from the directly from the pharmacy, from the most expensive markedup pharmacy in Beverly Hills, you wouldn't spend 11 grand a month on juice. It's impossible. but makes you sound like you're [\h__\h] nuts, right? Because anybody who looks at that amount of money spent on drugs would say that's insane. That's an incredible amount. Nobody could if you took that much drugs, you'd be out of your [\h__\h] mind. So, yeah. What do What do you expect when people say you're out of your mind? Yeah. Maybe someone maybe he was out of his mind. Maybe he didn't even know he was he was buying from uh and then if you say if you say I he's out of his mind without saying I think he's out of his mind or my opinion is he's out of his mind. If you say he's out of his mind then you get sued for make for making a false statement or you know slander or liable or whatever it is. You know you're going to be in trouble for saying something like that when it's looked painfully obvious. You know I have a good idea. John, we were trying to figure out who Mr. G could fight in an M MMA ring. The Liver King. Liver King. There you go. Why don't we do the Liver King? He I'm sure the Liver King need needs to rehab his uh his uh reputation, his image. Listen, Liver King, if you're out there listening, contact us. We have seven different things you can do to resurrect your your career. We'll help you. All right? But you got to make the first step. It's like being a drug. It's like admitting you're a drug addict. You got to make the first step. You got to admit you need us and then contact Dave and we'll work it out. I think that because remember we couldn't find someone who I don't think the liver came. He disappeared again. Okay, folks. So, we're here talking about Liver King and Dave disappeared. So, what can we tell you? The opinion is is that the 11,000 bucks worth of drugs is way too much. Listen, Mr. G can't find someone who's never had an MMA fight. Now, Brian's a little younger than Mr. G, but you know, they kind of look alike a little bit, right? And Mr. G's a lot bigger than him, taller and and weighs more than him that I think they would be evenly matched. I think it would be a good idea. I I think it's a fabulous idea. I think I I think we could make we should Georgie should make a commemorative Liver King cookie, you know, to go along with it, right? And, you know, get and get Liver King involved in the promotion of this thing because he's way better at business than Georgie. He might actually make George some money. He could actually make Georgie a lot of money if if Georgie would, you know. Well, we have to discuss this tomorrow on after hours. Yes, we do. We have to have George to wherever the Libert lives. I don't even know where he lives anymore. And he could spend like like a month there like rehabbing, you know, giving him motivational speeches and and getting him back into into the into the flow, right? Get get him to believe in himself. That's right. You don't need all those drugs. You got to believe in yourself. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then and then you can stop at Ronnie Coleman's house and help him do he could do his physical therapy with Ronnie Coleman after. We I I'm surprised we haven't heard any more news since this morning. No, that we're probably probably tomorrow we'll hear something. We're in a media blackout. Where does Liver King live? Hold on. It just bothers me. Oh, the liver I he was arrested uh brought the Oh, he moved to Texas. I didn't know that. Oh, he was moved. I thought he was in Kentucky or something. I think he's in Houston, though. Wow. So, so that's perfect. George can go to the Liver King and then he can go to Ronnie after that. Y we see we got a lot of we and and George is is the only problem is the liver king better know George is not cheap right doesn't he charge like like like like $1,000 a training session well I I think he has I think he has different levels of participation you know some of it involves how much money you make yeah well and it depends if you're offering him a place to live is have a swimming pool how far you are from the beach so we can surf there a gym nearby is there a gym in the house there's no surf in Texas unfortunately Unless builds a wave pool or something. It did a lot of gray areas. Yeah, it's pretty funny. But I think that would be phenomenal. Yeah, certainly. Certainly be good for their image. Yep. All right, let's see. So, what about Larry Wheels? I mean, not Larry Wheels, the neck guy. Neckzilla. Neckzilla. Neckzilla. Let's bring So, Nexzilla wins the uh Flex Italy Pro show and he's going to the Mr. Olympia. You know, it's it's interesting. Let me pull up some footage. I didn't think his condition was very good at all. I thought he looked good. I thought he actually I like he looked like he was guest posing. No, he's he's leaner than that. I didn't think so. But he's got he does have that very thick skin, though. A monster. He's he's the the problem with with Nexzilla is that first of all I want to just give him some compliments because he he absolutely got bigger than last year. He absolutely improved his posing. He's he however has a very weird looking physique. He's got a a slightly big waist, you know, for he's got big obliques and and he's got a very narrow shoulder width for someone his arms are short and his legs are insane. His arms are pretty short, don't you? It's like someone took a bunch of body parts and just put them together. Like like if you could like make a an AI, you know, bodybuilder and you were into legs. Like if there was a wellness division in bodybuilding, he would be the champ, you know. Man, his arms look really short in that pose. Yeah. He's he's got a very he's got strange proportion is what he's got. Yeah. Yeah. Very. And it that's why, you know, because he's got more muscle than everyone. Look, he he is what we want. A freak. Yeah. That's what we want. We we If you want to be beautiful, compete in classic physique. Yeah, exactly. You're right. I mean, come on. That's why we invented it. We We We invented it to give the guys who keep complaining about the 90s someplace to go now. Leave us alone. Let the freaks walk this walk the earth. Right. Right. this. I'm glad he's going to the Olympia because he is a freak and he you know he's I want to see I want to see an Olympia that's got a lineup like like with everybody's over 270. He does look like Paka Batista by the way. Whoever kind of Yeah. With those his obliques are very very big. Reminds me of Jimmy Quinn. Yeah. Here here's the problem with him. He's he's never gonna win like the big shows because he's got a very awkward physique. button like every a lot of people. He didn't get f straight first place votes. Andrea Prey got a few first place votes. Now Andrea Prey, who I I really like his physique, he's from Italy, so that that probably helped him. I'm sure is in Italy, but I don't think it was to me it wasn't close. I mean, Rubial is just so much bigger than him, even though Andrea has a nicer looking physique aesthetically speaking. I mean I mean there's a muscle aspect of of what's going on here, too. You can't you can't ignore that. Let's let's pull let's pull up the uh the call outs here for a second and then we can uh we can critique it a little better. All right. This is the uh the first call out. You got Rubial. Next to him to the left of him is Andrea Prey. As far as I'm concerned, it was a two-man show. So, and obviously so did the uh score sheets and the judges felt that way, too. But, I mean, look at the size difference. I mean, this he he's kind of like a Victor Richards with not as good a shape as Victor Riches, right? And you and and he's not he's not that tall either. He's like almost he's probably the second shortest guy in the lineup there. But but his mass just completely dominates everything. He's you want to look at him. It's like stop looking at him. Yeah, he definitely draws the attention. I mean, let's face it, the show was weak. That's why he won. Okay. It was, as far as I'm concerned, there was there was it wasn't even close. But and like I said, I like Andrea Prey's physique, but you know, Rubio's got the legs. I mean, Andrea's legs are a little downsized. I'm sure he's mad that Rubio showed up because I mean, obviously, he'd be going to the Olympia otherwise, right? And he might be he might actually be qualified already, Prey. I have to look it up. I don't recognize the name on the list. Yeah. I mean, h how do you not pick Rubio in this lineup? Difficult. It it is difficult because mass does really help, you know, and I don't care what anyone says, you know. Yeah. Bigger is better. No. Yeah. Yeah. Prey's not I thought he was disqualified. He's not qualified. So, I didn't think so. The Mr. Olympia qualified as Brett Wilkins, Samson Daotti Chopen, Derek Lunsford, Raphael Brandeo, Martin Fitzwwater, Hakee Williams, Brandon Curry, William Bonac, Batali Ugalanov, uh the Andrew Jack, Nick Walker, Regan Grimes, Antonio Burton, Sasserati, Be Ruse, Tobani, and Cheng Long Chen, China. And now we could add Nezilla to the one. Now you guys make sure you understand what we just said. These are the guys qualified. This does not mean they are competing. It means they are qualified. We get they got to sign the contracts. Yeah. I mean the Bay is right. His quads are just nuts. I mean they're they're crazy. Yeah. I don't think we're going to see anybody any of the Iranian bodybuilders this year. I I was gonna ask you that next. I was gonna say, you think I don't think we're gonna see Hottie and I don't think we're gonna see what's his name. You just said it. I I think we're gonna see I think we're gonna see Hottie. I don't think we're going to see Be Ruse, though. I think is kind of Well, I think Hottie is kind of like grandfathered in almost. He's been here so many times. I don't know. They're pretty radical over there. I hope they I hope they let him. I mean, I hope they Beirus should come, too. I mean, if they let one, they should let the other. Yeah. Uh but you know what? There's there's sometimes like a precedent like one has been here many times. He's already you know shown that he's not I look I think all athletes should have exemptions but I guess exactly there should be none of this political [\h__\h] attached to athleticism right none. Zero. I mean what's the odds of like you know they're being a troublemaker you know as as an athlete you know and if and if they are it's contained. We know where you we know exactly where you are. I mean come on. What are you gonna what are you gonna do? According to a mean Iran's airport is shut down. So yeah it is. People can't get out of there. Well, we also have a couple months till the Olympia, so I don't know. I don't know. There's a black guy and Italian guy competing. Dave always roots for the black guy. Typic what? What? I'm Italian. Why am I gonna root for the black guy? That's I don't watch Rocky and root for clubber lang. What an idiotic statement. Unless he was joking. Yeah, he probably is. That's why I put it up there. Yeah, it's pretty funny. I don't know. We'll We'll see. We'll see. So So I think if that Beirus guy gets here, it's all over. That guy's so insanely insanely huge. You don't think so? I mean, I think he's going to do Well, I don't think he's gonna win the Olympia. You think he's that? He's a monster. I don't know. You don't think so? I don't I don't think so. All right. you you know better than I do. I mean, you think he's gonna beat Samson and Hottie? I think I the pictures I've seen of this guy. Yeah, he's good. He's good, but you know, he's insane. Yeah, if I I'll tell you what, if I was an Iranian athlete, I would I would just get the hell out of there and go to Dubai or something like that. You try to, but you can't get out. Establish some, you know, asylum there or something like that and then they can get a passport maybe from there. Yeah. So, I agree. I agree. I mean, I I think he's going to be in the top four, top five. Yeah. Well, I mean, what what a what a stupid thing to have to deal with if you're an athlete, you know? I mean, it's just crazy. I think Prey was a little upset, but you know what? Rubial was Rubio's Rubio. He's a freak. Total freak. Now, here's the question. If you're Rubio, John, do you get bigger or do you try to get more aesthetic? Because, you know, he's not getting more aesthetic. But my I I believe you should always get bigger. I I look, it's the way things are structured right now. The the the whole idea that open bodybuilding has to be this artistic representation of the human form with flow and beauty and and but [\h__\h] that. That's why we have men's physique. We have or classic physique, whatever. Open bodybuilding is a freak show. That's what it's supposed to be. So, get bigger. Yes. Get bigger, get leaner, get bigger, bigger, bigger, and leaner. That's what you got to do because I want to see freaks. That's what I like to see. That's what most people who are watching the Open want to see. And all those people who are whining and complaining about how it's out of hand and it doesn't do this anymore and it doesn't do that anymore and the 90s were the best era. Go watch Classic Physique. That's why we gave it to you. Yeah. Let me pull this up here. Hold on. Was this a better Olympia lineup? You think? I Dennis Wolf, Dexter Jackson, Kai Green, Victor Martinez. Victor Martinez. Yeah, man. That's a great lineup right there. Kai Kai just is dominates. Sorry, that's his his physique is Wolf is really great too there. But um he he that was one of the couple times he came in really good. Yeah, Victor is unbelievable. Also, I think the guys I think the in this lineup I think the guys today more than h can hang with these guys. I think absolutely. I think when we were talking about the Ronnie Coleman ear and the Dorian year, that was a little more difficult. That was different. Yeah. Um, you know, the guys were good, but they weren't like mindbgg people don't realize how crazy Ronnie Coleman is. I'm going to I'm going to give you an idea because when we saw Dorian competing, okay, you got to remember Dorian beat Kevin Leon, Dorian beat Flex Wheeler, Nasser, El Samati, Shawn Ray, you know, the whole that whole group, Lee Priest, Cormier, they they couldn't beat this guy, Paul Delet. You would think Delay, you would think on paper that these other guys should absolutely take out Dorian because genetically they were better. Absolutely. Dorian was bigger, harder, more professional, dry. He you couldn't beat you couldn't outwork the guy. No, Dorian retired. We're all like, "Well, who's going to win now? Is it going to be Levoni? It's going to be Flex Wheeler." We were all thinking, "Who's the next in line?" No one saw Ronnie Coleman coming. No one ever expected that Ronnie would be so good that he would be better than Dorian because no one thought it would be possible to because he placed like 16th as first Olympia, didn't he? So when Ronnie comes out of the woodwork and wins in 98, you know, he looked amazing and then he comes back in 99 and beats Flex again and it looks even better. People would would argue. I agree. And then, you know, he had that off year in in 01 where Jay theoretically could have beat him. In 02 he tried to come in too hard and he was smaller and he didn't look as good. And then everyone was writing him off. And then he came back in 03 and was like 300 lb, 45 lbs heavier. 47 47 pounds heavier. It w you know it was like this guy we said this guy no one will ever there's no there'll never be another Ronnie Coleman. Now I'm not saying there'll never be another Ronnie Coleman but there might never be another Ronnie Coleman. No he had genetics. He he he think about it he was natural for a very long time. So be so he his body grew naturally and then he took drugs on top of one of the most genetically blessed bodies already. I mean, the guy had 20 inch arms, I think, in high school, right? And took it took me 10 year, five years to get 20 inch arms. He he had him playing football in high school. He wasn't even working out. So, that tells you his genetics. And then he, you know, he had a blessed structure on top of that. So, it's like it's the perfect storm. So, that's why he's the greatest of all time. Now, no matter what happens to him afterwards, whether orthopedically that that that's doesn't even matter because what he achieved may never ever be eclipsed. And and because of that, we're forever always going to compare everyone to him, right? And compared to him, no one will ever live up to our expectations of what Mr. Olympia should be. And that's what has ruined bodybuilding, right? It's not the fact that the physiques are Hold on. It's not the fact that the physiques are not good now. They're really good. I mean, the the top guys are great, but they're not Ronnie Coleman. And because of that, it's like we're we're waiting for the next savior to come for bodybuilding and the next Ronnie to appear. And I don't know if it'll ever happen. It it every sport has had their incredible standout. You know, you've got, you know, Michael Jordan, you've got you got but they got LeBron Hamilton in Formula One. You've got you've got you've got guys who are just so far in the fringe above and beyond everybody else that you you just don't get that very often. You know, if you're you're lucky if you get to see it once or twice in your lifetime. Yay could destroy the guys today. Don't you agree? Absolutely. Absolutely. No two ways about it. It wouldn't even be close. Not even. He would It would be like laughable. There would be like one call out and they'd send him back in line and that would be the end of the show. He'd go back to his hotel room. Yeah. Come back later and get the trophy. But that's what we're waiting for another Yates or another Coleman. And when that happens, everyone will love body. I mean, we still love bodybuilding, but I'm saying then it will become so popular again because we just don't have that person there. We had, think about it, we had six years of of of Dorian. We had eight years of Ronnie. We had seven years of of um Phil Heath and we had four years of Jay. So, you know, with a couple, you know, Dexters and Rhodens, you know, and Ramy scattered in there, but those there weren't dominant years. So, we haven't had a we've had a change in the Olympia title, John, the last what, three, four years in a row. There's no consistency. There is no one there. So, you know, we're waiting for the the return of the king, so to speak. You know, I don't I don't I don't think it will happen the way it used to happen. And I I even asked Weinberger this in an interview recently when I I think it was on this show that we asked him um Yes. Don't forget Haney although we now went to talk. Oh, don't forget. Yeah. But that was the Haney bailed on the organization. But that was the era prior. It changed when Dorian won the Olympia. Everything changed. Yeah. Yeah. So that was not Haney was not as dominant as No, not No, he was not. Not like Dorian. No, he wasn't. He was amazing. Incredible. But he was not the dominant force that Ronnie was, that Jay was, that you know that that these other guys were. Yeah. I got a news for you guys. You think Yates got a gift? He did not get a gift. This guy, maybe the last Olympia I I think that we could have you could lastia he got a gift. Yeah. You could have justified Nashville winning because Yates had injuries. But the other six, the other five, excuse me, he he won. I mean, he beat the best of the best. Totally. Totally. And he he he also had one of those years where he came back one year to the next was like whoa what happened 92 to 93 93 that's so that's what you get but you know I I don't think I think that genetic makeup to produce one of those dudes is so rare and so not elusive in the sense that if you know you got it you got to exploit it kind of thing you know. Well, will there ever be another Bumstead? I mean, he was a he I I equate Bumstead to Corey Everson in in women's bodybuilding. Yeah. Yeah. I think that he'll there will be a better winner, but for his ear when he was competing in the classic Olympia, no one can touch him. He was he was untouchable. His reign was spotless. He was incredible. But his physique can be eclipsed by another classic guy in the future and it will. But when he was competing, no one touched him, you know. Nope. Not structurally. He structurally was better than everyone. He was incredible. That's why Cory won too. She was structurally better. How tall was Corey? She was tall, right? She was taller. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She just to stand out over everyone, you know. 5'8, 5'9, something like that, you know. And Linda was very dominant, too, because of that because of that structure. I mean, so that's why she was on I mean, although Iris Kyle beat her a few times. So, you know, you got to take your hat off to Iris, but that I mean, you know, if people Yeah. people Yeah. people, right, if people were more interested in women's bodybuilding, they had some of the best battles probably during that time period. And they were always conditioned. I mean, qualitywise, the women always smoked the men. Kim, Linda, and Iris would have smoked all the women today. All I mean all three of those girls no one would have touched they could have won 25 Olympias here. Yep. Easily. So today but but once again we haven't gotten another person and and in women's bodybuilding I I think you could find another person especially because Jake puts out enough money now that sure it will draw in some people. I think if some of these women's physique women would would be smart and just move up to women's bodybuilding. They're close already. They probably, you know, how like the the 212 guys moved up to the open and they realized, [\h__\h] we could win the open and there's a lot more money in this. And that's what Hottie did and Derek did. And I think the women uh class the women's physique matters should do the same thing because there's a lot more money in women's bodybuilding the way Jake's doing it at the Olympia level. No, the the the the women's divisions unfortunately go through this metamorphosis that is constantly replacing the prior division with the one more extreme. So, I mean, look at the bikini girls now. The bikini girls look like the figure girls used to look five years ago. Yeah. And the figure girls look like the women's physique. There was a figure girl working out in in my gym. She went into the other room where they have cardio to to film herself, right? And I was I was in there doing leg extensions because they moved the machine in there for some stupid reason. So I'm looking she and I'm looking at this girl. She was training. That girl's probably, you know, she's a little small for bodybuilding, but she's probably, you know, classic, you know, women's physique. Yeah. Then I see the clear heels and I'm like, are you kidding? This is figure. And the girl I when if you think a figure that where like maybe Nicole Wilson Wilkins was that cusp where the things changed, you know, from being a little to being not so extreme to extreme. This is another three steps more extreme. Women's figure right now might as well be women's bodybuilding. Well, look at look at look at the the women's physique Olympia champagus who I think is one of the most gifted. I think she's got like a Corey Everson look. Even though she may may not look like Corey, but her her physique is Cororeius. She could I think she she should do bodybuilding. I mean, look at that. I mean, that's that's a lot of muscle there. That's a lot of lean muscle. That's a good look for women's bodybuilding. I think they need to get rid of women's bodybuilding and just do this or merge the two. Whatever you want. Merge them this way. People always complain there's not enough women money. Don't you don't need two divisions. Have one division. That's all you need. They're so close. You could hardly stir the difference between the two. Anyway, they're a little bigger than women's bodybuilding, but but so what? We need another division like that to to siphon more money. The talent pool and physique is better. Yes. Yes. So, it I mean, you you don't have to encourage the women to get that much bigger because you know what? As far as I'm concerned, that's big enough, right? There's only like four girls in the whole Olympia that are like champion caliber. I mean, have you seen, you know, Natalya Quao? I mean, yeah. I mean, she's also amazing. I mean, I she doesn't need to be any bigger. No. And I I think that that that to me, that's the perfect uh also physique for for women's bodybuilding. I don't know. I I just I think that we're we're You ever see Teresa Ivan? Avancick. Yeah. She's got a good physique, too. But I'm saying But she does she actually does women's bodybuilding? No, she does women's she does body women's Yeah. open bodybuilding. which that that physique, you know, well, yeah, but there there's people that are more gifted than her, but I know I know what you're referring to. I know what you're referring to. So, it's Yeah, it's I I don't know. It's I you know, look, I don't I don't make the rules, but we can still break them. You know, Lee Priest thinks there shouldn't be 212 bodybuilding. He thinks that these guys should all go to the open division. I agree. Um it's a little harder um because of that. I mean, for the the shorter guys, I mean, yes, there are some that are very gifted and I think but if we had another era of like a Ronnie or another era of like a of a Jay, these shorter guys wouldn't have a prayer. So, I think they're doing well now because there really isn't a dominant guy. Look at Samson. If Samson continues to dominate and come in in shape, no one's going to beat him. How do you get a guy who was 5'6 to beat this guy six foot two? Yeah. But see, that's the thing. It's like that's just the way the cookie crumbles, Georgie. I mean, you know, I mean, it's it's just it's just the way it is. I mean, you can't it's like why don't I why can't I ride a motorcycle as good as Casey Stoner, you know? Never. It's ever never going to happen. So, that's just tough luck. And if you're 52 and you want to compete in the Olympia, that's tough. You shouldn't have a class all for you so you can do what? be the 212 Mr. Olympia. I mean, this guy makes look Keon Pearson is right. He's probably a top five Olympia guy right now. Now, he is very short, but he's got a beautiful physique. Yeah, he does. And that's what should win the show. Not, you know, I would like him I right now he's doing 212 Olympia because he's winning easily, but I would like to see him in the open. You know, there I agree with Lee. There should be no delineation. You know what? if if they would allow this guy to do um the open in addition to the 212, he would do it. I don't know why they don't just to get him in the show. It it would sell tickets. Look at that. I mean, that's like a perfect physique, you know? I mean, it's pretty amazing. And okay, so he's not that big of a dude, but that it really doesn't matter at the end of the day. He looks like Flex Wheeler from behind. I mean, he's better than Got glutes. Yeah, Blackman would love those glutes. Oh my god. Get get like flawless right there. And that that's a great back that he doesn't turn his head in that shot. That would have Well, you could you could Oh, he almost did it. Almost. He almost did. They might have cut They might cut that. Romano's watching. Cut that. Look at this. This is off seasonason. I mean, he's huge. It's insane. And it's and he's got a great structure. Look at that small waist. I mean that's that's bodybuildy right there. That's freaky. Totally. I don't know. But uh yeah, it is what it is. Like I don't if I were him, if I had his genetics, granted, all right, he's short. There's no doubt. We know that. He knows that. And once again, Keon was sending me pictures, John, when he was 100% natural and he was he wanted my opinion on it. And I'm like thinking, "This guy is unbelievable." I said, and I believed that he was all natural because he he looked at, but I'm like, if this guy ever put on like, you know, like 20 pounds of muscle, I said, "No one's gonna beat this guy." I'm thinking in my head, and I told him the same. I said, "Continue to grow." That physique is is unbelievable. And and and obviously, he's not natural anymore, but he's he's almost unbeatable, that guy. I mean, if you think about it, he's flawless. I mean, the only thing that that could be beat, you know, that he can be beaten on is his height. I mean, that's it. Uh, I'd love to see how that thing does on an Olympia stage that that I I I think I I agree. Like I said, I agree with Lee and I talk like him, but it's it's it's just the way it should be. It's and I know what I was going to say, but but if I was him, I would like my ego would make me want to go on to the Olympics, test it, you know, I want to show these guys I got the best goods up there. You know what I mean? I might not be the biggest guy. guy might not be the tallest guy, but I'm put bodybuilding is about how it all flows. You know, there were there were great short bodybuilders all throughout our history. You know, they just were and you could, you know, Lee Priest was Muhammad Macawe, Danny Padilla. I mean, these guys were, you know, short dudes, but they were amazing and they held their own against the big guys. Is Kon shorter than Derek? I think he's a lot shorter than that. Don't you think No, he's shorter than that. No, I think I'm saying Keon is definitely shorter than Yeah, he looks like a little kid when he's got the sweatuit on. Yeah, he's he's not that tall. No, he's very He's alone. He's looks huge. But I I think he I think he ends more like 5'1. I agree with that. Maybe 5'2. Yeah, I don't think 51 or five. He's not 5'6 or something. Very little. I think Sean What was Shawn Ray always saying? He he was always trying to pretend he was like 5'7 or something like that. 5'8 with those lifts in his heels. Exactly. Look, it doesn't matter how tall you are. It's just it's how tall you appear. You know what? I'd say it's how you flow. So I I don't Bodybuilding is the only sport that it doesn't even matter what you how tall you are. Although usually, as Lee Haney would say, a good big man always beats a good little man. That's right. That's right. And big man shouldn't go to the ground, right? Isn't that what you know, talking about people who are losing their mind? Why do you think Lee Haney started his own organization? Oh, that's a that's that's a headscratcher right there. You know, here's a guy who went up through the NPC nationals. He was the first NPC national champ. Great relationship with Jim Manion, uh, became the Mr. Olympia, you know, and was eighttime Olympia champ. I mean, ambassador for the sport, wasn't he on the presidential council? And I think he's done a tremendous amount for his community in terms of helping the young. Yeah. He's he's so motivational. What the heck possibly could have happened that he decided not to promote NPC shows anymore? I just it I I honestly believe that that you know like there's a Trump derangement syndrome. I believe there is a bodybuilding derangement syndrome where the there's a group of people who are so obsessed with the d the direction the bodybuilding is going and that how it's not like it used to be and how the '9s were the best and how nothing's ever the way it used to be. No, I I know. But what I'm saying is there there's a vocal co a vocal component of people as they're all over my Facebook feed who are constantly trashing open bodybuilding because it's an aberration of what it's supposed to be and these people are like deranged over it, you know. And so, you know, I don't know if that's Lee's problem or what or if it is a problem or if it was his motivating factor to start this, but it's just kind of nuts to do that. Well, what happened was Lee Haney was was criticizing the direction of the sport, which is ridiculous because the sport has grown since, you know, he was in it. And I think that that was nuts right off the bat. A little kooky, right? And then he took he he got a lot of backlash from people on social media, which you would normally think Lee Haney wouldn't even care about that, but maybe it bothered him. I don't know. And so he rather than just ignore it like like we do when we get backlash, he he took it personally and he and he and he went out and and voiced his opinion very strongly about how even worse and made it even worse for himself. Looked like he was almost like not appreciative of where he came from. And then he felt like the only out was for him to start his own thing. Like it was like almost like you have like you have like a kid who's like spoiled kid who doesn't want to listen to his parents and he's like he he'll blow the he'll burn the house down in other words rather than just say you know what maybe I I I was a little too extreme and let me back off of this a little bit. So I it doesn't make either that or the liver king gave him the same [\h__\h] drugs that he was taking. But there's only two possibilities you know just two. Maybe the liver king will sponsor Lee Haney's new organization. Yeah, he's got $315 million or he claims so at least. Yeah. Put it where your mouth is. Yeah. Oh my god. You know, that's that's what cracks me up. These guys that claim all this wealth and all this money, you know? You know, do you know you know what $1 million would do for our sport if we just put it in the right places and did the right thing with it? And you got these guys saying, "Oh, you know, I make 20 million a year of whatever their [\h__\h] is." Yeah. If that's the case, pony up, you know, hook your brothers up. Right. Right. Well, I hear Arnoldion dollars now. So, he ponyied up, right? He's putting 2750 up for prize money for next year. Yep. I look I commend him. But you know what? Because a lot of these older guys when they get older, they get frugal. Like Ben Weider, you know, Ben Ben was great for the sport. I mean, there's no doubt that Ben Weeder, you know, changed the scope of bodybuilding, you know, and and expanded into all these countries, but, you know, he wasn't exactly like, yeah, he was a little frugal with his money, put it that way. We know that. That's just Ben Weer, you know. One of one of my favorite funny stories, I got to interrupt you here, is is that because it because it exemplifies Ben's frugaless. Now, remember, he died with a billion dollars in the bank allegedly. All right, billion would it be? And he said in an interview, "One of the luxuries I allowed myself was a boat." And you see him in the next frame when he's got the blue the blazer on with the captain stripe and the captain hat. You know, he's got the little uniform. Did he have the Napoleon hat on or did he have a different No, no, no. The captain's the boat captain's hat, you know? Well, Napoleon was a captain like he had the captain's hat like like like on Gilligan's Island, the captain. And then you see the boat and you immediately think of Gilligan's Island. Oh, was it a small boat? It was like 12 feet long. Tiny little butt boat, you know, and he's standing on the dock with the the blazer and the hat. He probably was just posing in a It probably wasn't even his boat, that's why, you know, but no, it was like the only luxury I allowed myself. Why do you think that that boat cost 3,500 bucks? You know that all those trips he took to Europe were that were paid for by the IFBB. There was no way that he he took a penny out of his pocket. So, no, but the boat story was absolutely You know what it is, John? People from that era, like my father's era, your father's era, they had the poverty mentality because they grew up poor. The weeders, I'm sure, were poor growing up. Even though they made a lot of money, they couldn't get out of that. They couldn't allow themselves suspended because it didn't seem right to them because of the where they came from from from that that that depression era. Yeah. But they blew money on stuff like, you know, Ben bought Napoleon's baptismal gown. That's an investment. That's an investment. Joe Weer had all those betos, you know, sculptures and artwork and you But they thought that was an investment that they could sell, you know, so it was like money in the bank. Was an asset. Yeah. A collectible. Blackman had glute statues, didn't he? Yeah. I don't know. I don't know if he could resell those things. I don't know who he sell. Thanks for joining me today on the show. Chris Casino is is vacationing with his family in Miami. And uh it was great to do Heavy Muscle Radio with you. And for those of you who want to hear more about the Liver King and Mr. G. Tomorrow on After Hours, we will be live at 12:15 Eastern Standard as we always are. For now though, we are out of time. As we say every week with Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. See you next week.