Coming up, Ronnie Coleman's health update and Nathan Dasha. Let's see what's going on. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back for another installment of Heavy Muscle Radio. We are live here on this beautiful Monday afternoon. I'm here with John Romano sitting in for Chris Aceto again. I believe Chris Aceto has sun poisoning now, which is ironic seeing that, you know, he was a skin cancer. Yeah. Yeah. It was survivor. So, I think he was on vacation. He got a little too much sun. So, first world problems. Yeah. Yeah. Now, uh Ronnie Coleman, who seems to have the most problems right now, I wanted to address. There's a new health update for Ronnie and put up by his I would assume his family. Uh that's the only I could think of, John, right? would be they're the only ones that have been given us anything. Yeah. I mean I I mean but it's kind of very generic, but according to this uh report at this time, Ronnie's overall condition remains serious but stable with continued signs of gradual recovery. His medical team is still actively working to identify the source of the infection, which can take several days to confirm through testing. During a recent round of evaluations, doctors identified an additional underlying health matter that will require surgical procedure. This procedure is expected to take place in the coming days. The medical team is confident in their approach as part of Ronnie's broader care. And then they kind of thank everyone for, you know, all their support. What What do you think is going on with Ronnie? I mean, what else could be going on? You know, I I got a real problem with this and and and the the lack of transparency. Like it or not, Ronnie belongs to us. Period. He's a public figure. He He's this eight time Mr. Olympia. He belongs to us. Yeah, he's got a family and they want to keep things private and all of that, but we're family, too. And to be left in the dark constantly, an underlying an underlying medical condition that requires surgery. Just tell us what the [\h__\h] it is. What do you got to do? This like anonymous, nebulous kind of like, you know, read between the lines [\h__\h] All that does is stir the rumor mill. All that does is create conspiracies. All that does is jars pokes the [\h__\h] sleeping douchebags with a stick so they're going to come out and say stupid [\h__\h] And that's what you want. Just tell us what's wrong with the guy, right? Is that why is that such a big [\h__\h] deal, right? I mean, if he let's if he let's say for instance, and I'm speculating because I don't know anything. Let's say he needed a stent. He had a blockage or something like that. Anything. Whatever it is. All right. They're going to put a stent in. I mean, what's the big I don't know what the big deal is. It's very mysterious. Terrible. Um, you know, I you know, you know what it is? It's not that anyone wants to ever poke fun at Ronnie. We love Ronnie so much that we're so concerned that we really just want to know what's going on with him. It's like it's like one of your brothers, you know, being sick and no one's telling you what's going on. You know, it's like when Greg was in the hospital during COVID and his girlfriend couldn't get into the hospital to see what what was going on with the guy because they wouldn't let her in, you know. That's what I feel like. Yeah. But that I mean that was that was a situation that was sort of like, you know, involved everybody. This is this is one of our industry legends, industry icons, friend to all of us. Yeah. Especially us. All right. And why can't we know what's wrong with the guy? I mean, if anything, it's going to help us tune our prayers up, you know? I mean, come on. Some give us something. This is really terrible that they keep us in the dark like this with these nebulous freaking, you know, vague answers and updates when we need to know. We should know, we have the right to know what's wrong with the guy from a lot of different perspectives, not only just his health, but our community. So, tell us what's wrong with him. Yeah, it's it's it's it's it's a little disturbing. I agree with you. And it's uh but you know what? I guess you got to respect the families. Uh you do. But what happens is, you know, the types of people that hover around our world. They're [\h__\h] douchebags, some of them. And all they're going to do is create conspiracies, make stupid memes, and somehow cast dispersions on bodybuilding because they hate it to begin with. And this is just another, you know, facet in their huge cabal of everything that's wrong with the sport because, you know, once you become a bodybuilder, you're never allowed to get sick and you're never allowed to die because if you do, then there's it's all drugs. Yeah. Of course. Of course. You're not allowed to like get an infection. You're not nothing. Heart attack, you know, it if you get a heart attack, it has to be from steroids. It has to be. If you get a hangail, it's got to be from the f from the trend, you know. I you know the the thing that that when I read reports like this that are very ant like they're very professionally written, antiseptic, like no emotion to those these these these posts that I'm seeing from, you know, his team on Instagram. I get concerned because when people do those type of things, it it almost seems like they're not really sure if he's gonna Right. That's that's what worries me more than anything. Like in other words, they were giving us like Fuad Abiad was totally transparent. He was they had videos of him in in his hospital bed walking around with the with the after surgery from his neck surgery. Like I mean it was he got [\h__\h] up, but he knew he was going to, you know, recover. It just was going to take a while. When I see anything from Ronnie, especially seeing that Ronnie's awake now and we're not getting any videos of him saying, "Yeah, buddy." or something like that. That worries me because that's not Ronnie. You know, Ronnie be like, "Let me tell the fans I'm okay." Yeah. Exactly. It sounds like these these these updates sound like they were written by a lawyer. Right. Right. Which makes it seem like it's very serious, though, doesn't it? Right. Right. Right. It's like they're definitely making it the the the the assumption that everybody's making because of how they're handling the PR is that this is way worse than anybody's letting on. Because if it wasn't ah, you know, he's got a cold, he has the flu, his temperature was 109, he's okay now. We gave him Tylenol, whatever, you know, but I mean to to be this vague and and sort of, you know, roundabout the whole thing, it's just it's just reeks to high heaven of it being worse than it is. Yes. And and you know what, John, it might be. It is. It's got to be. I mean, really, honestly, why would they be doing this otherwise? I mean, maybe he's he's awake, but he's not right coherent, you know, which would be terrible. This is this I mean, this is, you know, all of us feel a tremendous, you know, connection to him. Yeah. Because he's our contemporary Mr. Olympia. He was, you know, we were all we were all kind of like coming up through this at the same time, right, in the 90s. And and this is John, I was working booths with him at Metrics in the 90s. I was doing guest posings with him when he was Mr. Olympia, you know, during his reign. We were going out to the Outback together and and and restaurants. We were hanging out in the lounge in Australia for 24 hours, you know, when we got delayed. I mean, this was a he was Mr. Olympia, but he was a guy who would who was would hang out with anyone. He was just like a regular guy, you know, regular Iron Brother. Even, you know, and with people like that that you have that kind of a connection with and that at any moment you see if I go and if I would run into Ronnie anywhere, it would be like we would been hanging out every single day for the last 20 years, you know, he that that's a real friend because you know they're they're authentic. They're not using you for anything. You know, they're they're authentically like you and I authentically like him. So when I when stuff like this happens even though I might not talk to him every day, it's like one of my family members something's going on with So it's like when I don't hear what's going on and and no one's I mean think about it. No one's even call no one's calling me up and saying, "Hey Dave, everything's all right. Don't worry about it." You know, yeah, please don't say I'm not getting any of those phone calls either. No one's contacted me. And usually I have some inside sources everywhere, you know, that will call me and say, you know what, this is what's going on. Just don't say anything. And of course, if someone tells me that, I I wouldn't say anything. Of course, I haven't I haven't heard anything from anyone on this, you know. Me neither. Nothing. And everybody's asking me, too, what's going on. Very weird. Yeah, very weird. So, I I sure hope that they change their mind about how they're handling, you know, worry is what it comes down to. We are worried about him, and the more you keep us in the dark, the more worried we are. So, if you're needlessly worrying us, please stop. Yeah. Yeah, you know, um yeah, you're right. You're right. But look, it's like it's up to the family. That's the truth. And you know, we don't we don't know everything that's going on. So now, I um I wanted to bring up something. I and I wanted to get your opinion on this. We were talking about the Mr. Olympia the other day. Hold on, let me pull this up. And someone grabbed the little someone posted should the you know why do we only have top f why only why do only the top five receive prize money in the Mr. Olympia and I posted something and what I responded to that post and I said I don't think I think only the top three should receive prize money. Yeah. Okay. Because I said they I'd rather see the top three get more money and have the other guys get none because you know why it's the Mr. Olympia. At the Olympics, they don't give the top 10 medals. They give gold, silver, bronze, right? That's it. That's it. And at the Olympia, they're, you know, we're talking about they're giving it, they have a, you know, look, there's so many divisions now, and you want to make sure you reward all these divisions appropriately. You can't be giving the top, you know, 15 of the Olympia men all prize money. It's not a participation event. It's it's the championships of the world is what it is in bodybuilding. Right. Right. Top three in every division should get maximum prize money that you can possibly offer. That's my belief. And it's not a participation thing. Now, when when it Now, hold that thought. Let's put a thumbtack in that for a second. Let's go back to the 90s. There's only Mr. Olympia, right? And Miss Olympia. There's no other divisions. Now, that's when Lee Priest was making a big deal about, hey, all the guys should get paid something because they're participating, right? In the Olympia. Different story. Only one division. You know, it's the whole show. That's the entertainment for the weekend, right? The Mr. and Miss Olympia. Big difference. Okay. Now, we have a lot the weekend is is is an Olympia weekend with with a lot more going on. And we want to see the prize money getting into this into the stratosphere. We want to see a million dollars being given away. The only way it's going to be done with that many divisions is to give the top three um prize money. That That's how I feel about it. I mean, what do you think about that? Am I wrong? No. No, you're you're you're on the right track. Anyway, my my my opinion is slightly different than yours. I think I think the competition should be limited to 10 people. There's 10 slots to qualify for it. That's it. And if you make that and you show up for the show, the top 10 get 10 grand. Period. Because, you know, the reason I say that is because they make a they make a production of the show. They make a show out of it, a spectacle. They're selling it. They're getting pay-per-view. These people are participating in it. The top 10 should get something for showing up there, spending all their money. And that's every division you think that should be in or just the men? I think everybody I think everybody place three through 10 should get 10 grand. Period. Then one, two, and three. 70 grand right there per division you got to give away. Yeah. Well, and I never said this was going to be cheap, but um I'm saying the problem is it has to be affordable. I'm saying I think that instead of doing that, take that 70,000 and apply it to the the top three places. Yeah. But give them more money because you should be rewarding the champions, not the guys that didn't make it. Yeah. What? Then make it f You got to give My point is you got to give they got themselves there. They prepped for the show. They're part of the production. They're being used as entertainment. Give them a couple of bucks, you know, rather they come all out of your pocket for that. It's not little league, John. It's not a participation event where you get a medal. You know, it's required. They require you to participate in all of this [\h__\h] No, but you don't have to. This is a voluntary thing. You've qualified. You can go to the Olympia. They pay you away. They pay a hotel. They give you some food expenses. Why are they Why is there an ownus responsibility? Are they pay if they're paying their And why is is it Jake's responsibility? Whoa. Back up. Back up. You didn't say that. If are they if if the if the top if those 10 people are being paid are being if their expenses are being covered to get there. Yes. Okay. That's that's a different story. So if their expenses then I agree with you 100%. If their expenses are being paid I think limit it to 10 people top 10 that's what you qualify is 10 births you qualify and then one two and three get the prize money. Now how do you how do you limit it to 10 people? Because what if there's more than 10 shows and and there's more people qualify? Well, then they're gonna you're going to have to have, you know, you're gonna have to go you're gonna have to go by ranking. Remember they used to rank the body. I think John the answer is that you let everyone come who qualifies, but you only pay the top 10's expenses and then the top three is the should be the ones that get the prize money. That's how I But then but then I don't want 70 people in the class either. Well, I mean in prejudging you'd have to eliminate that. You're not going to get 70 men's because no there's not 70. No, but you'll get 70 bikini girls. Well, that's fine. You call them in the in the in the prejudging. So, for the night show when they get on stage at the the main stage, then you're not going to see 70 women up there anymore. I think that if you don't make it the top 10 after prejudging, you don't even come back at the night show. That's That's Yeah, exactly. You got to be the top 10 to even be in the night show. All right. I agree with that. You can weed it out there in prejudging. Not that it matters what we're saying, but I think it does make sense, though. Well, you from a from an economy of time perspective. I mean, you got 11 divisions going on. You're going to sit through that. That's 11 times 10 right there. You're going to see the top 10. That's 110 people. I know that's that's more that's too many already. That's already too many. Exactly. So, um you do half on Friday and half on Saturday, you know, then I guess you can you know, you talk that that is much more palatable. I guess you I there's they got there's too many divisions is there's just too many there there's no But they're there already. So because they're there already, we can't get rid of them. So I don't agree with that. I mean, I I think they should get rid of the 212 and make everybody open for the men. I think they should merge women's physique and women's bodybuilding. Yeah. And that would be smart. They're probably not going to do it because first of all, Jake Wood loves the women, so they're not going to do that. And you know, he likes the bodybuilders and and the CL and the, you know, the the physique competitors, you know, are not big enough. So I I agree. I think it could be a combined division, but let's assume they're not doing that. If they don't do that, it's not it shouldn't be Jake's responsibility to pay everyone's expenses. Top 10 get paid. That's what I think. That's still a lot of people. You said that'sund and something people prize money should only go to top three as far you get the gold medal or the silver medal or the bronze medal, you get a paycheck and that's it. Everyone else, nice job. Better everyone else work harder next year. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Right. I agree. I think that's the issue. Yeah. I think we need to bring more of the exclusivity back, you know, after after the bodybuilding has suffered this this black eye of all the pro cards getting handed out. I mean, everybody could the world [\h__\h] about that. That that was Lee Haney's thing with his division. He's like, "The pro cards mean nothing anymore." Well, it it's there's it's not that they don't mean nothing anymore. They don't mean what they meant when I was competing. Okay. because they were given out so frugally, right? But now that the business model has changed, there's more divisions, they're giving more pro cards off out, which is encouraging more people to compete because it's easier to get a pro card. One of two things should be done. Either nothing and just it is what it is. Pro card doesn't mean what it used to mean and you know, but still the elite are still the elite. or you make a second division that if if you win a pro show, maybe your pro card gets like elevated to a a higher status pro card. I I think they got to go back. I am like a you know A+ you know pro or something like that. Whatever they whatever they come up with a good get Blackman to come up with a good nick. No, bring the universe back the way it was. If you turn, if you beat won the USA's, the nationals, and then you had to do the universe, and if you won the universe, then you turn pro. No, let them turn. Look, the pro cards are good for business, okay? But you can have a secondary status of the pro card. In other words, you can have two levels of pro card. One is the intro one that you get when you qualify for pro status. The next is if you win a pro show, you elevate your status to a higher to higher degree. I like that. And maybe even have like an Olympia pro card. Like if you win the Olympia, you have even a a special gold star on your on your pro card says I I have won an Olympia championship. You know, I I like that. And you know what you can do? You could charge double for the elite or whatever you want to call the the the the pro cards and then for the Olympia, you could charge four times the amount, right, for that one. So there's your incentive to the organization to make these these pro cards. But I think it's smart this way. You could put on your Instagram profile, I am a uh I don't know, whatever you want to call it, pro. I am a, you know, a winner, a winning pro, or I am an Olympia pro, however, however they want to do it, you know. An elite pro. There's there's just regular pro. That might be confused with with Raphael's division. Oh. Oh. But yeah, but I know what you're saying. Like advanced pro or something like that. Yeah, advanced pro, elite pro, platinum pro, something like platinum pro. There you go. And then you could have the Olympia pro, you know, if you won an Olympia championship, right? And so these cards would all so that you when people go to your Instagram or your Tik Tok or whatever you use social media, at least you'll you'll see what sort of a pro. All right. They're not just some supermarket checkout girl that, you know, got a pro card in bikini uh masters bikini, but this person actually won a pro show. So that that's more impressive, I think. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know, man. I I just I've been going through this I've been going through this whole thing lately about the modernization of everything and how some things just become too refined, you know, and you know, too civilized and you kind of lose you kind of lose the guttural kind of raw feeling about things, you know, the way they used to be. Yeah. But things have to evolve. I I I'm I'm You and I have adapted over the years, John, from when we first started doing the magazine stuff to starting RX Muscle to evolving from contest coverage to TV pro original TV programming, making our own studio, doing the first TV programming, and now still being relevant in the world of bodybuilding in terms of all the different programming we do because we're not afraid to evolve. So, this is just another aspect. I mean, the divisions have have have gone up. We have more divisions. We have more pro cards. We also have a lot more participation in all the pro events. I mean, and the amateur events and the pro events. So, that's good for business, you know, and I understand that even though it might not represent what a pro card used to represent. Therefore, it needs another level. And I don't think that and look, I'm sure in five years, Bob Chikarillo will try to take credit for coming up with this idea, but I don't care. It needs to go out there. I really think they should seriously consider levels of pro card that you your status would earn. And like I said, it's a very simple status update. Hey, I won a pro show. If you want a pro show that elevates that means that you're you're really good. It doesn't mean that you got lucky and no one showed up at the Masters Nationals in the 60 and over class. You know what I mean? I I think that's an important distinction too because there's people that just get their pro card as the goal. You know, I just want to get my pro card and then they never compete. Right. Right. I know 10 people like that. So, it kind that that kind of dilutes the auspiciousness of the pro card as well. So, if you can make that that elite tier, that that platinum tier where you win a pro show, and that elevates you to a level above just a regular run-of-the-mill, you know, national contest winning pro. Now, you've won a pro show, and that puts you in an elite class. And then, you know, once you qualify, I guess that would qualify you for the Olympia. So, you can call them elite or Olympia level, an Olympia pro, right? Right. Right. I think that would make sense. Yeah. I mean, if you win the Olympia, I would think that that should your pro your pro card should have a special, like I said, and you're qualified for life, too. You know, Olympia, why not call them Olympian pro, you know, that kind of thing, you know, and especially since you are qualified for the Olympia for life after winning one of those, right? Right. Um, there'd only be a few guys that would have that that special pro card. And, you know, that would look cool and you could create your own little logo to put on Instagram, whatever, a little badge, whatever you want to do. People love badges. People love badges and they like letters after the name. You ever noticed that? The person who has the most letters after their name of any human being I know is Colette Nelson. Colette has like 42 letters after her name. She's got so many degrees and so many different things. People like that. She has so many letters, John, that she has to pick the ones that are the most important because she can't name. But people like status and stuff like that. So that's why a lot of people turn pro because they want to be able to put IFBB Pro on their Instagram handle. And to me, when I see that, it doesn't impress me anymore because I don't know where they got the pro card. They could, like I said, they could have won 60 age 60 and over at the Masters Nationals and and and that's not going to be the same, you know, it's not going to impress me as much as the guy who won the USA Championships in the Open, you know? Right. Yeah. the the the the the the proclaiming the stickers, the the the uh certificates, the go, all of that stuff, the letters, that means [\h__\h] to people. It means I think it means way too much. I had this buddy of mine who's a lawyer in LA. You know, lawyers have all them all lawyers have their diplomas framed. You know, my wife has them. All all the diplomas and certificates, the Supreme Court, all that [\h__\h] is all in framed behind. We already we already talked about Ronnie Coleman. I don't know why people keep asking about you know what the hell they must got in here. I watched the beginning of the show. Sorry, exactly. So, um Jeffrey, my buddy, I go, "How come you don't have your all your diplomas and [\h__\h] framed behind your desk?" He says, "Who said I went to law school?" That's great. It's like It's like the movie It's like the TV show Suits. Yeah. Who said I went to law school? Oh, by the way, I mean, he did go. I mean, he he did, but it was just the point of it was like, who gives a [\h__\h] what school he went to? You care if I win your case. Right. Right. Happy belated birthday to Lee Priest. His birthday it was the other day. What is he like 53 now? He must be Is he over 50 yet? Oh, yeah. He's over He was I just because I met him when he was like 18, you know, when he when he first came to Venice. And it's like, will you please grow up a little bit? I mean, he's never I'm always so much older than him. This was a great um by the way, let me pull this. This is a He had a put a post up with him and Joe Gold. I thought this was awesome. Oh, wow. Joe, watch this. Look at Look at how young Lee is. Look at those arms. They're like [\h__\h] Look at you. He's curling like 315, too. I don't know if he's I don't curling 315, but he was doing some kind of rep out thing. But no, he did once. Eddie Giuliani [\h__\h] him up. He I'll tell you. Look at those arms. [\h__\h] nuts. Just nuts. People don't realize how how gifted he was back in the day. Unfucking believable. Look at that. Looks like a freaking grapefruit. I know. And it's perfectly spherical, too. Yeah. There it is. Joe. Joe loved Lee. He was like his son. He loved Lee. Happy birthday to Lee Priest. Yeah. So Lee was out on the out on the outside deck and in the squat rack at 3:15 and he was going to curl it and then he's he's pacing back and forth, you know, psyching himself up to get and he's just getting under the bar, you know, grabbing the bar and Eddie Giuliani comes over and goes, "You better watch out with that. You don't rip him. You don't rip your bicep." And Holy goes, "A gets all unwound. That was just you knocked him completely out of the zone." That's funny. You know who contacted me out of nowhere? I haven't heard from them for forever. Peter Paul. No. Yeah. Wow. One of the original Barbarian brother. David is no longer alive. Right. So, what's he doing? I think he might come on the TV show. Did he speak and rhyme? Yeah, he could definitely rhyme. That's for sure. No, he speaks in the last time I talked to him was all rhyme. He spoke. He actually was speaking kind of normal to me. Like I like he was Yeah, he was actually being acting like normal and I was like, "Wow." I was like, "Holy shit." Like human normal or normal. He wasn't rhyming like for He was It was all He still types in all capital letters like Valentino, but but he wasn't um That's Which one? Peter's on the on the right. Yeah, I think Peter's on the right. Yes. But so I told him, I said, "What did you What do you think about the the the Barbarian Brothers 2.0?" You know those guys on Instagram who call themselves Barbaras? They're like Spanish guys, right? And I thought he was going to give me this whole diet tribe, but he was actually like, well, you know, they're kind of honoring us, so you know, because they they give us credit, so he he kind of was okay with that. That's a cool way of looking at it. Yeah. Yeah. I remember the first time I saw David do reverse grip bench presses. 500 pounds. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They were [\h__\h] crazy. What What was the You know, the What was the Alzato Barbarian Brothers fight story? Because they wrecked his house, right? Or something like that. Yeah. Yeah, they wrecked his house up in up in Topanga. What? What happened? Huh? What happened? Did they go It was It was very similar to the Jimmy the Bull Ed Connor story. You know, they got Wow. They were doing something and they just went nuts. I don't know. They were, you know, they were so unpredictable, those two. You You never knew what you're going to get with them if they were in a good mood, a bad mood, serious, not serious, you know. So yeah, I could see him totally destroying the house. Alo was pissed. Well, did he did he did he fight them or did he No, no, he he was going to he went, you know, he went looking for him. It was his whole It was blown out of proportion. Oh, yeah. Yeah. They were um I know they because I thought they were friends with him, weren't they? They were. No, they were. They were good friends and they and they were good friends later. It was just kind of a you know, one of those the one episode thing. It was like a Jimmy to Bull Ed Connors thing. It's that's exactly what it was like. Yeah. Yeah. Hold on. Let me pull up one more picture of the Barbarian Brothers when they were younger before they wore the wigs. You know the story about the the wigs? I didn't I don't I don't remember the wig story. I think they couldn't grow their hair or something. No, I think Peter burned his head or something like that and and he couldn't, you know, his hair was all messed up. And so Peter So David agreed that they would both wear wigs or something like that. And so that's Yeah, because that's that's that's Peter on the right there. And he's Is that him on the right? Yeah, I think you're right. Yeah, that look definitely looks like a wig. I don't know if this was the wig stage. The wig stage when they had the really long hair, I think. Pretty sure. Anyway, they were they were good guys. Very talented. So, but but misunderstood for sure. Very misunderstood. I said, "Peter, you want to come on the TV show?" He's like, "Not until the we they remove us from the blacklist." I said, "I don't think anyone I don't even think that blacklist even exists anymore. I don't think you're on it anymore." I said, "The black they they were so difficult to work with in Hollywood that they were put on a blacklist and which no one would work with them at all." No, they had to go to Italy. Yeah. It ruined their whole film care. They were really doing well. I mean, they were doing mainstream movies. I mean, yeah, they did DC Cab or something. Then they had their own Barbarian Brother movies. And well, they did all these spaghetti westerns in in Babysitters. Remember that Babysitters movie they did? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, they blew it. They blew it big time. Yeah. And Peter, I'm sure if Pete we get Peter on the show, they'll tell you about he had this like idea for these puppets that talked. They were like like Sesame Street wanted to pick them up. like he had I mean it was like he was going to be a million billionaire from these this puppet thing that came up and when they got put on the blacklist no one could no one would touch them for 10 foot pole after that God knows what they did to get on the blacklist I'm sure we'll never hear the real story no never let's get All right so let's talk about the Mr. Big Man Evolution where Neckzilla Rubio Mascara wins his second pro show in two weeks. Uh obviously he's a freak. This guy is a [\h__\h] animal freak monster. You know I was asking guys that were there. I said, "Did he, you know, what do you think? Did he deserve to win?" And they're like, he's just so big. even though he's not put together that well, he's just such a monster that like it's like it's impossible to to to, you know, unless someone's got such superior shape to him. Uh, you know, he's Look at him. He's like he's like he's like Big Ramy and Victor Richards put together but not but not with this with the best not with the same genetics as those guys. No. No. He can't get totally shredded, can he? Um, he was I think he's pretty hard, you know. He's got that thick skin that that thick, you know, ethnic skin. Yeah. The person who was really, I think, the most upset was was uh Nathan the Astro. Yeah, of course. I I was a little shocked to be honest with that was actually last week at the Flex Pro. See if I can find some new stuff. pull some stuff from this past week here. Hold on a second. So, yeah. I mean, the problem is that he doesn't have the nicest shape. And because he doesn't have the nicest shape, people, you know, think that he shouldn't win. But this is a bodybuilding show and it's about muscle. It's about conditioning. And he's got and he's got oodles of that if that that Right. Exactly. tons. Look at this. I mean, this guy's Look at his leg sweep. I mean, that's [\h__\h] He's got insane calves, too. His calves are [\h__\h] I am convinced that he is myostatin negative. There's no way this guy has one iota of myostatin. His arms are a little short. It's impossible. He's got that that that that Michael Lockett look to him, you know, like the big bulldog looking head. Y I mean that that's like typical of of the myo of the guys that don't have myostatin and just the slab the slabiness of his muscle. Yeah. It's like big and flopping. They do like a set of 135 pound squats and they and they and their legs grow two inches. Right. Right. Look at those look at his freaking calves. Holy [\h__\h] The only thing holding him back in in in what I see is that he's a little narrow. His arms are short, too. Yes, they're short. But but you notice like he's not that wide. He's got big delts, but he's not that wide. Clavicles are not that wide. Yeah, his clavicles are not that wide. Exactly. Right. So, it looks a little weird, but I don't know. He's got his arms are so short. Oh my god. They're like really short. He's got a He's got a weird structure, right? Yeah. But legs. Oh my god. Forget about those legs. That is, you know, that's that's impressive. And like I said, he wasn't this condition last year. He didn't have this presentation last year and I think that really put him over the edge. I think he looks like a champion when he's up there. He's very professional which he wasn't, you know, prior to this. And you got to remember he got his pro card last year. So, I mean, he's only been a pro for a year, man. He's brought up a lot of body parts. His back could still be a little bigger, I think. Um, do you think this guy places in the top six at the Olympia? I don't think so. I mean, he's massive and incredible to look at from a freak standpoint, but he's just not, you know, flow. Big OB to see him on stage with like Ramy and stuff like that. I'd like to see him next to, you know, Yeah. Nick Walker and Ramy and those guys. Yeah. I'd like to see him next to the big guys because I mean that's Samson Duda and and Andrew Jack. I'd like to see them all together. Yeah. Because Yeah. He's just a big freak. Yeah. Let's let's take a look at um that was from the that was from last week actually that Flex Pro show. I don't this for some reason there's not a lot of footage from this past week. Let me see if I can find more footage. Isn't it terrible that like just that that no one gives a [\h__\h] about these these European shows? I don't know why. I don't know why either, man. We get some there's some good guys in them. I don't I don't know what the problem is. Keep talking. Let me pull this up. Keep talking. You hear my dogs in the background barking? Yeah, they would. They go to the bathroom. I got to let them out of that cage soon. We might have to wind the show up. The person that was the most upset, I think, with this last show is was Nathan D. I would have to be because I mean this is a guy who is looking to qualify for the Olympia, you know, and you know, he looked really good. Let's Let's pull up some footage of him here. Hold up. He wasn't he favored going in? I I would think so. I I I think he looked really good here, too. I don't know what the uh the knock against him was. He's got long He's got right size arms lengthwise, but he's got big obliques, too. This is That might not be from the show. It doesn't look that crisp though. And that was that was that was um next from the show. Mhm. What an appropriate name. Next, the freaking neck. These traps are [\h__\h] He has no neck. He's got some pretty damn good big quads to be called Mezzilla, right? I mean, you would think Quadzilla would be a better although that's think but because that name's been used so much, they just moved up, I guess. Yeah. Yes. But well, I I feel I I feel bad for Nathan. Yeah, I do too because I he was favored going in. So, so what do you think about everybody refusing to turn their head on their back shot, their back lat spread and their back double bite? I think it's because you're telling them to turn their head that they're not doing it. But shouldn't it I mean, why when why did that stop? I mean, it's it's the craziest thing because the trap looks so different when you twist your head. I know. I know. I mean, everybody used to they used to do vacuums and they used to twist their head. Yeah. They don't like donuts anymore. Why? Cuz their necks are so big and thick now that they can't twist their head. They have no range of motion. Next Zill should do it. It probably be look really good if he imagine what that would look like. [\h__\h] I thought I thought I took us off to this one. Who's this skinny guy? I don't know. Let me pull I want to pull up one more person. Hold on. um horse MD Marcelo D'Angelus from um Brazil dropped down to the I don't know how he made classic physique to be honest with you and he won so he'll be going back to the Olympian classic. It's a miracle these guys did it. So, who we looking for? This thing's not coming up. I guess Sid's not working. There it is. So, Marcel D'Angelus, horse MD from from um Brazil is going back to the Olympian Classic. He was a classic guy that he couldn't make Classic. He went up to the open, which I thought was a good move on his part, and then he decided to go back to classic. I I don't think he looks as dominant in classic, but it is what it is. I wonder if he can do I wonder if he he I know he qualified in classic. I wonder if he can do um open. In other words, you have to qualify in the division that you do. I guess. Yeah. That would make the most sense. He looks good. Don't get me wrong. Looks good. Looks all right. Good. Good vacuum. He needs a better back. His back has always been his weakest legs and the great front and his arms could be bigger and his back is pretty shallow. I think he he's way too depleted here for he looks way better when he doesn't have to make weight. Y I think he won by virtue of the fact that there was no one better than him. But but I don't think this is a good look for No, I don't either. I don't know why guys want to want to go. It was like when the guys used remember when um Derek Lunsford used to go down and make 212 and he would always look terrible and and and then you know and then he just decided you know what I'm not going to go to 212 and I'm going to do the open and he and he and he wins the Olympia. You know it's like don't don't give up your strengths if you you know why would Marcelo who's a young guy who has so he has another probably five years to grow and improve. Why would you want to go backwards, you know, and and go in a division where you really can't make the weight class and you're you're compromising your gifts, which is right, the flow to your body with all that muscle on it. I mean, remember Kev remember Kevin English? He'd be like 260 when he was working at Bevs and then, you know, he'd go down to 212, right? But he he or he was a 202 back then. Yeah. Yeah. But he looked good when he did it, though. But it was I don't know. He looked way better when he was big. Yeah, I know. But yeah, it would be hard for him to win a pro show. The point is that I think it's that people don't want to work hard anymore, John. I think they want to instantly go into a division and they want to instantly be a champion and they want to instantly go to the Olympia rather than say, you know what, I have so much talent. I got a small waist. I got a very beautiful physique. It's going to take me two, three years to grow into this open division properly where I'm going to be dominating shows, but when I get there, I'm going to destroy people. And they don't want to do that. No, they could, well, let me go backwards into classic because I'm already at the top of that class. No one's gonna be bigger than me. Even though I'm not gonna look my best, I'm still going to be dominant in there and I can get back to the Olympia. But who cares? You're not going to win the Olympia because you can't be your best on stage. It just doesn't make sense to me. I don't know why these guys do this. Work ethic and pride in what you're doing. Unless it's a sponsor thing. Even the sponsor wants him to sponsor could have a hand in it. That's true, too. That's true. I didn't think of that. I mean, but for the most part, you're right. For the most part, you're right. Everybody's Everybody Nobody wants to work. Nobody wants to work hard. Nobody wants to sacrifice. Nobody wants to suffer. Nobody wants to put in the dues and and delay gratification and everything else. They want everything now, whether they deserve it or not. And and they feel like they deserve it. They feel like they're entitled to it, right? So, it's it's it's just it's it's just wrong on on on every level. and is polluting everything that we hold dear to to our is permeated bodybuilding. Go to any business, any small business in your town and ask the owner, "How's business?" Business is great, but the help sucks. You can't get good help. They all say the same thing. Nobody wants to work. Nobody cares. No. I just had this our pool redone. There's no craftsmanship left. None. I'm watching these guys work. I'm like, "Fuck, I can do it better than that." You know, right? Right. And it's just annoying. No, no one. And it's everywhere. Not just bodybuilding. It's everywhere. No one wants to Yeah. When Marcelus hits the uh when the horse and he hits the front pose, he looks great. But I I think big mistake sucking down too much. I Here's a here's a hypothetical. I want to ask you a question. If you had to pick a physique that you wanted to be, okay, like it remember I don't know how what your mindset. My mindset is bodybuild, freaky, hard, you know, muscle. Would you rather be Ruben or, you know, Rubio Nextzilla or would you rather be like Sean Clarita? Do I have to have short arms to be the Next Zilla? Well, I'm talking about Would you rather be a big freaky, you know? Oh, I would rather be the big I would want to be or like short guy, you know. No, I wouldn't want to be Lee Priest. Lee Lee? No one could be Lee Priest. That's not in the option. Come on. He's too. But you know, but but then again, Lee is a shorter guy. So, I mean, to have arms like that, I'll take short. Yeah. Yeah, I would. I mean, come, you gota My favorite body parts are calves, forearms, and back, right? Those are my favorite body parts. And and and if you've got great arms or great calves or, you know, or great back, I'm I'm you got my attention. Joel Stubs was one of my favorite bodybuilders. Nobody liked him because he had no legs. But but that back, are you kidding me? You know, he's still enormous. Someone showed me a picture recently of him because he he knows a friend of a friend of mine. Oh, really? And he's still enormous. Yeah. He's still flying airplanes, you know, commercial airlines. Be that big and be a commercial airline probably. You know what I always said when people always ask me that question, who would you want to be? I always said Tony Freeman. I think he's got the he's physique. Yeah. He's got a beautiful physique. He's got a lot of muscle. He he looks like a professional athlete when he walks to the the airport. Everyone thinks he's like a like a a football basketball player or something like that, right? And but yet he's got muscle that that's beautiful, you know, and a tiny waist. So he's got kind of like the best of both worlds. Cedric had a type of physique like that, too. Very taking 1998 Flex Wheeler. Yeah. Yeah. Flex was good, but Yeah. Yeah. Flex I mean you can't How can you not want that physique? I'm just saying I I like the fact that when Tony put a sweatsuit on, like an Adidas sweatsuit, and walked through the airport, everyone just like was like, "Yeah, who's that?" Right. You know, because he's got the height. You know, Flex is probably the same height as me and and you know, most of the other 510, 5'11, somewhere around that. But Tony was like 6'2, you know, he kind of just just a little taller than everyone else, right? Taller and more imposing. Yes. Yeah. So, but uh yeah, we don't get to we don't get to choose our genetics. We we have to just work with the genetics that we have to make it the best that we can and that's all we can ever do. And so when I see a rubial mascara, I'm like, you know what? He did the most with what he I don't I mean I don't think the guy can get too much bigger. I mean, I I hope he can get his back a little bigger, but I certainly don't think he should make his legs any bigger. Do you Those legs are maxed. Those are big Ramy maxed out legs without the I think that his legs might be bigger than Big Ramy's. I mean, Ramy I think they are. I No, I think they are. I'm just saying it's that it's that o overly overquatted out look that they've got. You know, those guys have both got to be myostatin negative. I'm telling you, I I I would bet money some degree of it. I think Lee Priest is too to some degree. Yeah, I think he is too. Yeah. You know, I think was to some degree. I know Rich Gaspari is to some degree. You ever see Lee's hands? They're like me. They're they're like mits. They're like But it's it's it's this part. It's right. It's like it's his hands are like I mean my hands are pretty people tell me I'm pretty big but next to next to this part right here the the thick part it's like a me it's like a catcher mitt. He's got like a catches mitt right there. Yeah. It's like shaking hands with a bunch of bananas. No, I remember when we were in uh Alabama last year. We were look I was looking at his hands. I'm like there's something wrong with you. I said your hands I said they're like they're like they're meaty like thick. Yeah. Like, yeah. And it's not like he's he's not on a ton of gear now and he's not huge anymore. You know what I mean? So, it's like that's just his natural state of being, you know? I think he's still huge. That's why I really when he tells the dosages of stuff he took, he's not exaggerating. He didn't need a lot of drugs. He didn't need it. What do he need it for? What a 100 milligrams of testosterone. Him taking that is like is like everyone else taking a thousand milligrams. His body responded because he has no myostatin like you said probably. So he just responds to everything better, you know. Absolutely. No, he's right. He's natural most of the year from what you know, now maybe he's on hormone replacement, but he used to always be natural for long, long periods of time. Well, he he followed the old school route. They would they would they would they would diet up to a show. So he would start, you know, he'd probably gain 10 pounds from where he started his diet. Absolutely. Yeah. There's no doubt about that. I agree with that. There's no doubt. So, what are you planning on going to the Olympia? Yep. Oh, good. That'll be fun. Yeah, it will. I hope. What's uh I want to pull Sid pull up uh Mattelman uh who won the 212 at the Mr. Big. Let's talk about him. He's a freak. This guy, too. Have you seen his pictures? I know you don't like I know you don't like the 212 division, but this is [\h__\h] nuts. I mean, I like the guys. I just don't like the division. Yeah. Yeah. I I He could definitely be an open guy and be very successful. I mean, I I just got Lee Lee makes just a very strong point in that argument. Well, Lee doesn't think Yeah, Lee doesn't think any of these guys should do 212. He thinks they should all go into the open, you know. So, it's a nice white square. I don't know why it's not showing up. There it is. Oh, he's finding the video. Oh, there's a video. Okay. While he's pulling that up, just trying to give everyone their props. And uh yeah, I keep forgetting on this show. You talk about bodybuilding. We do. Yeah, we do. Tomorrow we don't. Tomorrow we we have the freaks on tomorrow. You know, it's funny. Everyone's comp, you know, I always get like complaints. I always have people that love the shows we do for the uh after hour show then the people that hate it. And I see that see guys that's why I do them. I'm always trying to pull up different topics so that not everyone always likes every show. I don't want everyone to like every Yeah. No, you can't like everything. No, we wouldn't be doing our job. Let's see what the schedule is. So, we have uh we're at I by the way I will next week I will be at the not this weekend but the weekend after I will be well during the week actually from Tuesday to Friday I'll be at the Masters Nationals in the great state of Pittsburgh or the great city of Pittsburgh I should say state of Pennsylvania I'll be Chris Cena will be there too with his son his son is doing T nationals really there he is right in the middleman and he's going to be a dominant force I believe in that uh 212 division at the Olympia. Looks great. Clinched the win and his pro card. So, congratulations to that. All right, getting back to my schedule. Man, I know what Greg means now. next week. Like I said, the Gary Hud has this show, John, pegged so that it's Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday. That makes sense. It's great. They can do that in Pittsburgh because the Sheridan Station Square Hotel, they have the ballroom and I think the I think the hotel gives them the ballroom the whole week because they bring so much business there. So, I'm literally flying in Tuesday because my my all the men go like on Thursday. Uhhuh. And I'm actually leaving on Friday, you know, because done. There's no reason to stay home for the weekend. That's awesome. Yeah. So, it's great. I I love it. I pretty soon that show will be two weeks long, you know, because that's what they they need they what they need to do, especially in the Olympia, is they need to separate it men and women. Men one weekend. The week in the middle is all the other [\h__\h] and then the other weekend is the women. So man or John maybe they can negotiate with these hotels you know that hey look we need four days in this in this theater give us a good deal because it I'm telling you when you split the show up into like and make it like a two and a half threeh hour show because it's it's because the division you don't have a lot of divisions. It's much more palatable to sit there and watch it. It's actually fun because you can actually analyze the show. You can look at the competitors and you don't have to say oh my god we're never going to get to dinner. You know we're gonna I I just hate when there's audience manipulation. That's what I don't like when you got a show that's like enormously long and then they split up. Everybody's staying because they want to see the guys. So, they bring them out first. They do a little thing and then they pack them backstage for the rest of the show and bring them out at the end. Keep everybody in their seats. How about this? If you got the if you got four days in the theater, right? You do the guys on one day, you do the women bodybuilders and and the, you know, women's physique on another day, and then you do the bikini girls and the the fit model and the figure on another day. But what you do is you you make the ticket price much much cheaper for those divisions so that you still sell because people are going to be there the whole weekend anyway, right? I'm there for the Olympia weekend. If I know I'm only paying 20 bucks to get in for the for the figure and bikini, I'm going to pay it. I'm going to go. I'm not gonna be like, "Yeah, why not? What the heck?" And it's it'll be a fun night. You get to watch that. I would go, you know, if I was a paying customer and I didn't have to pay the same price I paid for the men's open, I would certainly go to the bikini for 25 bucks, right? And it becomes a much more fun weekend. That the key is that they I I mean, I don't know if they they'll do this in Vegas. I'm sure probably more in Orlando, you can probably do something like this, but they got to work a deal with these hotels and say, "Look, we we can't do these shows in two days. We need four days for this." and to do it right. We're bringing you a ton of business. More people going to stay here now an extra two nights in hotels and buy all the food at the restaurants. Cut us a deal, you know. Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure there's some place that would do it. I I I just I'm just my only concern about something like that is audience getting burnout, you know, after I mean, how many physique shows can you watch in four days? Well, there's there's no burnout because you're only going for two two and a half hours each day. It's it's it's much more easily consumable and it's fun because you're getting to stay an extra couple days instead of going Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. Now you're going to go Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday because they're going to do the press conference. They're going to have, you know, every day they'll have a little, you know, the couple divisions. It'll be fun. You go to the divisions, you go out to eat with your friends after, you go back the next day and then you can have the expo for if you want to have it for an extra day. That's true. That's true. It just it it brings it'll bring it'll pay for itself, but you have to have it well planned out. They got to have a good deal with the people will make a destination out of that. The Olympia and if they could keep and if they could contain it all in one place, right? Well, they've been doing that. I can if they can do that then then then that'll work around. You remember though the the Las Vegas Convention Center is now linked to the resorts hotel but that tunnel with the Elon's tunnel. The Tesla tunnel. Yeah, boring tunnel. Yeah, boring company tunnel. So, it's not that bad. It only takes about 10 minutes to get over there. I like riding in those Teslas under there. That was fun. Oh, yeah. It was cool. And it was There's no traffic to remember. Do you remember how long it would take to get from the Las Vegas Convention Center back to the Orleans Arena? That was diagonally. That was diagonally completely from one end of Vegas to the other. You could not possibly squeeze another 10 feet out. It was the longest possible trajectory from one end of the city to the other. And the whole trip we would hear Blackman saying, "Wow, where are we going out to eat?" And John, find make a reservation at Craft Steakhouse, you know, right? And he was checking things and reviews and it was it was it was nuts. But and for the whole trip, it was like an hour and and we have like three minutes to get ready to go to the the night show when we get back from the expo. It was terrible. Right. Right. So, at least I felt like this past year was very well laid out. I didn't feel like I was rushing. Yeah. No, I I thought the layout was awesome. Yeah, it was really good. And with those Tesla tunnels, it made it very, very easy to get. I absolutely loved that. That was my favorite. I mean, the resorts hotel is a little expensive, but it is what it is. Yeah. Well, I don't pay I don't mind paying for it. I don't have to pay. Like I said, I I didn't mind because it was everything was self-contained right there. Yeah. and it made it really easy to get around and so for me that was that was it was good. But anyway, that's that's the thing. Hold on. I was just gonna just give you before we wrap up today. I want to just go over let's all right so we did the Mr. Big Evolution in Portugal this past weekend. Next week the Chicago Pro, but they don't have an open there. Then we have Tampa. So July 31st through August 2nd we that weekend is the Tampa Pro. There's another qualifier for the Olympia there. They have the uh the Ben Weer natural Canadian pro show I think on August 3rd. That's obviously just for your natural guys. Then they have the Texas Pro August 8th through the 9th. That's another qualifier. And um the Masters Olympias on August 9th through 10th in Tokyo, Japan. I will not be going to that. I don't think you're going to that, John. Right. No. All right. And then you never know. September 7th is the Pro Muscle Italy Pro. That's an open. I would go to that. Yeah, I would I would love to go to that, too. Is that in Rivy? It's in Milan. Milan. Even better. So, and then there's the Europe Europa Pro Championships on September 14th. That's Dennis James show. I believe that's the last qualifier for the Olympia. So, wow. There's still a lot. It it'll be interesting to see, John, who does these shows because most of the people that needed to qualify are qualified and there's not. So, in other words, will guys start doing these later shows as a warm-up for the Olympia, maybe make a little extra money for themselves, or do you think people are going to kind of hold out, you know, and then we're going to see some, you know, some weak competition for these shows? I don't I I like when they strategize better to give us more, you know, more chances to see them. So, make more money, you know, compete compete two or three more times. I I bet you we'll we might even see um what's his name? Samson Downey. He likes to do some of the the warm-up shows to kind of make That'd be cool. I'd like It's great when you get to see these guys a couple three times a year instead of just once. If I was some of the guys that like, you know, maybe, you know, are not going to win the Olympia, but but can do well. Like, like if I was Rubial, I would hit another couple shows, wouldn't you? Yeah. You hit two already. Why not? Just go for it. See what happens. Rack up the but the prize money and the wins and the wins, too. And the wins. But it's not like Walt Whitman said, it's not about the money. It's about the money. It's about the money. Well, he won 15 grand this past weekend. I mean, it sucks that he didn't win the Dubai Pro show. That was 140 grand. But, you know, a little more competitive. I would I would keep hitting show after show if I was Ruby. I would just keep competing to the guy's got oodles of muscle. As long as he can continue dieting. Those legs are [\h__\h] I know. I know. That's it's it's it's like the I mean all from his waist down, his legs, his calves, just crazy. Are those legs bigger than Ronnie Coleman? I think they are. I think they're bigger than everybody's. Yeah. Look, look at the glutes, too. The glutes. Look at this. The the striations in his hamstrings hamstring. Think about the Panel photo shoot with with on hamstrings and glutes that Blackman would have. Oh my god. And then you can just hear Blechman in the background going. Yeah. That get his calves and get the glutes and the and the hamstrings. Yeah. Yeah, bro. Woo. Pear. Make sure make sure you get those glutes. Oh, there's there's Lee Priest. Happy birthday. Happy birthday, Lee. Hope you had a great I hope you had a great day. You missed. We talked about you earlier in the show. Yeah, we did. But probably just I I we I admitted I wanted to look like you. Why do people keep asking about Ryan? We talked about Ronnie in the beginning because you guys always say we don't address it in the beginning. I We It's the first thing we talked about. We opened the show with it. We even gave a teaser about it. Yeah. Yeah. No mention of Ronnie. You mean You mean you don't like what Well, we should just talk about Ronnie the whole entire show and that's it because we're waiting for you to log on. We actually John actually did a whole rant on why we we they should reveal what's going on with Ronnie. Very worried about him. Missed the whole Now you're gonna have to watch from the beginning. Yeah, I'm I I am worried about Ronnie. I am too. I'm very worried. We'll close out the show with sending a a serious prayer to him because I'm I know that Ronnie uh probably has prayed for other people, you know, when in the industry. And this guy, you know, you know what? You know what the deal? If if Ronnie is conscious, I don't know if he is or not, you know, but if he is conscious, I can guarantee you that he's not worried in the in the least about what's going on with him. I'm sure his wife and everyone around him is a nervous wreck, you know, falling apart. But I can guarantee Ronnie is like, "Ain't a ain't nothing but a peanut. Ain't nothing but a peanut. Bring me my uh my steak and my salmon, you know, meal and my barbecue sauce." Yeah. I can guarantee that Ronnie is not stressed out about what's going on. I just I just want him to be okay. Yeah. Know, we all worried. We love Ronnie and much much uh prayers go out to him and his family and and hopefully this whatever this secondary uh medical condition that's going on, I don't know if it's heart related or whatever related that's going to require surgery. Hopefully, it's just a minor surgery and they can take care of that and uh and everything will be all right. But uh on that note, I guess we're going to wrap up today. As we say every week here at Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. We'll see you next week, guys.