I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations dosed for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Sadique Farooqi RX Muscle news update. this news coming yesterday and it is causing all sorts of waves politically, geopolitically and as it relates to the bodybuilding world impacting one of the top stars as President Trump announcing a fresh set of travel restrictions impacting 19 countries. It's a mix of partial restrictions and quote unquote full restrictions and Iran being one of the countries that landed on the fully restricted list. And of course that impacts or potentially impacts chupan the 2022 Mr. Olympia as well as a crop of Iranian athletes that are up for Olympia qualification for the 2025 Mr. Olympia. So this news coming down yesterday and look when it comes to President Trump now in his second term in his first term there was also a travel ban imposed under President Joe Biden there were also travel restrictions but again this was yesterday it was news it's news that's been resonated around the world so obviously it's to be reported and as it has an impact on truly one of the top stars in the entire bodybuilding sport It's uh imperative for different media outlets, bodybuilding media outlets to cover this in some way, shape or form and to see what kind of an impact it may or may not have as it relates to Hadi Chupan and as it relates to say a Beher Tobani who has now been three times Olympia qualified yet has not been able to obtain clearance, a visa in order to come to the United States in order to travel. Last year you had obviously from Iran, you had Hadti, but you also had a classic physique Olympian who came here for the second year in a row, uh, Vahid Bodpe. So it it I guess the recent history has shown that it can be done. Obviously, it's not easy. And speaking to Hani Rambod uh in the an interview that I did with him at the 2024 Dubai Muscle Show, you know, he talked about the process that it is every time to get Hottadi to the United States. Now again, the one benefit that Hottadi does have that perhaps some of these other Iranian athletes do not have is that he is sponsored by a wellestablished welleield uh Americanbased sponsor in Evagen. And obviously look for all the hard work that it takes to sponsor anyone coming from another another country obviously they have um a leg to stand on on paper and in terms of a business aspect uh the work that they put in governmentally and everything else. So that is one aspect that Hadi does have going for him. But again to break down what was announced yesterday and perhaps why this may not impact Hadi and potentially other Iranian athletes while on paper. Now, while this uh this proclamation does basically spell out that anyone coming from Iran essentially for any other purpose is or any purpose at all, right, for study, for like say fiance visa or any of those types of matters, uh will not be allowed to come to the United States that those restrictions are in place. However, there were exceptions made and this is in article 4B of this proclamation. It's available on whitehouse.gov. Um 4B and I guess section 4 of that states that any athlete or member of an athletic team including coaches, persons performing a necessary support role and immediate relatives traveling for the World Cup, Olympics, or other major sporting event as determined by the Secretary of State. Now, what does that mean? Right now, you notice that the World Cup is mentioned specifically here. Interesting to note that the 2026 World Cup is going to be held in the United States, in Canada, and in Mexico. Now, Iran, their national soccer team is qualified for the World Cup. Now, prior to their ultimate their qualification, there were some talks of, well, what if Iran qualifies? You know, will the team be able to make it? So, this pretty much spells it out clearly that they're not going to have any issues, and that applies to their training staff, their coaches, players, relatives, and what have you. So, it seems to be pretty lenient on that end. Now, in that language, it also states as determined by the Secretary of State. So now the Secretary of State is going to have to basically give the green light to the Olympia, right? To say that yes, the Olympia falls under the category. Obviously to us bodybuilding fans, bodybuilding media, and everyone involved in the sport, yes, the Olympia qualifies as a major event. Um, for them, they're going to have to they're going to have to greenlight that. if they can greenlight that in a way I can see this as a potential positive in a sense where if that's done for Hottie right now again has a track record he has I don't know exactly what his visa situation is some rumors state that he has some sort of a multi-year visa I'm not sure and I don't want to confirm that's the case but he at least has a track record of coming to the United States performing his task and going back home right generally speaking what is the biggest concern concern um when you're dealing with these applica when these immigration policies is that you might have an athlete or somebody else coming here for any other business matter and eventually just figuring a way to to file for asylum or figuring out a way to to stay here finagling the system if you would say. Now Hottie has a track record of not doing that. So in a sense, so Hottadi is kind of whitelisted in that sense. Now with other Iranian athletes and and not just Iranian athletes, but really athletes that fall on this list that may qualify for the Olympia. Again, we key in on these Iranian athletes because there have been so many recent examples of an Iranian athlete qualifying for the Olympia and not being able to come over for the Olympia. So that seems to be the foremost example. But there are other nations that are mentioned on this list where again if they qualify for the Olympia and the secretary of state says you know what yes we put this event in the category of quote unquote major events. So if an athlete is applying on the charter of the Olympia meaning they the charter of we are traveling to the United States for the express purpose of competing at the Mr. Olympia, which is a whitelisted event now, then I wonder if this doesn't open the door for again some of these Iranian athletes and and athletes that are on the restricted list to come to the United States to compete at the Olympia. So, it's an interesting um loophole that they included that I don't know was necessarily or expressly stated in previous proclamations relating to travel restrictions. But this potentially or at least in my opinion, I am not a legal scholar or a lawyer by any stretch of the imagination. But I do wonder again if you have um a provision of this sort um does this open the door now where again you have an athlete and you're not viewing them as okay well they're from this country. the fact that they're an athlete competing at a whitelisted event that's been cleared by the Secretary of State. Could that pave their way to come to the United States? To mention Beiru Tobani again, he is now sponsored by Panata and there have been rumors that well again Panata is going to be exhibiting at the Olympia and should that give a leg up in terms of their clearance process to say yes, we are an Italian-based company, but we're going to be exhibiting in the United States. It's a big money venture. Uh, and one of our athletes for business purposes needs to be in the United States, needs to be at this event. And would that give him a leg up in order to compete? But again, I do think this provision perhaps may open the door. But again, that's the big news. President Trump uh putting out a proclamation for new travel restrictions. And obviously, the first thing that we do wonder is whether that would be an impediment to the 2022 Mr. Olympia Chupon. Uh but I think this exception perhaps may actually pave the way for Hottie and for other athletes. And you know now it's a matter of holding our breath and hoping for the best and once again just hoping that the best of the best of the bodybuilding sport are able to compete on bodybuilding's biggest stage, the Olympia in October in Vegas without any form of visa restrictions. Keep it locked to rxmuscle.com.