Dave Palumbo standing here with Brion Ansley, our classic physique champion here at the New York Pro. You beat a terrific George Peterson. A lot of people were talking about George as he's going to come in here and slaughter the lineup. Uh you were having none of that. I definitely wasn't having any slaughtering the lineup, but uh I worked very hard uh for this show. I did it in 2013. It didn't go well for me. Uh it was it was near and dear to my heart to have a lot of redemption. So, uh I'm very very pleased with the outcome tonight for sure. And uh let's let's uh be on to the Olympia and uh continue this wave. Now, you have a lot of confidence on stage. You seem comfortable up there. You seem very comfortable with your physique. You're able to move it into positions that just seem very natural where a lot of other people seem mechanical. Is that from practice or is that something that comes natural to you? Well, my natural weight is around here. My natural weight to to that I think looks great where I turn pro at is around here first of all. So, so moving this the amount of muscle that I have is um you know it's it's it's a lot more fluid for me. Um and it's a lot more natural for me. But I also practice hard with all facets of classes. Do you know I also practice hard. I practice hard with posing. I practice hard with training. I practice hard cardio, diet, I practice hard in all facets. So, when I get up here, like just like you said, I just I just try to have fun, hang uh let everything uh you know, let loose and uh just have everything run smooth up there. And I'm so glad that it does, you know, and it and it turns out good for me. Do you think that the guys sometimes that might have a better physique than you, you beat because of the fact that you're able to display what you have better than they do? Possibly. Possibly. I I think my physique, you know, is can can uh stand up against anybody's, but but but I definitely think, you know, as far as classic and the aesthetics of of what classic is about and the art form of what classic is about, I also think presentation, uh, you know, and charisma plays a big part in in this division. Now, what did you weigh up there today? I weighed in at 178. Unbelievable. You got you got the biggest biceps I've ever seen of someone at 178 lbs. Give Give us a bicep shot. Look at that arm. That's like unre That's like a Ronnie Coleman bicep. Did you always have big biceps as a kid? I actually have. I've I'm genetically blessed with with big biceps. Um not so much back and other things, but big bicep. Yes. And then um you know we we we just bring everything up along with the biceps and have everything flow aesthetically and um in in its art form as classic is supposed to do you know as everybody loves classic for what it is and for for that same reason. So um I think I think classic is really in an um really growing. I think it's really the the division of the future and I mean look at these guys. I I personally think that the first call out can hold its own against the 212 class. That that's that's my opinion. All the first call out can hold its own. I mean, our muscle bellies are are deep and full. So um that's another thing I also am very pleased with how still we're keeping our musculature you know and it's not just withering away to make a weight you know but our musculature is still uh hard dense and um it's very bodybuildingish still as well. Did it help you when they raised the weight class? It did. It did because I'm already lean at I think I'm already ready to go at about 185 86 you know. I'm already ready to go. Ready to step on stage. What's your max now for your weight class? I come in at 180. My max is 180. Okay. I can't get over 180. So, you still have a little room to grow. Yeah. Yeah. I have a little leeway. Little leeway. Will the Olympia be better for you because you have 48 hours to weigh in or will it be worse because you might fill up too much? Well, I don't have a problem with spilling over usually. So, I think I think it'll be better. I think it'll be better. I I've never had a problem with spilling over and uh getting too bloated from eating or or over over carbing or uh overdoing it as far as filling up is concerned. So, I think it'll help me, you know, maybe I can get on stage at who knows, maybe close to closer to the 18678 range, you know, for Olympia. I said for the Olympia last year, you were the most conditioned guy on stage. Now you're coming in bigger. If you can bring that same conditioning, I think these guys are going to have a lot of trouble with you. Absolutely. And that's the goal. That's the goal definitely to come in bigger. um keep the fluidity, uh keep the aesthetics, keep the small tapered waist for sure and um uh still be nice and sharp um at the same time. All right, give me take us out of this interview with the Brion Ansley classic bodybuilding pose into the camera there. I like this one right here. This is one of my new ones. Our classic physique champion, Bion Ansley.