Welcome back to another episode of Live with brought to you by Questnutrition. Visit questnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and tonight's guest of the evening is UK BFF national champion Luke Sandow. Welcome. Hi Dave. Thank you. Thank you very much for having me. Appreciate it. to throw in new IFB Pro bodybuilder too. That's even about Yeah, I I still can't even believe that. I still sometimes that just occurs to me and I just get a bit crazy. I still can't still still can't believe it. You're a um a new one of the new crop of young guys coming up and winning their pro cards. So, only 28 years old. You got your whole future ahead of you still. Uh, you know, I I'm I'm shocked because for a while it looked like guys were taken to the almost 30 years old before they were getting their pro card. Now it's like we're seeing a lot younger guys 24, 25, 26, even 28. I mean, anything under 30 is young nowadays for a bodybuilder to get that kind of maturity to win their pro card. Were you surprised you won or did you feel going into this show you had a very good shot at at at taking the title? Um well the last the last maybe two years a lot of the the officials UK BFF judges a lot of people who I respect and look up to um they've all told me I have the potential um to take the title but last last year I had a terrible year. Um I did a qualifier I didn't I didn't even I couldn't even win that which was just poor. I did the finals I came sixth and I thought you know what I'm never never going to feel like that again. This is this is not this is not for me. So the whole offseason I just trained for that first place. I put everything all my eggs in one basket and thought, you know what, I'm going to gun for that title. And then not it wasn't until I did the my um qualifier, my original qualifier this year, which was the Welsh uh the Welsh championships, and I took the overall there. And after that, I thought, you know what, maybe maybe I can do this. I still had some work to do. Um and I put it together and I came away with it. So, and it's still I mean, it's still a shock. I still mean, you can tell. I don't really know how to even describe it, but it's um it's certainly something that I was aiming for the whole year. So, I'm very grateful I managed to pull it off. Now, uh Luke, the UK or the United Kingdom is made up of many different countries. Where exactly are you from? Um I'm actually from the South Coast, um in a small sort of seaside town called Bournemouth. Um but I actually live with my other half Kari who she's also an IFBB Pro. Um, we lived in Essex, which is about half an hour away from half an hour away from London. So, yeah. Now, um, you're not, uh, you you're not from where, uh, Wales, where Flex Lewis is from, are you? No, no, no, no. That's about two or three hours away from me. Gotcha. Okay. But everything's pretty relatively close in that in that vicinity, right? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, every I mean, everything's driving distance in in England. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, even Scotland's like five hours, you know, so Yeah. Now, talk to me about, you know, you've only been competing for four years, so you're kind of still a newbie to the sport. You've already gotten your pro card. How did, you know, I always like to hear the story about how everyone got into bodybuilding because everyone's got their own unique entrance, but how did you first get introduced to the sport and what kind of, you know, bit you, so to speak, that made you want to, you know, get on a stage? Oh, well, I mean, I grew up, I mean, I think this story is quite typical for most bodybuilders. I mean, I grew up huge interest in comic books, superheroes, that sort of thing. Um, I did start to grow out of that when I was a bit older. Um, I had AI spent a lot of time playing drums musically, so I was a professional drummer for about three or four years. Um, when that started to sort of fizzle out for me, I just one day I just decided, you know what, I mean, I'm quite into training. Um, I look half decent, so I'm going to I'm going to I'm going to compete. That's what I thought in my head. I thought, you know what? I'm just going to compete in a show. um give it my all for a couple of years, see see how it goes. Entered my first show as a junior and I and I won and since then I've just been just wanted to take it as far as I could. Will do that for you. I find when you win a when you win a show, it's it's very motivating to want to keep going. But what made you go to the gym to the in the first place? Was it for sports? Did you want to just, you know, hook up with girls? Did what what what motivated you to to want to get big? Everyone has their own story, you know. Okay. Okay. Okay. Well, that's that's quite a good question actually. I've never been asked that. The when I first started, I didn't want to be big. I actually wanted to be smaller. I mean, I've always been a very heavy framed um you know, chunky kid. And I wanted to be a bit slimmer. I was in the in the music world. I was touring up and down the country. The rest of the bands were very slim, you know, and I wanted to be I wanted to be very lean, slim, you know, look good in clothing. And I started training. I've basically just ate carrots, tuna, tin tuna, and I just kept getting bigger. So, I tried tried to slim down and I just kept getting more and more muscular. Um, and then I thought, you know, there might be something to this. I mean, I was incredibly strong when I first went to the gym as well. I think when the first time I ever squatted ever in my life, I squatted 315, which is pretty good. Wow. Yeah. Ever. Yeah. Yeah. That was the first time ever. I mean, I couldn't bench press. I'm just terrible. But I could deadlift um 405 the first time I ever picked up a bar. So yeah, so I was pretty strong straight away. Um I don't know whether that's just I think that's purely a genetic thing, but I was always just stocky and just as my mom called me when I was a kid, heavy set it was called. You you must have some Neanderthal blood in you somewhere down the road. We have to do a DNA analysis on your on your genome because uh that's pretty impressive. 315 the first I squatted I remember I squatted 135 the first time I I ever trained legs and did squats and I thought wow I got this huge plate on each side I couldn't walk for two weeks after I did the the workout and here you are coming into the gym for the first time and you did 315 what did you feel like the next day sore um well I think the reason why I did it I went to a gym it was it's it was a local health club and there was a group of powerlters training in there and I saw some guy who was actually about the same age as me and he was very skinny and he was kind of squatting the same weight and I thought, well, if he can do it, I must be able to do it. I put a plate on, did a couple of reps, put another plate on, did a couple of reps, then put another plate on and did maybe two reps and I thought, well, um, and I didn't think it was strong. I'd never been really in a gym before. I just saw what the other guys were doing and I just copied them. Crazy. So insane. Now, now you're a young guy, but you have you have two kids already. I mean, that that's got to be tough, you know. What was the How old were you when you had your first? Uh 15. Yes. I started young. Yeah. You started You really were living the rock and roll lifestyle, huh? Yeah. I was in a band, you know. So, it is. I was actually with I was with my I have a 12-year-old daughter, Louise, and a 5-year-old son, uh, Leo. So, it's actually worked out really well because if I mean, if I had babies now, this I wouldn't be able to do this anymore. So, I've I've I've accidentally nailed it. You you you got you could have waited till after like I did. I'm 48. I just had my first kid. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I could have, but that's not the way it work. You probably did it the right way. You probably I'm I'm screwed up. I always do things the wrong way. Well, I mean, now I'm this size. If my in a couple years my daughter's going to be a teenager, she's going to get into boys and I'm going to have to step in, you know. Good. Now, let me ask you this question. Do your kids go and watch you compete at all? Uh, no. My My bodybuilding is is fairly boring. My son's five. He's e he's I mean he he wouldn't be able to sit there for that long. Um my daughter watched my first ever show which I won but other than that she's not because I've always competed a good few hours away from her on a Sunday and she obviously has school on a Monday so she never has I mean she watches all my all the YouTube videos. She's very supportive. She loves showing all her friends. I mean my son has no idea that my bodybuilder every time we go into Toys R Us he picks up the wrestlers and thinks it's me. He doesn't know. He doesn't he doesn't get it. But I mean, as long as as long as what I do doesn't impact their lives in a sort of negative way, then everything everyone's happy. What What's with the Sunday shows in England? How come you guys always have shows on on a Sunday rather than a Saturday? I have no idea. I have no idea. I mean, it's only the UK BFF. I'm sure. I'm not 100% sure. I think NABA. I think they're Saturdays. I'm not not too sure. That's crazy because, you know, because everyone has to go to school and work the next day. So, you would think that they Saturday would be the ideal day. Maybe it's cheaper to hold it on a Sunday at the uh Yeah, that's that's probably that's I actually think that is probably the reason. Now, you you were 235 last year when you competed and you weren't even happy with the way you looked and you you got on stage at 247 this year, 12 pounds heavier and leaner. How how'd you do that? What changed from last year to this year? Uh, well, I think the reason I was so light last year, I don't necessarily think it's because I've gained all this muscle in a year. I think it's a lot because I didn't lose all of it this time. Um, last year I worked with a coach. It didn't work out particularly well. Um, overdid things, you know. It is. I mean, I think the bigger you are, the easier it can be to lose muscle if you push things too hard. I think that's what happened a lot to me last year. Um, and this year I hooked up with Justin Harris and um, we managed to preserve everything I had before and then the extra maybe four or five pounds I gained in the offseason. And as I said earlier, I mean the last year to this year I've been tunnel vision laser focus. So just consistency I think. Now uh, do you have plans to compete in 2017 or are you going to wait? Oh, I'm going to go straight in. Yeah, I'm going to go straight in. And I just I mean this is something I this has been a dream for me and I think this day and age I think taking a whole year off is isn't always the best idea. Um I think you I think it's the age of social media really. Um and the whole business side of it as well. You go for a year. I'm from the UK. If I disappeared for a year everyone would forget. So I need to get straight in. And I've been told that the whole size size isn't particularly an issue. It's just more making improvements. And I think the more I compete the more I'll improve. So I mean I despinitely will be on stage in 2017. Do you have a particular show picked out yet? This is something I'm going to have to speak to with Kari. I mean, most likely I think the first one I'm looking at will be Toronto. Um because Kari did that last year. Um and possibly Tampa as well as another one cuz I've always just wanted to go there. So try trying to and it's and it's around my birthday as well. So there you go. We could maybe get maybe we'll get you to come down to the RX Muscle Studios. We're only about an hour and a half from there. So yeah, get you in in studio. Now, uh obviously getting your pro card is a huge accolade and they don't give out many pro cards in the uh in the UK. You only have a couple opportunities to win it. So, you're kind of a part of an elite group of of guys there. Now, I I noticed just not to mention one in particular, Nathan Deasher, who was a a great UK champion there. He went over to Oxygen Gym in Kuwait to train. Have you ever been approached by them or contemplated possibly doing that as well or your family come you know is too important? Uh it's it's never come up but I think if I was offered that opportunity I don't think I would take it. Um and purely because they can what they consider a a distraction. Um I consider what actually helps me get through prep. So I mean they're very much everything's about bodybuilding and that would just drive me nuts. I couldn't I couldn't do that. I mean you know I have I have things I enjoy outside of bodybuilding. spending time with my children, reading reading books, going to the cinema with my girlfriend, you know, all those sort of things that actually help me get through prep. And if you're denied of all that, I think it would just I think it would just ruin it a little bit for me. But whatever they're doing over there certainly working, so yeah, who knows? Let me mention uh I want to mention a couple of your sponsors because one of them in particular I want to ask you about. I know you have IronRebel Clothing and I know you have Autonomic Shoes, but you also have another sponsor called Lean Meets London. How did you land that one? That seems like the bodybuilding dream concert. It's it's Oh, it's it's the best. Um they're they they're a local sort of I mean in in the UK we in London they have the every morning they have a Smith thing called Smithfields Market where they it's just a huge market and all the restaurants around London go and collect all their meat and uh her family who actually run that they've also set up their own meat site for just for the fitness industry which is just everything a bodybuilder or fitness um person could want. And they set up their own business, Lean Meat London. It's website's lean meetat.london. And yeah, they just they send us anything we need, which is just it's the best any sort of bodybuilder could have. It's better than getting paid money because you're you're probably making money on the deal because think about how much you probably spend on on food, you know, a week, right? And it's um yeah, we're extremely grateful for them and everything they send is super fresh. It's I mean they they deliver it to us as well packaged. They actually hand deliver it to us which is great. Really? Wow. So yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, the the owner, James, and his wife, they deliver deliver everything all um all chilled in a box and we pop it in the freezer. So, it's absolutely ideal. So, thank you to them. Yeah, that's a that's a great sponsor. I I had a couple food sponsors back in the day that they would they drop meals off my house, but they never I wanted to make my own meals, you know? I I wanted to get the food myself. They would make the food for me. So, this is great because you get the meats dropped off and then you can cook and make whatever you want with it. Exactly. I mean, I've we I mean, I've been approached by meal prep companies before and I'm just a little bit, you know, I like prepping, like you said, I like prepping my own food, knowing how it's cooked, knowing exactly what's in it. Um, I like to to taste a certain way for me. Um, but it's actually something that Lee London are looking into. I think they're going to be uh launching a food prep um sort of aspect of the business maybe next year, which will be cool. So, that'll certainly help if I travel. If I if I let them know exactly what I need, then they can set up for when I travel, which would be very cool. Yeah, that'd be good. Maybe they can see if they'll deliver to the US. Come, I need some food. The deal meals delivered to Florida. I'll hook you up. That's cool. Now, Luke, uh, talk to me a little bit about, you know, uh, your celebrity aspect since you've won, uh, the pro card and won the show. Have you noticed a lot more people like contacting you and, you know, asking you for training advice and and stuff like that? Because I always find when when you get validated by winning a show, people think you know more than you actually did before you you won the show, which is not necessarily the case, obviously. Um I would say the social media has exploded. Um which I think is to be expected really which is is very helpful. I mean because uh my job I do me and my other half we do run a a training business together. So this helped with that. We've our client base has built built up from it which is good. But I mean in terms of the celebrity or any sort of fame nothing nothing like that's really happened. Although the day after I um the day after I won um I went to I went back to my car. I packed my car up and I had a puncher and uh so I had to drive to a local sort of garage uh to get my puncher repaired and I w I walked in and the guy didn't look like he'd ever train in his life and he just looked at me and was like Luke and I was like yes and he was like it's on us. I was like wow I was expect I was I was expecting to just walk around with sunglasses on just kissing babies you know just walking around being cool. Uh, that's all that's ever happened really. And ever since that, nobody nobody cares anymore. Um, but yeah, in terms of social media, it's great. I mean, it opens up things. I mean, luckily, I've been picked up by Iron Rebel Power Gear. Um, they've some they're a company I followed for a long time and yeah, so I mean, obviously, if I hadn't won a pro card, that opportunity wouldn't have come to me. So, there's and I think now being in the Pro League, there's just going to be opportunities coming and I'm just going to try and make the most of all of them. Don't go punching any judges out like the guy from Greece did. That's just crazy. What was he doing? I heard Didn't the guy win his pro card as well? Is that No, he actually did. He I heard that he needed to win the overall. I guess that it was the second year or something like that in a row he didn't get the pro card. He just lost his mind and he just I think he punched out the MC actually. It would be it would really be equivalent to someone punching Bob Chickell out, you know. It was just it's ludicrous actually. Yeah, but I think if if Bob Chick was stood there, he was Bob Chick's probably still bigger than him to have done. cuz in the video it looks like he singles him out. He's like, "That guy's a bit big. That guy's big." And then and then they part the MC's just standing there, this little guy, and he just whacks him. Brutal. I can't believe that even happened. That that you, you know, the funny thing is with social media, everyone had a video camera on this guy. There's like 16 different angles of the of the of the smack. It's great. Have to I think somebody should put a comp a compilation video of all these different angles. Unbelievable. Well, congratulations on the big win and uh we're really proud of you. I know we had featured John Muscle in the morning a few times and uh I want to just say that uh you know the win is huge. You're only 28. You got your whole career ahead of you. We want to wish you the best of luck. Keep us informed of anything that's going on in your life and uh hopefully we'll get you out here for a big interview when you come to the United States next year to compete as a pro. Absolutely. Well, again, thank you very much for having me. I do appreciate your time. So, thank you very much. My pleasure. And that will take us to the end of another episode of Live with brought to you by Quest Nutrition. Visit questnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and we'll see you next time.