Dave Palumbo standing here with Brooke Cook, our figure overall champion here, the NPC Junior USA Championships. You uh look like you actually did break down and cry a little bit. I did. I had a breakdown. I'm still This still doesn't feel real to me. It's still hitting me at the moment. I'm so excited. All that fatigue, all the tears, the crying, the workouts that you didn't want to do is all because of these moments right here. It makes every every tear that I've ever cried, every anything I want to give up on worth sticking it. And I'm glad I did it. Give us one of the roughest times when you might have been able wanted to give up or other people didn't believe in you or something like that. Can you remember anything? About three weeks ago. Three weeks ago, I was just like, I can't do this. My body felt like it wanted to shut down. You know, I had some things going on in my life. Um, but I kept pushing. Get through it because a lot of people do give up working out. Went back to the gym. Yes. Hey, look. Let's go to the gym. Gym fix everything. You know what? Exercise is a powerful drug. Now, you're from Texas originally. You guys don't quit anything. No, we don't. That, too. Living in New York and you're not allowed to cry in New York. That's very true, too. So, I come from some pretty much steadfast places that keep me in check at all times. How'd you wind up uh in New York from Texas? Well, it was from Texas to California cuz my mom uprooted us and moved us to California. That's where I did high or high school and college. And then I came up to um New York to pursue my career that I'm in now, which is um corporate fitness and I started bodybuilding. And there you go. How many years have you been doing this? Been really good for me. Um this is actually my two and a half years. Oh my god. People are going to hate you. Are they? Yeah, absolutely. You said that. How many competitions have you done? This will make my seventh. Okay. So, you've hit a you've hit you're kind of a stage. I did five. I did five last year. What's your um best win in your mind prior to this? Um my last two wins in November at um Eastern's Well, I came second, but that was a really good um second place. And then I won um Who beat you? I don't know her name. You bet everyone knows your name now. I'm like I don't know her name. Then I did uh the one in New Jersey. I um What was that? Of the East Coast. East Coast. Yes, that was East Coast Championships first place overall. All right, so you were on a roll now. Now you're a pro. Now you have to move up to the next level. She's going on year three. She's a pro right now. I got AI still have a lot to learn and to do and you know I got people some great people. One in uh one in reference Jennifer who I know would be a great mentor. Um knows a lot. been following her and you know like I said I have so much to learn and I look forward to doing it. You going to take some time off and enjoy the victory or you going to go right into the pro show? Well, I'm going to take some time off and enjoy my victory. All right, Brook Cook, our figure overall champion here tonight. Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.