Scitec Nutrition. Premium quality products. State-of-the-art look. Uncompromised ingredient quality. Our products work and taste good. www.sitecnutrition.com. Gorillaawware. I'm standing here with my good friend Bruce from Quest Protein and uh I should say Quest Nutrition now because you are a multi- product line now. Correct. Yeah, Quest Nutrition. We have three lines now. Uh protein uh powder, chips, and bars, which we started with the bars. I heard the chips and the protein powders are not in Europe yet. I know we're here in Germany. I was looking for a bag of chips and and I hear you're still working on approval. Yeah. Yeah, we're still working on it's a little more of a process with labeling and stuff, but yeah, it'll be here shortly. Now, I want to show I want to congratulate you because you won this award. The you were voted the number one protein bar in Europe by NASCAR Distribution. That's a pretty amazing uh feat coming from the United States. It really is. It's quite an honor. I mean, when we got it in the States with the different organizations that, you know, named us the bar of the year and whatnot, it was really amazing. And it's still just as it's still it's amazing honor because think about it. Here you are an American company. you come to Europe and try to get a piece of the marketplace and now you're the number one bar, right? Yeah. It's like I said, it's an honor. I mean, we just every day we don't take for granted and we just worked hard in Europe and we have some great partners here and it's just it's just evolved. Now, you know, your bar is so good that it's kind of hard to out outdo the bar and I'm assuming that's why you're moving into other venues as far as the the foods like potato chips and and obviously the protein powder. Um, where where else do you see yourself expanding into? What other kind of I I would love to see some other foods. To me, the foods are intriguing. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. And our goal is uh if things go well this year, every quarter this year, we're going to have a new food line, new food product. Well, you you know the RX Muscle fans are rabbit for your product. So, you have to kind of give us like a little teaser what will be the next product or a little hint at least as to what it might be. Yeah, a little hint. Well, we do have a new bar flavor coming out in the next few weeks. Oh, really? Another bar flavor. I I thought you guys had all the bar flavors covered. Oh, that's endless. We keep getting ideas. I mean, it's endless. But will it outdo the cookies and cream, which I know is one of your best sellers? Cookies and that might be tough. That That's actually my favorite, but uh we'll see. My uh my wife Amanda seems to like the samores bar. She actually turned down the cookies and cream box that you were going to give her and said she wanted a box of of samores for a whole box of s'mores. S'mores is doing quite well. It's right up there with cookies and cream and chocolate chip cookie dough. Who comes up with these flavors? You have like a special like uh cook who does this or do you just you guys sit around and say what can we come up with next? It's a it's a group of elves that uh we keep locked in. Oh, our R&D department is amazing. And uh you know, Ron and Shannon run that and it's it's it's a creative group that just really think outside the box and always come up with great ideas. Do you come up with the flavor first and then try to make it or do you actually make it and then say, "Oh, what does this taste like?" And we'll just name it. Wow, that's interesting. They don't let me know that. It's a secret. Oh, it really is a secret, huh? It It literally is. I mean, they tell us when something's going to be launched. I mean, we get to taste it, you know, but uh yeah, we don't know a lot about the process. We I love my Quest bars, guys. You got to check them out today if you haven't. And you got to try those potato chips. Even though we're in Europe here, when I get back to the United States, I have about 10 cases that he sent me. Uh uh you could send a few more, too, because we like them. Uh how you know, before I let you go, the potato chip idea is so good that I can't believe that it's not in supermarkets. Well, protein chip, by the way. Um um it it will be eventually. It's tastes so good. I mean, I don't see how you can not I mean, it should be in every supermarket. I mean, it's it's such it's such an obvious extension. people who want to go buy something. I see it obviously in health food stores, but it should be in in regular supermarkets. This is something that as a parent, you can buy this for your kids. I mean, to put in your in your lunch box. It it'll happen soon cuz we have a lot of folk parents write us saying that it's their kids snacks now. You know, it's protein, it tastes good, and it's it's just as good as a regular potato chip. It's all about innovation here at Quest Protein. For now, I'm Dave Palumbo with my good friend Bruce, rxmuscle.com.