Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and tonight's guest is a very special one. He is a multi-NPC team universe champion. He's an IFBB Pro bodybuilder. He's a motivational speaker. He's a self-help guy. He does it all in this industry. He's very well known. been around for a long time. Uh it's my honor to get him back on the show. Skip Laor, welcome. Thank you so much, Dave. Hey, it's great being here. Uh I really appreciate that uh the invitation. Actually, I went out and got you. Right. You did. Now, uh let's let's talk about what we're going to talk about today. First of all, because I put out a rant yesterday about why bodybuilders are broke. In other words, why don't they have money? Why don't top professional bodybuilders make a great living? Jay Cutler seems to make a great living. he always has. Um, so some bodybuilders are just not businessoriented. And uh, the question is, is it the onus of the organization, of the media outlets, of the supplement companies to support these guys? I say no. I say it's not. It's I I say the onus is on the bodybuilders themselves. And some guys are able to make a great living. And some guys are not even great bodybuilders and they're able to make a great living. But yet other people that are great bodybuilders and they and they and they're broke and they they can't pay their bills. And uh Skip, you uh contacted me because this is something that's dear to your heart. You kind of help people empower themselves to make money. Explain what you do since you've been retired. Well, my biggest passion actually even before I started training uh was I was always fascinated why we as people do the things we do. Um I've worked with some of the best peak performance uh coaches in the world and actually this journey started six years before I actually started training at the age of 27 and I really uh credit that uh for me going for my dreams quitting the traditional safe and secure job to go on as a bodybuilder and to to write for the magazines create DVDs all the things that I did with it you know go for my passion and my dream I know that there are a lot of people who you know love uh working out and they would love to do that. Uh they either play it safe and conservatively or they go into it without a template, a plan and then uh very few make it like Jay Cutler and and some of the other ones uh too. And so you know I would say my journey although I may have done better than I guess most I guess with that hustle uh to make it a living out of it. Uh I quit my job 19 years ago now uh to chase my dreams. Uh, I realized like that although I may have done better than most, I was challenged in a in a lot of areas like really living up to my full potential. And what I've realized is that uh it's not just the top professional bodybuilders. You definitely see that. I mean, Dave, you know, since day one, it's been that way. It's interesting because uh if you every once in a while, I don't know, you know, who you're exposed to, but uh if you talk to teachers, let's say, or the military, right, they kind of have the same things that they should be paid more for what they do. And I'll tell you, I I I have a lot of respect for teachers, and I certainly have that respect for the military. The challenge is they kind of know going in what they pay. So to change the deal when you knew it going in, uh that's what the challenge is. Obviously, it's all about perceived value. And so, a bodybuilder can be great at what they do. They knew it going in uh that uh there wasn't a lot of money in it. So, it it's you know, I I would think you can look at those other professions and say, "Well, that's the deal. You got to work your way around it." uh a lot of bodybuilders uh they don't uh work their way around it because quite frankly uh I believe it's a mindset but it's also strategies and it's also where they put their you know willpower, focus, time and energy. But one thing on top of, you know, we focus on the bodybuilders and I know you talked about Louis Marco's uh his uh video that stimulated your video, but I'll tell you um as I've gone through my uh journey and uh I consider myself a coach, a life coach. I don't tell people how to live their life. Uh one thing about as you go through the the challenges of life is that we all could use opportunity and perspective. And when you have a coach who is skilled and can guide you through the process, it gives you objectivity and perspective to make better decisions because uh many times we make decisions based on a whole bunch of stuff uh whatever uh our past it it really doesn't matter why. And for a second, what what's the major mistake that most people make? What what is the what is the main mistake that these bodybuilders are doing? I think it's just laziness. You're saying that there's more to that. what what are they doing wrong that they're not able to earn a living for themselves even though they're maybe the top 10 bodybuilders in the world? Right? But I think what I want to really point out it's it's it's from the top to the bottom. It's not even the pro bodybuilders. It's uh the same thing challenge could be said with all of us who live or most of us most of us who live that dedicated fitness lifestyle. I really believe the number one reason the number one reason is we don't understand or appreciate the amount of willpower, focus, energy, and time that it takes to develop an amazing physique. To us, we just love it. It's just what we normally do. And we don't have an endless supply of willpower, focus, energy, and certainly not time. And so we what makes a person generally a master in those areas which you know they're quick to tell you look how great I look and uh you know I'm one out of a whatever a thousand. Uh but the business skills what value does that create for other people? It's a lack it's it's not understanding what it takes to have that body. And here's an example. If if someone said, "Hey, you know, here's a perfect example in our fitness industry because again, Dave, I think this is from the top all the way down to the bottom. Those who choose to live this dedicated fitness lifestyle, you know, what do we say to people? What do we say to people um regular civilians as our code word is, right? If they uh can't find the time to work out, we say it's just an hour. You can do it. You can find it." And you hear a lot of fitness people saying, "What's your excuse?" Right? You hear that all the time, right, Dave? Sure. Well, if you said to that bodybuilder, "Hey, uh, why don't you have money in the bank? Why aren't you making a living?" What's your excuse, right? What do you think a typical bodybuilder would say to that? To having no money in the bank. It's a bodybuilding is an expensive sport. I don't have any time to work. I have to go to the gym all day. You know, right? Well, well, they they they tell a person who can't get to the gym, uh, they say, "What's your excuse?" But when if a if a rich person, a wealthy person said, "Hey, what's your excuse?" Right? Your typical dedicated fitness person would be highly offended. You don't know my story. You don't know. It's not that easy. Right? Yet, we have uh no problem saying that to a person that can't get to the gym, right? That's why I say bodybuilders are lazy. That's that's my whole thing. I think that they just don't want to do the extra work. They want to sit back and grow. They want to sit on the couch and watch TV and uh or play on the internet, you know, and watch Dave Palumbo and Louis Marco videos and get upset about what we're saying about them. And they don't want to go uh do the work that it takes to actually start a business. And you know, when I I I can only speak for myself, but when I was competing, I was I had actually was lucky enough to have a supplement company sponsor. I was sponsored by Metrics, but I also did guest posings. I I did people's diets. I I did seminars if people hired me to do it. I would do appearances at stores. I sometimes bounced on the weekend. I trained a couple people at the gym. I mean, I was always keeping my streams of income open, but that I just knew that intuitively that I needed to do this because if one stream ended, I needed other streams to be there to pick up the slack. But other people don't think like that. How do you get them how do you get them to change the way they think? Well, like I said, um I definitely respect and appreciate we had a lot of the same circles. I think we were with metrics at the same time. I know that we dealt with as at the same time, right? I was I was doing that hustle with you. I'll tell you this though, uh when you put all that willpower, focus, time, and injury to competing it, you don't have this endless supply. And so, what's left? And when it comes to training, finding a way, hey, how do you gain that ounce of muscle? They will find a way. They're tenacious, right? How to find money? There's nothing left in their tank. number one that that's they really undervalue what they put in, you know, they just think it should come and they're not as tenacious when it comes to their body. They're they're totally tenacious, but not when it comes to making money. But I'll tell you, it it's it's deeper than that. Um, like I said, just being lazy. The bottom line is, yeah, you can do anything you want to do if you are committed. So, I guess if they don't do it, I guess it could be under that umbrella of being lazy. But I'll tell you this, uh, from my experience helping people who, you know, I don't know if you can necessarily say they're lazy. Like I said, I think this is from the top of the dedicated fitness world, a professional bodybuilder, but I'll tell you what, you know, um, I I work with 47y old personal trainers that, you know, maybe they they personal their personal training uh for 60 hours a week, but they're pretty much in the same boat. You know what I'm talking about there, Dave? You know what I'm saying? Yeah. It's just it's it's kind of like this this whole mentality and I'll tell you this is that there's a lot of things that drive us in from my experience working with so many people all over the world and also uh coming from that over 30 years in personal development always being uh just obsessed to f why we as people do the things that we do why how can I take my life to the uh next level uh too and then working with so many uh some of the challenges that make us so dedicated um to adhere to this very stringent lifestyle, right? Uh that makes us great to become the one out of a thousand who, you know, feel we deserve more for our physical bodies. those same qualities uh that make us outstanding and we're able to disconnect from people and to be dedicated and to sacrifice all that those same qualities that make us great are the same things that push away business. So it's in addition to business strategies and I could talk about it's just not understanding how business works but also a lot of our issues uh and le let's talk about some business strategies for example right I don't think uh that a lot of bodybuilders uh they understand uh how their physical body that it's not that unique it's not that different and it isn't providing so much of an emotional value that they believe in the business world, right? Uh it's it's their focus. They're great at their focus. But the bottom line, it's a template uh type of thing. You do this, this, this, you have this body, right? Uh business doesn't work that way. Uh business is the person who's uh thinks outside of the box and takes risk. You know, training and eating, I don't care how good you get, that's a template. Uh being in the military is a template. uh going and getting education and I deal with all these uh people right it's something that you become unique uh for doing to have that body to have that discipline uh to get all the education uh to go through but the uh military but those are all jobs that the people who do so well do not get paid very well and that's the difference between business and doing something that is a template all right uh the business owner who thinks outside the box he takes all the mental emotional ancial risk. Uh in business, the people who take the biggest risk get the biggest rewards. Uh I don't think bodybuilders understand they're not taking risk. And I'll tell you this, you know, Dave, like I said, we were in similar circles with sponsors and everything like that. You were a sponsor bodybuilder. I was a sponsored bodybuilder. And we, you know, were able to uh you know, convince uh the supplement companies uh that we would provide value. You know, at the same time, now that you have your supplement company, it's a whole different world being a business person taking risk. Am I right? Absolutely. Look, I'm moving my company down to Florida uh at the end of the month. It's a huge risk. It's a lot of money we're spending. We I got to move the facility that we were building out on my property where we were going to have the uh we were going to have the studio and everything like that. I can't get internet there. I'm going crazy. No one wants to provide internet or at least highspeed internet. I'm I'm begging companies. I mean, I took a lot of risk. There's a lot of risk. And we're moving in 20 days. And I got a business, a house to move down there. I have all my snakes that I breed, I got to take down there. The three cars I got to ship down there with, you know, Johnny who's coming down as well. And animals. We have two dogs and we have they have two cats. I have a cat. It it it's almost mind-boggling what we're putting on the line. But I believe in my heart and my passions that when I get there, it's going to be a better opportunity and we're going to make more money and be able to create better content. in a studio that we're going to customize for ourselves. So, yeah, you got to take risks. Ask ask any billionaire or any guy who's worth a lot of money if they took risks. And most of them have taken risks and failed a couple of times before succeeding. I remember Ed Connors told me, the guy who owns who used to own the Gold Gym franchises, that he he was bankrupt at one point and he he got himself back and took some risk and he wound up buying the Gold Gym franchise. So, yeah, you got to take risks. Is it that bodybuilders are afraid to take risks with everything except their life and with that except their bodies? Well, I I think it's it's again it's a certain mentality that makes a bodybuilder uh they look at generally this isn't everybody uh they make the world black and white generally, right? Like it's right or wrong. Okay? And that's what makes them function. They get themselves to believe that if they just did this, they're not thinking about all these different variables. That's what makes them they're able to stick to the extreme uh discipline and structure, right? That does not work in the business world, right? You know, you talked about the risk that you're going to uh right now. I mean, you multiply that Dave since day one. Yeah. I think that bodybuilders, professional bodybuilders or whoever is doing the complaining that thinking that supplement companies should pay them, they greatly uh underestimate or they're naive to the risk that a a business owner takes. They underestimate all that risk that it takes to be successful in business and they overestimate how much they're adding value and risking and that gap is what creates all the confusion. Yeah, you're right. You're right 100%. So, what do we do? Well, you know, first of all, there's a couple things. One is education, right? Now, I'm going to take it outside of the pro bodybuilding world because like I said, Dave, um I know there's a lot of people who are watching this show uh that they exclude themselves. We all think we're like sometimes special, yet again, this is 27 years in the fitness industry. We all it's it's it's kind of like a human condition. We all want to be unique and different and we we focus on our differences. And you know, it's the 2% the 5% that makes us different. But I'll tell you, uh, if you look at all of us who congregate to this lifestyle, we're generally, we have a lot of similarities, and I don't care if you're a professional or you're a guy who, you know, uh, is at the regional level. I don't care. Here's another thing is being a natural bodybuilder. I always told natural bodybuilders, you know, you are no different and and except for you don't take drugs. Uh, the mentality is exactly the same, right? But again, they focus on the difference. You know, we are all in this for reasons. Uh, some things you probably notice on the message boards, on social media, you have, you know, people in fitness, they talk about how terrible the people in fitness are, their integrity, uh, the way they carry themselves, whatever, whatever. And it's like, well, why are you here with all of us, right? It's it's they're different and just a couple of their close friends. You know, I'm not saying we're all exactly the same, but I think uh on what I've understand this mental level, this emotional level, we all have very similar stories that bring us to the same place and uh and and if we kind of understood that number one, what what are the reasons? Um what is the typical story, Dave, when someone says, you know, why they they found fitness? What what what brought them to fitness? Normally, usually they were either fat as a kids or they were underweight and got picked on as kids or they had some kind of disease, diabetes, something or some kind of childhood disease that made them feel inadequate in some way. That's usually what attracts people to body it's some emotional physical, you know, um feeling less than. It could be abandonment, um you know, break up of family, moving around. I I I tell you I I deal with these personalities like all the time, right? And when you're and again I don't like to, you know, really talk so much about a person's childhood because it really doesn't matter. It's what you do from this day forward. But I'll tell you, you know, you got to kind of understand yourself and understand those things do create who you are. And uh if you had a very shaky upbringing emotionally, right, you're going to ju this lifestyle is going to be perfect for you. The black and white structure because you don't want to do anything. What you need is certainty more than anything. There's nothing more certain than knowing what you're going to work out every single day, what you're going to eat, and that lifestyle. But I'll tell you what, there isn't a lot of room for a lot of emotional growth or business growth by sticking to some template and some certainty. It may make you feel emotionally uh settled, right? I know. Listen, look, I don't claim to be different. I've had challenges uh growing up. I'm here just like what I observe a lot of us. Uh when we come from those backgrounds, uh we there's a certain level of trust that we don't have. And you'll hear that all the time. people don't trust uh and they like the me versus me mentality of the whole fitness thing, right? I'll tell you it works very well to have an amazing body. It does not work well when you want to have an overall amazing quality of life, especially because it involves people. Now, I have to tell you this is that I really didn't understand this impact until after I retired uh from competitive bodybuilding because here's the challenge when it comes uh to the whole fitness lifestyle. Again, this is from the the top professional bodybuilder. I think a lot of times we have the same challenge is just that you get better at your physical body, but it's really no different than that regional competitor who gets into it in the first place. But I'll tell you, once you start getting rewarded for something uh that like your fitness, it doesn't matter how it's destroying your life, your relationships, it doesn't matter if you're not making any money. You know what? If you've had so much chatter going on in your head, like a lot of people will post all those traumatic experiences. I don't know how much weight they put on them, but everything described, you've been hearing it the 30 years you've been in fitness, everybody has a very similar story. not to the same degree, right? Well, I'll tell you, once you start getting rewarded, then you're going to be hooked and then it doesn't it doesn't matter. You're not going to come out. You're not going to be motivated to change things. And this again, this isn't for everybody. And I'll tell you, I've done a lot of thinking about this. And it's not true of the reason why a Jay Cutler uh where I see he's different is because he was the golden child right from the beginning. It was a very good choice for him right from the beginning. I I talked to Shawn Ray uh Chris Chrome uh uh Flexware those guys not I'm not saying that you know they're perfect. We all we all have our challenges but that's a different setup right than the person who has a regular job and uh then they go for the the structure the safety the relief the mental and emotional from fitness and I'll tell you your hunger uh to improve your relationships your hunger to make more money because again what you said is it being lazy or you not have you can lift all these weights you could so discipline to your diet for months and months and months get the whatever 5% body fat for why can't you make money right there is no real reason except for your willpower focus time and injury has been sapped up to have that body and if you got into this for emotional re relief you are relieved right and here's the challenge is that look bodybuilding has saved a lot of people and you've heard all these stories am I right sure Dave Yeah. So, I would never say, "Hey, look, give up bodybuilding." Because people will not I don't care if they're not making money, Dave. I don't care if they have the most horrible disconnected relationships. You know, it doesn't matter if they don't have an option. They're going to stay here forever. They're going to stay in a place that makes them feel good because it's better than the alternative. Right? So, these are the forces that you're working with. They can say they want money. They can say they want love and connection and have everything in line, but I'll tell you, they don't know how to do it. And and there's a lot of things that they don't understand, you know, about money. Here's a typical thing. I'm going to take it away from the pro bodybuilder uh type of metaphor because like I said, from the top to the bottom, we're all very similar, right? And Dave, I don't know how much you've been exposed to this, um, but it's the the personal trainer, you know, maybe he has a a studio and he's not making it, right? I mean, he's wondering how he's going to feed himself when he's 50 or 60, yet there there's no more hours left, you know, in the week. And, you know, they have a very limited belief about how much they can earn, right? So, they're worried. They're able to put off because they're amazing at what they do. uh you know people will reward them because they're so knowledgeable. They help very successful happy people with families and make a lot of money. They help them get fit and so they'll say I've had angry student I need an investor you know I want someone to I could if I just had an investor then I could make all this money. And then I say to them, my and they're almost angry every time someone wants to give me money. Uh they just want me to be uh they just want to sit back and do nothing and me earn all the money. And I say, "Wait a second. How much money do you think you need for studio?" And you know, let's just throw out a number $100,000. I said, "You know what? You understand that you being able to change people's lives or whatever, a lot of people can do that. That's just an idea. You know, business, like you said, or business is all about failure more than it is about success. You got to be tenacious as hell. You got to be tenacious as hell, just like you are with your body. You don't give up. Oh, uh, I don't have a peak on my bicep. You'll search the internet forever. Try a million different training routines. Oh, but when you can't earn money, right? All of a sudden, you fold up like a house of cards, right? We don't use that same mentality and for all those reasons, right, that I talked about. So I say to him, I go, "So let me," and you know, I'll using I go, "How much you working 60 hours a week, you were on a roll, right? How long would it take to save $100,000, right? I I asked a particular studio owner who I work and like he tripled his income because of the strategies, the mindset that I teach through this one-on-one coaching. And I'll tell you, it's more than business strategies. This is stuff that we carry our whole life that makes us great and may make us challenge, right? And so what he said because he's doing extremely well, I've been working with him for over a year and he said that it would take me two years, all right, to save $100,000 cash, right? I said, "Well, that's that's pretty good uh from where you've come from. So you got to work 60 hours a week for two years to pay all your bills, to do everything, then save and be on a roll, too." And he goes, "Yeah, that would be right." I said that investor, it's not a dream. It's not a hope. It's not maybe it'll work out. That $100,000 is an idea that was actually actualized. I mean, it actually came to fruition. That's a $100,000 in cash. I said, if you really want to know business, you should get 10% ownership at most. and they should not do anything because they gave you two years or more of being on a role. They don't understand that concept. They overvalue they overvalue what they the value they bring to the world, right? They don't understand that business concept and they they they greatly undervalue the risk of business of what it really takes uh to uh earn cash. That gap is what's causing a lot of the frustration. So, it's it's the overappreciating. Look, you see this all the time nowadays. And and let me interrupt let me interrupt you for a second, Skip. Get a word here because I tell people all the time that I believe that every person has things that make them get excited inside. We call them P I the word I hate the word passion because it's so overused. It's almost like uh it's almost like uh it's not even worth using. Let's say passions for an instance. Everyone's got passions inside and you can't just have one passion. You can't just be in love with bodybuilding, nothing else. You always have some other interests. And I always tell people that if you nurture your what you like and do what you like and be great at it, you can make money. But you got to figure what you love to do. you know, um, you know, if if there's a bodybuilder out there who loves to be a bodybuilder, there's got to be some aspect about bodybuilding that they really love, whether it be nutrition, supplementation, drugs, whatever the hell they love to do. If you go out there and do it, you will attract money to yourself. I think what happens is people get into this, like you said, this comfort zone of saying, "Hey, I just want to train and go home and smoke weed in front of the computer, okay, in front of the TV and just have my meals and then go to sleep and wake up and do it again the next day because that's easy. That that's a safe very safe lifestyle style like you said. But the bottom line is if you got to go home and smoke weed because you're bored because you got nothing to do all day, that time could be used uh in a constructive manner. Okay. Ronnie Coleman was a full-time police officer and Mr. Olympia. So, there is enough time in a day to to have a full-time job and be a bodybuilder. Is it productive? No. And I'm sure pro people don't want to have a full-time job, you know, at least doing something that maybe they're not so, you know, crazy about. I know guys that are doctors or nurses and and and they and they're bodybuilders and and they they find a balance between it because that's what they love to do. Um, I, you know, do only the things that I like to do. Now granted, there's a lot of sometimes paperwork or so to speak or other rigomearroll that goes along with that, but I only are involved with the things I love to do. Now, I work probably, you know, 15 hours a day doing what I love, but it doesn't it doesn't it doesn't seem like work for me. So, I think what what a lot of bodybuilders are afraid to do is they're afraid to find their passions and embrace it. And I think that's what I that's how what I try to teach people. Now that obviously that's ne not necessarily, you know, business sense or or or step one, step two, step three, but it's a start and I think people have trouble getting started. Once they get started, a lot of times it's self-propagating the rest of the the procedure. One important element that I think is the the rocket fuel to what you said is that you can't just do what you love. It has to fill a niche. It has to provide tremendous value for other people. It has to be unique. It has to be different. Um, you know, getting back to all these mental and emotional type of things. You know, um, you know, if you're just a good person and you're a hard worker, a lot of bodybuilders put a lot of value on that. But I'll tell you, tell me how that strikes emotion and and feels a pain. Because really, influence, persuasion, it's all about feeling. I don't care what the person out there says, right? They may say, "I want the house on the hill. I want this body, you know, I want these muscles or whatever they say, but I I'm telling you, we we will we are they say it's 200% more motivated to get out of pain than we are to have whatever our goal is. I'm telling you, when it comes to fitness that it's not so much the muscles, it's what we believe it will get us. Confidence, certainty, whatever it is, right? If you as uh you just doing your thing, look uh it could create a niche uh accidentally. There are people who are unconsciously competent at what they do. But the bottom line, don't just do what you love. It's got to be it's got to create a value. It's got to get people out of pain. That's what creates the high dollar value. There's something in it. And I'll tell you, you know, like um I think Louis Marco, which started your rant, is that you know, I again he could be smarter than way more than we see because he I think he's a really smart guy, right? Or and also in addition to be smart, he could be unconsciously competent because I don't think he realizes how he he emotionally moves people, right? Um, I think that he shows up. He's authentic. He's not afraid to speak his mind. He's not afraid to step on toes. I think that inspires the hell out of people. We all wish we were more like Louis Marco. So, he's unconsciously providing such a tremendous unique value to so many people. He may not realize it, right? You training and eating, there's a lot of people who do that. You know, uh, you see Dave, how many times have you heard this since the emergence of YouTube and all the fitness stars? Why is their booth uh wrapped around, you know, the line is wrapped around the booth, but these established champions, why don't they draw that interest? Well, instead of complaining about it, what can you learn from the Dana Lin Bailey's, uh, from the Hodge Twins, uh, from, you know, from Nick Wright to I can go on and on. they feel a need. Uh whether they realize it or not, people are inspired. People want to be like that. And when they're connecting with that person, they escape whatever pain they're going through. So I think in addition to doing what you love to do, how can you provide that need to other people, right? I think you have to exude that the passion that you feel for what you do, you need to re relay it to everyone else. People like to listen to me speak whether they like me or not because I touch something inside of them that they could relate to. And I think all the pro bodybuilders out there, especially the elite ones, and we'll use Ruy Winkler as an example because that's Louis Marco said that he can't pay his bills and he's got no one's no sponsors. Ruy Winkler is one of the biggest freaks out there. Any guy who's trying to be a a top level bodybuilder will look at at Ry Winkler and say that's awesome. If Rule talked to the fans and told people what he did on a basis, whether he he took six shits a day or if he ate 14 meals or if he squatted 800, people will listen to that. And you know what? He's not getting online and and making use of of the thing that he has inside him that people want. And I always try to make myself available to everyone. Even to this day, I answer everyone's texts and emails and I don't charge people, you know, to answer questions. And and I think people can relate to that because I'm giving them information. I'm providing them with something that I have that they want. And every professional bodybuilder has something that every guy who works out wants and they're just not exploiting it right. And I think and and that I call laziness because they can do it so easily. In today's world, everyone's a TV star. you're you're everyone has a webcam, an iPhone or something that they could stream live to Facebook with. There's no excuses out there. And I just think that people have to believe in themselves and believe that they have value. And when they do that and put out that passion to the rest of the world, you're right, they will touch people emotionally and people will pay for that. Whether it be through YouTube subscribers that earn people money by monetization or people hiring you to to guest pose or make do seminars or help them with their diet or even take them in the gym and train with them. There's a business that every bodybuilder can make out there. There's so few of us and so many fans and people who who watch that I I believe that there's plenty of money to go around if people put enough effort into it. No, I I totally I totally agree with you, Dave. Um I just go back that uh you know we there's certain things that draw us into this that are the same things that challenge us in this area right I mean come on I mean I don't know uh Roly Winkler um but part of the attraction to disconnect from people Dave that you can do all that some yeah sure time you know they complain oh people don't understand me dump that person you see all the memes right you you you see all the Facebook post. It's always, you know, people don't understand me and we disconnect. It's it's so normal in this this culture. Do you agree with that? Not I'm not saying everybody, right? You know what I'm talking about, right? Yeah. That ability to disconnect, right? Uh I'll just tell you this, my world has greatly expanded uh from the focus six-time national champion and drug-free bodybuilder who wrote about it, thought about it, right? because I realized that it only made me so happy. It left major holes in my life and for the last 13 years I was not going out that way. That's why I understand this at this level because it was becoming it became my passion. Right? You talk about passion. You know who talks about this stuff Dave? Nobody. You could tell I've thought about it. You know what? I don't know. But I know that people are drawn to your energy whether they agree with you or not or my energy, right? I'll just tell you this. Being polarizing is a good thing. I think we all intellectually know that, but not when it's manufactured. It's just what you believe. Because Dave, I'll tell you what, you know, I to to my tribe, I uh said that I'd be, you know, on your show and they said, "Well, do you know about Dave?" And I said, "What does that have to do with anything?" Again, it's that black and white mentality. It's like, uh, you know, uh, look, you're you're very open about everything, right? Like what does that have to do with the topic, right? They like to shut things out. They like to disconnect, right? So now you're asking a person who knows they're not comfortable around people. Uh maybe they don't understand the extent you're telling to be open, to share their point of view, to to to be criticized. They don't feel comfortable. Just give me the weights. Let me just stay. You know, you know, you get they get one little source of criticism. They fold like a house of cards. Believe me, I know. I criticize them. I got people mad at me all the time. Dexter Jackson won't talk to us now because because I were too critical of him. Meanwhile, he's the greatest one of the greatest bodybuilders of all time. I got We're running out of time, Skip. I got to ask you a question. You know, you said you you your people warned you about me. I got to ask you because my audience is going to want to know this and I'm just going to put you on the spot. Um, were you a a natural bodybuilder your entire bodybuilding career? Yes, I was. Okay. I was. Now, again, you know, how do you feel when people accuse you of using anabolic steroids? Oh. Oh, yeah. I mean, look, the way I see it is that, you know, Dave, uh, my first reality check was when I was in 1997, uh, at backstage in the USA because I only saw you in the mags and I went, "Oh, damn." You right. Because they don't know the difference, right? Yeah. But you know what? Look, I just have to do my thing. If you are going to be known, you got to just speak your truth, be your truth, and you got to take the I had raving fans and people thought wanted to kill me, right? But that's all part of it. Same thing with you, right? So, you know, let me just tell you what I believe I have to offer the world. And you know, look, I could talk for like three days about this subject and help people with their overall quality of life. If somebody right now is hung up on if 13 years ago is really drug-free, man, I said, "Did you listen to this podcast?" Right. I can't I have to It's like what you just said. I gotta be me. I gotta speak my truth. But at the same time, look, if I wasn't polarizing, I And again, I didn't manufacture anything, right? That's why anybody even cares or even knows my name. Yeah. Yeah. That's all part of it. And I like, you know, I'm bring it back to the topic is that if you can't put yourself out there, I agree with you, Roly Winker. He I don't know whatever his story, but whatever his story is, he will get millions of people emotionally engaged in him. But he's got to have the courage to put himself out there. And I'll tell you what, you know what? I think the reason why I became known all over in the really bodybuilding rich 90s along with you, I you know, you you I guess I qualified to be an IFBB pro, but I never got on IFBB Pro stage, you know, by default of team universe. Never thought I could compete at that level, right? Uh I was a big fish in a in a the small pond. I really believe and this kind of goes to the topic is that there are a lot of natural body buzz but I'll tell you you want to claim that you're a natural body you're going to get chopped and sliced and diced. Okay. Right. I don't care how good you are. Right. Skip. Do you think that Michael Hearn is a natural bodybuilder? You know. Yeah. You know, again, I come from a different perspective. Why? You see him in the gym. He works hard. He's really lifting those weights, right? He's not that massive. Again, this is my perspective. I don't know, Michael Hearn. If someone says, "You don't know. You're not around 24." Trust me, I've been going through that this line of questioning for 27 years. I get it. You know what? But you want to know my opinion? I say, "Yeah." Why? Because he's awesome. Is that why he ain't that awesome like compared to the other one? Again, that's the way that I see it. Could you beat Would you Who would win? Michael Hearn or Skip Lor at their primes? Well, Michael Horn looks pretty damn good now, right? Uh I'm way past my prime and you know, he's younger than I am and I did compete with him, you know, um way back when at a show. Um we didn't our past didn't cross that much, but we never hit our primes. I'll tell you what, he looks he looks amazing now. I don't know if I could. You really don't know the answer to that question until you stand side by side, right? You know how it is, Dave? Right? But he's pretty awesome. No doubt about He's got all that muscle maturity that came with age, you know, while I was having a family and thinking about business and all this stuff, man. He stayed on course, right? He's got he's got his Huskies instead. Yeah, his Siberian Huskies. Well, Skip, I want to thank you for coming on the show. Uh it's an interesting topic. Like you said, we could talk about this probably for days, but if people want to get in touch with you and maybe uh take uh I guess benefit from some of your wisdom and some of your techniques, how do they go about doing that? Well, you know, you can email me at skipskipploor.com. skipskipplor.com. You know, if if what I said, and again, I I I think I just I didn't even I scratched scratching the surface. Um, you can go to coachingwithskip.com. coachingwithskip.com. I explain my coaching and what I can do. If there's something resonated with you and said, "Wow, he's talking about me." And I every time I'm on a podcast, I get people like that. just go to coachingwithskip.com. I'll explain what coaching is and what it is not and you can just email me there. Okay? Right. Um if you want to know what I'm doing and and just kind of learn more about the culture, you can go to my Facebook page at uh facebook.com/skiplor page. I do live broadcast. You talk about all that hustle, right? I've got so many things going on that again, you know, uh I love them all. They all don't resonate. I've got a manformation, confidence, and leadership. I training strategies, supplement company, right? Uh because it's all about hustle. It's putting yourself out there. Try and f and and see what hits. But probably if you want to get to know what I do dayto-day and get more of this uh my Facebook uh public page at facebook.com uh skippl page and you can private message me there. You know, I even got a phone number if somebody wants to call. I make myself so available. I guess that would be kind of a a tip date and that's 2139738792139738790. If anything I said moved you. Uh if you can get and need some of this, I'll be more than happy to help. And Dave, you know, if if you guys I want you guys here here's this is about going for it. This is about hustle. if you want more of what you know I'm saying because as you can tell I am crazy passionate about this. I think that for to have a a better overall quality of life. I've noticed this from people just starting out to people who have retired 15 years ago or oldies but goodies. Social media has exposed what Dave talked about at all different levels. And I am passionate about changing the mindset so uh people like us again, you know, we're not as different as we might think can enjoy a better overall quality of life, right? I've cracked the code. I know that I can help you. If you want to see this regularly, tell Dave that you want me back, right? I can do a blog or whatever. Like Dave talked about all those hours, I do that, too, because I'm passionate about this, too. Um, a percentage of people tell me, "Don't bring him back. Get rid of this freaking guy." You know how people are. We got the haters and we got the lovers on on our site. I got people who who praise me to death and I got people who want to hang me in in Center Square. But, uh, thank you, Skip, for coming by, enlightening our audiences a little bit, giving us a little bit of positive energy to get through the rest of our day here. And, uh, people should go check him out on his Facebook page. And, uh, Skip's a great guy. I've known him for many, many years. and he's got a tremendous passion for what he does. Thank you so much, Dave. Thanks. Thanks everybody for being interested in what I have to say. Appreciate it. All right, and that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo. We'll see you next time.