Scitec Nutrition. Premium quality products. State-of-the-art look. Uncompromised ingredient quality. Our products work and taste good. www.sitecnutrition.com. Gorillaawware. I'm standing here with Colin Braha from Ireland who's got the uh the first or newest IFBBVB show in Ireland, the Nathalia Melon Classic. Talk to me a little bit about this show. How'd it come about? All right, so we'll be the first international uh show like that bikini men physique fitness in Ireland. Will there be bodybuilding? Uh classic bodybuilding. Okay. We will have a bikini body fitness for female men physique classic bodybuilding. Now how come you won't have open men's bodybuilding regular? I say for the star wheel we'll go with that too classes men but uh the reason I ask you that is cuz I feel that the bodybuilders are kind of getting moved away and I think men's physique is kind of taking over class and in Europe you got classic men's bodybuilding. Yeah, I know. And we hoping for the next year to have bodybuilding as well. For us, it's a small step. It's a start and I hope it'll go well. Is classic men's bodybuilding very big in Ireland? Uh, at the moment, we will have two high classes. So, is it a big event? You get a lot of people. We have two classes usually in Ireland. High classes. Then overall, it's 15 15 guys. That's good. When you hold a show like this for a first time, do you worry that maybe people won't come? How do you promote this thing to make sure that it's very popular? I know you have Nathalia Melo going to be there. You have Alexander Grain is going to be your guest poser. What else do you do? We hoping Oxana will be there. Well, it's much easier these day with all the social media. Much much easier with all that Facebook, Twitter, Instagram. It's much easier. Then I'm an international Jewish myself. So, I'll try to promote every show. So, I'm judging. You're bringing bodybuilding back to Ireland in the IFBB. That's great for the sport. Good luck with the show. Uh, it's great seeing you, of course, and and and you'll keep us updated. Thanks very much. I hope we'll see you there. How can people sign up for this? Tell the camera. Uh, it's on my show. It's on IBB calendar. All the infos about venue, about hotel, about entries, everything is there. Just check it off on the IFBB Ireland. IFBB.com Internationalb.com. Okay, you heard ifbb.com. Find out how you can sign up.