Coaching, coaching, coaching. That's the topic according to Dave Palumbo. Coaching. I created species nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back for another installment of Heavy Muscle Radio. We are live here. I am Dave Palumbo, and I am joined by the technician once again, Chris Aceto. I hope all is going well. We both didn't have to travel this weekend, so that was a was a restful weekend. I was with my kids all weekend. Uh what did you do? Anything exciting? I uh I PayPal Arthur Froni for the fun jacket from Happy Days. I like Yeah, I do like that Jack. Let me zoom in on you a little bit here. Stand up. Let me see that jacket. Sorry to stand up, Dave. Is that new? Is that like a gift or is that an old one? It's uh I I bought it on um on one of those websites and you can buy the the the Arthur Ponzerelli jacket. I bought the motorcycle, too. No, you didn't. You know what? You You look like my father because my father would get these stints where he would get a chill. He would tell me, "I have a chill." That's the He'd put his winter coat on. I have the jacket. Listen, it's pathetic. I have I had today I was coming downstairs and I told my 11-year-old I had a a blanket over my shoulders because I had a chill. Oh, you did? Really? Yeah. And so I said, "Take take take I had stuff in my hand. And I said, "Grab this blanket off my shoulders." Oh my gosh. And he asked me, "Why do you have that on your shoulders?" Because I said, "I'm freezing. My shoulders are cold." And so when I came down, I put the Fonelli jacket on. I have a chill. My father I would catch I'm channeling your father between Charlie's Angels and and and the chill. I know. I know. My my father would put the gloves on. He'd have the he'd have a scarf around his neck. I don't even know if anyone wears scarfves anymore, but he would have a scarf wrapped around because the neck the the Italians think the neck is the vulnerable the position. Yeah, they Oh, yeah. They of course the neck is exposed. You're done. But if you cover the neck up, you you you can heal yourself. You know, you could you could overcome the sickness. And they would they would combat the chill. You know, Italians would take garlic, heat it, and put it on the neck and wrap a scarf around the neck. Oh my god, you're right. Holy mackerel. You know, but yeah, but my my grandfather used to do it. My father would make fun of my grandfather because the house would be we'd go to my grandmother's house, it would be we call it Mary's hot house. It would be like the the thermostat would be on 86. I don't think it I didn't even know the thermostat went up to 86 until then flash forward 25 30 years later and I go into my I told told you story I go into my father's bedroom upstairs the air conditioning's on the house downstairs he's in the bedroom I'm like dad are you all right you sleeping now come on up you open the door to his bedroom it's like the heat that hits you it almost knocks you unconscious it's like you're on at the equator or something like that and and I'm like, "Dad, what? What? How is it so stifling in here? You have the air conditioning on." He goes, "I got the heater on. The heat is like one one millimeter from burning the house down. I don't know how I don't know how over those all those years he didn't burn that house down with that that thing." He was the cord would be like a thousand degrees, Chris. Yeah. The wall would be would burn. Yeah. How that he didn't melt the cord and and burn the whole house down. It's a miracle. But he never, you know, he he he was convinced that, you know, and you know what the scary part is now I see you doing it. I'm gonna probably wind up doing the same thing. The difference is I'm in Florida. I can go outside and in the heat and sweat out if I have to. So anyway, yeah. So I yesterday was good. We I did Easter egg hunting with the kids. Um my kids are very serious about Easter egg hunting. I don't know if I don't know if your kids ever do Easter egg hunting or anything like that, but they might they're very competitive when it comes to stuff like that. And uh let me see if I can pull up some of my uh video. You you sound like you got a sniffle. You may need this scar. No, I'm laughing hysterically because it's because I I I was joking when I said, "What do you have a chill?" And then you but you really did have a chill. That's the That's the irony of the whole thing. So there's my son. He got the most eggs. So, it's like Jay Cutler winning the Olympia, you know? That's And uh hold on. Let's see what we got here. Hold on. How come I can't scan to the next Oh, there we go. Uh All right. So, they had they had like a petting zoo with the the chicks, of course. As soon as my kid you you know how many animals I have, Chris, in my house, right? Of course. You would think that we have nothing because whenever we encounter any other animals outside of my place, that's what they want. Oh, yeah. Pickings. They want pickings now. Yeah, but that's an that's a true animal loving family when they they see it and they say, "Yeah, why not? We'll get little pony. We'll get How do you say no to to the 5-year-old, right? Who wants chicks, right? Hamster, little kitty cat, dog, snake." Yeah. Yeah. I said I said, "Shaya, we got to get a chicken coop. Otherwise, the the the foxes and the the coyotes will eat them. The alligator you're back." Oh, yeah. The rabbits, they then that's her new thing. She's like, "Daddy, for Christmas, can you get me a rabbit?" I said, "Well, the snakes might eat the rabbit." "What about goats? Can we get goats?" I said, "I need to then I got to put a fence. I got to put a wall around my property like Donald Trump." I said, "I don't have any and I don't know who to make. I don't have anyone to pay for it." I said, "I need to I need some Mexicans to pay for it." I said, "But I don't think they're going to do it." Um, there's Logan joining the fun. And uh hold on, I'm trying to find all those animals, right? that that's cage for kids exploring like yeah now they're getting back into the snakes again so I take him over the snake room they want to hold the snakes now all the time Logan's getting because I think he's getting some street credibility at school from the kids when now that they know that he has snakes you know before he didn't care now the other kids think it's cool that he has the snakes and now he's like you know using it just normal to him but once they find out they're but but he's using it now to like get street credibility at school you know so what is the So, here it is, Chris. Here it is, Chris. Fiber doesn't give credibility, Dave. No, my father. N the 5year-old. Seven. Let's get those eggs, Shayla. Five, four, three, two, go. Go, Shayla. There she goes. There she goes. Run far away, Shayla. Wait. It's like It's like I It's like I got her at the Olympia, Chris, and I'm like cheering her on. Win the Olympia. Here goes. So, we had we had a fun we had a fun weekend. But, um, yeah, they said Logan got the most eggs. And uh so I I have the most eggshells in my car now. And the most pieces of candy and toy wrappers all over the car because you know inside every one of those little eggs is like a little bit of a you know a toy or a candy or whatever they put inside of there. But it is you know it is what it is. So oh also before we get started guys I want to also remind everyone we have a couple hours I guess it's we have two hours left for the speciesnutrition.com Easter sale. Sid, do you want to put that up? We are giving a we were selling caramel macchiat isolized protein. First of all, it's it's 28 grams of protein per serving because it's the highest yield whey isolate on the market. No one else has a better yield than that. We have, you know, it's less than a gram of carbs and less than a gram of fat. It's got virtually zero lactose. I mean, you can't say zero, but it's zero. explain that consumers day what the yield means. Well, you know, because most if you know, most scoop sizes are about 30 33 gram serving size. How much protein you can extract from that 33 grams will give you your yield. So, most companies have 22, 23, 24, maybe 25 grams per 33 gram scoop. We have 28. So, the reason we do that, the reason we have more than everyone else is because we've we've gotten rid of all the lactose. We've gotten rid of all the fillers. It's pure, it's just protein. So the of the quantity that's there, it's mostly protein. The other couple grams is just the flavoring system, the artificial flavoring system. So number one, if you have a lactose sensitivity, it's not going to bother your stomach. Okay? We're selling it at at half price essentially. This is normally a $49, you know, item. It's $24.99. Uh, you know, obviously I want people to try the flavor. It's one of my favorites. I'm a coffee and you're going to I got to send you some because you know what? I'm sure your sons will steal it from you, but it's coffee without the coffee. We have the coffee flavor one obviously with the with the real coffee in it, but this one is like almost like a um one of the drinks that Starbucks would make except there's no sugar in it. So, if you're dieting, you'll swear you're drinking a Starbucks coffee and it literally has nothing in it. Matter of fact, you could even put this into your coffee if you want and it will make it taste like a real caramel macchiato from from Starbucks. So, the reason I'm doing this, I want people to try it because once they try, a lot of people can't afford, you know, to spend all that money for $24.99. They can buy it. Plus, if you want to get any other the species nutrition products, it'll be 30% off the entire website. Two more hours only. So, Easter 30 is the code on checkout. It won't take off of the obviously the caramel macchiata because that's already discounted. If you spend $100 or more and you live in the continental United States, you get free shipping as well. So, great great chance to uh taste a great protein. So, give it a shot. All right. What else do I have on my list of stuff? Oh, by the way, Ana Langanger did not die. You mean Ana Shrina? Excuse me. Ana Shriner did not die. Uh there was a false rumor. Uh I did not post it because I it was just like the the Robbie Robinson fake death rumor from a couple weeks ago. Uh, so I said, "You know what? I have a feeling this is BS." Turns out it's BS. Thank god she's alive. So that's good news. BD Cooper and Nasser are alive, too. Yeah. I wish I wish it I wish the that Nasser was alive. Now, I was listening to a real on Instagram earlier by Bill Burr, who I don't really like his politics, but he's a good comedian. And Bill Burr was talking to I forget who he was talking to. one of these talk show hosts and he was saying they were talking about Lance Armstrong. Yeah. And I was so happy. I I sent it to you. Did you watch it? Yeah. Sorry. I laughed. Yeah. I was so happy that they actually Should I play it? It's pretty funny. Will they demonetize you? I don't know. Can we play that, Sid? Let me see. I don't think I think we probably play it. It's really funny. Well, now that you brought it up, you might as well play it so people All right, let me let me pull it up here. It's true. That's why it's funny. I sent you I sent you the David Chappelle video, which son, right? You know, it wasn't Hold on. Let me Let me do it again. So the people he raised $500 million for cancer research. That's what that lie did. Yeah, it was great. And everybody had the bands on. Remember the bands? Sure. Right. That that blocked out the sun, right? You know, it wasn't no wrist cancer. Yeah. The whole thing was annoying. And I hated how Oprah was interviewing him and acting like she was dumbfounded that this guy would do this. like she's been in show business for 35 years and she can't like wrap her head around some guy doing whatever it takes to get to the next level. Didn't she for the first 5 years have like midgets who wanted to bang their mailman's boyfriend and she and she didn't want to do it. She didn't want to do it, but she didn't have the power to say no. So, she wrote it out and then when she could make a good decision, she did a show. But she stood on the heads of those little people for five years until she got and then she's sitting there. I don't want to play too much because they'll probably be demonetized. But so yeah, I mean what what he was basically saying about Lance Armstrong right after that is that all these guys were taking anabolics and and what about all the people that were saying how terrible it was who disqualified him who made millions and millions of dollars off Lance Armstrong and all his bike stuff that he did. You know, it was so hypocritical to to f to single this guy out, but he did say, you know, he goes, "Look, he was a psychopath on on on a bike, but he wasn't harming anyone as long as he stayed on the bike." So, it just goes to show it's a bunch of crap. You know, we we know that all these athletes at the elite level use performance-enhancing substances, anything they can get their hands on and get away with because every little edge means more money in these guys' pockets. And that's just the way it goes. That's that's life. So yeah, it's just it's just a microcosm of all the hypocrisy in the world. But the point is is that you why it was funny is because he said like he said, you know, everybody was using an or you know they were using everything and they top 20 failed the drug test. That's the funny thing. And they uh they couldn't give they couldn't give the medal to the second and third place guy because they both failed the drug test too. It was like it was like remember in the 91 nationals when uh Kevin Levrone won Flex Wheeler was second. Matt Men who was third Matt Mendel. Uh third is Deo. Deo and then fourth was Mendenhal and then and then Ronnie Coleman was fifth. The top four couldn't pass a drug test so they couldn't go to the world amateur champ the the Mr. Universe contest. That's why they sent Ronnie Coleman there. He was the only natural guy there and then he he won the overall and that's how to get his pro card. But but you know that's the way it goes. You know, there's only one Ronnie Coleman out there, right? Well, I mean it's just his to his point is just that I mean are we so far are we past that idea that like people at that level are I think we're naively still not there, Chris. I think that people still want to believe, you know, on TV and the Easter funny and Easter was, you know, dirty. Everyone else behind him was clean. Yeah. Yeah. And that just really, you know, Arthur Burley's jacket. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you know what he what Bill Bar said at the end, he said, "Our guys on juice beat their guys on juice." And that's just the way it is, you know. is yeah it's like sometimes you see I see these bodybuilds it doesn't really happen anymore but it happens to happen in the past and these guys would say he's on a ton of juice you know back when we were competing that guy takes a ton of stuff you know but they only take a little bit of stuff you know we only take a little bit of stuff that guy that guy's juice to the gills right if I took what so and so took I would look like him too right right which is which is ironic because it's always the guys who who are saying that that are usually on the most stuff of anything, you know. Well, then you ask the person, you ask Lever saying you like, okay, even even somebody smart might say, well, you got to be lying because it's respect. Yeah, I I agree. It's BS is what it is. That's what it is. So, uh I I think I I have this curse. There's a curse in my family. All right. Not like Jimmy's curse where he someone cursed the family. My grandmother uh my mother's side used to spill things on herself all the time and she was the most the cleanest person you've ever met. Her apartment you could eat off the floor and she would just spill stuff all the time and it just would things would fall out of her hands and and I inherited that. And she's like it's a curse. Our family has this curse where you spill stuff. I said grandma I said I said why? I said, "You're the you're so clean and you're clean." She like, "It has nothing to do with being clean." She goes, "It's a curse of the hands. They they give out." I said, "All right." So, of course, she put that thought in my head. I spill everything, right? And now my daughter's and my son spills spill everything. My daughter my son has already fried one of my laptops, maybe two actually. And I have this really nice alien laptop that I've been using the last two years, and my daughter spilled the Diet Coke on it. Except she doesn't resp she doesn't react. She waited about 30 seconds said, "Dad, I think I need some help over here." I said, "What's going on?" She's like, "I spilled a diet coke on your on your computer." Like very nonchalantly nonchalantly. And I'm like, "Oh no, not again. Another [\h__\h] computer." And you know what happens? I don't know if you've ever spilled anything on your laptop. It doesn't die right away. It's like a slow death. Yeah. It gives you hope. You you hope like that it's not going to die and then sure enough you wipe it, you clean it, you turn it upside down and everything like that and it works for a couple days and you and then every once in a while like you try to type a five and you get like an exclamation point. Yeah. And you you don't think anything of it because there's only one key that's not working right. So you hit you restart the computer and sometimes it fixes it. The next day it's working again. And then little by little by little as the internal components of the of the computer rust and and and become decrepit and and incinerated uh this thing finally dies and then you wind up having to spend another, you know, three grand on a computer. So that's that was my day. My daughter spilled six times. I think she set a record today. Six spills in one day. You got to put plastic over it like the Italians do with That's it. It's my fault. You know, I blame myself. I can't even blame her. It's It's the curse. It's the uh It's the Palansky curse. You You talked about your father your your father or Italians with, you know, the hot house going over to my aunt's house, Dave, from Italy living in the house was like 200 degrees and everything was everything was covered in the plastic on the boiling hot. What? Once I I don't I don't understand this because there's, you know, the plastic preserves everything. But you know what? But it looks so terrible. It's so tacky and and you know, a lot of people who put the plastic down actually are people that are very stylish. I don't know why they think the plastic is like they're trying to save the furniture. They had plastic on the lamp shades. No one even knows what we're talking about, Chris. I got I can guarantee no exside from people our age. No one knows what we're talking about. Think of this is what Italians used to do at one time to make sure that that the big purchases of the nice furniture would stay intact. They would shrink wrap all the It was like wrapped, right? But it was a clear so you could still see the patterns of the furniture. Yeah, it was clear. Yeah, clear. I don't even know where they got it, right, Dave? It was I don't I don't Maybe it came from the store. I don't know. every single part of their furniture was covered in plastic. And because my parents had the the discussion or fight, my mother didn't want to have it covered with plastic. And my father was concerned that, you know, it get worn out. And the whole goal was because they were cheap. Yeah. Buy that expensive furniture once, it's got to last you a lifetime. Hold on. I'm pulling a picture up here. on Google of plastic covered furniture. I think they sell it they sell it on Amazon attempt. But you know it was like form fitting though. I this plastic is like this is not the real this is not how it looked. The plastic was like it was like it was it was like a cover that was made specifically for that piece of furniture. So that it was it was form fitting. It wasn't gappy. It wasn't hanging. It was perfectly covered the thing. And you would you would sweat and you would stick to this plastic. You'd have to like, you know, rip yourself off. It It was as perfectly custom as like Hutskins were to like back in the day. Oh my god. You're right. You're right. It's very funny. Yeah, those were some funny days. That's for sure. All right, let me let me Let's talk some bodybuilding here. I got one side they they sweat themselves out. The other side. Hold on. All right. Here's a little Brett Wilin at the uh our friend Jack. By the way, Jack Taton, who runs the uh him and and Don, who run the St. Louis Pro, very good friends of mine. Yeah. Uh Jack just turned 60 this uh couple days ago. So, congratulations, Jack. Uh you made it. I'm right Chris and I are right on your heels. We're nipping at your heels. 60. There's Brett. Brett Wilin. Uh, looking huge. Yeah, I saw him there last year around this time. He looks like he's about 15 20 pounds heavier than he was last year. Yeah, big shoulders, big arms, big legs. Looks good. Yeah, very good shape. So, what what show is uh Bre getting ready for? Olympia. I don't know if he's doing Yeah, because he's qualified already, right? Yeah, he looks good. I mean, he's really lean. He's very lean. I wonder if he's going to be in Pittsburgh. midsection looks very good. It's always right. I mean, he's really Yeah, Olympia. He did leave the door open last time I spoke to him. Maybe doing a show before then. I think I think we're going to see him before that. I really do. Trying to think who he reminds me of from the past. What physique does he remind you of, Chris, a little bit? I don't know. I don't think he reminds me of anyone. I think he just looks like himself, you know? Yeah. Something got good back, too. He's got good everything. Good balance. Yeah. As a whole, you know, he looks a little he has a little bit of a Nasser looking physique to me, right? Um he's very broad. He's got those big shoulders and and pecs and good abs. He looks funny when he ran across the stage. So yeah, you can't. As Lee Haney would say, good big man doesn't run, right? I don't think Lee Haney would approve of people running at 300. No. Big good big man doesn't run doesn't go to the ground, right? He'd say D. He'd say Goliath never Goliath never ran. Goliath never ran. See, when is that movie coming out with Martin Ford playing Goliath? The movie about David and Goliath. Oh, I was thinking Lee Haney the other day. What was thinking funny that he would say? What was the song? What was the song that Lee Haney posted? Can you remember that one? Was it Excalibur? It was Excalibur. Yeah, it was I get it. A Gorian physique need a grand orchestra. That's right. There you go. I always tell people to if you're a big freaky guy, you got to get like very heroic music. Oh, he loves that word heroic. Yes. Right. That is to Lee Haney as as like gorilla marketing is to Blackman. Gorilla marketing. All right. There's Martin Fitzwwater. Also, same show. We just saw him recently. He's looking really, really good. He's going to be up on that stage in Pittsburgh obviously against Nick Walker and Good Veto. And I understand the Kriso is doing that show too. So it's gonna be a great show. Uh Bonak is doing it. Oh, Bonax in it, too. That's right. What day do you get there? Um I haven't got I gota I gotta arrange for my I gota figure out tomorrow. I got to get a flight done, too. I keep saying I keep forgetting it. yed Sid for not doing his flight. Now he's got a flight in hotel and I don't have I don't know I have a hotel but I don't have a flight. Dave, so that means it's you know this is the best I think I think Martin looks better here than he did when he beat what's his name? Sebum at the end of the year. Yeah. No, he's he's taller. He's bigger. He's bigger, but he's also he's hard and dry, too. He looks like he looks like he could have competed right there at that show, you know. Yeah. I wouldn't get I wouldn't deplete too much further than he looks right there. I mean that that was a great look for him. Where's Kriso? Put the Kriso stuff up. S the Nick Walker stuff. Yeah, Nick looks crazy. Kriso looks crazy. Yeah, I gotta tell I gotta say Nick has really improved. I don't know how he improved as he dieted in for the show, but he's he's gotten better. There's Chris's looking freaky now. What did he have done? He had shoulder surgery. That's why he took took time off. I can't tell what he had done. Shoulders look better than ever. Oh, the movie, by the way, is out. It's called King David. Nothing to do with me. Suffered a shoulder injury and then surgery. And I had Yeah, I knew he had the surgery, but his uh he must have just had like a scope done. I don't see any I don't think he had anything major done to it, but who knows? He's a freak. He's a freak, but he's got like a weird looking He's got like a weird looking muscle. We But we haven't seen him in what, two years now. Uh I think couple at least. He missed last year, right? He didn't compete. I don't remember him competing last year, did he? Um 20 I think he might have competed the the tail end of I don't think he competed last year. I think he did, but I I think the shoulder I think the shoulder was already like shot, so it wasn't like his best. When was the last I'm sure our our viewers will will find it for us. When was the last time Chriso competed? Mro, he placed third at the M Pro. Oh, you were right, Chris. All right, I I I defer to you. I'm on AI got a little meos memory going on right now. Who won that MRO? There you go. Let's see if who came up with the win on that one. Was that Baruse? Baru was the Baroo. Oh, is that is that Beirus's show that he won? Okay. All right. That makes sense then. And who was second there? Bonap. I don't know. It's a good question, Sid. Pull it up. We We need We need factf finders now. There's We should have a They should create an AI for for for bodybuilding factoids. take Lonnie Teeper's memory and just like download it into the into the uh database. Yeah, Bon, you were right. Oh, Bonac first, Beirus second, Kriso third. Wow, pretty good. You flipped the Bonac and Beus, but that was pretty good. You got remember those three. Three very good bodybuilders. Yeah. Excellent. Well, Bon is going to be in Pittsburgh, too. So, I mean, it's gonna be a crazy show. I'm I'm actually looking really looking forward to it. I I I think the lineup might even be the show might be just as good as the Arnold was. Maybe not in terms of Derek, too, don't forget, is going to be there. So, yeah. No, it's going to be a great I mean, it's it's it's what a great Arnold. What a great Pittsburgh pro. I I it's like we got lucky. We never think about it. We always had the Arnold and we always had the Olympia. We never had like a, you know, New York Pro is good, but we never had the lineups because Ste, you know, it was just too hard for Steve to get enough funding to put up 100 grand. But when you put up that kind of money, you get all kinds of ridiculous people entering the show. And I don't blame them. Who the who the hell doesn't want to win that much money. Yeah. But I'm hoping that there's there's going to be some because they're doing Pittsburgh, they'll the guys that don't win will go and do New York the week after. So that's going to make the New York show that much better, too. So they feed each other, you know. Any and any of these guys that don't do both shows are idiots, you know, aside from the ones that win. Obviously, if you win, then you don't have to do it. But you might as well do the New York Pro the next week. I mean, first of all, Pittsburgh might be a better show in terms of prize money this year, but New York, you know, the fans are amazing there. If you look good, you're going to leave that place thinking that you, you know, you're going to feel like a million bucks. It doesn't matter what you take home with you cashwise. The fans will make it worth your while. I mean, that's the one regret I have is not winning and not turning pro. The one regret I have at not turning pro is people say, "Oh, do you you feel bad you never turn pro?" No, I said I don't. It wasn't meant to be. But the one thing is I would have loved to do is stand on that New York Pro stage in front of all, you know, my hometown fan, you know, guys and everything like that. I know Juan probably Juan Morel's best greatest memories of winning the New York Pro twice because he didn't even care about the other shows because that's where he's from New York and the New York fans just go absolutely insane. I know Evan sent the Ponti to one New York and that was Did he win twice also? I think he won twice right? No, once 090 090 I thought he won again after that. Didn't he? No, I can't remember what year you who uh I don't remember. But yeah, I mean when you're from that area, Victor Martinez won that. When you're from that area and you win New York Pro, it's just it's like you'll never forget that. So if any of you guys out there watching who are doing the Pittsburgh and you don't win, go to New York. I'm telling you, you gota you got to go to New York. New back when they used to call it the Night of Champions when Wayne Dele used to run that thing. That was a show that everyone had to go to and people loved it because they wanted that New York crowd there screaming, "If you look like [\h__\h] they told you you look like [\h__\h] If you looked amazing, they raised you up to another level." I know that. I can tell you that. Promise you that more careers were built on that show. I remember when Levrone won the first time. Yeah. Right. That was insane. He was phenomenal. Yeah. He was nuts. Nutty looking. That's when he had the crazy huge legs, too. remember that? Yeah. Yeah. His legs were phenomenal when when Jay won. Little tidbit. I was in the audience. Jay, I'm sure Jay remember this better than me. And they had people on the stage that they would have like two tiers. They would have platforms like two and three platforms. Like they couldn't fit the people on the stage. So they would have like the first people stand on the stage and then behind them would be like a row of like 18 bodybuilders higher up like on a platform, right? I remember that. Yeah. Uh behind them there would have even more. And the first call out was like I can't remember. Jay would tell you exactly who was in the first call out. Yeah. He he has that photographic memory, right? Yeah. And uh AIG I should call him. AI download his memory, too. Yeah. They they called the first call out and I'm like, "You got to be kidding me. You got to be kidding me." Front double bicep, you know, front last bread. And they stopped and they go, "Oh, and Jay Cutler." Oh, they forgot him. Oh, [\h__\h] So, they they brought him down and they they went through the poses and then Jay Cutler back in line. So the crazy thing is that they forgot him, but when they saw him, they forgot him again. They said, "Okay, back in line. You got the show." Was he Did he said when you talked to him after, was he nervous when they didn't call him that or was he I Dave, I saw his face on stage, you almost Well, he had to know he looked good. That's why you You know how it is. You can look good, but then you see like people backstage and you like everyone looks good backstage. And then you know the judges are the judges. So if they left you out you must have think like I knew my back was not tight enough or I knew you know I overdieted or I knew I didn't diet hard enough. You could run a thousand little scenarios through your head right I should have done more car immediately you could run 10 scenarios through your head is like too flat too full too watery not tight on Thursday better on Monday should have depleted. Should have loaded more. Yeah you're right. You're right. Uh, by the way, uh, Leo, I did see your podcast with Sid. Good interview you guys did. If you want to watch, uh, Overcome podcast, uh, Leo My Hoffer, our friend interviewed Sid. It's good, good, good interview. But, um, oh, that's the New York live stream information. Okay. What about is there a live stream, Sid, in Pittsburgh? We'll, uh, we'll be doing the wrap-up there, obviously. Sid, Chris, and I, and whoever else. We should have a all-star wrap-up because, you know, everyone's going to be there. You know, Cormier will definitely be there. You know, the probably Milos will be there, too. I'm sure the whole crew will be there in Pittsburgh. Yeah, everyone will be there. I haven't been there in a while, actually. So, I'm I'm actually looking forward to going to Pittsburgh. Oh, no. I did. I was in Pittsburgh last year. What am I talking about? For the the Masters, the North American Championships for I was there for six days, but I you know, I didn't leave the hotel, so I forgot I was in Pittsburgh. How many How many places have you gone to, Chris? Seriously, you probably can't remember because you probably gone to How many countries, states, you know, places that you've gone to where you you've never left the hotel room. You went from the airport to the hotel you and never saw anything else. I have to say this, Dave. I told my 11-year-old tonight, it's funny you should say that because I told him we were talking about I was telling him about Germany and this and that and yeah, we should take a European trip the family and this and I I I distinctly remember so many go every place I go where I don't get a chance to go Yeah. is I can remember going to like Spain for bodybuilding shows and waking up at 5:00 a.m. to go walk the neighborhood because I realize if I don't I You know what I mean? Or going by myself at like after the show at like 10:30 at night just to get a a feel because I know like god I'm so tired but if I go back to the hotel room I'm going to fall asleep and I'm gonna see the hotel room and the venue. Yeah. I I went when I was in Cologne Germany the last time for FIBO. I I walked to that castle you know that's down the block. You've you've seen that cat that oldest castle in like Europe or something like that it's considered. And uh I I told that's where I met Rico Barakat in there. He was from from you know NPC he used to own the NBC News clothing company and we ran into each other and I'm like what are you doing? He goes what am I? I said I said I have to see the sites right? He goes me too. We were in there for 10 minutes. We left you know took took a few pictures to prove that we were there and that was it. So it's it's the truth. When Chris and I went to Australia, I think the only thing we saw was the inside of that Thai restaurant that we went to, right? We got thirdderee burns. If we had American lawyer ambulance chaser, we could Is that the real Lee Priest that was on the uh in the chat there? What's up, Lee? That's really him. He's fighting with Larry, I think. That's what it looks like. Yeah. So, that's all good. But yeah, we if you go on if you you should always try to take an extra day if you're going to go away and uh see the sites at least there. Let S pull up the Nick Walker footage. That's the only person we haven't talked about yet. No live stream on Pittsburgh. Okay. Well, you got to go then. If you want to see the show, you're gonna have to go. If you don't go, you'll have to watch our coverage. of the uh Pittsburgh to get the full wrap-up. All right, so there's Nick Walker. How what is this? How many weeks out are we sitting here? That's probably the best I've seen him in a while. I I still feel like his uh his legs might be a little down in size, but what's compared to what they were, but I his it seems like he he put back the size that he probably had lost leading up to the Olympia for sure. What do you think, Chris? Are you impressed? Yes. Okay. The pause is only because I'll tell you what with so many people with these like basement photos or you know the reason why people don't look truly is because they are alone. True. And I and I I'll give you an example, Dave, is if uh you know, if if Andrew Jack posted a photo like this in his basement or something out, you'd say like small, you know, because he's standing alone. So it's a lot of times, you know, take that the pause is like it takes a while to like look at this. That's a great back lat spread. Yeah, I feel like his his adductors are a little small. The inner, you know, the inner thigh portion like beefy. The point is the back looks good, too. Yeah. You know, he's standing alone. So, if you can look impressive standing alone, you know, with nobody next to you because we know he's not 205 pounds, right? No. No. So, uh, if you can look good standing alone, I I think, you know, it's going to trans translate into far far far more impressive, you know, when you see him next to people. Yeah. Yeah. The only, like I said, the only thing I really see that's a little still down in size, and it might just be an illusion, maybe he's depleted, is his his abductors are a little small, but his quads are really crazy looking. Hamstrings are good, glutes are good, back is definitely up in size. I mean, but we won't know, like you said, Chris, until we see him standing next to these other guys on stage. So, I mean, that's that's what it comes down to at the end of the day anyway is, you know, I mean, you saw Martin Fitzwwater. I mean, we didn't see the whole package, but and we saw Martin Fitzswwater. Can he can Nick Walker beat Martin Fitzwwater? Um, I think I don't think there's any guarantees in the show for anyone really. You know, I think the the array of physiques from Paul and Brad Kriso to, you know, power physiques like I mean, there's a lot of power physiques in the in the in the lineup. There's Nick Walker from New York Pro. Sid's putting it up for comparison. Martin, you got Derek, you got uh Bonap. It's you got good veto. There's just so many variances in in the way looks pretty comparable here in New York Pro than he does, I think, in those pictures we just saw. Yeah, I I thought, you know, I it I thought he looked good at New York Pro. I just thought he could have be a little harder. A little harder harder. And I think at the night show he was a tad harder. You know, I think too what happens is this is like the New York Pro for Nick like that was like the breakout show for Martin. I mean technically the the breakout show for Martin was probably Detroit winning Detroit the week before because a few weeks before. Yeah. A week before. It was only a week I believe. I don't think No, it wasn't a week before. remember because we were critiquing him that we were saying good veto should have beat him and then he just I saw him in in St. Louis after that and he said New York pro and then he and then he and then he yeah it was a couple weeks after so you know like you you see Nick Walker at the New York Pro and I just think that our expectations is just like if he's not like 300 months appealed Yeah. all you get is criticism. Yep. And you know, if you look at those pictures from New York, he looks really good. It's just that, you know, he was pushed, I think, more so in prejudging than the Night Show by, you know, Martin, especially in, you know, a couple poses where like I thought Martin side chest surprisingly was very good in that show next to him and I would have comparison shots Sid if you can find them from that show. I think Martin's aesthetics are aesthetics are a little nicer than Nick's and that's that kind of like and I think a lot of our minds overrode the size factor that Nick had over Martin. Martin's bigger this year. I think their size is going to be a lot more comparable which is going to make it harder for Nick to beat Martin if he brings the conditioning that he has to Martin. But Nick's like a like a branch warrant. super freaking dangerous because he's so freaky, you know, in a lot of poses that if you're not perfect, you know, he's going to he's going to outmass you and he's going to be standing and he's going to make you look small and and he's going to win, you know, over, you know, because of that. And that's that's his calling card. He's he's he's a freak and that's why he's got to bring the freak factor to the stage. He can't he can't try to like play aesthetic games and kind of bring his waist in and try to and come in smaller. That's not going to work for him. He's got to be the biggest freak on stage and that's the way it goes. And when he does that, that's that's that's that's his that's his strength right there. That's his knockout punch. Who's his coach now? Does he have a coach? Everyone except Sean Ray, but go ahead. No, do we know who Nick's coach is now? Who's it? Oh, Kyle Wils. Oh, that's right. Right. You're right. You're right. I remember. Okay. Well, speaking of coaching, you know, I think in a lot of people, you know, I you know how they have these surgeons, Chris, who like if something goes wrong in the surgery, you go to these guys and they fix it. Like my sister had a she had, you know, her both hips done and one of the hips that they did something wasn't right and she was in pain and they did every test in the book. They couldn't figure out was wrong and uh the surgeon was like, "Well, you know, I can go in there and and check it out." And I'm like, "You're not going to this guy. You know, he doesn't know what what he did wrong. He's a guy he he's good at hips, but you know, if something goes wrong, he can't he he doesn't really know what the problem is. He's he's going to just play around in there. So, she found a guy who that's what all he does is fix hips, you know, or fix, you know, joint replacements that are wrong. He's like, I can I can I can take care of this. The stem was too short or whatever the case may be. Went in there, fixed it. She's fine now. Okay. That's the kind of coach like I am. I have a lot of people who come to me and they're like, "Dave, I'm five weeks out. Um, I don't know what's going on with my coach. He's he's getting like he's crazy. He's like, you know, he's he's my body hasn't changed in in six weeks and he doesn't know and he's, you know, giving me kooky stuff to do and we're getting into fights and arguments. And I think that's the reason, you know, a lot of people and you and I and I'm going to let you give your opinion on this in a second, but there's a lot of people out there that like will hire a coach to, you know, do a show or or two shows maybe take the the template that that coach gives them, the the the basically the diet, the stimulants, stimulants, the supplements, excuse me, and the PEDs, and then they he just gives them to everyone else. And he and he becomes a coach. So he he does two shows. He's been in the industry for two years and he's and now he's an expert and he's a coach and he's coaching people and if you and if you're coaching someone with good genetics, which a lot of people at the higher levels are, pretty much anything works. You give them a template, follow it, it works, right? you know, and you could even do kooky stuff with those people and it still works, you know, but as soon as you get a person that doesn't go exact, you know, doesn't maybe have the best metabolism, maybe is not the best carbohydrate metabolizer, maybe is not the best fat burner, uh, you start hitting, you know, plateaus and you don't know how to navigate past the problems. And that's when that's when these coaches get exposed for not knowing what they what they're doing. And then I get people come to me and then they ask me to fix the problem. You know, there's always different problems. Maybe they're not eating enough fat in their diet. Maybe they're not doing something this. Maybe their cardio, they're doing high intensity. They should be doing low int. Whatever the case may be, I'm a good troubleshooter. You know, I I'll do uh blood work on them. I'll find out their thyroid hormone is like in the toilet bowl. But these are people who don't these coaches don't necessarily understand uh what's going on. They haven't been doing it long enough. They don't have enough experience. They can't troubleshoot. If you want to be a good coach, you have to not only have the knowledge of how to give a diet and supplement and peed cycle, but you have to know how to navigate and and troubleshoot when things go wrong. If you can't do that, uh you're not really, you know, doing your you haven't really prepared as a coach and you're really doing a disservice to the people that you're out there coaching. And unfortunately, there's a lot of people like that out there. You know, I offer a course, Secrets to Becoming a Diet Guru. A lot of people have taken the course, don't get me wrong, but there are a lot of people that probably should take the course. And you know what the funny thing is? If you're coaching people and you're making six figures plus a year, you're paying taxes. You're paying a lot of taxes on that money, especially because most stuff comes in through credit cards. Uh you should be looking for tax deductions. Continuing education in the field that you actually do will be a tax write off. So, if you take my $600 secrets to becoming a diet guru course, which is online right now, you can watch it and it's in perpetuity because you can see it unlimited and it's an eight hour class. You can write that fee off of your taxes. So, it's basically free. Uh, and everyone who is a coach should be doing continuing education every single year. I do it every day because I'm always reading stuff and and and and updating myself because I got to do this channel. I got to give you guys all the latest information. But uh some people get lazy and what happens is that they don't progress as a coach and then things pass them by. So my suggestion continuing education even if you have good results as a coach never stop learning and because if you can't troubleshoot a problem you're not a good coach. your feedback, Chris. Um, I the analogy I think Dave was what came to my mind is when you're sailing a sailboat and you know it's pretty easy to sail it from Maine to Long Island if the wind is consistent all in one direction all the time. Yes. Good. Good. Going all the all the all different which ways and you have to sail all the time. You know what? Unless you have the experience, you're going to sink that ship. Yeah. or wind up in Europe. Isn't that a Columbus? Well, you could wind up in Greenland, Dave. Also known as the 51st. That's right. That's right. That's a It's a very good analogy and a good metaphor because you can't just let the wind blow you and and hope that you're going to, you know, wind up where you want to go. As a coach, you should be able to you should control every variable. You should be able to navigate the athlete that you work with to any end you you need to. And if things go wrong, you should know how to get out of that trouble situation. And if you don't, you better have some. I have a lot of coaches, too, that use me as a referral. Dave, can I just pay you? I want you to troubleshoot this problem for me, and I'll work them through it. And I explain to them what's wrong and what's going on here and how to get around it. And this way, they don't look like dummies. You know, they they they take that information, they apply it, the the client gets good results, and they look like a good coach. And you know what? That's the right way to do it. Never be afraid to ask some someone for help. Hey, Chris and I ask each other sometimes. Chris, like, "What do you think about this guy? I gotta doing this, this, and this. What do you think?" And I've said the same thing to Chris. What What do you think? What What should I do with this guy? I don't know. I can't I can't get him to to drop any weight, you know? And we've had these discussions with each other, and we've been doing this a long time, you know. So, nothing wrong with that. Yeah. I ask people all the time. I ask you, I ask Jose, I ask Eduardo Korea, I ask, you know, I bounce things off all all the time. It just means that you know what? I'm not sure. I don't know. Right. Right. Right. Or I think I know, but I need confirmation on it. There's a lot of people out there with very difficult metabolisms. And some of these guys are some of the best in the world. Yeah. But their metabolisms are like, and we've talked about a Keem Williams. I mean, this guy, the guy, you can feed him a pea pod and and and he'll gain weight from that, you know. Spilled. He spilled spilled. Yeah. from having too many P's, you know, so that's the way it goes. But but as a coach out there, if you that's what you love to do. Continuing your education, very important. Learn from people who know what they're talking about. And don't be afraid to ask for advice and help. That doesn't mean you're not a good coach. It means you're a smart coach. It means you're a coach that knows how to troubleshoot and cares about their athletes enough to get the right answer, not the answer that you want to make up so that you seem like you're smarter than you really are. Because you know what? I make mistakes. He make Chris makes mistakes. We all don't know everything and we need help. Sometimes we need help and we need help from other people. And sometimes other people have good ideas. I've picked up stuff from other coaches out there. Just I'm like, I never thought about that, you know? Or I've read an article that I thought I knew everything about this one subject and I learned something I didn't even know. Or someone one of these sometimes some of the guys that email me text me say, "Hey, I heard you talking about so and so. You should read this article." And they send me a link. And I'm like, "Holy mackerel, this was a great article. Thank you so much for sending that to me. I I didn't even know that. So, never never be afraid to learn something new and keep an open mind. And if you do that, I think you can become you can make a good living as a coach and, you know, you could, you know, be someone who becomes pretty, you revered and respected in our industry. So, you know, but you got to work hard at it. It's not just gonna, you can't just use the template that Chris gave you for the one diet you hired him for. It's not going to work. Yeah. Not going to work every time at least. So, everyone's a little bit different, right? Everyone's a little bit different. And as as a coach, the worst thing you can do is uh think you think you got the prep down pat. Oh, yeah. Because once you once you, you know, get get into that mindset, I I get the prep down pat. Especially if it's even if it's with one person, you know, their body changes on you. And if you you can't adjust to the way the body changes and you know, everyone's screwed. rude. Yeah, I agree. When you have a bomb, the only one who noticed it will be Shawn Ray. I gotta give Shawn Ray credit. He's the one who actually found out that Ana Shrina didn't die. So, you know, he uh he did a little research on his own right there. Yeah, I think he won. I think he may have won the Arnold the She won. No, that was Wasn't that Tanya Knight? No, they I think she won at one year. They rigged it for her. They rigged it. Oh, they did. They rigged it. Did they steal it from Laura that year? Yeah, they stole number three from They gave That's why I figured that you knew that from that. And they have ne they had never scored a single point off her. And then Paula Burkhamshaw when they I remember Paula Burkhamshaw who was extremely muscular from England. She was I loved her. She got a great physique. She came running up the uh onto the stage or at the judges table with two towels and she was she was given the both finger middle fingers to whoever made that decision and she was riing up the crowd by taking two towels and and the crowd was going completely nuts. I I I remember that she came because she she was the most muscular, dense, hard person in the show. Um Laura was the best bodybuilder in the show. Yeah. Yeah. And Anya Shriner had the best hair in the show. Yeah. He did the white hair, right? If I remember correctly. She looked like a ballerina. Yeah. And you know that Burkham show right there. Yeah. You know, it was the same old song and dance. You know, the girls are getting too far out of control. We got to rein it back. We got Right. that. So they gave it to Ana um and you know I don't know rigged it Joe I don't know Joe must have or Wayne or Wayne and Joe someone rigged it because Ana Shana shouldn't have won and if she wouldn't have said that though of course but the the the importance of the show or the craziness of the show was Paula Burkhamshaw getting the crowd going absolutely psychotic crazy by giving can you imagine Dave add in you know six I think she was sixth place sixth place at the Arnold Open who was six this year yeah yeah yeah Anya was was really skinny given given the the judges you know the finger double finger and taking Paula Burkham show was like the Lee priest of like the women's absolutely yeah they they should have a podcast Lee and Paula Yeah, except they he somehow managed to keep getting himself back into the sport. She kind of was out after that. Yeah, that was it for her, I think. Yeah, there's the Ana Shriner, you know, alive and well. So, that's great to hear. She's looks like she's shopping for some really fresh vegetables and and flowers there. That's pretty nice. Where is that? What country is that in? Is she in where she's from? Scandinavia, isn't she somewhere? I think she's Scandinavia is not a country. So, she's Well, it's one of the Scandinavian countries, right? I think I think she's from uh either Germany or she may have been from where Arnold was from. Austria, Austria. She might have been from the same same hometown or my Maybe that's why maybe that's why she won the Arnold. Yeah, maybe it was Arnold who pulled that one off. I don't know. Maybe it could have been. What? could have been like the uh you know on the record Dave it was ringed rer she is from Germany good good good memory well Chris you knew all those women bodybuilds back then it's funny because you don't know any of them now but you you know your ex-wife was competing so you knew every all the little gossipy from all of them you know I was in the mix and don't forget people don't realize there was no other divisions back then it was just bodybuilding men and women and that's it so every we knew all the women bodybuilders because there was nothing else to to remember. I mean, it was boring. Yeah. You had to learn everyone's name. Very point. Very good point, Dave. That that the the more divisions, you know, and the more show there weren't thousands of shows like there are now. Yeah. You know, so it's it was easy to keep track like who the top 10 open men were, who the top 10 open women were. Yeah. There was no of course internet. So the top maybe top five women were continuously you know showed up in magazines and top 10 of the men at the Olympia would show up in the magazine. So there'd be the only people on you know the radar screen of fans. I I knew every every competitor who was competing at a pro level because I would read those magazines so many times that you couldn't help but memorize it, right? I mean, you knew they were like at le I mean, this is how I looked at it when I was reading those magazines. These people, even the women, were like celebrities to me because, right, because you're looking at a magazine they're in and I'm like, it raised them up to a higher level. And I think that's why a lot of times when I meet people who remember me from the magazines that when they were younger and they were reading the magazines and seeing me in those magazines, they they had that same revered feeling because it's like it's a hard thing to describe because this new generation doesn't know that what that magazine means anymore. It's just the internet. It's just, you know, it's just Facebook, Instagram, you know, Tik Tok and stuff like that. It just doesn't have the same reverence anymore that it had in the past. You know, if you take it back, like you could know probably like every single aspect of Nick Walker's life from his favorite color, favorite food. Yeah. He went to and you know, what's his mother's name, what's his father's name, what's his dog's name, what's his exgirlfriend's name, new girlfriend's name, what's his favorite car, right? So easy to put out. But in the magazines, everything was filtered anyway. So, you know, you didn't get you only got the good, you didn't get the bad. And you'd only get snippets of people. You wouldn't know what like even though they'd feature the, you know, Lee Haney and Rich Gaspar to death, you you know, you maybe know their spouse's names and the their the hometown they grew up in. You wouldn't get all the detail, you know. No. No. Because there was only so much space in the magazine to include detail. Right. Right. No, you're right. You're 100% right. But the only the and and and there was that's why people loved Lonnie Teper's article news and views. Yes. Because it was really like Instagram. Yeah. It was guy it was right that the pre the predecessor to Instagram. You're right. It was the it was little snippets of gossip and it had nothing to do with bodybuilding that be like oh so so and so are getting a divorce. It looks like he got Arnold. She got like, you know, she's doing whatever her. You're right. Lonnie put my wedding, you know, my original wedding picture in there when I was married, you know, back in the There you go, Dave. 99. Yeah, he had that in there. He was, you're right, the And Steve Nice did it for Muscleme. The same thing. Yep. And uh what's his name? Ripper Ross did it for MD, right? First the first was uh Lonnie. Lonnie was a Lonnie was Iron Man. Yeah, but he was ahead of the he was ahead of his time because he was the first one to come up with that. Yes. Who did it? Did the Weer magazines have something like that? I don't think they did. They didn't because Joe thought it was like Joe didn't go. gossip and he thought it was beneath uh you know what he was trying to promote because you know what think of Joe's Joe always wanted to provide a picture of perfection hated the idea that in his mind like bodybuilders was this horrible black sheep of everything black sheep of sports is not really a sport. It's a black sheep this, it's a black sheep of that and you know it's it doesn't have the respect of right other sports and he you know the the magazine was like the irony is the magazine quality muscle fitness back was unbelievable. The pay for the photographers and the editors was unable was as good as any magazine. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh definitely high very high quality. quality and because he that was a way to legitimize the sport and legitimize himself, you know what I mean? He he wanted to uh you know and so he didn't like gossip. He thought it was like you know save it for privacy, you know, I I want to be able to talk about what you know good is happening with Lee Haney, not what what bad is happening. Speaking of photographers, did you see Panell got uh he got some kind of like award or something or he got featured in the magazine. Did you see this? I love that picture of him. I didn't That's a great picture of P. Perry used to take pictures for Muscular Development. He worked for Muscle and Fitness for a little bit. Jay gave him his first break. I did. Did Did he Jay? Well, I I know that when I was working with Triple H doing his diet, he um he got P to shoot him, too. He shot him for uh some personal pictures, but then and for WWE and then I think he also shot the I think he shot him for a magazine, too, for Muscle Fitness. He he shot excellent black and white. Yeah, that's that's my he he's done some pretty epic iconic pictures. pair. These were phenomenal. But they were like way back I think 90 oh my gosh 95 or something. Been doing a long time. Yeah. But but he had I found I found the J picture. Hold on. That's the one I'm gonna say. That's the one. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. My Dave, we got to go on a game show besides Charlie. Charlie Angels. That's a great picture. Jay's got to be what 21 there. Yeah, I think. Yeah, it was after I think he won that Cal show, you know, that was a big show. Yeah. Great. I'm sure Joe loved that picture. Weer that was those pictures were the um that that the backstory to that is 95 94 Jay and I I don't know went out there to whatever the Jay would tell you the name of the show. Iron was not the Iron Man. It was the uh Excalibur, right? No. Um, say it again. Was it the Excalibur? Nope. Nope. No. Another big show. Oh. Bill. Uh. Anyways, um Jay won the show and uh we stayed out there quite a while and then I think Jay went back to mass and was I living out there? I I went to Joe's office one time. I've totally done this. Yeah. Joe before. Uh Joe Joe came with the uh he came with a nice I went to his office Dave and he had the super nice suit on except the pants were like 19 inches too long and for some reason he had cuffed and cuffed and cuffed and cuffed and cuffed and cuffed like you know up and then he had sneakers on. So, I must have been, you know, like I looked at the sneakers. I said, "Okay, don't look again." You know, he's got a thousand now. He's got sneakers on instead of like dress shoes. Yeah. Yeah. And uh the first out of his mouth was uh you uh he said, "Um, you must be wondering why uh I'm wearing sneakers." And I of course I said, "No, I'm not no." He said, "Of course you are. Nobody wears sneakers with them." So what he what was his reason? His back because his back was killing him. Yeah. And he was too busy to have the suit. He had it tailored everywhere except the the the length, right? So he said he had to bring the the suit back to have his have it tailored. But he said, "I gotta show you some some kid. Wait till you see this kid. This kid this kid. This kid. This kid. This kid." He said, "Quote. I'll never forget it. He he yelled for someone in Elise. Is it in Elise or to get the picture? Yeah. Yeah. And uh there were pictures of Jay, but before he showed him, I didn't know who he was going to show show me the picture. He was just saying like, "This guy's great. He's great." It's Regge Park meets the boy next door. That's what Joe's description of Jay was. That's great. Meets the boy next door, right? And Joe Joe said, "I'm going to put him on the cover." And he did like next two issues later, I think he was 22 on the cover. Wow. And that's when the covers like the the you know, you go to every grocery store, you see it right there. Right. Well, I mean Jay, look, I'd put Jay on the cover, too. I mean, the guy probably sold magazines like crazy. It was a good-look guy. He was, you know, young. It's crazy. And only John Hansen listening to the show would know who Reg Bark is. That was Arnold's hero, right? Yeah. So, Cody Rhodess loses in Wrestlemania to John Cena. I did his diet. He looked great, though. He uh What do you got up there, Sid? What are you putting up? John the bad guy now shows. Okay, so we got Yeah. Pittsburgh May 10th, New York May 17th, week after that. Cal Pro week after that, week after that, Legion Sports Pro Fest and Toronto Pro. Wow. All one after the other. The M Pro Classic, which we just talked about earlier, the one Bonak one, and then Dubai. Wow, Chris. Every single week. Yeah. And you're we're starting with Pittsburgh 100 grand. And then what is is Dubai giving away a hundred or more Chris this year? I mean what's Dubai giving away? I don't know what they giving away. Yeah. I think I think they were giving 60 for the classic. I get that. By the way, you got Oh, right now it's at 100, but it will likely go up before this show. Okay. Well, at least 100 in Dubai and 100 in Pittsburgh. So, there's a lot of money on st at stake. I think we're gonna I look, we might see a couple guys hit all these shows. Chris, I don't I wouldn't blame him if they did just for the money is good, you know. So, cash in, man. I wouldn't I wouldn't hold back. And you have one hour left for the species nutrition Easter sale. Remember, put Easter 30 into the species nutrition.com uh cart. You get 30% off the entire uh purchase. We're also offering caramel macchiata flavored isoly. 28 grams of protein per serving. It's one of my favorite flavors. It's going to you're going to think you're drinking a Starbucks coffee while you're dieting. And no carbs, no sugar, nothing like that in there. Highest yield protein on the market. Half price, $24.99. Uh plus don't forget that Easter 30. You get 30% off the rest of the entire website. Free shipping on orders over $100 in the continental United States. And uh one more hour you got. Don't cry to me when it's over. Don't cry to me, Argentina, because uh it's over at midnight Eastern Standard Time. All right, Chris, we're going to wrap up. As we say every week here at Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. We'll see you next week, guys.