Relationship advice coming up right now. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Heat. And we're back for another installment of the Palumbo podcast. I'm Dave Palumbo. Today's guest we're joined by is Jimmy Menis who is on his way back to the Masters Olympia in 2025 and of course Lee Priest who is going to be giving relationship advice which is a kind of like a funny thing but you know what when you're in a lot of relationships you have a lot of advice to give right Lee? Look, Dave, I'm a lover, not a fighter. You know, on my fifth marriage, it's like I'm like I said, remember the TV show The Littlest Hobo or Benji, that little dog, go to a town, I would find the family, help the family out, then the dog would move on. That's me. I find the little lost soul. I marry her. I give her everything, and then I move on. You know what? I don't know if Jimmy, if you could relate to this, but I remember reading the magazines back in the day, especially when I first got started in the early 90s. Every time I saw a picture of Lee Priest in in the magazine, he was always holding hands with some some new fiance of his and and and I and I didn't know Lee back then at all. So all I knew is all right. Lee is dating Lori Donnelly. Lee is dating Who was the other one? The other little Adele? No. No. Way before. Who was married? No. Way before Cathy. Who was before Cathy? Um well it was Tracy. I was married to Tracy. No. Yeah. when you I was with Florence David who used to train at go gym. I remember Lori Donley and there was someone else during that time period you were dating too but uh they used to like to take pictures of Lee holding hands walking with the girl in the gym and something like or going to the firehouse to eat. You know that's what I would see Lee all the time. Yeah. Viper with his Viper and a different girlfriend. I'm Thank you. I'm glad you confirmed that Jimmy. Thank you. Okay. They were they were just acquaintances. That's all. Yeah. The reason though, Lee, the reason I'm not trying to break your balls. The reason I'm I do I like to break your balls, too, but the reason I'm asking you is because when you were competing, did you feel that it was easier to compete with a girlfriend or without a girlfriend? Like, and which did you prefer? Uh, I always preferred with. Why? Because I'm always I found that especially if I was with Cathy or Adela being in fitness, they're a bit cookie cookie. was actually easier with Cappy than the fitness girl. So I can I can distinguish between the two there. But yeah, when when I was dieting, Cappy would be dieting. So it made it easy. There's healthy food in the house. It's not like you're dieting or sometimes and you look over and they got a hamburger and you're like you want to choke the [\h__\h] out of them. But I found it easy. And then when I made my comeback in 2013 for the universe, yeah, I was actually single at the time, Dave. And then I did meet a girl that had four kids and I I moved her in with me and everyone's like, "Oh my god, Lee, that's a distraction." And that and thing was at the beginning of my thing because I had a How young were those kids, Lee? I didn't even remember that. But huh, how old were those kids that you moved in with you? They ranged from just like one year old to I think the youngest was 12 at the time. So, Holy mackerel. Oh, how is that? One, one, three. That's sex must have been great. You know that. You know the crazies, Jimmy. The thing was though, but up until that point, I hadn't competed since my last shows were 06 with the PDI and IFBB, right? 2013. I think, okay, I'm going to go Naba. I'll do this. Come back to the universe, right? And that whole time I'm thinking, [\h__\h] you don't look good. They're going to make fun of you. you're [\h__\h] going to nab now. No matter even if you did look good and you got second, they'll be like, "You [\h__\h] loser. You can't even compete with Naba." I was putting all this pressure on myself and I was going mad like mentally. And then when I met her and she moved in with the kids, it was actually pretty good because I'd go to the gym and then when I'd come home, I'll take the kids to the beach. I'd go here and go there. Whereas before, I'd come home and just sit there in my own head thinking, "Oh, you got to be [\h__\h] You got to do something else. you got to do this. I was going mad. So, actually being in a relationship, it just gives me that outlet where I'm not 24/7 think, you know, when you get ready for a show mentally, it just drives you me cra I get I get more mentally tired than physically getting ready for contest because your brain's just always got to do this, I got to do that, and then I got to eat it this time. Then how will I look? Hold on, let me get up in the middle of night, look in the mirror. I'm not as good as I was not as good as I was yesterday. It's like the head games are just crazy. So being in a relationship doing other stuff sort of kept me a bit more even. I think I I always felt that yeah being in a relationship dur you know while competing was good because it kind of you didn't have to worry about anything else. You kind of had that like solid base of like support at home assuming that the person was supportive. I always dated people who who competed or worked out. Jimmy, what do you think that a lot of these bodybuilders at the elite level uh find it comforting to be in a relationship? And if they if a relationship ends, does it mess up mess them up sometimes? Well, I think in our natural habitat, I think we all want somebody to to to be with, right? So, it's not a matter of, you know, do I want somebody. I think everybody wants to be with somebody. Everybody wants to spend that time. I know in my relationships, my my my preps were always there were amazing when I had when I was in a relationship. What happened after was just a whole different story. But but the the thing is I I think everybody a majority I can probably say 85 to 90% would want to be in a relationship because it's a it's like a bonding thing, right? And and the one thing that I regret in my in my in my career is some of the trips that I made years not only one two years I made them I did them alone like I traveled the world alone. I was hotels alone. I was eating alone right? I get picked up from the airport, taken to the hotel, picked up from the hotel to to the, you know, um to, you know, to the event, you know, the stadium or the event and then basically back to the hotel, back to the airport, you know, and and throughout the years, you got to be honest with you, throughout the years, I have the evidence I have over $100,000 worth of TUMI luggage because in in between in between, I would go to a mall by myself. Right. Right. And I and you know so so I I think I think they want to share this experience because it's an experience that you want to share it with somebody. But I you know what I think I think and I've seen this happen before and Ed Connors can back me up. Ed Connor's famous thing was oh these bodybuilders they want to play house. You know you know it's like he felt like one guy shouldn't be tied down in a relationship and has start having kids and get married yet. It's it's like they're playing house. You know, Ed Ed Ed used to hate on I'd bring a girl home to stay with me at Ed's house and he'd get so nervous the next day he'd be like Lee after she left Lee. Now, is it okay? Cuz you know, I don't want her parents showing up here saying something or something happened. I'm like, "Hey, look, we had consensual sex. I'm not raping her." He's like, "I just don't want her parents up at the door. Well, I I I think he Ed made a rule after I stayed there with my girlfriend years ago that no more girls were allowed in the house after we were fighting non-stop the whole time. But going back to what Jim Jimmy was Jimmy was saying this Trudeau because when people used to ask me like are you get to travel toward I'm like yes it's great but I'm like you I said the if I'm in Italy the most thing I see in Italy is that book the book in the hotel room we lost there I could like I wished I could see that and it's like I said to you travel the world and if like say your girlfriend or wife's at home and you're saying hey I just went and saw the great wall of China like seeing it yourself is like it's good but you know when you got someone there to experience it with and you're like wow look at this together even I remember when I went to see the Grand Canyon once by myself I'm like wow at first I thought who wants to see a hole in the ground big deal but when you stand on the edge of it you're like amazed by how big it is but when you're by yourself it's almost just like okay and then going home showing the photos never do it justice well then they're jealous that's not good I always traveled with someone, which was which I think which is what you guys apparently didn't do. So that I think that I I had that experience. But I I see a lot of bodybuilders get engaged uh while they're dieting for a competition and then and they're all loveydvey and then the competition's over and their bra it's like their brain comes back and they're like, "What the [\h__\h] did I do?" And then they wind up breaking up, you know? And it happens a lot. Now, sometimes it doesn't. They'll get married, they have kids, and everything h happily ever after. A lot of times what your the way your brain thinks while you're kind of like in that dieting mode, which is I call the nesting mode almost, right? You know, you're you're you know, you want all your stuff around you and you're it changes when when you're not dieting because now you have an abundance of anything you want again. You can have like food and you can go here and you go there and now you don't feel like you want to stay home as much and you're like, well, maybe I was a little premature. Maybe I shouldn't have gotten engaged. As sad, as sad as it is, we used to almost take bets at Gold's Gym, you know, because we have the the crowd that was always there, the you know, the regulars. Yeah. You I remember when Gra Henderson came from South Africa, she was beautiful. And when they were like, how long's it going to last? Six months, eight months. Nine months. She was off sleeping with other people. Oh no. Separated. He passed. He passed us last year, too. a nice new a nice new couple would move move from [\h__\h] out south somewhere and we're like how long is it going to take and it's like once they both start getting a bit of attention if he's sort of good-looking getting into mags and she's getting into mags and it's like they just go separate ways yeah the worst place to bring your girlfriend is is around gold gym Venice you know those guys were the wor forget about it was like you're asking for trouble there actually I'm going to girls were bad because well offseason they wouldn't talk to me but as soon as I started getting in shape oh you doing any magazine covers do you need anyone you need anyone for a photo shoot I'm like oh well when I was bulked up he didn't want to talk to me but now time they want to try get on the covers and stuff that was Titus's greatest pickup line I'll I'll get you on the cover he p I had a when I went out there for the first like first couple times with my girlfriend he pulled that with her because she was a good-look girl he's like oh I'll do a photo shoot with you. I'm like, look, I could tr I was able to trust her, but but you know, I knew his whole shtick, you know, because I heard it because he was friends with Matt Duval. Matt's like, "Oh, that's Craig's [\h__\h] pickup line. You know, I'll get you a photo shoot. Let's do a photo shoot together." So, um, yeah, I can imagine. That's how I met Lori Donley. I was doing a photo shoot with Gilb and after the photo shoot, I invited her back and cooked a lunch and she just cooked the lunch and that. Then we started seeing each other and dating. And then I found out her ex left a [\h__\h] knife through a note cuz at the time she was dating someone. She was dating one of the She was dating one of the McN brothers from Flex Gym Equipment and he Oh, really? And you put a knife. I remember that. Well, tell us what happened. He he put a a a note with a knife where it was like yeah like a note with a knife through it or something where she said but I didn't know if she was with him and so he got all pissed off that she was I thought Lee Lee and Lori looked like brother and sister didn't they? Yeah they had the same calves too. Yeah. Not not Link. You know who actually looked more like me was when I met when I actually met Cathy for the first time. When she was first Yeah. when she had the blonde hair. Yeah. Yeah. Was platinum blonde white hair look like red and sister. We got children at a corn. That's what we The Aryan race blonde hair white hair blue eyes. Right. So So do you think do you think today's let's just say today's pros, right? Because it's so so broad. Today's pros actually are in a relationship because they want to be in a relationship or they find it productive. I think it's comforting, but I think I think that bodybuilders like stability because look, it's very hard to eat six, eight times a day, go to the gym, you know, for a couple hours a day, five, six days a week, you know, live the whole lifestyle. You don't go out, no one's going out drinking and partying on the weekends. So, I mean, you have to find someone who's into what you're into and is supportive of that. And once you do, and if you know, assuming they're attractive and you're attracted to them, you don't you don't want to let them go. It's like that's like a very important stability. Like bodybuilders have to have all their chest pieces in place. And one of the chest pieces is the queen. They need the queen right next to them so that they don't have to worry about, you know, you know, am I getting attention from someone. I think when you're dieting, it's important to have that stability. When you're not dieting, the stability is not quite as important anymore because you're not quite as neurotic and your brain is kind of functioning a little bit more freely. So, I think bodybuilds tend to be maybe not as, you know, committed to a relationship when they're offseason as when they are pre-contest. And so, I think they make commitments that maybe they they're not ready to make sometimes. And but I think a lot of guys can't function if they're not in a relationship and they get depressed almost. So, do you think the breakups are coming from the female side after the show? Both. I I I think majority coming from the from the women side. I think I think it's probably harder too because I think now too because our relationships and stuff that's a lot more out there on Instagram, we see more into the relationships. And I know sometimes I'd read comments, you know, if I saw Nick and his on there, people would be like Nick's girlfriend or whoever's just using him to get attention to further her career. And I think they see all this talk that gets nasty because, you know, people are going to scrutinize your relationships, the way you act away from social media is rough. Social media is rough on relationships, man. I wouldn't want that. That's really tough. I wouldn't want to be competing in today's marketplace. I even remember when sometimes two of you both competing. I I've had two. When I was younger, I had a girlfriend in Australia. She was like a top aerobics instructor. We broke up. And her exact words to me were I can't go out with you anymore. I said why not? I thought we're getting on. And her words were because when I'm with you, people look at you and I don't like that. I'm like, but you know who was like Adella. Adella when I was with Adella would be places and you Adella what she was like six seven times fitness Olympia Arnold Cl would be places and you know because bodybuilders just get excited she'll be like hi I'm somebody too you know I'm not competing with you I'm not competing that's tough that's tough and that's what I'm saying like is the breakup coming from the women because like you said right the the bodybuilder needs the queen right to in the house right and have you noticed if you notice and and I'm giving them their flowers have you noticed like they always stick it out always always stick it out I don't think not one not one female in in a relationship that I know of has left any bodybuilder like towards the end of a prep okay and then she'll stick it out she'll stick it out she'll stick it out day after the show or somehow somehow someway they break up because I believe it's just like she got she was just done with the whole process like like the the the no attention the no attention right and a lot of people think a lot of people think well you know he probably had another another piece of ass on the side and this listen a a successful driven bodybuilder the last thing he's got on his mind is another check when he's when he's dieting right when he's dieting you know so So when when you're 16 weeks out and and you're going throughout the weeks and everybody's like, "Oh man, did you see him?" Or no female should have any type of insecurity. Yeah. Contest prep. During contest prep. I agree. Yeah. You know, and and I and I think that's where the that's where the insecurity comes in from the female side because he's getting in shape, right? He's getting all the attention, you know, she's just being, you know, being the the the mother. You know, you ignore you ignore the other your significant other a lot when you're dieting because you're so such in selfish mode, you know, that you don't even realize. But don't tell me, Dave, you didn't appreciate what they did for you. Because when they did it for me, I still I still say I had amazing women in my life. Yeah. That I appreciated it, too. But what I'm saying is that I think that you're not as attentive to them. True. maybe not as like, you know, loveydovey because you you feel like [\h__\h] so you just want to be left alone. I would just kind of like recess into the into the cracks in the wall, you know, just to be left alone. Like that in the beginning, too, when we're all new to it. But as we get older, as you said, as we get older, we learn because, you know, sometimes you'd sit there and it's like you're that brain dead, you can't even conversation with them or they talk and you just want to go I couldn't even talk on the phone. I'd get to a point in prep if people would call me, I wouldn't even answer it. I'm like, I don't even But then you get to that good point where know it can make the world of difference if you are in a good relationship and you've got that support. Like that's where I think, you know, they call Samson's wife, his trainer, his coach, whatever. But I think Samson right now, he's probably in a great place. You know, Mel's helping him. He's got his feels stable at home. She's spotting him at the gym. She's probably helping with his meals. You know, when everything's clicking 100%. If you're at that right frame of mind, it can make the huge difference between winning and losing. You know what you focus? How many times have you ever had it where you have that little bit of tension at home with a girl, whatever, and you come home and you just don't want to be in the house. You make a good point. You make a good point because look at relation some relationships are based predicated on that need needy relationship. Look at Greg Kovac and his wife Kim, right? um that as soon as he stopped competing and and and and getting doing that it it broke up like that codependency worked only when he was actually a bodybuilder. Dorian Nates look at what happened. He had a great relationship with his wife. He had kids and and then as soon as they he stopped competing that was the end of the relationship. It over it was over. So I I think that some and then you get other people look at Lee Labrad he's been with the same you know woman Robin for his whole you know career. Sometimes too with bodybuilders, I find too, even when we are competing and you got that back and forth, they're supporting you. They're helping you. I've noticed sometimes things will break up too because when bodybuilders do finally stop, sometimes you get to that point in your life where you're lost now. It's like you had this goal, you're driven to compete, now you don't have that. If you can't find somewhere else to channel your energy, some people just sit there, they get negative. Oh, my life's over. I'm not what I used to be. And then that affects the relationship and then it's just like, oh, you're too miserable to be around now. It's like you're living in the past. So, it's it's difficult because it's a it's a a double-edged sword because like I've I've been in I've been getting ready for shows and I've been in amazing relationships and they would do everything for me. Everything. Okay. And then you would just see them just fade away. Like they would just you just see them growing like apart. And then by the end of the show, they're not the same anymore, right? And and that's where I think, you know, it's it's it why are you why are you together? like when the when a bodybuilder gets ready for a show or even in the offseason. To me, I think the offseason's more important than the preseason because if you got a good offseason, you're going to have a good preseason. It's a good prep. I've always been like that. So, what So, what's your advice, Jimmy? And and Lee, you can give your advice, too. If you're in a relationship, you break up, you're depressed because of it, and now you got to go into prep. I I know for me, I'm I I was very single-minded. It didn't matter to me, but I mean, for some guys, it it it ruins their whole mental state. they can't focus. They're they're they're they're lost, so to speak. How do you get someone refocused or do you tell them not just don't do the show? I mean, but if this is your career and you got a big show like the Olympia, the Arnold coming up, how do you refocus yourself when you're in that like state of despair, so to speak? Well, let me let me tell you what what Muhammad Ali told me once and I met him once. He goes, "You know what the definition of a professional is?" I said, "No." He goes, "It is when you Are you there? Go ahead. Say it again. Just a a professional is when you can perform at any point at any given time under any circumstance. Yeah, that's a champion. That's not even a professional. That's a champion. That's, you know, um this was about 30 years ago. Wow. I've never forgotten that. So what so what's your advice to the bodybuilders out there who would you know be in find themselves in that situation? How bad how bad do you want it? That's what I always say. Yeah. You know how bad do you want? Isn't that just in general is how bad do you want? So if you know I I I think mental state is is probably one of the most important things in bodybuilding. I mean people think it's not because we don't have to actually do anything on stage but it's it's preparing for stage that that's where the mental state comes in. Now, think about it, Dave. Think about it, right? Even in our offseason, we're still eating four or five meals a day, right? We're still eating or more. Yeah. Way more. We're still training. Yeah. So, when when that prep comes on, it's a switch. It's a mental switch because now you have to be on point. You have to discipline yourself, your timing, everything has to be in place. You're not changing anything like through like pragmatic stuff. You're still eating. You're still training. It's that now you have to be disciplined. You're on a program. So any anytime you're missing a half hour, hey honey, can you take the garbage out or can you do this? Can you go run and get milk? That half hour is throwing you off. Got it. And that's what I think I think the the other the other partner doesn't understand that, you know, hey, can we can we just run out here for a second? No, I can't. Mhm. But I I think that I think a lot of guys and girls too, but I think mostly guys, they they become despondent almost some people when when a relationship breaks up and they cannot seem to snap out of that depressive state. And I and I promise you, I know we all went through it. We've all gotten, you know, dumped at some point or or a a relationship ended that we didn't want to end and you're super depressed. I got news for you. Time heals everything. I know it sounds so trit when you're going through it and you're in pain, but it does. it and I think they said something like six months it takes to really you know for your brain to retrain itself to not be used to that same situation. Um, but time definitely heals everything and you have to just go through the motions, you know, and and you have to also because I know sometimes people in this industry, people date a lot of people in this industry and it's like they'll break up but yet then they still see their ex exposed because they still follow them and now they see them, oh no, she's dating this other bodybuilder now. know sometimes their little e you know the ego can get in the way where why she in there is he a better bodybuilder than me because he's so it's like sometimes it's just like I think egos with bodybuilding but it's definitely like I said physically bodybuilding is you know we all love to train but we might complain about training and we complain about doing cardio but it's always that mental side like Jimmy saying because you got to eat at this time cardio that time eat again okay what do I do now then with When you go to bed, you start thinking, "Tomorrow morning, I got to get up cardio and then have that meal." And then as the show gets closer, you start picturing, will I look good? Will I look bad? One day look in the mirror, you think, "Oh, I've got it." The next day you look in the mirror, you're like, "I'm pulling out." It's like the head games just go back and Well, I think also something you missed, we're missing here too. And if you guys we haven't we all haven't competed in a while, but when you're competing, you become very sentimental and you'll start going back and looking at pictures and you'll remember everything great about the relationship you in and you'll remember nothing bad about it and and you'll be like, "What did I do?" And you'll want to try to get back together with them. Meanwhile, meanwhile, it was the worst toxic relationship you were ever in. But but you know, it's it's when you're in that vulnerable emotional state, you know, all you do is remember the good stuff. And I think you you got to remember the bad stuff. If you do that, you you won't go back. Sadly, sadly, I've been I've been in those relationships sadly that aren't toxic. And it it just seemed like, you know, we probably all been in one where every time something's going great. Like this girl would just start an argument and start stuff because she liked that tension, the fighting, the arguing. So, every time something going good, I'm like, "It's coming. It's coming for sure." And sure enough, she picked the smallest thing and boom, a big thing would erupt. I'm like, I can't I just can't do this anymore. It's just like when things are going good, she just didn't like it. That she had to have that turmoil and drama. I'm like, [\h__\h] this. Right. But when you break up and then you and then you're you're you're feeling a little vulnerable because you're dieting, then you start thinking about all the good stuff that that went on during that relationship. You start getting sad about it. You know, then too, it's like the booty call. How you going? And that's the wor you want to come over. Okay, come over and do it again. Then it goes off again. That's funny. The best the best support I had was my brother. Yeah. Uh he the preps I did, you know, my brother's an executive chef, right? But he knew he grew up in the bodybuilding scene. Like he knew he knew exactly. He was the one who's putting Proan on me. I mean, just he just knew everything. As a matter of fact, in 1995 when I went to Greece to turn pro, I left my girlfriend here and I took my brother. Oh, did you really? Oh my god, that's funny. I said, "Listen, we're going to win. We ain't going on vacation." And here and here's the thing. The funny part is he'll probably watch this. The funny part is is that this guy did everything I asked him. Oh, really? Said, "Hey, Alco, can I have a glass of water?" Yes. Yeah, like everything everything. I was suffering. I suffered, man. Those two two last preps to turn pro. I suffered. We're we're in we're in Intercontinental in Athens, Greece, and he's got the next bet over. I'm dead. And I say, "Hey, Alco, can I can you get me some water?" No questions asked. He got up. He gave me the water. Right. So, check this out. So, so we get back, I win. I got I got flowers. I got roses. I got the trophies. And I put it on the uh on the on the dresser in the in the uh in the hotel room. And I lay down and I'm laying down. My brother's exhausted. I'm exhausted. I'm like, "Hey, man. Why don't you grab something from the refrigerator?" Goes, "Get your [\h__\h] self." He was done. He was done. That was it. Jimmy, I can just see Jimmy telling the story how he went and competed. He had a good time with that. His brother tells his mates, "I went to Greece with my brother. had to take glasses of [\h__\h] water. Exactly. Yeah. It's like because just imagine he's my brother. You can ab see you can abuse your brother and it's not going to affect your relationship but then whereas you do that to your girlfriend, it might end your relationship after that. Yeah. The the mouthpull that I got after that show from him was like I was like, you ever seen a coyote with his ears down and I was like, I'm sorry. It's it's rough. Contest prep is rough. When you're both doing it together, you would have noticed too, have you ever noticed this? Even if it was like if dating a female who's into sport and trains or just the person in general, I always found given sympathy was always the hardest because you know like we have a heavy workout, the next day your central nervous system shot or you threw up doing legs, next day you can't walk for two or three days. Like my in relationships or even family members if someone's like, "Oh, I'm sore. I got this and that." I'll be like, "Oh, yeah, whatever." You don't know what sore is. It's like to get to get sympathy. Like if somebody said they had a bad back, I'd be like I don't care. It's like I'm in pain 24/7. So if somebody came to me, even like now sometimes Rachel will be like, "Oh, this is sore." I'm like, "Well, let me tell you, I got this from any sympathy because it's like we've been through that much pain for me to go, oh, I feel sorry for you. You better be you better be losing a limb because I don't care." Right. It's amazing because you're always in pain. Always in pain. I want to bring up another topic. Um, we posted this on RX Muscle couple days ago. What do you think? You think this is uh photoshopped or what do you think's going on with this thing here? This guy is the guy that that does these videos, these training videos. You think that's real? First of all, the color his coloring is really bizarre. If you look at the guy in the back who has the real tan, this guy looks like he's got like like makeup on his body. Like like makeup a girl would put on her face. So he looks like her because of that. But he's getting ready for a movie like that that movie that descent. Exactly. But I mean, someone was commenting that that it's fake because he's he's got like striations down his glutes which go into his hamstrings, which I don't know if that's just super lean or or if that's normal. I don't know if the hamstrings get that lean, do they? Some I I saw a Italian compet once when I competed at the universe. This Italian guy was as pale as a ghost but like that. I mean like even a bit more to what you'd see. I mean this guy just when he moved you could see station. So some people do have that freakiness paper thin skin and this Italian guy he looked like a corpse. I mean, you talk about a deaf face, how he survived the show. I don't know, but he was shredded. I think that's a filter because I don't see anything. Yeah. You know, took place in Iran, the show supposedly. And um those guys get shredded over there, too, right? But I don't know if he's that, but that's a filter. You could tell. I don't I don't think so because I I mean because look at the I mean the other guy he's not even a bodybuilder. He's got those food sanctions. He's just a guy that hasn't eaten for a month. The Boston Mass. Jose Raymond wrote, "Dave, you of all people should know better. Since when does striated glutes go all the way down to the back of the knee? If that's a hamstring, it doesn't have striations laterally like this in the picture, something isn't right." Well, I think Jose hasn't seen the Wellness Chicks yet. Yeah. I mean, they have a point. the the the hamstring fibers don't really go in that direction. So, but does he does he have a does he have a name? Does he have like a page where there's other photos of him or who posted this? I Sid found it somewhere. I don't I don't know um what the guy's name is. He like I said, he did some show in Iran supposedly. Did he win? I don't know. I don't know. His color is terrible, though. Even if even if he looked good. Um Well, those guys a lot of dream tan and that ain't dream tan. remember that. Hold on. This is the guy. I found him. Hold on. These guys brothers. Someone said the Olaf Oli brothers, San and Kavon. Pretty interesting, right? Who's this? Hold on. I'm having trouble with this thing. Here we go. I mean, it looks he looks legit. I mean, he the guy he's in shape. There's Hold on. Is that a side is that a side chest? Where's his ham where his hammies go? He's got it all the way down there. Look at that. See, you know that what people are that's kind of like it's kind of like Yeah, it's glute and hamstring. Maybe the hamstrings the way they they they're aligned. That is that that's an adductor. He's pushing that adductor out. Yeah, that that's I agree with you. That's the adductor muscles that are separated like that. Yeah. Maybe it's scarring from being tortured for many years in a prison in Fran. His arms look his arms look a little suspicious. They're looking there. He might be shot up there. But don't start. They're gonna have death threats. The guy's conditioning is super impressive though. No matter what, you know. Is he tall? No, that other guy's taller than him. Yeah. Did he win? Everything's uh not in this. Let me see the translation here. Yeah, I think yeah, he won. Yeah, he won. Yeah. So, he was first 70 and under. 70 kg. Like that contest where the guy gets 70 kilos. Yeah. He's 160 170. So, what do you think? He's like like he's probably a middleweight. We'd call that middleweight. He's a light lightweight middleweight around there. In Australia under 70 kilos was lightweight. You know, I think that picture was taken backstage before he put his tan on because a lot of those guys they'll paint dream tan on backstage. And so he probably that's that was probably him without a tan. That's why it looks so weird. Um right here. He probably hadn't gotten his tan yet. And it was weird lighting and and you're right. It could be a filter on that too a little bit. Well, well, that type of that type of condition is my goal for Tokyo. Yeah, that's that's pretty wacky conditioning. One coat of Diodderm. Remember Diodderm? You put it on would go green to begin with. Yeah. But that's when we start but then that's when we started mixing it. Lee, we started using Diodderm with Protan. We started mixing it. Yeah. Yeah. This is definitely dream tan. There's no doubt about it. Yeah. All the country over there always use dream tan. Yeah, I used to go to like some of those European ones. They'd be pastely white backstage then they get loud and just start rubbing the mud green tan on. So go the problem is it it's it's makeupy and it's oily so it kind of fills in the crevices. I think you lose your fiberiness with I got a story about that. The these guys over there had contacted me because you know I got the beauty bomb, I got the lotion, so the manufacturing I can I can I can build that, right? I can build that. So, I was approached and they're like, "Man, listen. We're, you know, we're buying all this dream tan. Can you make us one? The federation, can you the promoters, can you make us one over here?" And we couldn't I couldn't get it watery enough. I couldn't liquefy it and and I it just wouldn't it wouldn't stick. They needed it needed to be a cream. And you're right about that because that's the reason why they they didn't do it because I said, "Guys, I can only match it, you know? I can't I can't do anything less. And it was getting in in between the muscles. Yeah, it ruins I think it ruins your your your separation and stuff like that. But it does it looks good in pictures because of the way it reflects light and everything like that. But um good one called I used to have one called Egyptian earth. It used to come in like an Egyptian urn. I used I saw that. Yeah, I remember that. Yeah. It's like fine brown powder and you mix the brown powder with vitamin E cream and it then it become similar to dream. Oh wow. What was the bodybuilder that was selling that? There was a guy in in Venice, wasn't he? That was that was promoting that. Can't remember his name. Not sure. I think what's his name used it once. I think he might have had a lot of the 88 Olympia, Edward Kowak. Remember when he had that really gold? Yeah, he used it. But there was a there was a bodybuilder that was selling it, I think, too. That was like the the distributor of it in the United States because he contacted me about it once and I'm like I'm like I really didn't like it. It was like makeupy looking, you know? I remember I remember what's his name? He used to have Sergey New when he came to Australia and then he used to sell that um was it find a mute case or stuff he used to rub on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But that wasn't the color that was going. The other thing I wanted to ask you guys about your opinion, Hold, let me pull it up here. Is uh someone is saying that Ryan and I hate when they do this because it doesn't matter on Instagram, but someone's saying Ryan Terry, you our current men's physique Olympia champ, is is doctoring his pictures. I mean this guy goob goo goo goo goo goo goo goo goo goo goo goo goo goo goo goo goo goo goo goo goob is this is like his like thing. He likes to like uh thing to do when you make them bigger in Photoshop. Let me see. Let me see. Hold on. Where is this? Uh it sucks when I got to do people I look up to on this page, but they did it to themselves. Ryan Terry, welcome to the This is Ryan Terry, 2.6 million followers, a threetime Arnold Classic champion, and he's won the Mr. Olympia in 2023. I was there. Won the whole thing. Crowned best men's physique physique in the world, which makes what I'm about to show you insane. Here's a post he made a few days ago. Few raws from today's antics down at Bev's gym. 18 days in counting. We zoom into his shoulder. Things start to seem a little weird. That's odd. Uh, that support beam looks a little crooked. Maybe it's the mirror. I don't know. Benefit of the doubt, he's Mr. Olympia. But wait, here's another one of the raw from today's antics. Let's zoom in on the machine behind him. Huh. Huh. Wonder if that turns out that is a new techure wide chest press. Go to the website. You can rotate the machine around 360° to get an angle that you would need to maybe bust a Mr. Olympian photoshopping shoulders on the internet. So, here I've properly rotated it. We're zooming in on this part right here, this beam. And yeah, perfectly straight on the manufacturer's website and crooked in the one Ryan Terry posted because he made his shoulders bigger. For God [\h__\h] why. Ryan Terry, you already won the whole thing. Stop doing this. Raw from today, my ass. Jesus, it sucks. This guy's like a like a chemist. He's like I I I've met him and he's an attorney. Oh, he is. He's He's pretty smart, you know. He's a great guy. I don't know how he got into this, but it's it's like um it's like Joey Swall got into this whole you could do better better than this, right? And it happened. Um he's he's funny as hell. I do you think Ryan would do something like that or maybe I think everyone I think a lot of people do their pictures. I don't I don't know why. Especially this point is Mr. Olympia. Why do you have to do your pictures? The talk about bodybuilding like that anyway because like we all know guys, girls, some do it, some don't. But I'm thinking the amount of depth and effort he goes into it there. He should go into more stuff like the moon landing and stuff because at least there's something interesting. Not he has no niche here. Has this machine moved? Look at the wall behind his shoulder. It's a bit Well, let me tell you. Well, the machine was definitely bent. So, he he definitely was right. Who the [\h__\h] looking at photos that close? Who's zooming in? Because that's the people have nothing to do all day long. Lee, have you gone to his IG? He has called out legitimate stuff. Let me see. Like you and I would look at it like, man, she looks great. He looks great. And next thing you know, here comes a video of him saying, "Here you go." She has she enlarged her clitorious. Look how big I'll probably get dinged after that stupid music. I just realized. beautiful. So, yeah, there's uh you know, some people are just bored all day long, but you know, I just take I just take for granted now. Like, I never do because I haven't got time and I wouldn't really know how. I just take a photo and I post it, but some people do like the touchup skin color, maybe touch this up, touch that up. I just pretty much assume now 80% or more is touched up. But I don't care about it. It's not like I'm going to go, "Oh my god, look." No one is getting jobs from this from doctoring these pictures. No one is like trying to like you know um enter contests with these pictures. So I mean I think with social media today especially with AI I think I don't think it's a big I don't think it's such a shock to find out that people are messing with their pictures. And when you get and when you get on stage at the contest in a week or two at the tells the story, right? You can't hide it there. So it doesn't matter what they're showing now. when they get out on stage, it's like right. So, for the past three, four weeks, I've been going to shows with Tammy and we've been scouting, you know, to sign some girls, you know, and you know, we we go on their IG and then we're like, "Okay, maybe he'll be there. We'll keep a lookout, right?" Do you know how many times Tammy goes to me, she goes, "Isn't that that girl?" I'm like, "I don't know." Like, we don't know. We can't tell from her IG. and we're like, "What's going what's going on?" Like, we don't know, right? You know, it is what it is. It's just part of today's uh promotion world. So, I mean, I I I'm I'm not I'm not so bent out of shape about it because, you know what, it's your Instagram, you can do whatever the hell you want with it. If you want to put an AI image on there, if you want to do an AI commercial, we've seen, look, I've seen some funny [\h__\h] that people do with like they get like Hillary Clinton or or or Camela Harris and they have these AI generated commercials. They're absolutely hysterical. Anyone who believes that they're real is a [\h__\h] So, I mean, most Instagram stuff is for entertainment purposes. The funny thing is too, it's like because it's do it now. We have the access on our phones. But it's like I said many times I'd go to Woodland Hills and I'd see him in there touching up with the computer. Oh, they all did that for the covers. I said Flex Peter was on the cover of Flex and when I was there, I think Julian Schmidt then was standing around. Flex was doing a double bicep shot and they're making his waist a little smaller. I'm like, you don't need to make you don't need to make Flex's waist. Yeah. Yeah. Like why make his way smaller? More magazines. It looks freakier. That's why. Look, I'm not I have no problem with that. Like I said, because like you Lee said, when you're on stage, there's no filters and there's no Photoshop. It is what it is. So, I think if you're going to delude people into thinking that you actually look better than you do, and then when they see you on stage, they're going to actually be let down, that could actually work against you, too. So, you got to be very careful about you that just like when my wife met me online. And I was on a dating site and the first thing I get message is, "Oh, very smart. Who do you think you are?" Lee priest. I am Lee Pri. She thought I was thought I was catfish. And I said, "I am him." She Yeah, nice try. Why? I said because I'm trying to find someone to go out with. So for like two weeks, you never Then I finally sent her a photo going like that. She goes, "Oh [\h__\h] you are Lee." That's funny. That's funny. Well, I think that uh we're getting closer to the Olympia now. Jimmy, you going? Yes. Okay. Lee, you're going, but we won't see Lee. Lee will be in the I won't be there. I won't be there. Oh, you won't be there. No, I got to get um I got all my papers here on the 9th of October. I've got to go back in and I'm getting like a glass lens put in my eye. Getting a glass eye like Sammy Davis Jr.? No, an actual like lens so I don't have to wear glasses. They're putting the lens in my eye. Oh, I thought you already have the lens replaced. No, they did the cornea thing and now they're putting the permanent lens over the Oh, the lens is like getting cataract surgery like I had basically Yeah. So, it's just like Well, maybe you could do the maybe you could do the um the playbyplay with Kamali. He's going to be doing it from his house. Well, I'll be doing it because that weekend because I got the operation on the 9th and then the 12th and 13th I'll be at a fitness expo in Sydney. Whose whose fitness expo is that? I don't know some fitness expo people. Maybe the four maybe the 14th you can do it then. I'll be there. Yeah, I'll be there on Wednesday. I'm getting in on the uh the 9th. We'll be at the Arnold though. Jim Jim Reapers and that is gonna be returning to the Arnold. All right. Well, well, Jimmy, we'll have to get together and do some wrap-up stuff and all that stuff. Yeah. All right. Well, Lee, if you're gonna be around, you'll let me know because I know Kamali is going to be running the live stream uh playbyplay uh for all the people at home. Sami comes on and Samir can argue about who we just want Samir and Milos to to go at it. That's all. Yeah, they will. They probably will. They will. All right. Well, we're going to wrap up today's show. I want to thank everyone for joining us. And even though we weren't live, I think we uh touched on a really nice topic here. If you guys have relationship issues, contact Lee Priest. Don't contact Jimmy or I. We don't want to know about it. Lee will give you all the relationship advice you want. And if he's not available, done that. Contact Jimmy the Bull. For now, we're out of time. I'm Dave Palumbo for another installment of the Palumbo podcast. We'll see you next time.