This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the 2010 IFBB Jacksonville Pro. I'm here with our figure first place finisher. Two weeks in a row. Candace Keane. Hi Dave. How are you? Really cleaning up, huh? I'm trying. Where did all this come from? You know, I just been I told myself I'm going to bust butt and I did. And I'm busting butt and taking names. Do you think that the reason you never really were this dominant before was you didn't really bring the level of conditioning you needed to to the stage? Yeah, I think I added on a few more pounds of muscle and just, you know, just made it my my goal, my, you know, I became OCD the last few months and it worked. OCD in what sense? Just improving my parts that I needed to prove improve. Staying focused, not going out, not [\h__\h] around. Oh, I don't go out. Yeah. Living and breathing. Well, I mean, I'm busy, so I go to school and I do this and I, you know, so I'm busy. Now, going into Connecticut Hartford Europa, you probably didn't know what to expect when you emerged victorious there. Obviously, you have to have a lot of confidence coming into this week. You know, I just my my goal this this year was to step on stage because last year when I competed when I came here to compete, I never stepped on stage cuz What happened? My body rebelled against me and I just never I was in the lineup and I thought I was going to pass out and I just wouldn't have. So, you bailed on the show last year. I couldn't help it. Yeah. So, my goal this year was just to step on stage and, you know, bring what I brought in Hartford for my friends and family to see cuz I'm from here. Oh, this is your hometown? Well, Orlando, but my mom's here and all my friends are here. So, I just wanted them to see what they missed in Hartford. So, how did it feel to win in front of all your uh family? It's awesome. I heard my mom in the in the crowd and I heard my trainer in the crowd and he's I'm excited. They're excited. So, now that they're actually saying to themselves, "Holy [\h__\h] all this stuff that time she's been wasting was really she's doing something, huh?" Yeah. Yeah. How difficult was the diet leading up to the show? Not at all. I mean, it's just it's all mental, you know. Well, Alicia Harris told me that she likes to she thinks it's a requirement to cheat during the diet. Do you ever cheat? No. And you say that with a very weird uh vibe. I'm not really allowed cheats. Only every once in a while, but it's okay because do you ever go off the reservation yourself and just lose your mind and eat a jar of peanut butter? Um I not when I'm so close to a show, but I have done that before. Yes. We're going to see you next week at Houston. I mean in Dallas. Yes. Going for three in a row. That has to be some kind of record. I'm gonna try. Why not? And then you'll wait to the Olympia after that. Mhm. Congratulations. Thank you, Dave. Candace Keane here, our champion at the 2010 IFBB Jacksonville Pro. We're going to see her next week at Dallas Europa. She's going to try to make it three in a row. Can she do it? Wait till next week. For now, I'm Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.