Well, and oh, I lived Folk and Molins, explicitly, I wasn't here with you, you're taller than we are here, it's from San Juan, Puerto Rico, with him, the living legend Carlos Ayala, coach of champions, and he has done many pros on the island, and so we had these two signs, we are also here today, it's the second year of Ayala's position, just classify them, how does it feel to have arrived and that this has become a reality, or do I feel immediate gratification? This second year, this year I see more boom, more people, maybe nothing, when I started this event, well, I set out to make a unique event and nothing, something different because the classic thing was always vaudeville imposed, and trying to emphasize rather what bikini fitness, Werner, everything, all the fields as such, when when you started your career a year ago, did you ever imagine that you would be doing this type of selling, but to start first as an athlete, then as an elite coach, and now I am a promoter, wow, it's like, well, I think you think as a promoter, now you have another, another, another mentality, what do you think is the most difficult thing about putting on an event like this? Well, rather the event  As such, in the organization, it's more about the sponsors that one has to be on top of, but really it's about winning over the athletes and especially the coaches. You understand? Here, it's a way of being neutral, you know. I know how one isn't a bank account; one always has to be there and do something to thank everyone. I try, but it makes for a big and different event, and well, with all these legendary athletes like you who are coming back now, there's a rumor that you're thinking of returning to that stage again. Well, I'm 44 years old now, it doesn't look like it, but I've been around the block. I was a champion at 18 and retired at 30, but I want to make a comeback, but it would be in 2016, as such. But it would be one of the biggest, God knows. I'm going to take it one step at a time, but I know I'm going to get there because I don't like to lose. You heard it here, I said it on camera, done, I'll do it again. So, people, thank you all for bringing us here, sharing this event with us, and well, we're number one here, but I'm one year away from that, one year away. Just a few last words: I want to thank my  Sponsors, wow, I want to especially thank Juan Rosario, Brenda Este Álamo, Quebec Habite Sports, and obviously you. It's wonderful that you're always there, always showing support, and all the people who were there yesterday. I felt you were close. Thank you. Okay, and best of luck to the athletes from Carlos. ( Zionists, ave azul punto com)