This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the 2010 IFBB New York Pro Championships. I'm here with our women's champion Kathy Le Franis three times in a row. Three times a charm. Yeah, I just realized now. So, I'm getting exciting. Feel like becoming a multiple ch. Is this like a contest you're going to compete at every year now? Yeah, it would be great. I love New York. I just, you know, this time I don't know if I maybe, you know, see how they go Olympiad to see if I can, you know, get over this harm. And you you injured your arm and you missed a couple of important shows. What happened? I I I fell like a month before Olympia on the floor. my feet um slip on the carpet and it's always the freak accidents that we hurt ourselves. I was like stupid, really stupid. At 10:30, I was going in bed, you know, and uh my hand was like this for like uh 2 months, got this way. Olympia, I was this way, got here and got here. I still have a hard time to bend. You have a hard time posing it. Yeah. And stretches. The problem is the stretching. See, I can stretch all the way. Sure. You've had a lot of therapy on it. Uh yeah. Oh my god. Two or three time a week. It's insane. I'm tired of it. But they don't know what I have. I did X-ray. I did everything they said. But it's better, you know. It's like wow for what it was before. But um your back. Your back. It obviously didn't hurt you on stage. Yeah, it was painful. You know, I just like really hard to pose tricep and pose. So, and tonight you're the lady in green. You have green everything. Green nail polish all over. You got green in your hair. You got green suit. Green. You know what's green eyeshadow? My idol. Who's Who's your idol? Mr. Green. The Eminem. Oh, you like That's right. You're an Eminem freak. Eminem freak. Yeah. Oh, you know what? Look who we have over here. We have your trainer over here. Is that six times Miss Olympia Iris Kyle in a dress? Nonetheless. Oh, shucks. That's me. Now, C, what is Cathy's obsession with green M&M's? And I just saw you eat one, which I never see you chunk food. Green keeps you horning to lift the weights longer just to keep Is that what you do it for? Yeah. You know, Miss Miss Green, everything you hear about her, it's true. She's she's always happy. She always smiling and she she's every time I get in my office it's Eminem wall and I'm like hey this is happy here. Now when did you hook up with her? This this lady who's a six-time Miss Olympia champion. Where'd you meet her? You know I recently been the first only person was talking to me when I'm was doing my first pro show. I was speaking French. I was always by myself in the corner doing all my stuff alone. And she was all the time taking her M&M's. She I am focused on Iris right now. Okay. I forgot about Eminem and Irish was all time said, "Do you need something? Do you need help?" And I was not understanding English at all and she was telling me every they say you got to walk there. She was taking time. Your English, by the way, is very good now. Oh, thank you. Thank you. That helped after 10 years was pretty time. What did you see in her that that made you want to help her? Cuz you don't help anyone. Well, I really don't help anyone. I'm still like that. But, um, to make a long story short, she has a good heart. She's real genuine. She's not all about being seen. She's she wants to be heard but not seen in a in a small way on stage do what she has to do her work and get off and respect everyone and treat everyone equal. So it's not her body, it's her heart. You like her heart. It's her heart and everyone don't is not genuine. You have to be careful on who you select and she has everything that I have. So I I like to surround myself with the similar people and she's a great person. What do you what have you helped her with? Have you helped her more with diet training or just just moral support? She has all of that herself and she can help herself, but just keeping her her confidence level up and um giving her a little bit of tricks, but Kathy really did all that preparation on hers herself. You're not going to give her all the Irish Kyle secrets. You know what? Honestly, I have given her all the secrets. I have I'm I'm not selfish. I figure like I want the best standing next to me on stage. And if the best standing there next on stage and I still win, I'm the best. Really, right? I don't want to play around with the wannabes. I want to be with the best. Do you think you can uh can catch this chick at the uh at the Olympia? come September, I just want to be like in the top three, like be beside her, holding her hand, you know, and just like, wow, for me it's a win, you know, and you know, it's just like she said, I'm so on earth, you know. I I really appreciate everything she does for me. And you know, if one day in the middle, she I will beat her, I would I would be so surprised. The thing I would do, I would give her my trophy. I would keep the check, you know. Can I keep the check? No, they always keep the check. Wait, I will share with you. Okay, we'll share. put both check together and split it out. Yes, that's right. We might can buy a car together with those checks. With those checks, you couldn't even get all the way to Vegas. That's how it does. That's definitely true. But you know what? I'm going to say one key thing is that we're like hand in hand. I we can be in the same house and never get tired of each other. If I'm saying a lot. And if she's like cleaning, I'm probably doing something that will help us cook while she does most of the cooking. But we kind of click real well together. Stayed with her a while. I did. I stayed almost a month and a half. Yes. For you, too. Yeah. Yeah, you took some pictures for us which I'm going to be releasing very shortly. But anyway, the blue-eyed girl with with the green M&M's wins tonight in New York. Congratulations, Kathy. Congratulations, Iris. For now, I'm Dave Palumbo. rxmuscle.com