Heat. Heat. Welcome back to Versus RX Muscle's original TV program that pits champion verse champion. Uh brought to you by Quest Nutrition. Visit questnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and I'm here with Chris the technician Aceto and today's battle is Cedric McMillan verse the one and only Lionel Biki who will be squaring off this weekend at the 2017 Arnold Classic. Chris, this is a battle royale. I call it the battle of the shapes. Uh the round muscle bellies, whatever you want to call it, the classic physiques. Uh this is going to be one for the ages today and it'll be one for the ages come Saturday night because these guys are going to be squaring off against each other on stage. Biki coming off that big win at the San Marino Pro at the end of last year. Uh Cedric coming off the wins the win in Poland earlier in 2016 and the two second places at the Arnold USA and Arnold Australia. Uh talk to me a little bit about right off the bat why is Cedric McMillan so special? be, you know, this is a versus show, but it should be Cedric versus Cedric. Which damn Cedric is going to show up, right? We could have a whole show on that. Why Cedric is so special is because, uh, you know, he's tall, he's wide, he's got a small waist, he's got crazy tie-ins, he's got a beautiful physique. Um, you know, he's got charisma on stage, he's funny. Uh, he's got all the tools to, you know, be a the best really bodybuilder in the world. one of the very very very best in the world. And you know, he's he's he has there's two Cedrics. There's the Arnold Cedric and there's the Olympia Cedric. the Olympia Cedric either doesn't show up uh or he shows up and gets seventh, you know, or the Arnold Cedric shows up and he's usually really round at the the first show of the year and you know uh but there's always some type of crazy controversy at the Arnold whether it's be he's winning the show or you know he's not in the first call out but then when he's compared to the top guys you know he's dead center in the middle. So there's always something there's always some type of drama going on with with Cedric McMillan. The way I see it, Cedric VMillan's got those round muscle bellies that we just like to look at the delts, the arms, the pecs, uh, on the back double bicep, the flaring back with all the round little detailed muscle in between. He is a tall guy at over 6' one and, you know, that sometimes works to his disadvantage because his legs, if they're not in shape or they're not full enough, could look stringy. Um, terrific detail in his legs. However, when he does, you know, pose them. I have to say that his posing is spectacular on stage. He really enhances his physique as opposed to some of these guys that actually, you know, detract from their physique. So, he has a lot of gifts that he brings to the stage, but like you pointed out, it's very very confusing as to which Cedric you're going to get. Yeah. So, you know, um I I I think uh you know, this show you're going to get Nate Plus Cedric, I hope. Um, you know, he's he's he's he's bigger. And the important thing there is, you know, at the end of the day, he has to be bigger. Cedric can't chase glute condition and give up, you know, everything that he has, you know, and and and that that is a an internal struggle that he has. And you saw that at the Olympia, you know, he's trying to chase condition condition. And I'd say you can chase it if you want. You know what? But it's like, you know, it it's not the the the best or the smartest strategy to take. You know, I always tell people, you know, be your best. And be your best is that that does not mean be the most shredded. That does not be the most round. That does it means be the best to show off your own attributes. You know, with the Dexa Jackson, it's conditioning at all costs. If Dexa can come into a show, you know, bizarrely conditioned, he's he he jumps right into second place at the Olympia. you know, if he comes in full and in great condition, he falls to third or fourth. So, uh, you know, some people you can't just say chase condition. Let's talk about Lionel Biki now because Lionel, uh, had a bunch of good years, then he had a bunch of bad years. We heard he was diagnosed with diabetes where he was going to be an insulin dependent diabetic. Uh, he prayed and by the graces of God, he was healed. And I don't say that in a humoristic way at all. He is no longer requiring insulin. Uh he made a comeback last year or at the end of I should say 2015, but 2016 proved to be a terrific year for him which he capped off with the big win for San Marino Pro. What are Lionel's gifts in your in your opinion? Uh the strongest attributes that make him a dangerous competitor? Uh it depends on, you know, where he is. You know, he's got muscle maturity. um when he's in good condition and he's he's got muscle density when he's in in good condition. Um and he's, you know, struggled. I used to call him the chocolate donut because he had like seven shows in a row where he was just not in shape. Um and you know, I know, you know, obviously he's hooked up with that goofball. I'm just kidding, George. Uh, you know, I wanted to I wanted to make fun of Hy Hy Barbara, uh, which is Hy Ramad. Hannah Barbara is a cartoon. He reminds me of a cartoon character. Um, you know, Hy Dallas, too. Dallas and and Biki used to work with HY. Um, and it's funny that that that Dallas made all these massive gains after not working with HY. Uh, and Bikey struggled with Handy conditionwise. And you know, I I like to make fun of George, but um I can't make fun of him here because, you know, George hooked up with with uh Biki and Bike's been in great condition the last couple shows and um you know, I expect him to be in great condition here as well. Maybe his all-time probably his all-time best. Lionel was third at the Arnold Asia, third at the Arnold South Africa. He was fourth at the Mr. Olympia Europe show and then finished off the year obviously with the big win in San Marino getting better and better from each show. Now I still didn't see the best Lionel Biki that I think he's capable of in San Marino. Obviously was good enough to win at that show. The talent pool wasn't that deep. Biki obviously going into this year's Arnold. This is going to be the biggest show I guess of the year for him. And this is the show that people are waiting for. They're waiting to see if he can make a statement here. You know, George said to us, said to me at least at the San Marino Pro that when he comes back in 2017, it will be a different because George said he only worked with him six weeks. He said this will be a different Lionel Biki. Uh the question is, does Lionel Biki have the tool set to win the big show, you know? He does. I think he does. You know, I mean, he's got to be a major threat. Put it this way, we're doing, you know, he's he's a major threat to Cedric McMillan at Cedric McMillan's best. Keep in mind, Cedric got second last year to Kai Green and he beat Kai Green in pre prejudging, not my opinion. That's just how it went down on the on the scorecards. So, we're not talking about beating, you know, the fourth and fifth and sixth place guy. We're talking about the beating the guy Kai Green who, you know, is Kai Green. Uh, you know, he's at a whole different level than most people. So, you know, having said that, I I think, you know, the best Biki would match up extremely well against Cedric Akai from last year, you know, because he he has uh full pecs. He's got width to his back, you know, he's got uh you know, great arms, big pecs, small waist. Um very good thighs from the front. You know, probably the only knock to him is in terms of development is back width from behind. He's I amazing as wide as he looks from the front. That's set off because of the small waist from behind. He's he's not that that wide and his hamstring and uh development is not that thick from behind, you know, but those are the only flaws. I mean, otherwise, um, he's got great, you know, uh, color on stage, you know, he's got good skin texture, you know, he's got all the tools. He's a strided muscle. He doesn't have oiled up fake muscle. You know, things happen when he poses. Um, you know, anyone who doesn't take this guy serious is is uh foolish. Let's talk about the battle that's going to take place on Saturday. Biki vers Cedric McMillan. Let's do it pose by pose as we always do here at Versus and let's see who we pick will win the virtual pose down. So let's let's put up front double which which pictures you going to put up which bike and which Cedric you can't see the pictures but I can we're doing Arnold Classic pictures of Cedric and we're doing what? San Marino of of L. You got to take San Marino because that was his best. Yeah. Okay. You got take Cedric McMillan verse Lionel Biki front double bicep. Who wins? Why? Um I think Cedric because he's taller and and just a bigger guy. If Cedric, you know, and if Cedric can beat um you know I I think Cedric there. I think Bikey's got a fabulous front double bicep. Um, I I I think when you put them next to each other in real life, Cedric will appear to be the bigger guy with greater flow through the lats. Yeah, I I agree with you, Chris, 100%. I'm going to give that to Cedric McMillan only because, like you said, sometimes big does beat smaller. Uh, I think Cedric's lines are as good as Bayikis and vice versa, but Cedric's just the bigger version. So, I think in that front double where you really open up, I I think that Cedric is impressive. front lat spread. This is I give this to I give this to Bike. I think he's fabulous in it. You know, his waist disappears. The quads, you know, are just look ridiculously round from the front on that shot. Um I think, uh, you know, his legs are full enough that they, you know, would make Cedric's look long, you know, and one of the things that you, you know, not doesn't work well for Cedric is to have long looking legs. That's what happened at the Olympia and he just like, you know, got smoked into seventh. I don't know if I agree with that. I I I think that uh Cedric McMillan has a tremendous front lat spread. I think, you know, I always think of the old Lee Haney latspread where he would hit the lat spread and you couldn't see any space between his arms because his his lats were taking up all that they were coming out so much from his sides. Very few guys have that. Um Dorian had the same thing going on. I I see a lot of Cedric in that as well. I don't I see so much lat on Cedric's front lat spread. Uh while his legs are a little on the smaller side, um he seems to hide them well. He poses them so he shows a lot of detail. I I I'm edging towards Cedric on that pose. I I I I'm going to We'll have to call that one a tie. Let's do side chest. Um this is this is a big one. This is where sometimes the shorter guy beats the taller guy. Cedric I I when Cedric's full, he's really d he's phenomenal in this shot on stage that the height works a major league and and when he's full he's impressive period and bike is phenomenal in this shot as well. I just think that um Cedric has also when he's full a crazy hamstring drop from the side. Yeah, I'm looking at the pictures. It's this is a tough shot. I might give it to Biki because his pecs and delts and arms are so thick. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. Biki's Yeah, he's dense to the, you know, you could get I I could see Bikei winning that shot, too. I'm gonna I'm gonna call that one a tie because you and I both have different opinions on that one. Side tricep. This is uh this is one of the poses that I I always felt that Cedric should decimate people on, but he for some reason he doesn't really pull this one off so well. What do you think? Um, it's not very it's not really a memorable pose on him. You know what I mean? But it should be because he's got such a small waist. I don't know why he he hits it so unconventional. He hides his hides he like shrinks his whole body down. Yep. Yep. And you know, you can't give him any advice whatsoever when it comes to squat squat down too low or something. Dave. Yeah. He throws his arm there. He doesn't really Give me advice to give to give me advice to give to him when he flies in on Saturday morning. So that when I say Dave thinks you could hit a side tricep so he can say I won't even interview on that fool's show man what the [\h__\h] I take him he can't he can't take criticism from anyone even if he's living on a plantation out there in Carl Gable who who wins the side tricep by or Cedric I both I think they both have the same issues to be honest with you on this pose yeah I think they do you know what they're both poses where they both should look crazy and they both don't look good No, you're right. You're right. I don't know. I I I I should we call it a tie? I mean, I know how Biki hits his, too, and it's like, h I know how Cedric hits his and it's like, h We'll call it a tie. Let's do back double bicep. Back lat spread. Same. Let's assess both back poses because Johnny doesn't have any uh lat spread poses. Back double Cedric. I I give it to Cedric, too. Um what about back lat spread? I also give that to Cedric. Oh, I give the upper body to to Biki, but his lower body is like it's weird. He's he's he's thin in the hamstrings and Cedric is thin in the hamstrings, too. But, you know what I mean? But I think Bike is even thinner in the hams. Bike's got a good back. You're right. I mean, it is it is a tough but it's all up. Once again, I I think bigger is better in this case, just like the front double, but you could you could give I think it's going to come down to which one of these guys is more conditioned because a lot of them both of them seem to suffer in the hamstring glute area sometimes when they when they don't come in tight enough. And then likewise, like you said, if they come in too tight, they both look too flat back there. So, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's a good matchup. Let's go to ab thigh. Chris bikey. Okay. I go along with that too. Why? Uh he's got cross striations in his quads. Even when he's looks like the chocolate donut. Yeah. Um his abs got nice like you know when he sits on them they fall where they're supposed to fall. Which is you don't even see that in bodybuilding anymore. Nobody even has abs like where they fall where they're supposed to fall anymore. You know too much GH insulin and car too much GH and insulin though. Someone would say no it's it's a food issue. Let's uh let's take a look at the most muscular shot. This is both both guys have tremendous crab shots. Who's better? Um on the crab, Cedric. Um bikey can't do a crab. He don't look big in the crab. He he does that like little uh 1970s shot where he looks great in. But you know what? I'll tell you what. Wyatt hurts Bikei. Sean Rhoden can't do a crab. Well, no. And and he has to try to, you know, when it comes down to the most muscular, right? Think of this. Wolf, crazy. Most muscular most, you know, Dexter. I don't care how small you think Dexter is on the most muscular looks amazing. Yeah. And Phil. Yeah. You know what I mean? So when it comes to Shawn Rhoden, for example, on his most muscular, he can't hit a crab. So it hurts him. He can beat people if he they both do the hands on hips, most muscular, beat the whole lineup. But it's called the They don't ask for a hands on hips most muscular. They want a most muscular. And uh because um Biki, I've seen him in it. He doesn't look right in it. And I think that's why he, you know, amazingly he doesn't look big in it. Mhm. So that's why he hits that shot that he looks fabulous in that 1970s thing. And if Cedric hits um which he would beat Cedric for sure in that like hands on hips most muscular. Yeah. But a crab most muscular. Cedric looks really big in it. So I think Cedric there. Well, so if I add up all the scores, taking out the ties that we had for a few of them and where we didn't agree, we both agreed that Cedric uh pretty much three to four to one beats Biki uh overall. Now, we don't know what's going to happen this Saturday night. You know, it's impossible to to to tell because who knows who's going to show up in shape. And that's always the, you know, we always try to handicap these shows, Chris, based on the best version of the bodybuilder that we have in our head, but ultimately not everyone shows up at their best. Maybe 50% of the people show up at their best. 25% of the people show up at their best. And that's why there's always a surprise. The 100% of the 212 guys will be at their best. Yeah. It's just when you get into the open, it's just like, right, it's a it's a free-for-all. If you had a if you were a betting man, um, who do you put your money on for the Arnold Classic? I I put it on Cedric only because of this. Um, he has a a a a good and a bad history here. The bad history is the placings. The good history is his looks. You know, you can go back last year. The bad was his for him was his placing. You know, he's he's running first and then to get second, but he looked great. the year before, you know, the bad placing for him fourth, but he looked great. You know, Arnold comes out says, you know, he looked, you know, that big controversial Arnold statement. The year before, I mean, there's so many, you know, this Arnold for him, he was third. He looked great, but ran into like a Roden and a Wolf. Probably those two, those might have been, you know, one of B. It was definitely one of Wol's all-time best looks and definitely one of Broden's all-time best looks. And they were so hyped coming into the show, you know, was this this, you know, showdown that it was like Cedric was although he was good enough to beat be right there with both of them, he was, you know, he got third. So I think because of the history, um, you know, uh, I I think that the the luck for Cedric may turn and and, you know, he'll come in looking good like he has, but get a placing that he wants. Well, we won't know till this Saturday, but I will tell you one thing. Cedric McMillan reminds me of the New York Mets baseball team. They always found a way to lose and drive you crazy as a fan. But when they won, it was the greatest celebration of all. They made it the most exciting they possibly could. And I think that's Cedric McMillan. If he wins this weekend, it will be the greatest victory he ever had. And I guarantee he probably will interview with us. And there probably be one of the best interviews I ever do. So, I'm looking forward to that. That's going to take us to the end of this episode of Versus, brought to you by Quest Nutrition. Visit questnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo with Christ the technician Aceto. We'll see you this weekend in Columbus, Ohio. Heat. Heat.