Heat up here. For the land of the free and the home of the brave. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Finally. Dave Palumbo here with Chris the technician Aceto at the 2017 Arnold Classic. The finals have led out and Chris, we've been talking about this for years. If Cedric ever won this show, it would be the the the the the stellar victory of stellar victories. The speech he gave alone for this victory was worth the price of admission times 10. The speech will go down as the best I don't know is it an acceptance speech, victory speech in the history of bodybuilding because it's it was ridiculously funny. The timing was incredible. uh the way he brought the other competitors up with him uh and recognized them. He spoke about diversity which had there was he talked about the diversity in physiques but he was actually meaning metaphorically as well the diversity in the bodybuilding community uh which is reflective of what America is. And then he kind of had uh a lot of country wisdom too. Yeah, there it was country wisdom because it was a a Trump dig and he backed that up with a you know he told Arnold, "Hey, I heard you having a little problems with uh Trump. Let's not talk about me. Let's talk about you." Yeah. Typical Cedric McMillan turning around the interview process so that Arnold can't do his usual interview on him and he interviews Arnold. Only he could pull this off. I don't think any other competitor would have gotten away with this. They wouldn't have the guts. They wouldn't have the the even if they tried, I don't think Arnold would have allowed him. Arnold likes him so much. Yeah. Matter of fact, during the his posing routine, Arnold came up and tried to do some social media in front of the stage and Cedric was upset and gave came over and rubbed his head. He gave the the the the rabbit ears over the head. And then in the middle of the routine, tapped him on the head. He has those long arms like a giraffe that he can tap on the head. And backstage, he said, "Man, you see Arnold coming in and social mediaizing my routine? He's trying to screw it up." The the line that that got me though was when you know Arnold wanted to interview him and he goes and he said I I know you want to talk to me. I know you got those witty things to say but I I got to talk you know and and I it was just a classic Cedric and he interviewed Arnold. He wanted to he did that cliche. How long did you train for this Arnold? And Arnold said like you know two year two hours a day to come from 24% body fat to 16. Then then he said let's see your three quarterback Arnold. Now Arnold hit it. You got to hit it. Well, let's talk about the Cedric McMillan physique here tonight. He was even better than prejudging. He was full. He was round. He was hard. This is the Cedric McMillan that we all knew he was capable of. Talk to me about the strategy with this show versus past shows. Um, the strategy for this show was really I mean Cedric will tell you it. It was my strategy and I I mentioned this. Keep them big. Keep them big. And you know the problem with When you say big, how big? because you you revealed to me 290 298. Well, he was 281 on stage and prejudging. And what was he 3 days before? Yeah. 290 high 290s. But more important than that is, you know, last year um that's a big big bodybuilder. It's a big bodybuilder. But, you know, the point is with Cedric is he has his own ideas. Arnold can't interview him and I can't coach him. So, you know, we work together, but there there comes a time where you say, "You know what, dude? Just just leave it to me." Not nothing more than this is my vision really, Cedric. You have to be round round and I think that's going to work best for you. And once he, you know what, he was fighting me on it, starting the diet and this and that. He wants to come in, you know, tight and trim and this and that. And I sent him some pictures of like when he was round, when he was like six in 2013. And you know, you go back and look at those pictures. You say, "Holy [\h__\h] you know, that was huge." And that that we blamed like, you know, we got on a fact, right? If it wasn't for this strategic move on your part and Cedric actually listening, I think he would have lost to Dallas Macccarver here today because I think Dallas brought not only humongous muscle, he had to be in also close to 280 on stage, but he brought terrific conditioning. He controlled his posing much better than he did at the Olympia. He looked way professional on stage. It took it it was it took a great Cedric McMillan to take down Dallas Maccgar. Yeah. No dou I like I said after the prejudging wrap-up I've I you know I I've been critical of a Dallas you know from like day one. You know I I you know I I just thought he was like overhyped. You know there's a lot of people come in you know they get so much hype and then they get flattened by Dexter. They get so much hype and then they get flattened by Roden. They get so much hype and they get flattened by, you know, whoever's there in the Olympia. and and and uh so I don't know if I was offended by the hype, but I just didn't buy into it. But he didn't look he did not look at the Olympia like he looked here tonight after the prejudging tonight. You know, I buy into the idea that this guy is going to be a you know top top six this year for sure at the Olympia. I don't know where, but he's got some strengths. I mean, he's got he's got a knockout most muscular. Well, 25 years of age, I mean, he's got his whole career again ahead of him. Is he uh capable of becoming the next Jay Cutler, which is what we're all waiting for? I mean, he's capable of becoming the best that he can be, which is someone who's massive and eventually uh gets by those people who Jay would say have all the bells and whistles, you know, the crazy tie-ins, the Dexters and the Rodens with the size. Yeah. Just overwhelms them. That's what he's gonna have to do, you know, and he will he would overwhelm, you know, some people at the Olympia who he couldn't overwhelm, you know, just four months ago, I think. You know, third place Max Charles was very impressive, very tight this week, this weekend. I saw detail in his legs that we haven't seen in the past. They actually look pretty good tonight. They looked full. You I mean, I actually thought he challenged Dallas Macccarver a little bit just because his upper body size is so enormous. Yeah. No, he looked tremendous. You know what? He he looked like the the Max Charles from uh last year's Arnold with even more detail. The the I I think he he gave up a little bit of wacky fullness, but I think that was an absolute mustd do to be able to get in this lineup. If um you know, even Fuller in this lineup, he still I think had to lock on third. I think he had to lock on third, you know, from the get-go. Uh I just thought he was tight enough to get by. Uh, and still of course he's big. So I mean of course Biki is bigger but you know he was tight enough regardless to get by. Well, you know it to me it was a twoman show and then the rest of the lineup because I think the top two was were were elevated above third through sixth place by Olympia versus not Olympia guys. I agree with you. But Max looked his best and if he can keep bringing up those legs, he's going to be very dangerous. Uh Lionel Biki was impressive but not his best. Once again, those glutes and hamstrings, I don't know if they're under muscled or just under conditioned because I think if you try to get them conditioned, he's going to be too small. Yeah, too small. Well, you know what? He's he's he's got the crazy legs from the front, right? The front back, the front double, the front last. We talked about this on the preview show and I said he's, you know, cuz people were asking about we we did the debate by uh Cedric and I said, you know, he doesn't have a lot of hamstring thickness from behind. Um, and it looks can look odd unless it's absolutely peeled and it's only been absolutely peeled maybe three shows out of the last 18. So, it's a vulnerable spot for him. Uh, he has the potential to come into a show like this and definitely, you know, challenge Cedric. I think it just look, you know, I always go back to the Brazil look that he had and that was a mesmerizing. I mean, I know he got fourth there, but it was a tremendous look for him. And if he showed up at a show like this with that Brazil Arnold look, you know, he'd be in the, you know, right next to Cedric St. Yeah. Let's talk about Juan Morell. Um, good but not great. Um, I felt the legs were down. Um, I don't know if he's got leg flatness issues or he's got leg size issues. What would you say? I I think they're flatness issues. I don't know. They they they look like just flat, like wasted. upper body doesn't look like that. No. Um I I don't know if it's like cardio or sometimes when you restrict water, your weaker body parts can fall apart. And the oddness of it is, as you know, is one show they can fall apart and the next show you restrict water and they the weak body part for some reason hangs around. So it's they to me they look flat because I've seen them big. you know, when he won the New York Pro, he had good legs, you know, and and they obviously weren't flat there. And his upper body here is the same as it was at the New York Pro. So, it's just, you know, it it's creating a visual imbalance. And when you're up against like Bayiki, even though, yeah, Biki is not in great condition, at least he's round, standing from the front, you know, standing from the front, standing from the front, standing from the front, he's really, really round, including in the lower body, and that's what gets him past Juan Fouad Abiad. He's a guy who maximizes his talents and his gifts. He doesn't have the gifts that the Cedric McMillan and the Dallas Macccarver has. He doesn't have that structure, but this guy is a workhorse. He brought a lot of muscle to the stage. He was very well conditioned. And you know what? He deservedly got six place and beat out some guys, you know, like like Michael Lockett who probably are genetically better than him, but he just outworked them. Yeah. No, he just he brought his absolute best. His his uh condition was impeccable, I think, in the playbyplay. you know, I I I raved about him and it's one of these guys like I didn't really know what the judges would do with him, you know, you know, where they would put him. Um, and it was nice to see him reward in the top six based on, you know, his condition and and based on the fact that he came in his absolute best for his body. If he he was not flat for his physique, he was not a little bit off for his physique, he was banging on for his body. And, you know, here we at the Arnold, he ends up six. It's a great, you know, it's a great placing in the men's physique division. Ryan's Terry, who finished second at the Olympia, takes home the victory here over an excellent Andre Ferguson. Uh, I thought it was a very tight battle, but Ryan Terry emerges victorious. Also, in the bikini, we had a big upset. Uh, Courtney King, who was the reigning uh, Miss Olympia, lost to Angelica Texera. Congratulations on that big win. I actually thought Janet L was my winner, but you know, what do I know about Bikini? Well, what did you base that on? beauty, eye appeal, everything. Yeah. Okay. Everything. Just what I like, you know. Dave Palumbo's preference. That's right. But the big story here tonight, Cedric McMillan finally bringing home the big victory we know he's all capable of. Does this give him tremendous momentum going into the Olympia now? Um I you know what, I I'll go out on a limb. I think Cedric can actually come in seven pounds bigger and then this condition at the Olympia. I know people throw around numbers ridiculously and they pull them out of their ass, but the fact is Cedric didn't even prepare for the show for a long period of time. That's the oddness of it. And once he prepared, once Cedric decided, you know what? I agree. Chris, step back. I'm I'm going to get my weight up to 290 and I'm going to train there for a while and let's see how, you know, what happens for me to my body if I if I can get it there and if I train there. And it was just like week after week it's like okay I know he was doing a lot you know cardio but like when's your weight going to drop and it never did. So good thing but I think for him it was just a matter of once he made that click I'm going to I'm going to try to stay 290s all the way till close to the show. It worked. It was a good strategy and it worked. And I want to just send I know we we break his chops a lot. Uh George Farah, but I want to send out some He's feeling down. He's not doing so well. He's a little sick. I want to everyone out there to send their prayers out to George Farah. You know, he's one of our brothers in iron and we want to see him get better quickly. We we love we love him so much. I want to like, isn't this terrible? I just want to throw him under the bus because he's just, you know, George, you're the best. We wish you were here. Everyone was asking, "Where are you?" Uh Chad was asking, I was asking, and we were just No. And we're waiting for you to come around the corner and say, "Brother, let me tell you something." And so, we miss you and uh we hope you feel better and can't wait to see you. All right. And uh that's pretty much it for this weekend. Um I want to thank all the Arnold people. Bob Lura for inviting us, Matt Lors for opening up his arms to us. I mean, this is like a a homecoming when we come here every year. I can't wait for this show. This is my one of my favorite shows of the year, obviously, along with the Olympia. And you know, it's because they put on a top-notch celebration here. One of these days, Arnold, I will interview you. Cedric got my interview tonight, but maybe next year. I'm Dave Palumbo with Chris the technician Aceto for rxmuscle.com.