Scitec Nutrition. Premium quality products. State-of-the-art look. Uncompromised ingredient quality. Our products work and taste good. www.sitecnutrition.com. Heat up here. Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. Visit scitecn nutrition.com. I'm your host Dave Palumbo and tonight's guest on our Iron Road to the Arnold Classic series is none other than IFBB Pro Evan Centipani. Welcome. What's going on, Dave? Wow. This is the first time we've spoken uh on camera in a very very very long time and it's my pleasure to get you uh on the Live with TV show. It's good to be here. I appreciate it. You know, Evan, um I've known you for a real long time. We met in an airport. Uh I think it was the year was 2006. It was the Arnold Classic. We were coming back from Columbus, Ohio. And uh I had no idea who you were. You had just won the Atlantic States the previous year uh the overall, your very first show. And uh we spoke a little bit and we wound up working together and uh you know, you won the junior nationals that year. You played second at nationals. We're going to talk all about that. And then you went on obviously to win the nationals the following year. So, you've had a a pretty whirlwind uh type of career, almost Phil Heathish, not quite as quick, but it was a quick amateur career into the pros. Uh let's take you back though. A lot of people, you know, have heard the story. A lot of people haven't heard the story. As a child, you were very overweight and uh that kind of altered your life in a sense. Uh it made a lot of differences and changes in who you became. Talk to me what it was like growing up, you know, basically over obese. Yeah. You know, a lot of bodybuilders come from athletic backgrounds. Um, and I often get asked, well, you know, what sports did you play? You know, were you an athlete? Is that what led into, uh, you know, getting you into bodybuilding? And, um, people are often times surprised when I say, actually, um, I was really overweight growing up and all I wanted was to be skinny. Um, so I actually took up basically starving myself and running in an attempt to get thin. And uh, once I did and I I lost like 80 lbs uh, one year uh, at the beginning of high school and once I took all that weight off, I really wasn't content with the way that I looked. I envisioned being ripped and, you know, really hard and, you know, you know, just with no fat on my body. And although I had lost all this weight and I felt so much more pleased with the way I looked, I still didn't have the look I wanted and it it became evident to me that I needed to pick up some weights if I was going to do that. Did you have any clue that you had a propensity for for building muscle the way you did or was it kind of like I started lifting weights and all of a sudden I discovered this? Well, you know, once once I did make the decision to pick up weights, I was still it's it's probably safe to say that I was a little bit I don't know if you if you can be a little bit, but I was anorexic at one point. I mean, I was so afraid of eating and I was starving myself and running six miles a day. And um when I picked up weights, I was still afraid to eat. And although I wasn't really eating and I was still running a lot um at the same time, I was still getting muscular and I was still putting on muscle. And you know, my father kept telling me, you know, you need to eat, you need to eat. And when I finally eased up a little bit, all the running and I started eating a little bit more, I just added like 30 pounds of muscle uh within, you know, a year. And um you know I guess being probably the most muscular kid you know in my high school and things like that despite you know not playing sports and being just as strong as a lot of the the guys that were you know training for football and stuff like that. Yeah. I mean I get I began to think okay you know this is something I'm I'm good at. Amazing when I look at the pictures. Johnny just had a great picture up there of your transformation from child to to what you are now. It's amazing that your skin came back. You know, a lot of people have the loose skin thing when they were when they were young and they gained a lot of weight. Your skin is perfect. You never had saggy skin. It's like you turned into a different person. How did your mind change, however? because a lot of people see it, you know, you see a big change physically, but the mind doesn't change as fast as the body does. That's really a great question, you know, because the the time that we're living in when people are constantly tell people or or telling themselves, you know, you should accept me be, you know, even even if I'm overweight or I'm this or I'm that, you should accept me and I accept myself. Um, I didn't feel that way. I I didn't accept myself. And truth be told, I was overweight. Um, it wasn't healthy. I was overweight because it was a my outward appearance was a reflection of my inner state. And there was, you know, there was laziness, there was a lack of self-control, a lack of discipline. And what as I began to transform physically, I learned to master myself mentally. So, I needed to go there in order to to make that change. And you know, this is this is going to sound stupid, but I was watching Scooby-Doo with my daughter the other night. And it was an old, you know, episode probably from the early '7s. And one of the one of the guests on the show happened to be this lady who was really overweight. And the whole time they were cracking jokes about her weight. And I was thinking to myself, man, they would never get away with that today. But they were laughing about it. And the person was joking own weight. I guess my point is is that with all the political correctness that we have nowadays and all this acceptance and all this, you know, you can't see color and you can't see um, you know, gender and you can't see all these things. Essentially, the world isn't any happier of a place. People aren't getting along any better. And I just don't think that people in general are doing any better. I don't know what it's all really good for. John Romano calls it the pussification of uh of society and uh you know I I think you know Donald Trump's whole you know campaign is based on political correctness needs to be thrown out the window because look what's happening the country is falling apart while we're all being so politically correct. Um but getting back to the the mindset I wanted to get back because you're you're you know you're very mentally strong now. How long did it take you to really uh accept and and maybe it still hasn't that you're not a fat guy anymore, you know, cuz I think even though you your body can change outside internally, you still could feel like a fat kid, you know? Well, that that's that's actually applicable question SL statement. There's a lot of times, you know, I go through this probably every time I diet where I'll have a tendency to overdo things and, you know, I'll be it could be myself and know a couple say trusted eyes that I would have, you know, around me and we're all kind of assessing my physique and they'll say, "You look great." And, you know, these are people that I do trust to not, you know, blow smoke up my ass. They'll say, "No, trust me, you look great. Don't overdo it. don't no don't push it so far. And I'm like, you sure? I I still feel like I look kind of soft. I could I could be harder. I could be this. I could be that. So, to your point, yeah, I do think that inside I do I do still associate um suffering with progress. And yeah, there's probably a piece a part of me that will always as being not lean enough. And um at at the at the same time though, I think that it helped make me a really good bodybuilder in the sense that I don't I don't think you can be a really great, you know, there there are some really exceptional genetic talents in the sport, but I think that the guys that do really really well, obviously they have a genetic component, but they do have maybe at least a touch of OCD, the willingness is to sub subject themselves to, you know, push it. You're always in the in the best shape. I've never seen you out of shape on on stage ever. Never ever ever. You know, you might have come in too flat one year or something like that, but never ever out of shape. And I think that that's a testament to your work ethic and what your uh your mindset at this point. And I think that like you said, it's sometimes good to have that extra push to to have to be better than you really are because let's face it, exceptional people win exceptional shows and that's really how the sport works. Let's go back to that first show you did in 2005, the Atlantic stage. Johnny just put some video footage up there on the screen we were watching. I mean, you looked amazing at that show as well and you probably you didn't even really know that much of what you were doing. You kind of did your diet all by yourself. Why did you wait so long to compete for the first time? Because people told me that years prior to this, you were you were ready to get on the stage, but you you waited specifically for 2005. Why? Well, you know, I I I didn't wait specifically for 2005. I was I was training a gym at the time and um I made I made friends with a bodybuilder who was training at my gym, big guy. And um we became friends and you know he had he was uh he was actually getting ready for a competition and he said you should you should do a show. You're crazy if you don't compete and I was like well you know I'd like to at some point but I don't I mean dude you're talking to a guy I didn't I didn't know what the NPC was. I didn't I didn't know any of it. Um he's like look there's a show coming up in 10 weeks. It's it's called the Atlantic States. You should just do the show. And I was like okay I'll do it. So, I was, you know, fat and out of shape and I just decided to diet and I got in shape and it was just going to really be a one-time thing. You know, I was like, well, you know, I've been training hard and um I'm curious. I've never been in contest condition, so I'm really curious to see what I would look like. So, I just want to just do it one time. And I did. And, you know, that kind of that was kind of life-changing. when you hit the stage in 2006 and won the NBC Junior Nationals, you beat Ben White in the overall u I was there and uh you know very proud of you and then you went on to play second at nationals behind Desmond Miller um and obviously make a big statement on the bodybuilding world uh MD signed you. You were on the cover of Muscular Development. How how did your life change after that from from a uh a mental perspective as well as a materialistic perspective? Well, I think that it might not have changed as much as it it would maybe for some other people. I mean, still I I kept my job. I kept my full-time job. And you know, I I I was telling this story to someone the other day and I said, "Well, you know, after my first competition, you know, I competed on a Saturday, I went into work on Monday when I did the junior nationals, you know, despite, you know, you when you were there and um you know, I went out to California to shoot for MD the day after the show. And I don't know, I might have got back on like a um a Wednesday and I think I went to work on Thursday. And I I kind of started telling this story and I said, you know, but I always just went back to work. So although I had started to have this um really tremendous amount of success in bodybuilding, um not to say that I saw it as a side thing, but it was always part of my life. And then at some point it I guess it it became a greater a greater focus. But initially I think it it was an evolution. It it took it took some time for it to sink in. It was still you know people would ask what do you do? I I was I was reluctant to ever say well I'm a bodybuilder or I'm a professional bodybuilder. Um, I would say, well, I um I write for a magazine or I, you know, I I represent a a supplement company, but I never I don't know why, but I never called myself a professional bodybuilder. Remember after you won the nationals in ' 07 and you won the other overall, I remember Jose Raymond was in the middleweight class. You beat him that year in the overall. Um, I remember you telling me, "Yeah, I'm going to keep my job. I'm not, you know, this is I'm not quitting my job ever, you know." And and I said, "You will one day. You you'll have enough to do in bodybuilding. you'll be making enough money and you're like, "No, no, I'm never getting rid of my regular job." Why were you so reluctant? Was it was you nervous about the whole, you know, taking the the plunge full force into bodybuilding? I guess I was um there was a little bit of fear. Um, you always want to have not a backup but if you can remain independent and not um relying, you know, say I didn't have to rely entirely on the bodybuilding industry for my my livelihood. For me, I think it was about maintaining control over over my life. And, you know, truth be told, um, I liked my job. I worked as a title searcher and if if the real estate market hadn't taken such a plunge back then, I'd probably still be doing it. Um, I enjoyed it. It gave I saw so many guys who submersed themselves entirely in the industry. Um, you know, they were not only so wrapped up in the industry themselves, but they were also married to someone in the industry. And I saw it so many times and I felt like they lost perspective on real life in the real world. And I was happy that I found someone and stayed with someone and I'm still with someone who is not involved in the industry. And I think maybe my desire to keep a job outside of the industry was was part of that. Um, and to to be totally honest, it's still not that I regret quitting that job because it just it wasn't the real estate market just wasn't the same, but had it stayed the same 100% I would I would still have kept it and still be doing it. Interesting, right? I didn't know that. You know, let's talk about your dietary principles and some of your beliefs because, you know, this is something that a lot of the fans love to hear you talk about, you know, watch you do your cooking videos and talk about nutrition and stuff like that. And I remember when we first met, we did a lot of speaking and we talked a lot about essential fatty acids and nutrition and you were always very interested and always like a sponge and you picked the stuff up very easily and you assimilated it into your own program and you have your own principles now that you follow. Um, you are the kind of guy that does not like to go out and eat in restaurants. I've seen you in the offseason where a whole bunch of friends of yours would go out to eat and you would maybe either just sit there or not even go. What what is talk to me a little bit about why you're so stringent in the way you eat all the time and your health? Well, you know, going going back to, you know, when you and I used to work together, you were um a really large influence on me and contrary to, you know, what a lot of people thought cuz I would get asked by people all the time, oh, you know, is Dave um, you know, does he really push you really hard? does he, you know, encourage you to, you know, um, you know, take a lot of risks and, you know, things like that. And I say honestly, compared to what I've heard a lot of other people do, if anything, Dave's really, really conservative and actually very health oriented. And you know, I would always listen to you and hear you speak about, you know, whether, like you said, whether it was essential fatty acids, um, anything really. There was always, uh, a health component built into what you preached. And that that resonated with me, that appealed to me. I was able to identify with that and that always stuck with me. And throughout the years, um, you know, even when I went off on my own, I think part of it is getting older and, you know, you know, my father, um, seeing my father get cancer and, you know, people around you, uh, you know, people that have died and, you know, mortality becomes a real thing. and having a daughter now, you know, you realize, okay, I want to, you know, I'm going to be there, you know, to see her and be married and I want to I want to be on this planet for as long as possible. So, granted, I want to pursue um, you know, bodybuilding and elite level. I want to look good, but I also want to be healthy and I want to, you know, I want to do it the smartest way possible. Um, so for me, health has become a really a really important part of professional bodybuilding. And although a lot of people would say that's that's ironic or that's that doesn't make any sense. You know, you're you're somebody who pushes the your body to the limit and you do things that are unhealthy. How could you be worried about your health? And I think that's one of the the most ignorant statements that anyone could make because if you're part of the general public, okay, you look at the the popularity of things like detoxes and, you know, leading uh you know, eating a healthful diet and things like that. if the general public um would stand to benefit from, you know, an improved, healthier, cleaner lifestyle, well then I think I think someone who is in the bodybuilding/fitness industry or any any elite athlete who pushes their body or subjects their body to things that are, you know, is not always nice would especially stand to benefit and it makes it makes a lot of sense. So it that's become really important to me. Yeah, I think you make a very good point and I'm going to give it some clarification based on my life. You know, my always people always like to remember me because I always used to say that I ate McDonald's every single day and it was true. I would eat McDonald's cheeseburgers every single day while I competed because I had such a fast metabolism that I needed to do that to to keep my weight on. However, however, every other meal that I ate during the day was super super clean and healthy and I took supplements and I was very very you know prudent and and and and you know calculated about what I put into my body. Um you know just recently I had AI went to the doctor and I did they did um a cardiac cath of me to check my blood vessels out because I wanted to see how my my cardiac vessels were and they were completely clear and I was a nervous wreck cuz I said yeah I did eat McDonald's every day for for eight years. I wonder if it screwed me up. And and it just goes to show you that, you know, everything's about moderation. And if you have a game plan about how to keep yourself healthy and you do detoxes every year and you do, you know, consciously, you know, pay attention to what you're putting in your body and understand what the stuff does that you're putting into your body. I think that bodybuilding can be a healthy lifestyle even though we do put our bodies through certain rigors that maybe the general population doesn't. And I think it's smart and wise on your part uh to to do that. And I think that a lot of people should use you as a uh as AI guess you could say a role model in that sense. Let's uh move on, Evan, to um I want to just say something. I back early in your career, you know, I was one of the guys who said this guy could be a future Mr. Olympia. I truly believed it. I still believe it today. And by any monik of measurement, you your bodybuilding career has been a success. You've won pro shows. You've gone to the Olympia. You've been on the Arnold stage. He plays top five at the Arnold. Um what is what would you consider you know uh yourself to be as far as success in the bodybuilding industry? Do you feel that you've accomplished all you want to accomplish? What are your future goals? What would you like to retire saying that you've won or accomplished in bodybuilding? Well, I I think, you know, when I was younger, I I equated, you know, say success in the sport to, you know, you' say, well, the greatest measurable amount of success I could have in this sport would be winning the Olympia. And in reality, you know, I've seen, you know, the reality is you could win the Olympia and I don't know, truth be told, if if I could walk away from the sport, retire, and say, "Wow, I somehow changed the sport or I I left a positive imprint there, or I was able to positively influence the thinking or or bring about a different way of thought, then I think that would be a success. Because truth be told, if you go and you you like I said, you you accomplish the greatest feat in that the sport has to offer and you win the Olympia, but you still don't offer something to the sport. You don't for the better, you don't positively influence people. Um really, for me, I don't it's not it's not a great success. So, at this point, if I could continue to be competitive in the sport and to do it in a way that's healthy and to communicate to people, cuz I mean, look, there's so much misinformation out there and and when I see what what really does bother me, what really disturbs me is, you know, seeing the things that a lot of the younger kids talk about on the internet and, you know, the prevalence of all these guys on the internet talking about drugs and um you see what a lot of people are doing and the mindset that's out there and it's just so it's the antithesis of what what a positive lifestyle should be about. So if if I could be a force to to change that thinking or to show people that there's a better way then that would be a success. do that, Evan, because you know what? You make a very, very valid point. We live in this, and I've said this before, we live in this anti-hero society where the guys that are the craziest, biggest rebels on YouTube are the people that these younger kids are like looking up to. I mean, look at the hits on some of these YouTube videos by some of these people that are talking about taking, you know, 20,000 milligrams of of anabolic steroids uh a week. Uh, look at these, you know, crazy hits you see on these videos of these people saying to do wacky, insane stuff. And to me, I'm like, stop watching this. I can't believe people are watching this. And I go crazy. And I go on these rants sometimes because it it it it's mindboggling to me that that people do not want to learn the right way to do things. They want to they want to learn like the the badass way of doing things. How do you make an impact, Evan? You're a great bodybuilder. You you have a great physique. You have a great image. you have a, you know, you're a family man. How do you make an impact on this younger generation, you know, and doing it in a way that's that that that will make these kids take notice? Well, I I think to your point, and it's just part of the society we live in, I do think that people are always going to be drawn to sensational things. Those those are always going to get views. They're it's always going to get attention. That said, you know, and I I could be guilty of this myself. It's it's one thing to tell somebody no that's not the way you do it and it's another thing to show people the way to do it. So really what I would like to do, you know, whether it's through I think you have to sh essentially I think what a lot of these kids are drawn to, you know, whether they're looking at um you know, they're looking at some of these guys and I think they they think, well, you know, these guys are getting a lot of girls and um you know, they're driving these cars and you know, all this nonsense. Essentially what it's about is a lifestyle and it's a lifestyle that they perceive as being cool. If you could if you were able to effectively show people that you can lead a lifestyle that is like look you don't need to lock yourself in a closet and eat um you know you you can look good, you can feel good, you can be healthy that essentially you can have it all. I think that that is a message that people do want to hear and I think it's a message that is true to some degree. How much do we have to compromise in life? Because I mean let's be honest, who wants to compromise? So I I think that if you can show people not just tell them but show them you know through the production of media and this is something that I would like to do further you know through more cooking stuff and just more lifestyle um you know media show people that look there's something out there you can be dynamic you can enjoy your life you can enjoy your friends your family yeah you can train hard you know you don't you don't have to pigeon hole yourself and be this one type, you know, to be badass, you don't have to be covered head to toe in tattoos. Um, you know, that doesn't make you a bad ass. Like, you can, you know, being a badass is just being a [\h__\h] man, you know, and I think that's what I think that's what the country look when you're when you're looking at what's going on right now in the country. You hear people and they'll talk about Vladimir Putin and they'll say, "Well, he's a man and you know, um, they're drawn to his personality." That's why I think a lot of people are drawn to Trump because they look at the leader of the current leader of this country. They look at Obama and they say he's not a leader. He's not a man. The country needs a leader. People need a leader. They need a strong role models and they need strong leadership. And currently it's just not there. So they by default, you know, you get people um you know, you get a lot of these social media rejects ra, you know, uh ascending to heights just uh just because there's nothing better. And let's be honest, it's a sad day in the country. I mean, look at look at the current lineup that we have for, you know, the presidency. They all suck. Every last one of them. They're pathetic. It's a bad day when that's the best we have to choose from. But it's the same thing when it comes down to our role models. Our role models, you know, Kim Kardashian's popular, not because she's great, just because everybody else is that is that shitty. Um, we just need they just need something better. Evan, I I agree. I and I think you're one of the best role models currently on the circuit right now. Um, but I'm gonna I'm gonna, you know, I'm gonna call you out a little bit. You know, you tend to be more reclusive. You don't like to travel a lot. you're not doing the Jay Cutler tours. I think Cutler is another terrific uh role model. I put you up there with with Jay in terms of being able to give back, show a lifestyle that that someone could emulate in a healthy, productive, businessy way. Um, do you think you should be getting out there more and trying to make more of an impact on the industry and on the youth of of of the bodybuilding world? Yes. Yes, I think you're you're 110% right. Um, and that is that is my goal is to be out there more. And I was always so wound up so tight, you know, based around my bodybuilding career. Uh, and I'm not there anymore, you know. I'm not that's not where I'm at anymore. It's I can I can train, I can eat, I can do all those things and I can travel, I can um I can do all that. Yes. No, you're right. And that is that is my goal. that is what's coming is to be out there more to to meet more people to um yeah to spread the message that I want to that I want to spread. It's important. I think you do have a lot to say and I think that you know you've you've had like you've said you've been reserved over the last couple years and I think now is the time to really you're in you're in the prime of your career at this point. You know, you're a very popular individual. People listen to what you say and I think they just got to see more of you, you know. Uh and I think that that I think you're 100% right. This is a good start. This interview I'm sure is going to be excellent. I think a lot of people are going to contact you. Uh the message you send is very positive. Let's talk a little bit about your family life because I know family life is very important to you. You keep them very private. Uh I could respect that. Um um did family importance come was that nurtured or or or brought about in your being through your own family or is that something that you always wanted intuitively to have the the wife and the kid and the and the home life? Well, I I think the value of family started for me. You know, growing up, my parents were divorced and um you know, although my parents were divorced, I saw my father, you know, three, four times a week. He would come pick me up. He spent a lot of time with me. I did a lot I did a lot with my father growing up. He included me in everything. He taught me a lot. Um he always came through. He was he was somebody who you know to this day if I needed to call somebody up and go, "Dad, I've got this body in the trunk of my car. I got to do something with it." He go, "All right, let's go. You know, let me get my shovel." So, so you know, look, and you know this, you you hear it, you hear it, and he told me this. Look, family is family. You know, I've got I've got really I've got some really good friends, you know, that I know I could rely on, but family is um at least the way it's supposed to be. They'll be there no matter what. We know what kind of [\h__\h] you find yourself in. So I think that was just kind of ingrained in me from the beginning. Now, you know, as I get older, you know, I I I always knew that I wanted a family, that I wanted um you know, that I wanted a kid or, you know, multiple children. And to be honest, that was always one of my greatest fears uh as a bodybuilder. You know, what if what if I screwed that up for myself? Um, I can still remember, you know, the day that Erica called me and she was on the phone. She, "Oh my god, I got to talk to you." Oh [\h__\h] what did, you know, what did I do wrong? She's like, "You have to come meet me." I'm like, "Oh wow, it must be really bad." Um, I said, "Well, just tell me. You know, you're freaking me out." And she said, "I think I'm pregnant." And I remember just a big smile coming on my face and I laughed. And she said, "Why are you laughing?" And I said, well, you know, and part of it, I think for me, was this sense of relief um that although it had come at an unexpected, you know, maybe less than time, this was the greatest thing ever. And truth, I don't know. Look, what what good what good is my life or what I've learned or what I accomplish if I can't pass it on or give it to somebody else or help, you know, what's what's it all for? Right. I I had my first, you know, kid just, you know, four weeks ago. So, I I can completely relate to what you said. And uh me being the scientist, I I always knew that I could produce the the baby if I wanted to. And uh uh it it happened. And obviously I had to meet the right person and I did and obviously we have a a beautiful son and we'll probably, you know, have a second kid shortly because I'm getting old. I'm approaching 50. Uh I have one have a funny question. Uh Cedric McMillan says that there are three G's in bodybuilding. The three temptations he calls them uh that that most bodybuilders strive for. It's it's girls, ganja, and gh. How do how does he centiponyi uh when he's traveling and he and he has all these fans around him avoid the three G's? What are the three G's? Girls, ganja, and gh. Oh, the temptations when you're on the road and you have girls coming up to you and you have people, you know, oh, let's go party. How do you stay so grounded? Because you're you're like a machine. I don't know how you do it. You know, there's a lot of temptation out there. I don't know. I mean, look, girls are everywhere, right? Um, and hey, you know, I mean, there's there's some girls that are nice to look at, right? But, um, you know, at the end of the day, I mean, I remind myself, I don't know. It's It's um It's not important. I mean, I I know what I've got. I mean, I've got I mean, look, a good-looking girl is a dime a dozen. Um, I mean, I've got a wife who I can count on, who I can rely on, who I mean, she's a she is a great mother to my child. um to risk, you know, [\h__\h] all that up. Uh, you know, just because some girls and it just it's not it doesn't even um I don't know. It's not even a thought. Ganja is uh you know that's that's just that's never that's never been my thing. I'm not going to say I don't have any vices, but drugs, you know, drugs, alcohol, um, gambling, women, I guess none of them actually have have been my vices, I guess. What is my vice? Um, I guess bodybuilding's always been my vice. Macadamia nut oil and uh and French fries. Yeah. Let me ask you this question. We got the Arnold Classic coming up uh in less than four weeks now. Um, you've placed top five every single time you've done it. Uh, you have to be considered one of the favorites going into the show. Obviously, Kai Green in this lineup. Uh, Kai Green hasn't stepped on stage in almost two years now. We don't know what the mindset or the physical, you know, condition of his body will be. He's been very quiet. Obviously, a lot of talk about Justin Compton, who was third last year. Um, where do you see Evans Centipani fitting into this lineup and and and do you feel that you could have a legitimate shot at winning this title? You know, to be totally honest, this is probably this this show, you know, leading into the show is probably the least amount of thought or consideration I've given to where it is I'm going to place. But, um, that being said, like you said, I mean, obviously have every reason to assume that Kai is going to be, you know, ultra ultra competitive. I'm sure he's going to be nothing short of um, absolutely impressive. Same thing with Justin Compton. Um, I mean, these are guys who certainly out I would say they outmass me. You know, I'm certainly not as heavily muscled per square inch as either of them. I just I know, you know, that my you know, I know what my strong points are being conditioning and um, look, in any of these pro shows, anybody has a has a shot. you know, I mean, you know, if I was someone who' never cracked the top five, I'd probably say, well, you know, realistically, um, it would be a great feat for me to break the, you know, break top five. But, um, the reality is, you know, do I think I could battle for a top spot? Yeah, I I think so. I don't I don't I don't doubt that. Very good shot at uh, you know, look, you you've bet as high as third place in 2012. Um, you know, some argue you might have been able to win that year had you been a little fuller. So, um, once again, no one knows who's going to show up in shape or what's going to who's going to look their best. Um, I'm assuming we're going to see the best Evans of Hani on that Arnold Classic stage. Will we see you in Australia the week after? Yes. Which this year is actually two weeks after, which is nice. That's right. Yeah. But yes, I will be there. Big fan base in Australia. I uh Tony Derby told me when you went there, I guess it was last year or was whatever the first year you went there, they they were going crazy for you over there. Isn't it amazing how Australia is like uh they love American bodybuilders there? Yeah, great bodybuilding culture in Australia. Um I find I found that the two the two most receptive places when it comes to bodybuilding have been the UK and um and Australia. Didn't you have a you had a little uh thing with Poland for a while, weren't you going to Poland and doing some some appearances? Yeah, at the at the time uh Universal had a distributor that was, you know, cranking out a lot of product, uh, you know, did a lot. He was the editor. Um, you know, he had the rights to the Polish version of Muscular Development and he he went on to start his own supplement company, but um, you know, he did a lot. He held competitions and he did tours, you know, so he had offered to to bring us over a few times and he was he was always great. So yeah, you know, to your point, Eastern Europe, yeah, Poland was really um really receptive as well. And I can only imagine that a lot of the other Eastern Eastern European countries would be as well. Now, Evan, you were with uh Universal Nutrition your whole career essentially. You left them for a brief stint uh with another company. I I I don't know exactly what what what went down and then you left there and you went back to Universal. How how did that transition occur? Did was that an amicable thing? Did it feel good to kind of come back home to the company that originally, you know, had hired you? Did um I mean look, you know, the industry has changed a lot in the past, you know, even from the I I haven't been in the sport a really long time by any stretch. I've been in it, you know, by from the time I started as an amateur to now it's been 10 years. Um, but a lot has changed and I mean, you've seen all these small companies pop up and a lot has changed. It to make a long story short, it's great to be back with a company who does things what I would say that does things the right way. Meaning, you know, they have a a legitimate Okay. If if you look at bodybuilding, right, and you see the way a lot of companies are doing things with the way that they do their marketing with social media and the way they utilize, you know, quote, utilize their athletes and their their brand ambassadors. And then you look out at the real world at real companies like Nike and uh you know, Gatorade and you know, all all these large companies and you look at the difference, you go, "Huh, man." you you realize how, for lack of a better word, tacky and cheap a lot of the stuff that they're doing in, you know, bodybuilding that the supplement companies are doing. And I'm fortunate enough to be back with a company who has a legitimate understanding of what things in a way that um is proper, is real, is is well thought out. They have I mean this I I don't I don't think it's just my bias when I say that Universal whether you like their branding or not. Universal/an animal has the most coherent cohesive branding in the industry. Um they've developed um you know a a form of branding. They've stayed true to it and they've been able to communicate an idea. um that's based on more than tits and ass um and they've created a life a real lifestyle brand. So yeah, it's I love their branding. I love the branding of Animal. I will say one thing that I don't like. I don't know why they don't use you more in their ads. Um you have been the vision and the face of the company for a number of years now and I just don't see them using you enough. I I feel like they underuse you. Especially given your image, you're a good-looking guy. You got a great physique. I I'd like to see more Evans on their branding. Yeah. No. Yeah. I I can't disagree, but in their defense, I have to say, you know, you'll never see a Universal ad. You know, I'm sure if you reflect on a lot of the animal/UNiversal stuff you've seen containing me, you'll never see my name, my accomplishments. And really that's done for a reason because a lot of it is about more than the individual, meaning more than myself. It's about an idea. It's about a concept. So, while that could be a double-edged sword for an athlete, you say, "Well, it'd be great to be out there more." I understand. Um, that being said, I think they do have a lot of plans um, you know, to utilize me a bit more maybe than they did in the past, and I'm happy about that. Excellent. Uh, real quick, who do you feel is the greatest bodybuilder of all time? Lee Haney. Lee Haney. Why? Undoubtedly. Um, I mean, look, we can't argue that Arnold has been the biggest star and he has done so many big things. I think all things considered, I mean, I I think that Lee Lee Haney's physique was incredible. Beyond that, I mean, to still be married to his high school sweetheart, to be someone who is nothing short ever in any circumstance uh short of a gentleman. He's he's a he's a role model and he's a man. He's just through and through. There's there's nothing negative you could say about him all things considered. I mean, he's an eight-time Mr. Olympia, one of the greatest physiques of all time, role model, um just a just a everything that you know a hero should be. Who do you think is the biggest disappointment in the in in our industry? You know, the guy who had the most potential, who just blew it basically in your mind? Oh jeez. Um, well, I don't know. I mean, I guess I I I don't know how great his potential was, but obviously anytime someone puts a blemish sport, you know, someone like a Craig Titus um or something like that, obviously that's really regrettable. But, you know, in terms of being a really a waste of talent, I don't know. Uh why don't you who who your mind you know Lee Priest comes to mind to me. I think he was a very self-destructive. I think he could be owning the the universe right now the bodybuilding universe that is if he really had you know you know stayed focused and stayed mental stayed positive. I think that he just wanted to go that route we talked about a little earlier of the rebel and I think he went too far and I think he kind of pushed himself out of the industry. But uh uh there's a lot of guys I guess that that can fill that void, but Lee Priest is might be the most famous in that respect. Well, I just wanted No, no, I was just going to say um I I could understand that. I don't know. I'm sure he's I'm sure he's said or done some things that maybe he regrets. Um yeah, I don't know. No comment. He he marches to his own drummer for certain. He did. That's I guess that's what I was going to say. I I do respect the fact that he marches to the beat of his own drum. All right. Well, Evan, we want to wish you the best of luck up on that Arnold Classic stage. Obviously, we'll be there covering the event. And uh you know, I I you got to make me uh you got to make me look like I know what I'm talking about. You got to win you got to win the Arnold. You got to win the Olympia. I still I still stand behind that that you can do it. I feel you have the talent. I I know that that's not the main goal in your career anymore, but I think that you do you can do it if you put your mind to it. I think you're still in the prime of your career. I think you still have a lot of great years behind you. Let me ask you this question. How much longer do you see yourself competing? Geez, I don't know. That's a great question. You know, I I feel so good this year. Um, you know, in my preparations and everything feels good. I feel that I've been able to strike a really great balance between looking good, feeling good, being healthy. I I realistically I I feel like I could easily go on another 10 years. Um I would probably say realistically, you know, I don't know, maybe another five years, which usually means 10 years for a bodybuilder. I'll I'll buy that. I'll buy that. Well, once again, thanks a lot again and good luck in the rest of your prep for the next four weeks. And I I appreciate you taking time out of your schedule. I know you don't do a lot of interviews to come on live with. I appreciate it. It was nice talking to you. It was great being I really appreciate it. Thanks, Dave. All right, that'll take us to the end of another episode of Live with brought to you by Scitec Nutrition. Visit scitecutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo. We'll see you next time.