Johnny Styles here with rxmuscle.com. We're here in the Puerto Rico Pro Show 2016. We're here with the one and only two times and still Puerto Rico's men's physique champion, Chase Savo. Chase, you're back. We love you here in the island. You know that. How does it feel to come back and retain that title? I love it here and I so glad to be back. I'm gonna keep on coming back as much as I as much as I possibly can. Um, and it feels amazing. It was a close close one today, but I pulled it off. I came my best brought my best. So, I think this is my best to date. So, okay, Chase, um, you did New York last week and things didn't go the way you wanted to. What do you think changed it this time around in Puerto Rico? cuz we did a photo shoot and I told you straight up, Chase, did you look like a different person? What in your mind? What do you think changed? I think it was um less stress and me and my coach Cash Gery, we did a couple new things, secret top secret stuff um coming in and it just brought me in a little bit fuller and I came in a little bit harder too. So So you think stress definitely plays a part in in in your conditioning? Definitely. I think so. Okay. From the front, you have one of the best front poses in the industry. We know your back last year was an issue. This year, it looks 10 times better. What's what's been going on with your back training? Um me and my coach, we've just been working a lot of on a lot of thickness, a lot of um hammer strength, a lot of T- bar rows, and just bringing it all all the way up. It's not like I told you earlier, it doesn't happen overnight. So, it's just a work in progress, but we're we're coming along really nicely. So now you're going back to the Olympia stage. Anything else you want to bring differently cuz you have a lot of a lot of eyes on you right now. So what's your what's your take on on Chase's package for the 2016 Mr. Olympia? I'm coming full throttle. I'm bring my best to date for sure. Um it's it's no no playing around. I'm I'm going there. I want to be the top five this year. This is my that's my main goal is to be top five. Anybody else you want to thank before we leave? Um, thank my coach Cash Skidry, my posing coach, Kenny Wish. Um, I want to thank my my sponsor, AllMax Nutrition. They're amazing. My food sponsor, Healthy Course Meals out of Louisiana. They're they've been amazing to me. Uh, my parents, God bless Rxmuscle.com, Muscular Development, NPC News Online, Jim JMion, Jim Manion, all the above. So, I'm just so so happy right now. Chase is really happy. He's even mentioning MD on Arts Muscle. So, you know, why cut back? All right. So, for the twotime Puerto Rico men's physique champion and still chao, I'm Johnny Styles, rxmuscle.com.