Heat. Heat. I'm a soul man. I got what I got. This is Louis here with rxmuscle.com. the Chicago Pro Wings of Strength brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm here with the overall women's physique championa Thompson. Now, this isn't your first show you've done this year. You came very close, but this time you came out champ. What happened? Was it New Orleans? I was in New Orleans. Yeah, I came in second to Tammy Marie. So, here it was it was a very close contest. Imagine it's probably like it was Yeah, cuz they were moving you guys around and she's a returning champion. So, it's always like you have to knock off the champion. You can't just you can't just like eat by them and kind of look the same. And at night, they had the final confirmation and they moved. They sweep you and Jamie, put you in the center. Right. What was going through your mind then? I I was I was in shock a little bit, but And then I was just like, "What?" Yeah, I was in shock, but then I I just said, "I'm just going to wait until they say my name." And and when I heard my name, I was like, "Oh my gosh. Well, all you had to really wait was you heard Jamie Pender in second. But yeah, I heard her name and I was like, "Okay, that means I'm number one." So, yeah, it was exciting. It was very exciting. So, you don't have to play the points game anymore. You get you're straight to the Olympia. It's like a straight It's like It's like go to It's go to home, skip past jail, whatever it is all together. I like that. I'm very excited about that. I'm going to take a week off and enjoy some food and then get get back at it. So, have you ever been to the Olympia before? I've not even ever been. This is my first time going and competing. They treat you like royalty there when you're an athlete. They bust you around on little buses. They give you a press conference. They give you the little jacket that says Olympia. Oh, that's awesome. Jacket alone, man. Yeah. You're an Olympian athlete. They treat you like gold out there. Yeah. That's awesome. I'm excited. So, what right now you just got you pretty much got to maintain what you have or kind of cuz you're not really too far out from the Olympia really. Take a break. Yeah. I'm my coach is um Trey Hodgej and um Hello Trey. Yeah, we're going to train together. That's I'm dreading that cuz I know he's going to kick my tail. But um we're going to do some good training together. We're going to bring up some of the areas that he feels I need to work on and just bring my best to the Olympia. So yeah. Do you want to give a shout out to anybody out there, your sponsors, your coach obviously, or your fans and family, people that still behind you? have um well I want to shout out to North Carolina cuz I'm from North Carolina. North Carolina. All my MPC people in North Carolina. Um Quincy Roberts who helped me with posing. And then of course my awesome coach um Trey Haj. So yeah, he's he's fabulous. I love him. He's taken me so far so short amount of time. So very thankful to be here. Oh my gosh. Yeah. And I can't wait to go see him. I'm so excited. Allet Thompson here going to the Olympian a straight shot overall championa women's physique Chicago pro wings of strength RX muscle coverage brought to you by Iron Labs the most potent and hardcore supplements on the market today. Woo!