Heat. Heat. I'm a soul man. I'm a soul man. I got what I got. This is Lewis Gerardell here with rxmuscle.com brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm doing the final wrap up at the Chicago Pro Wings and Strength with Mr. Canada, Mr. Bodybuilding, Eric Delaro. Eric, it was a crazy show tonight. One very late and a lot of lot of kind of I don't want to say upsets because, you know, I don't want to take anything away from the athletes actually won and did well and you know, slight others, but there's a lot of maybe unexpected people winning and doing well. Yeah, there was a lot of great athletes in in all categories. Um, you got the 212s had a great standout in the open class as well. Um, just everybody all the athletes were great. It was a great production here with Wings of Strength and uh with Tim Gardner here. So, yeah, just amazing. And the Olympia is around the corner. So, everybody's striving for that position. Speaking of getting back to the Olympia after his motorcycle accident, took him out of the Arnold Brazil, Rolley Winklar with his his face when he does his posing comes in, gets the win, you know, tight, you know, Jojo and Nefor uh Neforo and uh the other guys look great up there, you know. I mean, you on win get fourth place. A lot of good competition. Ake Williams big size. Definitely definitely Obiad. Yes, Essa is training out of the Mecca and I see him every day. So, he's really improving. Uh, you know, he has a great physique. Uh, great great size and conditioning, vascularity, of course. It's crazy. And then you got Roelly for sure. I mean, Roelly is uh is really he's on a roll, you know, for sure. Definitely. He's got to pick it up for the Olympia cuz he looked I thought better last year's Olympia. His legs didn't have the size and his arms were big and crazy, but they weren't at the remember at the Olympia. They were like, whoa. Yeah, definitely. Um, yeah, he has one of those physiques where when he starts squeezing his muscles, everything starts popping. It's a real interesting physique and definitely uh maybe not as big as he used to be, but definitely a crowd-pleaser and uh I think he has a great future definitely in the Olympia. He's going to do uh he's going to have a great showing over there. I just didn't think the other guys he was just a little crisper, you know. I thought Jojo gave him a very tight run, but those two were definitely the above the pack. Definitely. Yes. Uh Roelly doesn't have that really crisp cris crisp conditioning. Um like I said, he looks great when he starts squeezing. And then the others of course had, you know, great conditioning and uh you know, there was some great athletes up there. Best poser note in the open was Keith Williams popping lock. He did a flip on stage. 250lb man doing a flip on stage. I couldn't believe it. It was I thought he was going to go right through the floor. Unbelievable. I thought he was going to snap something. Incredible. And the 212s are actually very contested. You didn't know really what was going to happen. Charles the Tank Dixon actually pulled out the win very close behind him. Hidat Yamaguchi and Tricky Jackson. That's it. Heday was looking uh fabulous. Uh he was full. His muscle bellies were great. You know, uh I was working him for working with him for almost 3 years and now he switched over to another trainer, but definitely he was a man to watch out there. Um yeah, and the other uh who was the first place again? Charles the Tank. Charles the Tank. Charles the Tank. He has some size on him. I mean, those shoulder cannonball delts, the large lats, you know, he definitely had a little bit size on Heday. Well, think I think he maybe I don't know. I'm no expert. Like I said, I tell everyone I'm I'm no expert on bodybuild. I'm a fan of bodybuilding. I think maybe he lost some of the size coming down into the 212s. Is that possible? Uh, it could be. I mean, I you know, I've worked with Hay for 3 years and he definitely I saw him backstage pumping up and I was really impressed with his fullness. He definitely is fuller than than he has been in the past. Um, you know, he's he's trying to strive for that size in the back. You know, definitely when he turns around, we we want to get that, you know, more size on his uh on his lats. That's really where it was cuz when he turned around, Dixon's back was redonkulous. Yes. the lats were just popping and he had those cannonball delts like I said mentioned earlier, but definitely uh I think it was the right decision. You know, uh there's a couple more shows left. I'm sure Heday is going to get that position. I think he's, you know, we need him in the Olympia. He's a great showman, great poser, and he has a you know, huge following. Dixon, too, you can notice on stage the more it went on, you could see the sheer joy and and and excitement in his eyes as he posed. He was really having a lot of fun there. It was a genuine guy. I interviewed him after and he was just he was crying during his interview. Oh yeah. You you can tell you know he has his whole heart in there and all these athletes do you know they put so much work into it and uh you know to stand on the stage it's it's a real honor here you know especially at the wings of strength and to get that Olympia position. So you know it's it's it's emotional for all of them. And Tricky Jackson in the 212s best poser. I mean I could probably could hold that one before I got here. Oh yeah. We we know he's he's known for that. and he's always bringing this uh some new popping and some new dancing. It's uh he's just entertainment. Have you ever popped when you're on stage? You're a popped or locked? I'm more of a stand in one spot during Yates style. I drink I drink pop and I I lock my door. That's about as close as I come to popping or locking. No popping. Too white for that. Now, when it came to women's physique, it was actually uh Jamie came out Jamie Pender and Leila Thompson. And some call it upset, some maybe not. Leo Thompson got second down New Orleans and Jamie Pender is a returning champion. I always call an upset whenever a returning champion gets beat just because they have that championship reign. They're trying to repeat, but she came in and pulled it off against Jamie Pender. Yeah, I mean they all look good. The physique ladies, uh there was some great competitors and Pinder looked great, you know, and her best look. Yeah, she's actually a little bit bigger than last year. She looked great. She's just, you know, how the cards fell today. Yes. Uh, well, she's improving and I think, uh, you know, every show she'll get better and better. So, uh, like you said, she's improving. So, that's great. So, Leila Thompson on her way to the Olympia. Now, moving on to Figure. Quite a few quite a few things going on in Figure. I mean, I don't know if people knew what was really happening in that. I, you know, Becky Body didn't even make the top five and she's finished some great shows in New York Pro and everything. Very well in New York. Becky body and uh she was here today and there was a lot of great athletes up there today and uh especially there was a one on my team that did very well. Oh yeah. In third place uh you want to say your name? I know her name is Buana. I can say Buana. I can't see. Let me say it. Okay. Buana Vasilovich. She's actually saying you want to come over here real quick? There you are. Hey. So why don't you tell us a little bit about your third place and how you've kind of climbed up the ranks? Yeah, I'm very happy about my placing tonight and I think that hard work finally paid off. He was working so hard from the last November and this is my best placing ever actually like a pro and I think this this look tonight was my best so far. Got some points pulled up now. You're going to have to go and hit a couple shows. You want to get that Olympia qual? Yes, I think that we are planning all show Olympia. Yeah, definitely. We're going to go for, you know, all the upcoming shows, Tampa, Tahoe, you know, San Diego. We're going to do them all. You know, we're going to try our best to see what we can do. You know, I I think that once you you can get that top five position, it's kind of like a domino effect. So, we're going to try really hard to improve little things and uh come in a little better and and see what happens. So, all right, thank you for coming over here. Thank you. And thanks to Eric's Forum for always great coverage. I'm happy because my friends can follow I mean my our friends from Serbia from my country where I am they always like to know what's happen on contest there so on they can know they can see everything like in in second in same second they have news. Thank you. Thank you. Awesome. So then in figure uh one and two in figure Wendy Forino. Yes. And uh Sydney was awesome again. Gillan. Gillian. Sorry, Sydney. Actually, she came in. They look like a They look like the, you know, the Ebony and Ivory. Couldn't really tell anything apart with them. Well, you're sitting there in the third place spot. What did you think about those two competitors in the in the one two? Oh, they're both awesome. I mean, like their genetic structure and um I I can tell that I don't want to be on Wendy's side because she is my friend, but I have to say that maybe I better like Wendy's look. That's my personal opinion. subject to the sport, you know. I think that could have gone either way. I think it just went that way. You know, it's a just a little difference between them. Bet you wouldn't know this, but they're both track stars. Yes, they are a former track and field athletes. Same like me. And when did we actually we have a lot of similarity. We was former gymn We are former gymnast and track athletes. We are same weight high once. Uh we uh have our pro debut at the same contest and we compete at every contest together. Oh, so that's maybe that's why you like Winnie Forino's physique better. No, she's she's really my good friend. I know. Cindy looks great. Awesome. I was when I first saw her photos on the internet a couple months ago on her first contest, I was like, "Wow, she's only 21. She's amazing. Amazing. Amazing." It's amazing. All the a lot of the top athletes in the sport come from a track background. So, it's uh that's very interesting. You know, I think it's AI actually come from a track background, but I'm not a great athlete. You did the Kathlon. I swam. I don't know. Whatever. Oh, man. Yes. So, yeah, definitely. It was a great production here and um you know, thank you for uh the interview here and the wrap-up. It's always a pleasure. Absolutely. Thank you, Mr. Canada, Eric. And hey, Buana coming over and jumping in the wrap-up with us. Couldn't, you know, spice it up with a little Serbian fire in the in the wrap-up. My pleasure. So, here I am with Buana. I I'll never get it right. Eric Delaro, Mr. Canada, and Louis, signing off for rxmuscle.com, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Most hardcore supplements in industry today. Wings of Straight Chicago. Good job.