Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Tuesday, August 11th, 2015, and let's get to it. It looks like our good friend Dusty Hansshaw will finally be hitting the stage to make his long- awaited pro debut. Late last week, Hansshaw released some new photos showing off the sort of nasty, dense muscle that only comes from years of pounding heavy weights in the gym. Hansshaw looks to have packed on some gnarly new muscle onto his frame and appears to be right on track to show up with his trademark shredded conditioning. If there's one thing we've learned about Hansaw over the years, it's that he flat out refuses to be outworked. And when he steps on stage, one thing's for sure, we can be absolutely certain we're getting the best version of Dusty Handshaw we've ever seen. Just a few weeks removed from earning her IFBB Pro card by winning the women's physique overall at the USA Championships, it looks like Billy Cavalier is ready to put that brand spanking new pro card to good use. Over the weekend, Cavalier announced that she signed her official contract to compete at the upcoming Europa Atlantic City Pro, which is set to take place August 28th and 29th. Cavalier certainly has some nice tools to work with, but how she'll stack up against some of the sports top competitors as they begin to round themselves into Olympia form still remains to be seen. It looks like rookie sensation Ian Valier doesn't have any plans of giving up his seat on the grain train just yet. Over the weekend, new photos surfaced of a dense and hardl looking Valier. A few weeks removed from his impressive fifth place finish at the Toronto Super Show. Valier has managed to break into the top eight in both of his contests in his rookie season, putting his name on a short list of under 25year-old athletes who look to be ushering in the next generation in the sport. With another few solid years under his belt, Valier will have to real shot at doing some serious damage if he continues to work hard. Ultimately, if he wants to be considered one of the best athletes in the sport, he's going to have to earn it. something I'm sure he's all too happy to show the world. It looks like rising superstar Justin Compton has become the latest victim of the Y cutback salary cap over at Muscular Development. Last week it was reported that Compton was released from his contract with MD magazine, joining Joseé Raymond on the dubious list of Olympia caliber castoffs. You'd be hardressed to find a stock in the sport that's much hotter than Compton's at the moment. And his wise decision to forego this year's Olympia to focus on getting back to the gym and making improvements is a testament to the type of old school work ethic that he brings with him day in and day out. And now that he's officially back on the market, it'll be interesting to see where and when we see him pop up next. In case you're staring at your screen wondering what kind of madman would attach Shaun Clarita to this medieval torture device, rest easy. It's just the giant killer getting in a little bit of chest training on a very unique to say the least piece of equipment at Dana Lin Bailey's Warhouse Gym. Clarita is just a few weeks removed from notching his first pro win at the Vancouver Pro2 and a few weeks out from achieving a lifelong dream by setting foot on the Olympia stage. While there's no doubt that the giant killer will be among the most conditioned athletes in Vegas, the Olympia is an entirely different animal. And it'll be interesting to see if this pocket Hercules gets swallowed up by bodybuilding's mini mass monsters or if he slays them all come contest day. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com. Today, I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passion. And make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.