Are there any benefits to having high DHT dihydrotestosterone levels in the body? We all say it's not good for you, but is there a benefit? I say there is. Stay tuned. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution RX Television, rxmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your 30 minute weekly question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Whatever's on your mind. Bodybuilding, non-Bodybuilding, it is all on the table. I'm your host Sadique Farooqi. Obviously not in the RX Muscle New York studios. I'm in Dubai. This is one of those weird wacky travel weeks for the RX Muscle crew. I'm here in Dubai for the 2025 Dubai Pro. The show is going to take place, a pro show is going to take place on Sunday. Um, you're starting to see some of the progress pictures. We have it on our RX Muscle Instagram. Nexilla Rubio Masquera looking absolutely freaky and conditioned. Took one of the epic magic mirror pictures from the oxygen gym here in Dubai. Obviously, you have the defending champion Beer Ruse Tabani. Um William Bonak in the show. He's already qualified for the Olympia. Tony Burton already qualified for the Olympia. It's going to be a great show. So, the live stream is going to be Sunday um Sunday evening. So, I think it's going to be more Sunday morning, Eastern Standard Time. So, again, check that out. I'm going to be on the live stream. Not sure who I'm going to be on the live stream with, but again, we have you covered on that. And Dave is going to be going to Alabama. The Wack Pack weekend is upon us. Dave, you want to give a little primer as far as who fans can expect to see out of the videos that they're going to be seeing all weekend long from Alabama? part. I can't believe I said last year this would never happen again, but we actually had it happen again. Lee Priest unfortunately won't be there, but we have the addition of Armand Debi, Larry Pollock will be there as well with Jimmy the Bull, John Romano, Greg Valentina and his girlfriend because you know he can't travel alone. My videographer Alexi will be there. We will be filming Jumbo Palumbo the documentary part two. So, anyone who's there in Montgomery, Alabama has a very good chance of getting into that video. And uh the craziest stuff you do, the probably the more likely you are to get in into the video. Some of us will be coming in on Thursday. I'll be coming in very early Friday morning, the seminar and the Whackpack meet and greet will be Friday night after the check-ins. And then on Saturday will be the whole show, the whole day, and we'll be hanging out. And there's usually Michelle throws a nice little afterparty in the hotel. And so, everyone's invited. And I'm looking forward to seeing the entire Wack Pack and everyone. And uh we should have some very memorable very memorable videos from that weekend, I'm sure. So, let me ask you this because last year with the the Friday night event, it was a proper whack panel of sorts. Is it going to be the same thing this year or something a little different? Are you going to have like how you did uh at the Dean Computer Show in Ohio where it was more of a question and answer with you? What's that Friday night segment going to be like? And is that going to be recorded end to end as well? Yeah, we're going to record it and we might even live stream it, but we'll definitely going to record it. And if we don't live stream it and uh you know, obviously people would rather watch that than the the Dubai Pro. No, the Dubai will be on Sunday. We might live stream that Friday night. I'm going to try to do a seminar because I think people really get behind that and really like that information that we provide to the competitors. I think I'm going to do like maybe 45 minutes and then I'll bring the whole Wack Pack on and then we can do like, you know, questions, answers, and and have some fun with that. I think if we just do a Wack Pack panel, you know, it might not be as uh I I want to give the fans their money's worth, even though we're doing this thing for free. That's why I encourage anyone in the area of Montgomery, Alabama, who might want to take a trip there, even if you want to hop on a plane, it's it's a nice area. It's not expensive. I'm telling you, you will have a lot of fun this weekend. We always have a ball and you know we are all inclusive. We're not like these kind of guys that go hang out in the VIP room. We hang out with with with the common people. Uh and it'll be really really fun. And like I said, everyone will be dispersed. So you'll be able to whoever your favorite Wack Packer is. I'm sure you'll find Oh, Mr. G is going to be there with his crazy brother possibly Bobby Smalls. So the Smallie brothers might actually be making their first appearance in over I think probably 15 years. So that that would be pretty monumental as well. The one thing I I was going to say, uh, if you haven't already done this, um, talk to Michelle and tell her to put word out to all the competitors, all the NPC competitors, obviously all the pros, that this is actually going to be taking place Friday night because I think last year many of the, you know, competing athletes were not aware that there was a seminar or whatever taking place literally on the the lobby level. They were all in the rooms. They had no idea this was going on. And especially now if you're going to be doing a an actual seminar, you taking and answering their questions. I think they'll find a lot of value in that. But again, tell Michelle they all have to know that that thing is going on so they're all able to attend. So, but again, uh I'm sure we're going to get a lot of videos, a lot of content um from Alabama. It's going to be fun to see what they're what crazy things they're going to be doing around the town and then of course um on show day and everything in between. So keep an eye out for that. And then of course keep an eye from this end from Dubai. We're going to have interviews hopefully with the many many of the top competing athletes over the course of the next few days and then of course the live stream. Uh Chris Cormier is actually landing here tomorrow. So I'm sure we're going to do a preview segment with him, right? And then of course the wrap-up segment. So those are always fun, always informative and uh it'll be great seeing everyone and trying to bring as much as we can to you on the channel. Let's go to the question. the first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo experience app. First question, following your mass gain diet, and I'm assuming this is the one that's on the Dave Palumbo Experience app. If I stop gaining weight, what macros do I need to increase? First of all, this is the Dave Palumbo Experience app. These questions are coming from. It's an app that I offer to the public. You can download it on your iTunes uh store from your iTunes store or your your app store rather, Android store. It's $29 a month. You get me as your coach in your back pocket. You get access to all my writings, all my videos. I answer everyone's questions on the app in an open forum. So, you see everyone's questions and answers, which is a great learning experience. All my protocols, my diets are there. The keto diet, my rotation diet, my offseason pre-contest, all the cycles I put, everything is there. And it's it's a wealth of information, but it's constantly growing. It's an evolving wealth of information. I also do a Q&A video every single week for the app members. So that you get a video extra and it's like an extra ask Dave every week and it's a it's a great learning experience and and I take the best questions or some of the the most interesting questions and we do that here on Ask Dave to kind of tease you guys a little bit. Um but one of the things I do offer on that app is that I I put up my offseason mass building diet and if you're stop losing weight assuming that you're training properly and you're taking the right you know anabolics um I usually will base how I change a person's side on how they look. So, if you're in the in an offseason scenario where you're trying to grow and you look flat to me, then I have to assume I'm not feeding you enough carbohydrates and that your your your glycogen stores are low, so I'll increase carbs. If you look really full and and and like almost puffy, which you probably should in the offseason, and you're not grow gaining weight, then I have to assume it's either not enough protein or not enough fat. Now, a lot of times, you know, you know, if you're eat if I have a person eating a ton of protein, you know, and they're eating over a gram and a half per pound, I'll I'll actually increase fats first. But if I'm not sure and I think maybe they're on the borderline of not having enough protein, then I'll increase protein first. If that doesn't work, then I increase fats. Invariably, one of these variables will work. Okay? But it depends on how the person looks. Now, if those variables don't change and the person still doesn't gain weight, then I start ask I do this concurrently. I ask for people to send me videos, training videos of them doing the mass building movements like incin incline barbell press, seated dumbbell presses for shoulders, um squats, bent rows, and invariably in that situation where there's no improvements being made, it's usually a training issue. So, there's a lot of variables to consider. That's why having a good coach is is important. And that's why, you know, that's what I offer my clients on an individual by individual basis. I can give you all the protocols in the app. But if you don't have someone who's applying them properly, then obviously that's an issue. If you want to learn how to apply them properly, take the secrets to becoming a diet guru course that I offer you. The link is on dpalumbo.com. Even though I haven't done a live one in a while, there's pre-recorded ones. I would recommend watching the last one, which was really good. And the advantage of that is you can watch it over and over and over. It's nine hours. You're going to learn a lot about how to be a coach in there and how to handle all these different variables. And uh if you do sign up for that, you can always reach out to me directly and I will send you the 100page manual via PDF. So that's that's another awesome service that we offer. Second question, again, these two for from the Dave Palumbo experience app. Uh we often get questions about bringing up your legs, but this in particular, how to catch your legs up with your upper body. your tips. You know, it's funny because I I had really big legs and I remember um I think it was Maz Ali from Jersey saw me at a show and he said, "You know what? You should just stop training your legs. You got to get your legs you got to get your upper body caught up to your legs." And I and I thought that was interesting. I'm like, you know, why would I want to take a good body part and make it worse? So, what I did was I said, I'll take his advice that my upper body is not big enough, but I'll just make my upper body bigger. So, I refocused my training on on making that upper body bigger. And I realized that I wasn't necessarily executing movements properly. I started working out with my friend Doug Wentz at the time who started really helping me to feel my pecs and and and and feel the shoulders and and and utilize the back properly. I started wearing straps and stuff like that. So there were techniques that I wasn't employing to get the best or the most out of my upper body. And one once I started doing that, my upper body caught up to my legs. So, you know, I think the worst thing you can do is not train a body part to try to catch the other body part up to it. Now, if you're a woman, you're too big, maybe your legs. That's a different scenario. But for most guys, don't take your amazing upper body and lower it to try to meet your mediocre legs. Refocus. You know, if your legs aren't growing and you're not squatting, start squatting. If you don't squat well with good form, full range of motion, below parallel with wide stance, start doing that. start executing the squat properly. If you don't know how to squat, then have someone show you how to squat properly. And you might have to actually start with no weight and retrain yourself. If you're training wrong, I have guys that send me video all the time and they're doing partial reps. They're using their back too much. They're they're they're not sitting back on their heels when they come down. They're not they're not they're they're using gravity. They're wrapping their knees with those those very springy knee wraps and they're bouncing off the bottom to that's not squatting. That's that's cheating. Now, for powerlifting, that's fine because it doesn't matter how you get the weight up when you're a powerlifter. But for bodybuilding, you don't want to cheat just for the sake of of lifting more weight because you're not getting any benefit out of it. So, you really have to make sure and and and re-examine how you're, you know, executing the mass building movements for your legs. Again, these first two questions were from the Dave Palumbo Experience app and I'll take questions from our YouTube community page, from our Instagram page, from our various social media outlets. Um, are there any benefits of being a high DHT converter and where are the cons of being a high DHT converter, but are there any pros that are worth discussing? You know, I was just discussing this with in a different light with a with a very dear friend of mine the other day. We were talking about how some like growing up, you know, when you're younger and you're a boy, you know, you're just starting to hit puberty, you ever know like some kids are just like mushy looking, very estrogenic looking kids. And some kids have like aggression, lean, you know, like they're the they're the guys that are great at sports, you know, they're like very aggressive. And the other kids like, you know, seem to get fat easily and they're, you know, they're the ones that get, you know, sometimes made fun of a little bit because they have a softer body. Maybe they they actually have even a little some boobs going on. And what I'm convinced that most assuming you don't have like an endocrine problem, I think most boys all produce very similar amounts of testosterone. But what happens is it's what you do with that testosterone. Like I know for a fact because I had my DNA tested that I am a high DHT converter. So when I was younger and I started cranking testosterone out, I was converting a lot of it to DHT. Now, when you're a young boy, that's good because that's what's responsible for your secondary male sex characteristics, jaw growth, you know, masculine, you know, voice, um, penis and, you know, growth and stuff like that and and aggression, you know, and so that's really good when you're when you're going through puberty, you know, it'll also cause you to have a little bit more acne than everyone else, but but by and far that that's very good. the kids that don't have that, they have like that really nice skin and they have the the nice hair, but they're like kind of soft and you like I said, they got a little boobs going on, man boobs going on. Those kids convert their testosterone to estrogen at a higher level. Now, no one addresses this when you're a kid. Matter of fact, I have a lot of teenagers using Testalyze, which is has a natural DHT blocker in there, and it cures a lot of these kids acne. It it goes away. All these kids are going to dermatologist, they giving them antibiotics, all these terrible all these, you know, harsh stuff, creams that don't work, and I put them on some testy and just lower their DHC levels a little bit just a little bit. We're not we're not we're not getting rid of it and they're acne improved. So, I think that there are DHC converters and there's estrogen converters and you can tell the difference. And the estrogen converters probably the kids that were a little heavy their whole life and got made fun of and then they if they actually got into bodybuilding at some point to improve their their physique and they took some anabolics, those are the kids that grow like weeds, you know, because estrogen sensitizes androgen receptors. So, as we get older, however, okay, and we've already done our growing already, we don't want DHT levels to be too high because what happens is if they continue to stay high, you could lose your hair, you can have acne, and then ultimately your prostate will start getting enlarged from too much DHT. So, we want to manage DHT as we, you know, get into our 20s or we're going to we're going to have all those side effects. Whereas, when you're a young boy, it's actually a benefit, you know. And likewise with estrogen, you know, we want to we really should be managing a little better when we're younger and and when we're older, obviously we don't want too much estrogen either, but we don't want to eliminate estrogen either because estrogen sensitizes and receptors. So this once again, it becomes about testosterone optimization. And I call the reason I say that word is because that's what how we sell the species nutrition product test. It's a testosterone optimizer. It lowers estrogen a little bit. It lowers DHC levels a little bit to keep them in optimal range which ultimately raises natural testosterone because estrogen actually inhibits testosterone production in the body. And then we have some natural test boosters. So we can we can actually take your testosterone and and manipulate it and massage it so that we have more testosterone around less estrogen less DHC more muscle building. And that's how Tesla works. You take three pills twice a day. I see a lot of people's testosterone total testosterone levels go way up. DHT estrogen goes down and they feel a thousand times better. If you go on the RX Muscle YouTube channel, there are a lot of instructional videos that have gotten a lot of traction and the ones that have gotten the most traction are the howto, the ultimate guide videos, and it seems like this could be veering down that path as well. Could you please explain how to use Clen NT3? I've seen some of your other videos. I'm still a little confused. Your best advice using Clen and using T3. I I've probably explained this a thousand times already. Um, but you know what? I'll do it again because obviously there's always new people coming into the channel and watching. I I feel that clenbuterol and T3 together are probably the best, you know, fat burning combination with the least side effects, you know, because there's no there's no anabolic or I should say there's no androgenic side effects to this because they're not steroids. They're they seem to be pretty safe if you follow these directions that I give you. If you go high high high with them, you can have problems. If you don't, you shouldn't have problems. Clenuturol, I like to do 20 micrograms twice a day to start with. You always separate your doses of clenuturol because what people don't realize is while the first two weeks you might get a little shaky from clen, it's really not a stimulant. Um, that goes away after two after two weeks. And what it does is it opens up the blood vessels and it opens up the bronchial tubes. That's why you can breathe better. It's it's an asthma medication. And when you open up the blood vessels, you drop your blood pressure a little bit. If you take too much clamutrol in one dose, you'll drop your blood pressure so much that you're actually heart has to beat faster. And that's when people complain, "Oh, I feel my heart being affected." Cluterol doesn't directly affect the heart. It doesn't stimulate beta 1 receptors, which are the receptors on the heart. It stimulates beta 2 receptors, which we find on the blood vessel walls and we find them in the bronchial tubes. And and there is some evidence and we don't really know. I haven't seen too much research that it stimulates beta-3 receptors which are theoretically on fat cells which is why it mobilizes fat. I don't know if that's the the real mechanism but that's that's at least what we're being told. So you want to spread your clenutral dosages out. So how much is the most you should take? Well start with 20 micrograms twice a day. I don't believe in this two week on two week off protocol because if you do two weeks on you get good results and you go two weeks off it kind of undoes the two weeks you just did. So stay on it consistently. you're not, it doesn't stop working, okay? It continues to work. It just doesn't work at the a level that it it worked for the first two weeks. Just like anabolic steroids work very well the first, you know, four to six weeks. They don't stop working. They just don't work as well as they first did because you have much more you have more antigen receptors initially and then you downgrade a little bit. But the clut doesn't stop working. So you do 20 twice a day and then you can increase by 20 micrograms every two to three, actually every one to three weeks. Um, you don't want to go over 20 micrograms six times a day. That's 120 micrograms of clen. That should be your limit. You shouldn't go higher than that. Now, when it comes to T3, which is active thyroid hormone, you know, versus T4, which is inactive thyroid hormone. You take T4, it doesn't do anything. Okay? The reason people take T4 like me is I don't have a thyroid. Okay? I had mine removed. So, I take T4 replacement and then my body converts what it needs into T3. However, when we're trying to burn extra fat, we're trying to by adding extra T4, it won't do anything because our bodies won't convert it. But if you take T3, that is the active thyroid hormone. So, it's going to speed up your metabolic rate. I usually start people with 25 micrograms per day. Cluterol, I mean, cytol T3 is usually taken in the morning on an empty stomach. Okay? You could split the dose half and half at night if you want. It's up to you, but you could theoretically take it all in the morning. 25 micrograms per day. Every two to three weeks, you can increase it by 12.5 micrograms, which is like a half a pill. I would not go over 100 micrograms per day. And I would gradually increase it. I wouldn't just I I know guys that just start taking 75 micrograms a day. I'm like, you're crazy. I'm like, you know, you give yourself an arhythmia. So, you want to ramp it up slowly. And how long should you do both of these? 16 to 18 weeks is is is is reasonable for a full contest prep if you need it and then you taper yourself off of it. Okay. The cluterol usually I drop guys immediately down to 20 micrograms twice a day uh for a week and then 20 micrograms per day for a week and then off. The T3 we go right down to excuse me down to 25 micrograms per day for a week down to 12.5 micrograms per day for a week and then off. And that is in completion my entire climbutrol protocol. Now, how I determine whether to when to increase T3 or or clamutral is my eye and my coaching experience. So, I can't give you a blanket statement of what day to increase these dosages because if someone's losing weight, I don't increase anything at all. If they're not losing weight, then I might increase it or I might play with their diet. That's the coaching, the individual coaching that you have to utilize, you know, your experience with to determine when to do that. But that's essentially how it works. So, we do get obviously a lot of questions about PCT, but this one is in particular about diet. What particular guidelines do you recommend for diet while on a on a full PCT? You know, I to be honest with you, usually PCT comes after a contest prep. So, I'm not going to restrict people's food too much after that. Usually what I do is I for the first two weeks after a show, I'll give people like a, you know, I kind of give them my protein, fat with extra with carbs every meal, uh, diet, not going too excessive. And then I tell them to have a cheat meal once a day. Get it out of I know they're going to cheat anyway, so you might as well give them a one meal every day where they can eat what they want. If you don't do that, they're gonna eat every meal crappy and they're going to do that until they make themselves sick. So, I kind of structure it that way for some people. The people who may get carried away, I might go every other day with like a cheat meal type of thing. And uh once that those two weeks are gone, I usually put them onto an offseason scenario with it because you'll rebound off of a cycle for four weeks uh while you're on PCT. it all it only you stop making those gains usually around four week mark and then you have another four weeks to clean out and then then you're back on cycle. So I figure get let's get them right onto the offseason cycle excuse me offseason diet you know high protein moderate fat enough carbs to fuel them but not too much where they're going to get fat and and we go right from there. I go right into offseason. There's no reason to to do anything else in between. Like I said the two weeks after the show I give them the ability to have some cheat meals because it's got to get out of their system. But once we're doing that, it's back to work, you know, uh, back to that gym. By the way, I wanted to just mention also said, um, I got this sent this book in the mail. This is Rick Valente's new biography, My Life's Ride. Um, if you don't remember, Rick Valente used to do body shaping on ESPN. He was a great bodybuilder. Still, I think he still lives and trains at Dennis Golds every day. And I haven't I just received it in the mail. I haven't looked at it yet, but it looks like it's his whole life story. So, I'm gonna check this out. You might want to check this out. I'm sure they sell this on Amazon. It's called My Life's Ride with Rick. Very cool. Big Tom flash of uh flash to the past. Um IGF one levels. Are they worth testing? And is there a range you want to be at if you're raising levels via GH, IGF-1, NK67, etc.? You know, Sid, I I I hate using blood work to check chest IGF-1 levels. I know guys that are on a ton of GH and their IGF-1 is is is not that much higher. And I know guys that that take growth hormone releasing peptides and and their IGF is through the roof. So I to be honest with you, the the timing of when your body cranks the IGF one out in in response to elevated growth hormone in the body is so variable, it's hard to nail it. I think you can literally test someone's, you know, IGF-1 levels all throughout the day and you'll get varying levels because it's pulsatile. So, it it's very hard. You know, the best my best advice would be to buy IGF-1 andor growth hormone, whatever you're deciding to use to elevate IGF-1 levels, buy it from a reputable source. If you get it from a far, you know, compounding pharmacy or a pharmaceutical source that you know is trusted and and it's being prescribed to you, then you don't have to worry about going for blood work and testing your blood levels because you know what you're taking is real. Like if I go to if Titan Medical Center sends me IGF-1, long R3, I know it's real. So I don't worry about whether oh what I got to test my IGF-1 levels. If I get, you know, serarellin from Titan Medical Center, I know that it's being compounded by a legitimate pharmacy and I'm getting real growth hormone releasing peptide. Likewise, if I buy, you know, growth hormone from one of the growth hormone clinics and I know that it's coming it's up John or it's it's cir and it's coming from a real pharmacy and it's it's legit and I test and if you're not sure, you could always test it with Roy test, you know, the GH testers. then I don't worry about my IGF levels because you know what I might be a guy who takes growth hormone and my IGF doesn't go that high because everyone's IGF-1 production in their body from the liver is variable and it's genetically determined. So there's no sense in testing it, you know, as a method to determine whether what you're taking is real or not because it's not a it's not a consistent and it's not reliable in terms of telling you that information. So if that's how you're using to try to determine if your GH is real or not or your IGF-1 is real, you're going to get very very mixed signals from that. Question about healing uh modalities, formulas and I guess in comparison uh alpha to macro globulin and say PRP injections, your thoughts and then would they be better than peptides such as one that you're very high on uh BPC57? I've done a lot of PRP and I've done BPC and I'm going to tell you why I think BPC is better. I think you get a lot of bang for your buck with the shot of PRP, but it's a one-time thing. You're not doing it every day, but with BPC-157, you're take you can take it every day. I take it every day. You know, I get it from Titan Medical. I I put it in around my ankle area where I have like, you know, some sometimes I get some soreness if I'm walking on it too much and I get relief and and I and I because I'm applying it every day. Um likewise, if I have a little shoulder pain one day, I'll put it in my shoulder. So, I move it around. Whereas with the PRP, it's not something you're doing at your house. You have to go to a doctor's office. You have to get, you know, insurance clearance or if whether you're paying out of pocket for it. So, you know, no one's really tested its it's its metal on a on a regular chronic basis because people only get it done once in a while. So, it's hard to compare the two. I don't think there's any question that if you have a serious injury that you should try every modality. In other words, get the stem cells. If you can get stem cells, get PRP, you know, and usually if I when I went to Regenex, they did PRP and stem cells. So, you know, get that done as an initial kickstart the healing process and then follow up with with BPC-157 on a regular basis into that area until you're healed. I think that's the way to do it. Now, if you don't have a serious injury, maybe you tweak something in the gym, I would just do BPC, you know, every every day into that area until it's healed for two weeks, three weeks, whatever it takes. And I think that's going to give you more bang for your buck to be honest. Take one more question. This one from uh from the RX Muscle YouTube community page. I'm looking to do my first cycle. I have a smorgish board of stuff allegedly and the main was going to be deca then EQ but decided the riskreward of EQ may not be worth it and Primo's highly expensive and 125 mg. I'd need like seven vials for my cycle. Any guidance, advice and I guess blood test etc. Lipids are great. 10 I guess the basics are down. So I guess his advice whatever for running his first cycle and basically everything that he just described. Look, if I was doing my first cycle in this day and age and you could you can't get primoblone like you said because it's kind of expensive and then a lot of it's fake anyway. Um I would just do like I said I would do two orals. I would and I've gotten guys I've done a lot of work with a lot of guys who've done cycles for the first time. I would do anavar and winstral to be honest with you. I would do, you know, maybe 25 milligrams of Winstrol Tabs a day, 30 milligrams of Anavar a day, and I would do like an eight or 10 week cycle of that. And um and I bet you you I bet you you would get amazing results with zero side effects. And because they don't these those drugs really don't have side effects and the reason why you'd get amazing results is because your receptors are so clean, you haven't done anything. Anything you do, you're going to respond to. Okay? So that would be my my suggestion. Now, those drugs happen to also be expensive, especially the Anavar, especially if if you're going to go to like a a rejuvenation clinic and get it or wherever you're going to get it. You're going to pay money, you know, and if you're not getting it from like a reputable source, you're going to have to test it with the Roy test kits I sell at Dave Palumbo.com to make sure the Anabar and Winshell are real or you could be using Dianibol and Anadil for all you know. So, and then you're going to get side effects. I would do that. Um, if you don't have the money to do those drugs and you want to do a a cheaper, you know, poor man's first cycle, I would just do like 500 milligrams of testosterone a week. Take 250 milligrams twice a week inject of an injectable long acting like SIP or an ante and and and grow because I mean just that's the the purest way to do it because you're not even really negatively affecting your androgen receptors because you're not putting any any other anabolics in there. I would do that for like 10 or 12 weeks. See how you grow. I guarantee you'll put a lot of size on and then if you kind of hit like a like a little plateau, you can throw something like 200 milligrams a week of Decker in there. Once again, with those doses, you're really going to get no side effects and but you're going to get really good growth. And I would do that another like eight or 10 weeks with the Decker and the 500 milligrams of testosterone and then I would clean out for eight, you know, eight weeks. I think you'd make very good progress with that. Obviously, there's a little bit more chance of getting some side effects like some gynecomastia if you have a high estrogen conversion. even though the dosages are reasonable. Um obviously you know anavar and winchrol have very very few side effects but I think that the both of those cycles would be considered good beginner intro cycles that would yield really good results before we get out of here. So again this weekend between myself here in Dubai you obviously Alabama uh what's it going to be like? So last year we had Tyler, we had I mean you made videos before anyone got there. We have myself literally walking around filming everything that was going on. Who's going to be that guy? Is it going to be Alexi? Are we going to expect, you know, weekends as the videos as the weekend progresses? I told I have to call him up. We kind of discussed he's going to be filming interviews with all the guys there for the documentary, but he's also going to be doing some, you know, following us around doing some fun whackpack stuff with us and so we'll put up videos of that. I think I think Michelle I have to talk to I think she has someone filming the seminar. I think they had someone last year at least doing that and that would you know obviously that would probably be the first thing we put up unless we do like a little intro whackpack you know video once when I get there on Friday you know we can all hit a restaurant and maybe you know film Greg ordering his lunch or something like that. That's always or training. Remember the first one that we had last year was you Valentino and Lee at the gym right? You did a leg day and then you were comparing leg sizes. I think that's the kind of thing people love. You know what I mean? Yeah. Greg has the best legs, you know, according to him of everyone there. So, he'll he'll probably have no problem doing that. So, we'll we'll we'll do something fun. That's a guarantee. I'll message Alexi. There are a few things that there are a few things on the to-do list that I'm going to ask him to do while they're content wise and everything like that. So, I'm glad you're going to have him down there. Uh have fun. Safe travels. I know it's going to be a lot of fun over the course of the weekend and I'm sure fans can expect to see some really funny content over the next 3 days. Then of course I'm here in Dubai, the Dubai Pro this weekend. We're going to have the live stream. I'm going to be on it. I'm not sure again who's going to be on it, but we expect interviews over the course of the next few days with some of the top athletes and of course preview segments, wrap-up segments, everything in between. the way we cover every show that we are live and present at for Dave Palumbo. I'm Sep reminding you if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss this or any of the contest coverage or any of the Wackpack coverage from Alabama over the course of the next few days. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sleep Farooqi. We'll see you next time.