Heat. Yeah. Heat. This is Louis with rxmuscle.com here. Day two junior nationals competition. I'm here with Cody Cee Loi super heavyweight contender. Cody, I notic a lot of the guys that coming into this show at weigh-ins, they're in their 230s, low upper whatever. Normally, you see them in the upper 250s, 260s. Conditioning might be a big thing here. How do you think you stack up? Uh, I I think it should be good. Um, I weigh in at 233, so I'm right there in the mix. Uh, conditioning is always something that I've been really proud of when I come into a show. So, I'll be happy to stack up with a bunch of other inconditioned super heavyweights because a lot of times you just get lots of muscle and a little lack of conditioning. So, I'm hoping for a good show out. And you're not going to get caught up in the size game where someone they say, "Well, we're going to reward the size." Someone that's 20 lbs bigger, but not in your condition. I hope not. Um I mean, it's going to I think it's going to be evil or even playing ground this time. I mean, like I said, it could be an evil playing ground. It could be evil. It probably will be. I hope so. Maybe it'll get a little dirty out there, but uh no, I think it'll be close. I think it should be good. And uh it's going to be interesting to see the top five. So, you have a game plan going in. You guys are getting ready to start prejudging here in probably my half hour. You have any any kind of thing you do to psych people out? Maybe kind of stare at them or grunt or bark backstage? All the above. No, I'm probably going to put my headphones on, grab some dumbbells, and go off in the corner and just warm up and stay to myself. That's usually how I do things. So, I don't think I'll change it up. You don't go up to someone and be, "Hey, man. Did you maybe start your salt too early?" Cuz you're looking a little maybe a little watery. Well, you know, after I get pumped up and I'm feeling good, I might go by a couple guys and say that, but we'll start off by myself. All right. So, what is the routines like here for for you guys? Is it top five or is it is it everybody? Um, I honestly am not sure. I thought everybody got to do a routine tonight, but in our meeting about 40 minutes ago, they said only top five will be routing a routine tonight. So, we're going to see routine from you. I hope so, cuz it get your popcorn ready. Are we going to see routine from you? We're going to see it. Get your popcorn. You have any final words you want to say to anybody out there, sponsors, or uh family, friends? Uh, yeah, definitely. Um, I want to thank my girlfriend for being there supporting me the whole time. Uh, the Midwest Iron Boys, Beats B Sports Nutrition, uh, Unleash the Freak, and of course, my coach, Tim McGuire. All right, here we are with Cody Ceil Loi going to try and wreck the stage a little bit prejudging here in Chicago. This is Louison CEO rxmuscle.com.