Heat. Welcome to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Columbo and today is Tuesday, October 4th, 2016. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It might be a new day, but it's still the same old story for 212 veteran Tricky Jackson. Over the weekend, the longtime veteran released some new footage from a recent training session where he gives us a sneak peek at what he's been up to through the early part of his offseason. Despite only competing twice this year, Tricky was his usual spectacular self, bringing home two top five finishes and showcasing some really noticeable improvements back at the Charlotte Pro. When he's at his best, Tricky Jackson is still a handful to deal with. And if he decides to come back full force again next season, I have no doubt that we'll see him make a return to the Olympia stage. I've seen some guys do impressive things in their post show rebound period, but this is just flatout ridiculous. A few weeks after delivering an awesome 10th place performance in his Mr. Olympia debut, bodybuilding's version of half man, half amazing seems to have hit his postshow rebound at full stride. New photos that surfaced this week show a gigantic version of Justin Compton, who looks to be about 20 pounds bigger since he stepped off the Olympia stage. With two wins, two more top five finishes, and the aforementioned 10th place at the Olympia, 2016 was by far the best season of Compton's career. And now that he appears to have finally taken that next step to the upper echelon of the sports elite, it'll be interesting to see what 2017 has to offer for the incomparable Compton. Speaking of rebounds, I'm not sure what kind of Kool-Aid that Dallas Macccarve has been sipping on, but I need to get some of that. After successfully cracking the top 10 in his second career Olympia, the 25-year-old phenom is already in the process of taking his freak factor up by 10 new levels. Some recent training footage shows a ridiculously big and full Macarver already looking like he's got plans to be a serious gamecher by this time next season. Over the last two years, Macarver's transformation from an untested rookie into one of the best talents in the sport has been nothing short of amazing. And with that sort of bluecollar work ethic that he brings to the table, combined with his insane genetics right now, the sky really does seem to be the limit for this guy. with another hard offseason of sculpting and refining his look and really honing in on a few details. By this time next year, we could legitimately be talking about him as the next in line to challenge Phil Heath for the throne. Over the last few years, we've seen some incredible talents emerge from the ranks of the UK bodybuilding scene. And right now, it looks like superstar in the making, Hamid Juma, might be the next great one on deck. This year, the 28-year-old rocked the house for the second straight year at the English Grand Prix, where he cruised to the overall title in impressive fashion. Recently, a very crisp looking Juma was spotted in the gym looking about as good as we've ever seen him. And as he begins to head into the final phase of his 2016 preparations, if he continues to add muscle in the right places without sacrificing any of those crazy lines, I have a funny feeling that it'll be a lot sooner than later that we'll be talking about Hamid Juma as a real force to be reckoned with on a pro stage. Operation 2017 pro card is in full effect for rising national level star Tyler Conn. The former team national runnerup made a huge splash at this year's North American Championships, coming in and delivering a noteworthy top eight performance. Over the last few weeks, Con has been hitting the gym like a man on a mission, focusing all of his efforts on coming into 2017 and locking down his IFBB Pro card. The 23-year-old powerhouse has already made some impressive gains so far this offseason. And given that the real work has only just begun, he seems to be on pace to come in next year bigger and better than we've ever seen him. And as long as he stays focused and keeps his nose to the grindstone, 2017 has the potential to be a very special year for Tyler Con. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com. Today, I'm Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.