broadcasting in my Delorean using the Flux Capacitor Olympia wrap-up. >> I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here with another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio. This is our Olympia wrap-up. As you heard from Christo, he hasn't even gotten home yet. He's in his car. I just got home a few minutes ago. I had a very long flight myself. It was a long weekend, Chris. But um I I have to say I think that you might be the winner of the weekend because I said this in the wrap-up at the show. You had almost the triple crown. You and Derek both got the triple crown almost. You got the winner of the men's open bodybuilding classic bodybuilding and you just missed one place off on men's physique. So great weekend for you. It was um >> And I know you didn't sleep the whole weekend. >> Well, I watched the wrap-up and everyone uh commented that I sounded drunk. I sounded like I was drunk. I mean, I couldn't put together sentences. Um and normally I struggle to put together. So, >> now seriously, I I don't think people realize you don't like when I tit around and say you don't sleep, like that means for most people like he slept four hours. Like you literally do not sleep, right? >> I did. I I did 38 hours with no sleep running into the none running into the >> When I saw you, I guess it would have been uh including up to Saturday night. That was a 30 out. So for the Saturday finals, I had not slept at all for 38 hours. >> Wow. And and you know what? You were in a surprisingly pretty good mood, too. So, >> well, you know what? We were just discussing this about dieting. I was telling in the room with Derek and and uh >> Matt Drago, I said, "It doesn't matter right when you're competitor how tired you are, how exhausted you are. The first slice of pizza after a show, right? >> You're out. You're out after that." Yeah. >> No. Or you're like, "Oh, that prep wasn't all that bad. It wasn't too bad." >> Oh, you're talking about the competitors. I thought you meant you. I thought you meant you. >> Yeah. Cuz when I'm exhausted and I'm over tired, if I eat something, that's it. I'm out after that. I I I can't keep my eyes open anymore. >> Yeah, it was it was so rough. So, I look like a drunk Ellen. >> Drunk Ellen. It You had a good weekend. You really You guys did really good. How many um top fives did you get all all told? Um um I don't Andrew was >> because you had Andrew and um Derek, >> Ali, and um Ramon. >> Yeah. >> But I had 11 people on the show in total, >> right? >> Which is technically 21 because it's 11 and Derek take 10. 21. Derek, Derek told me, you know, actually on camera, he told me he was having a little bit of a a problem backstage. You know, he was freaking out. He said, which, you know, I gota I got to give the kid credit. You know what? To do what he did, you know, back in the day, Milos used to compete in every show, okay? But Derek competed in the three most competitive shows, you know, of the year essentially, and won them all. I mean that >> the consistency to be able to do that >> is unbelievable because you can't it's impossible to peak your body at its absolute best every single time you know you go out there much less three times we talk about how the body needs a break it needs a rest. How did you kind of like give his body that rest that it needed so that you can you know dep peak him and then rep him for all three shows because that that's that's like magicians that's like Chris Angel's stuff you know. Well, Dave, we we he started he started three days after last year's Olympia, >> but he he didn't, you know what I mean? Three days after the Olympia, he was in some type of >> far as a like a prep mode sort of because it was not I don't think it was much more than like 18 weeks to the Arnold or whatever it may have been, right? Not had a time to like I think he went on a cruise right after the Olympia. Mhm. >> Um it was a no victory vic victory cruise >> and that was may maybe he went away for like five days decompressed a little bit and then came back and got back into the swing of things and you know the I think from the beginning all the way back there you know what was he understood this idea that you know you can't fear losing you might go to the Arnold that's where it started is you know you could end up losing that show and um he was okay with losing that show which he won of course but the idea that you know I could lose it so it's it's a comment on his you know his focus >> some guys Chris I find can almost need like like short-term goals in order to be successful and I think Derek you know if you give him too much time off it's actually not good for him his for his head at least you know here's him and hottie kind of some good pictures of both of them. This is it was it was a close it was a close battle. It certainly was. I mean, according to the scorecards, I don't know if you looked at them, Derek won prejudging six to nine. Obviously, the lower scores the better. And then Hottie actually won the night show 7 to eight, but it was only a one point at the night show is essentially tied. And then I guess Derrick had enough of a lead from the prejuding to to, you know, clinch the victory by two points. But that's pretty damn good, you know, if you ask me. >> Yeah. What do I always say? It's two Olympias in one. You know, there's a prejudging which, you know, if you watch our wrap-up, you know, I think he had a very comfortable, not Yeah, I would say a very comfortable lead coming out of prejudging. And of course, Hardy had the ability to, as we've shown a million times, metamorphosize in 24 hours. And he was just like hottie rock hard for the finals. Plus he was fuller for the finals. >> Yeah. Yeah. Is way fuller. So I mean there were there was clearly a a distinction between his finals physique and his prejudging physique, you know, because watching the show with you at the finals, you know, photo uh shots that I thought that like were handily Derek's in prejudging. Um notably like say for example the back last word. Hott's last word looked like remarkably different a day later. It was looked wider. It was certainly tighter, which was probably why it looked wider. >> Yeah. You know, and I think two things I noticed that that was one weaknesses that he didn't have before. His his definitely his right leg, there's something wrong with it. Um I he probably has some kind of a knee injury or something like that or something that's not enabling him to train like he normally is. So his legs are not as dominant as they usually are. They're still really good. And the right leg is is noticeably a little smaller. Okay, which we never saw from him. You know, pin pitting that against Derek's legs that are amazing, too. That that was one little [\h__\h] in the armor I thought that that Hottie had. His also his color at prejudging wasn't really that good, which is surprising because Hottie always has perfect color. Matter of fact, I always tell people, you want to see good coloring, look at Hottie Chopen because he he always has the best coloring. And I don't know what happened. It wasn't really that dark, but at night he came back with really really good coloring and he filled out a little bit. You still see that right leg a little smaller than the left leg, but you know, it it's it was such a close contest that little silly things like that can make a big difference. And um like I said, let me see if I pull that back that. Let's go back to that. I mean, oops, that was what I wanted. Hold on back. There we go. If you look at the this this this pose, which is usually a very dominant pose for Hottie, I think Derek beats him in the back double. >> I think Oh, hasn't Derek always beat him in the back double? >> Yeah. >> You know, I I think that Aidi, you know, has been harder in the past. Certainly, he was his, you know, close to trademark at night, but >> yeah, >> you know, we're still looking for the the trademark hardness that he's had. you know, uh, he's being, you know, we always think of like the hottie. He was zippered at night, but he was like hyper hyper zippered that year. He won the Arnold a couple years ago. >> Yeah, that's his best ever. Yeah. I don't know if he'll ever, >> you know. I mean, that hyper zipperness is like trouble for Derek for sure. For everybody, you know, I mean, he beat a big Samson at that show. I want to show that Samson Samson was gargantuan in that. If you take out the fact that, you know, you coached Derek and that I'm friends with Derek, okay, because obviously we we are a little biased. We have to be because of that. >> Can you make a case for hottie winning? >> Um, I always try to be unbiased. >> Yeah. >> Um, no. you know, because they're both short and you know, how's it's hard for someone Derek's height to negate his width on this everywhere. You know, he's he's I mean, he's abnormally wide and you know, his his legs, at least in prejudging, were just ginormous. So, a lot of width with giant legs and you know, it's he's hard to beat by somebody who's the same height. >> For those of you who wondered, he won $600,000. Jake did not raise the prize money, which was I think you had predicted he was going to, didn't you? >> I did. I usually get those. >> I I think it was a good move on his part. I Well, I think it was a good move. I'll tell you why it was a good move. because it kind of ended the arms race, so to speak, cuz now Arnold is Arnold can say, "All right, I'm bigger now. I'm 650." Um, although he's 650 for 2026. Maybe Jake will raise it for the 2026 Olympia. So Jake is still, I guess, higher, right, for the for the year 2025. But 2026, you know, he we might see that go up. Uh, they're moving the Olympia. It was an they made the big announcement. And I had I had already known about this, but they're moving Libya, not out of Vegas, but they're going to keep it in Vegas. They're going back to the Orleans Arena, which I think is a good idea because the Orleans hotel itself is kind of crappy, but the arena was really nice. It reminds me of the old Beacon Theater, which the Night of Champions used to be held at in New York City. It holds a lot of people. It's bigger. It's got a lot of parking. I mean, it's it's super easy to get to. And they're gonna use the Palms Hotel as the as the hotel, the host hotel, I guess. >> Oh, Palms is beautiful. >> Yeah. Didn't um Mark Cuban used to own that? >> He did used to own that. I don't know if he still does. >> When he owned it back, what was it like 15 years ago? It was it was that was a really fancy hotel when it first. >> Yeah. Because the surprise was he built like that type of luxury hotel off the strip. >> Right. Off the strip. Exactly. Yeah. >> And the question mark was like why? And then once it opens then like ra view. >> Yeah. So I think that's a good idea. I like I like the fact that they you know modified a little. Look resorts is beautiful. I I'm kind of sad that it's leading there because I'm I just got used to I finally know where everything is in the >> No way. I know you're going to say that. You finally know where you're going. >> I finally can find the theater and all the other places I have to go. I'll tell Aaron Sigman invited me to this party on Friday night. It was in some crazy room like you had to go through like secret doors to get there in the Crockford. You know, the the Hilton is is the resorts Hilton. There's the Crockford and then there's the uh Conrad. I was in the Conrad. The Crockford is like you got to go through the secret door and then there's a like a special elevator that that they have like someone waiting at the bottom who takes you up to the top and then there's another woman who takes you through a secret door. They have to scan a key. You would never be able to find this in a mill. Even a GPS couldn't find this room. Chris, >> there's an upcharge, Dave. Every secret door you have to go through. Make you feel more important every single step. >> Yeah. But we got out so late Friday night. So, I was I was really grateful that Aaron invited me because I, you know, he had alcohol there. I had a few glasses of wine. I had I had a he had some food, really good food there. And so, I ate. I was talking up with everyone we know there. So, thank you, Aaron Singerman, for that invitation. And uh we watched Oh, you didn't go to the movie the um that they've screamed um Dan Solomon. They had filmed the 60th annivers Let me get I want to make sure I get the title right of the movie. They had filmed the uh 60th anniversary of the Olympia last year and they and they made a movie out of it >> and what was it called? Olympia something make sure I get this right. By the way, I want to give a big shout out to Sid for doing a phenomenal job. Number one, when he did his announcing, I know you saw that. You I you heard that, but he did a great job with all the Arcs Muscle content and everything like that, helping me and and you and Cass, our our videographer, did a phenomenal job. And Ian Balier, who helped us with the wrapups and >> Yeah. >> Um, who else helped us with the rap? Oh, Rich Gaspar helped us on Friday night with the wrapup. >> Wesley Vissers. Wesley Vissers did a great job. Kiron Holden helped me with men's physique. So, >> I like when you have somebody like Wesley and Ian doing the wrap-ups because they're very analytical. >> Yep. >> You know, they're experienced professionals. They are into detail and they are able to see it black and white minus out emotion and bias which ends up being a report. Unlike me who's just the biased part of >> you're really not you're really you're really you're not biased. You're just you're saying that but you're really not you're you're good. You're uh you're you're I would say that you're probably of all the coaches you're probably the most honest I would say. Let me pull up this thing here. So all right it was called the movie was called just uh dream big and I don't know where it's going to be released. I don't know if it's going on. I think it's going to Netflix and if if you like if you want to know the history of like how the Olympia came about and bodybuilding and everything like that, it's really good like technically like that. It tell it gives you a real behind the scenes look at what it takes to put on the Mr. Olympia competition. It's not going to be like a It's made by the guys from Generation Iron. did it, but and they try to like involve like the competitors too in there. But to me, it was more the the the the best part of it was the behind the scenes of how this thing happens. So, if that's something that you're interested in, I think a lot of bodybuilds want to know what happens behind the scenes. You know, we see it because Chris, we're backstage and we, you know, we can see all the operations, how they're getting ready and everything like that, but most people don't see that behind the scenes. So, in that sense, Dan did a great job putting that all together. I think you guys will really like it. And I I like I said, I believe that it's either going to be on um Amazon Prime or it's going to be on Netflix. So, look for that to come out. It's called Dream Big, the Olympia Story. And uh thank you, Dan, for inviting me to that screening. I actually, you know, I sat I sat next to Shawn Ray the whole time. >> Oh, you did? >> And I shared a table, believe it or not. >> You survived. >> I survived. Yeah, I did survive. And uh Frank Zepy was there, too. We were all uh talking the storm. Bob was there. You know, the whole the the the I was called the old guard was all there. >> I I knew you're going to use those words. How how crazy is that? I didn't predict the 600,000 over there. I knew you're going to see the old guard quote. >> All right. Hold on. Let me let me pull up that um the video. I want to show the video a little bit. I thought that um we had we had really good access all all weekend and I want to thank Dan and and Jake for that too because you know I like to sit as close as possible to the stage so that I can really get a bird's eye view of what's going on so when we do these wrap-ups I can give good reporting and we were sitting when we were in the expo watching the classic physique prejudging and the men's physique we were sitting like right in the front row and then I a whole bunch of people, you know, came and and Jake was sitting next to me. He's like, he goes, "I didn't know you were part of my Olympia Olympia crew." I said, "I'm not." I said, "But you mind if I sit here anyway?" And he was like, "No, you're good. You're good." So, yo, the good thing about Dan and Jake as opposed to what used to be there in that place, you know, when AMI was there, is that they get it. They they want to see us do good coverage of the show, you know, they they're they don't break chops, you know, and everything like that. You know, obviously you got to still run a strict backstage and you and you know, they can't let every Yahoo go back there. I know I think Milo I think Milos got into a fight with them back there. Did you know that? >> No, I didn't know that. That way. >> Yeah, I think Milos I think Milos got kicked out. Yeah. Back to stage because he was going back because they can't let I understand that. I even I told them I said don't worry about it. I understand. >> Never asked. I've never >> No, but you you But they'll if they let you come back like you got invited back there at one point, right? >> For for medical attention. >> Yes. For medical stuff. But I'm saying they can't let every single person go back there because it's it's it's too chaotic back there. >> And um so I they they run they run a tight shift. >> You you can overcoach. People say like you're going to go backstage. I'm like >> what? >> It's like over diving. You can over coach. What are you going to say? What are you going to do backstage in >> 90 minutes? >> Right. Right. But I know but you know these these I think people like to go backstage because it makes them feel important. Personally, I enjoy sitting in the audience and watching the show. I was sitting next to >> enjoying the show. I love >> I was sitting next to Sergio the whole time. That's >> Sergio Oliva Jr. is is is more entertaining than watching, you know, a live stream commentary. >> He he he brought uh dinner for my son complete with like bottles of like barbecue sauce and hot dogs. >> I swear. And he he bought me a drink, too. So, thank you, Sergio. But yeah, no it but the point is that I understand that there has to be a certain level of security backstage and rules in place but it it can be done in in a in a dignit dignifying way and with respect as opposed to a snobish arrogant way which is the way it used to be done and I think Tamer and his crew do a phenomenal job back there. Uh Dan is is a terrific diplomat and and Jake is a great owner. You know what? Jake sits with everyone else. He walks around to the expo like a regular guy. I respect the hell out of that. If if I own the Olympia, I do the same thing. You know, he doesn't ever try to portray himself as being more important than anyone else. And you know what? That that's cool. I really think that's cool. I think that's why people like going to that show. It has you you get a good feeling going there, which we didn't get a lot in the past. In the past, it was like this snobbish like attitude like, "Oh, you're not good enough to be here." You know, that kind of thing. You should be grateful you're here. That kind of thing. We should want everyone to be at that show. That this is our Super Bowl. This is what showcases bodybuilding at its greatest. You want everyone who's going to, you know, cover this show in a positive way to be in that venue. And um I'm glad that um I'm glad that they making a move next year because I think that the limitation this year was that they didn't have enough seats and a lot of people couldn't go because they couldn't get tickets. It was sold out. >> Yeah. Yeah. There was there was people uh with little cardboard signs that said tickets. >> There was Did you see that? >> No, I didn't. Sorry. You're not kidding. No, you're >> in the lobby, you know, looking for >> Yeah. So, I I there was this sushi little sushi hut think I call it. It looked like a tiki hut in the resorts and I've been going there for two years now. It's the best sushi I've ever tasted. Their specialty is hand rolls. So, everything you don't get anything else there is not good. Now, they told me this last year, only get their super fresh hand rolls. They make them as you you eat one, they give you the next one. They roll it in. It's so pristine the sushi. It's it's it's mindboggling. So, I was going there twice a day. I would go there for lunch and I'd go there for like like a dinner before we went to the shows and I was doing this for like two or three days. They knew who I was already because they had my spot set up. They knew they're like the same. I'm like, "Yeah, the same." You know, I'm a total creature habit. So the Saturday I go there and who with John Romano and um DJ's there and Dana Lyn Bailey is there and I'm like, "Dana, are you done eating? Can you get up so we can sit down?" She's like, "I come here twice a day." And I I said, "Don't don't tell me you ordered the General. The General was like five. It's five hand rolls. That's their specialty." She's like, "Yeah, how do you know?" Because I come here twice a day, ordered the same exact thing. She's like, "Isn't it the best sushi you've ever tried?" I said, "Yeah, it's awesome, man." And so we were That's I always say that real bodybuilders love sushi. I know you do, too. And um so it's like it was like an unspoken word every day. Everyone was there at the same exact times. And it was it was hysterically funny because no one coordinated being there. We just all were hungry at the same time and the breaks between all the shows, the expo, the night show, the morning show, they were all the same. So you only have so many so much time to go get food. And and they for some reason they would serve you in like 10 minutes you can be in and out of there. And so that was my go-to place. The reason I'm revealing it now is because we're not going to be there next year. So I'm not going to ruin it for myself. Normally when I tell people the secret locations of the best food, the next year when I go there, I can't even eat because it's it's it's it's mobbed by people. >> Dave Palumbo effect. >> Yeah, it's the day. So next year, I will tell you one thing about the Orleans Hotel. Now, and this is for the people who are thinking about going to the Olympia because if you go next year, you really can do it in a very economically feasible way because the Orleans Hotel, the Orleans Arena holds a lot of people. So they're going to sell a lot more tickets. They'll probably have cheaper tickets too available that they couldn't do at this arena because every seat is great in this arena. Also, if you don't want to spend a fortune, like I spent I think that the the resorts hotel was like 350 bucks a night. Probably was more than that with taxes. In the Orleans, you could actually get rooms. I think during the week it's like 49 bucks a night, Chris. And then the weekends, >> right? The weekends they go up to 99 bucks. The quality of the room is the same as bombs. >> Now, the hotel is not the the greatest hotel and you there's a lot of people walking around, you know, with oxygen tanks smoking cigarettes, but but but it's not terrible. The hotel I've stayed there, you know, many many times and and it's really not that bad. So, if you have a shoestring budget and you want to go to the Olympia, stay at the Orleans Hotel. You don't need just take an Uber from the airport. You don't even ever have to leave there. The arena's right next door. They have a food court in the Orleans Hotel. Well, I can tell you I've been there a lot. They got Sparrows pizza. They got, you know, Fudruckers. They actually have elk burgers at Fuddruckers. I don't know if Have you ever had an elk burger? >> I have not. >> You have or you haven't? >> I have not had an elk. >> Okay. You You sound like you're fading a little bit. So, I I'm trying to keep you a little aroused a little bit here with my with food because I figure you probably haven't eaten for about 12 hours if I know you. >> Yeah. So anyway, if you're going to next year if you're booking your trip, book it early, get your room at I'm sure they're going to have some bodybuilder rates at the Orleans Hotel too probably or at least at the Palms they will. And then um you know get your elk burger at Fudruckers there. They do have a nice food court. I will tell you that. So I'm looking forward to next year's Olympia already. All right, let's talk about the show a little bit. What what what we talked a little bit about Derek versus Hottie. Uh, looking at the scorecards, Chris, I don't know if you're aware, but but Hani, I mean, uh, but, uh, Samson and and andrew in third and fourth were very, very close. Matter of fact, Samson, I think, just lost by one point, a prejudging to Andrew and then Andrew pretty convincingly beat him unanimously at the uh, at the finals. A lot of pe people thought that that Samson, myself included, could have even I mean, excuse me, Andrew could have been as high as second place in this lineup. What was your take on Samson? Obviously, you worked with him as well. How high could he have gone? Could you justify him winning? >> You mean Andrew I worked with, not Sam. >> Andrew, sorry that I keep I'm sorry. >> Yeah. Um, I think Andrew gave Derek and Hardy a little bit more pushed in. I I thought Andrew could have won the night show. >> Based on what? >> Um, remarkable conditioning, most striding quads in the show. Uh, fantastic flutes. Peeled at the night show very hard. Three judges. He dwarfs everybody in height. His front lat spread, front double are astounding. Um, his ab shot is astounding. He's just he's a freak show >> for a big guy. He's got insane abs. Yeah, >> he's got tie-ins. He's got I mean, he's just remarkable to look at. Um I I think what would you know you had made the comment that um Derek does good in the lineup I mean uh Nick Walker does a good in the lineup one-on-one right? >> Yeah. >> Meaning if Derek is if Nick Walker who's a mass monster standing next to Hardi the contrast or Derek the contrast in physique is monumental. They're not the same. >> They're not even apples and oranges. They're not one's a fruit and one is like, you know, steak. And I think if Andrew compared one-on-one in a one-on-one call out versus Derek or um >> Hottie >> Hottie, you start to like judge them or judge you start to judge them both differently. That makes sense. >> Yeah. No, you're right. I I I think if like there was a twoerson call out things could have been a little different. I I actually thought running into like the last day I thought it was going to come down to Andrew and Derek. >> Andrew was very very shocking, you know, how how much he improved. He brought better conditioning. He brought more size. He filled in a lot of the gaps that he was missing last year. I can imagine I can only imagine what he's going to do over the course of the next, you know, several months, but he's he's he's a genetic wonder for sure. And when they finally we we've been waiting for this call out for what, a couple years now. They finally put uh excuse me, um Andrew and Samson like one-on-one right next to each other. And obviously, I think that's when Samson was completely exposed by Andrew and Andrew really dominated him. I think that's when people and probably the judges realized that there's no way we can put Samson ahead of Andrew. He's just too good. Um I think that the criticism that I got on Andrew or the constructive criticism I should say from in the final wrap-ups even was that his presentation has not caught up to the quality of his physique. So maybe he's not showing off that those gifts that he has to his best advantage. And I and we've talked about that, you and I. Um, I think he's got to work on that in the offseason and uh really hone his craft a little bit. He's creative like when he poses like in his routine he's really good. Like he did those he did that insane split. I couldn't even believe that he did a split at his size. That is very impressive. But you know Kai Green was always a really good entertaining poser and then when he would do mandatories he was very unconventional and that hurt him a lot against Phil. So I think Andrew's got to work on on on the presentation part of it. But I think, you know, whatever you guys whatever formula you guys got going for this show, it worked. And uh I think a lot of people were really impressed. And yeah, let's face it, Lee Haney said it, good big man always beats a good little man. And so I think once Andrew puts on maybe another five pounds, it's going to be game over. >> I mean, that that's why not to beat a dead horse, but that's my point in like a hottie versus on stage alone or Derek on stage alone versus Andrew. I mean, the results might have been the same, but you know, the impact or the the contrast is different as opposed to two short guys and two tall guys all being compared because they all look good different. They look different and good in certain poses, you know, >> right? >> You know, doing a split like that, Chris, is is impressive in itself. Try to try to hit a double bicep while you're doing it at the same time without falling over. That that's that is truly a gift. Think about it. He's balancing his body with just his legs, but he's he's not it's like his in it's it's just his like knees are balancing his body because it's very easy to fall over. Remember, he doesn't have an arm on the floor right there. That that's a very impressive pose he hits right there. People don't realize how hard that is right right there. Watch that. That is off the charts. Seriously. Let me see if he has it. We have it. There's some more pictures. Routine was really good. Definitely was good. I'm surprised they didn't give a best poser award. >> Yeah, he he was just so sharp at night. He was sharp and prejudging, but just he was he just had like a little bit more 3D quality to him at the night show and and just phenomenal. >> He was more the most shocking competitor. I'll tell you why. Because I don't think a lot of people suspected that he was going to be up that high. you know, they thought they were going to see what they saw last year and he would be beaten by a lot of these, you know, other guys like Nick Walker and and um you know, obviously Samson, you know, a lot of people thought Samson was going to win. Um, talking about Samson, you know, I know we talked about this in the wrap-up, but let's it warrants us going over one more time. What was the problem with Samson in your mind? And and what do you think he did wrong leading up to this show? because a lot of people thought the guest posing that he did several weeks ago, he looked amazing and every we were all like, "Oh my god, this guy's gonna come in here. He's going to win this Olympia." What went wrong in your mind? >> I mean, he he was a little he was he was a little too small and you know, Andrew came in bigger and harder. So, you know, he didn't he wasn't the big guy in the first in the in the first and last call out of four. It was Andrew. So, it made him look not extra small, but it looked It just made you made made everyone come to the conclusion that he was too small. I mean, yes, he was smaller than he was in the past, not as round, but more detailed. But, you know, when he had to stand next to to Andrew, and that made him look small. And of course, Hottie for their height and u Derek are super, you know, Derek's super round. And and Hardi is of course built to the hill. So, he couldn't really technically give up any size if he's going to be in the contention to win, >> right? And this shot right here, you can see even his arms look down in size here. And that that's not, you know, Samson has huge arms normally, you know. >> Yeah. I mean, what we're looking for is, you know, what what people are looking for always is the ultimate. They're looking for like that colossal Arnold look with more detail, >> right? He I mean >> and some of the judges I mean the the judges are expecting like the extreme meaning your absolute best and the absolute best would be what you usually bring which is a you know massive but with but the detail of how I mean that's what you know what I mean. Well, let me ask let me ask I'm going to ask you a question. I know what the answer is going to be, but let me ask you this question. He does look harder. He was harder on stage, okay, than he has been, okay? So, I I don't want to I don't want to take away from the fact that he did do his work. You can tell he worked hard because he wanted to come in with conditioning that they were expecting from him. However, he was he was he downsized. He lost muscle size or at least, you know, something went wrong while he was trying to get that better conditioning. Is it possible that, you know, his he just doesn't have enough muscle yet? And that when he comes down to a size where he is in really good shape, he's just not as big. And that the bigness on his body is this is when he's really kind of a little off. You know, he's really not in contest shape yet. Everyone's bigger when they're not in contest shape. You know, the muscle's fuller. You got a little bit of fat, you know, you know, coating things and giving you a little extra boost. Is it possible that that Samson just needs to be a little bit bigger muscularly speaking so that he can come down? Because let's face it, Dory Nates told me, he goes, "I could have competed," he said at 275. He goes, "I was still pretty crazy hard." He goes, "But I would have had the level, the shrink wrap look, and to me that was more important." And but Dorian had so much muscle that he could afford to do that. I don't think I think Samson's just on the borderline of having enough muscle and when he brings it down enough to get himself shrink wrap shredded, he's too small. >> Yeah. Well, that would be like Yes, that that I agree with that because Okay. >> couldn't couldn't Derek and Hardy first and second come in all of them. They could come in >> bigger, >> still look really hard at four pounds bigger, >> but would be saying, "Wow, this is their biggest look to date, but it's just not sharp enough." >> Right. And and if that is the case, what I said is true, and it seems like you're agreeing with me that he just needs to put a little bit more muscle on. It might behoove him to to take off a good chunk of the year and maybe just focus on the Olympia next year, you know, grow. He >> Yeah, >> he's done a lot of competing is what I'm saying in the last >> Yes. >> three years. Lots. >> I know the money is good and I know he wants to make that money at the Arnold, but I I think it would be in his best interest to take the full year off, put on another like six, seven pounds, which is probably all he needs in the right places. And um you know, keep keep your don't get too crazy big where you're going to be like, you know, sloppy. And and I to be honest with you, I've never seen Samson sloppy. Even when he's huge, he looks he looks pretty lean. And just uh let your body just rest and recover and and and grow. Uh because I think he's still improving. And then I think if he comes back to the Olympia next year with the added muscle size, with this good conditioning now that he he brought this year, I think that's the look that's going to, you know, push him back into the conversation again and have people saying this is looks like a Mr. Olympia again. But, uh, it does look like he really pushed hard for this to and I think he just went a little overboard with that's that's pretty much where he went. >> Yeah. I mean, it's is in hindsight 2020, you know. Yeah. >> Yeah. But, you know, >> he he's never peeled it down to the point where he was crazy shredded. So, until you do that, you don't know what you got to work with and how much you need to put on, you know? >> Yeah. >> I mean, you've worked with plenty of guys. You get them in the best shape of their life and they're like, "I'm I'm I'm too flat. I'm too I don't I don't my I got small." No. No. >> Happens all the time. >> That's the muscle you have on your body. That's what you That's what you look like, you know. Go work on putting more muscle on. >> You didn't carve me up enough, >> right? No, I can't carve you up anymore. You just need to put more muscle on. You know, that's the answer to the question. All right. I got >> I got to play this thing you sent me. I Who does Does Derek know who this guy is? This nacho guy. >> Yeah, I sent it to Derek. >> I know you sent it to me, but did he does he know who he is? >> Derek Derek Derek loves Trump and wanted to stay at the Trump hotel. And I said, I can't stay there. I got 11 people plus you, which makes it 22. So I said, "You have to say where I'm staying." >> Trump probably was going to give him a free room, you know. >> Oh, yeah. >> All right. So, who's So, who's this guy in relation to Derek? Just a fan. >> Just Just someone on Just someone on Instagram. >> All right. All right. Watch this. Watch this. This is great. >> Is the 47th president, Donald J. Trump. You might have heard of me. And I've got a big beautiful message for Derek Lungsford. Lun. I mean, what a tremendous name. Derek, I know that you are competing to be the top bodybuilder. You know, you already you might already be the top bodybuilder in the world. Besides me behind me, you know, because, you know, people don't know, but under the suit, I'm jacked. I'm actually jacked that CNN the MSNBAC. They don't talk about it. It's so sad. And Derek, I know you're thinking, you know, how does the president know? Your buddy Chris mean so handsome. We love Chris, don't we? Chris, he reached out. We love him so much. And he's so connected. He knows the president. and he wanted me to wish you good luck on the competition. You know, you're going to be lifting weights at numbers never seen before in the gym in preparation for the bodybuilding. You know, you'll be able to build your body huge, huge, even bigger than the Trump Tower. And and I didn't even think that was possible. Derek, you walk into a room and people they go, "Whoa." They go, "Who's this guy?" And this guy, you know, the big muscle man. the ladies they're saying some are saying maybe too much some are saying maybe not enough and some the goldilocks they go oh that's perfect we love to see it you know it's so beautiful and you know with my immigration policy now you've been able to you know worry less about that and focus more on the bodybuilding which is so tremendous isn't it so we love you so much Derek I wish you I hope you win the competition let me know if you do have Chris or I don't know have somebody reach out I want to know I want to I'm rooting for you Derek We love you so much, Derek. I'll talk to you later. This has been the 47th president, Donald J. Trump. >> That was great. Phenomenal. I was laughing my ass off watching it. Very good. I wonder He doesn't even look like he works out. I wonder if he's just a a fan. >> Is that what he is? >> No, just a just an impersonator. That's it. >> Yeah. Oh, so Oh, you so you reached out to him and told him. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> Oh, I got you. Okay. Yeah, I got you. >> I knew Derek would love it. >> Yeah, I know. That was He's going to love that. All right, let's let's talk Nick Walker because Nick Walker was the biggest story going into the Well, one of the biggest stories going into the Olympia. He was We saw massive pictures of him on online on Instagram. I mean, the guy was mind-bogglingly big and ripped and veiny and freaky looking and everyone and he was he actually predicted Nick predicted victory um at the I think it was the press conference, right? Or right before that or something like that. And he came in, he finishes in sixth uh position out of the placings. uh unfortunately for him uh making Bob Chikaro look like he's a genius and you know because Bob said he would not place top five and he took a lot of heat for that. So we got to give Bob credit on that one. He called that one what and I got to say I got to just say right off the bat number one Nick looked great. I thought he was in great shape. He had good muscle size. He did everything he had to do when he came out alone on stage. I thought hey this guy this guy brought it. He really is at his best. But when he was up in that lineup, he just didn't pop out and nothing really I I think he got what he I I know he got what he deserved. What What's going on with Derek with um Nick Walker? >> Well, we we just discussed it when I said um uh you know, interesting call out would be Andrew versus Derek Hotti alone. alone in in a two person call out, you know, Nick versus Hottie, your eyes would go to either Hottie's condition or or you'd say like Nick's. But when you put so many different critiques up there all at once, eight people on a first call out, the first thing you recognize is that he's massive. The second thing that you recognize is the Vtaper and the legs look shorter no matter how big he is. So you're you start to disc what you see because quote the shape is off. >> I mean that's a big >> that's a big conditioned bodybuilder right there. That's freaky big and conditioned. And if you saw that alone and then someone told you he placed sixth, they wouldn't believe you if they didn't see the contest. That that's >> Yeah. >> Exactly what you're talking about, Chris. >> Yeah. It It's what you know, it's not only what you see in front of you, but what you see collectively with everyone else in the lineup. And so, you know, your eyes just don't go to him when you have, you know, Andrew Samson, taller guys with very small waist. And >> even Martin here >> and Derek, I'll get to Martin, but Derek and Hardti who in their stance, they give an appearance of whether it shows up in video or not in person, they got a crazy like either midsection or vaper and so you your eyes don't go to the, you know, the odd person out. >> Yeah. I mean, I think he I think I think he was as low as to me. You know, he was definitely lower than six based on the call outs. I mean, the score shot cards may not reflect what he got in pre- dungeon, but I think he was outside the top six in pre- dungeon based on the way they were moving them around. >> Yeah. I mean, I I mean, you could have really made a case for the guy placing I hate to I hate to say the number eighth, but he could have been eighth really. I mean, if you if you think about it, only because Brandon Curry really got overlooked here. I thought Brandon was better than him and I thought Antonio Burton was better than him. Um, just from a a body a pure bodybuilding perspective competing on a stage with just better symmetry. And what happened with Nick also, and I and I said this in the wrap-up, I'm going to say it again because I know Nick watches all our programming. Um, if you don't get the call that you you want despite what you were envisioning for yourself, you can't you can't let it affect you negatively because once you start thinking negatively in your head, all the cortisol starts pouring out of your body and your body falls apart. And that happened to Nick at the prejudging. It it was like you could see psychologically he was completely drained when he didn't get the when he wasn't getting the calls he wanted and he should have just kept his composure and Ben Nick Walker got more aggressive, got more in people's faces, you know, moved up on the line, you know, did his thing because that's what the fans want to see. We don't want to see a depressed, you know, sad Nick Walker up there. We want to see Nick Walker get angry because he doesn't like his his call outs and work his way back into that first call out. We've seen it from other bodybuilders that have done it in the past and and Nick is no different. Not everyone gets the call that they want initially, but Steve Weinberger is very fair and he lets you work your way back in it even if he thinks that he didn't you didn't belong there to begin with. And we've seen it happen time and time again. Brandon worked his way back in. Martin, you know, I mean, Martin could have been fourth at that show. I mean I mean he could have beat Samson. Uh, I mean, Samson's big, but he was just not the good Samson we wanted to see. And he kept working and working and working. And Brandon was the same way, Antonio Burton. So, you can't give up just because you don't like that you're in the second call out, you know, because we're they're all you're all professionals up there and uh and not everyone gets the call if they want. And so, I think Nick Walker has to focus on that and not worry about hm how am I going to compete next year against these guys? What if I don't do well? Just be Nick Walker. That means get bigger, get harder, freakier, you know, be outrageous on social media like you are. Say what you want to say. The fans love you, Nick. And that's what makes you special. You will make more money than all these guys because you're so popular. And I think I think you got to find your own niche, right? And that's his niche, Chris. He might not be Mr. Olympia, you know, one day, but he'll always make a really good living from bodybuilding. >> Yeah. We're surprised he didn't. Yeah, I'm surprised he didn't win the Yeah. And I think if he would have if he would have championed that whole Nick Walker persona and not gotten sad and depressed and kind of got demoralized by the whole thing, he probably might have gotten the People's Champ. Um I think that people knew that Hottie wasn't going to win the show and I think that's why he it was almost like a consolation prize for him, the People's Champ. And he's he's he seems to be the underdog favorite, you know, all the time of the of the um the internet people. Um, he got 23 million votes for my ride. >> That'll that'll push you over the top for sure. Right there. You know what the difference is, Chris? The Iranians actually like bodybuilding and they watch it. Whereas we probably have probably the Olympia, if you looked at the the demographics of of the live stream, probably more people from the Middle East watch it than the United States, which is kind of sad, but that's just the way it is. That's the way it is. It's the way the cookie crumbles. All right, let's uh let's talk about classic physique. What a exciting exciting exciting, you know, battle between Raone Dino and Mike Somerfeld. But we have to really start before we talk about the coverage with what went on prior to this. So, what was it about a week or two? But for a couple weeks prior to the show, everyone was bitching and complaining about the fact that they're not hiding these guys properly. Now, a couple years ago, we had a problem with Ramon making weight um because he was always a certain height and then he went to the Olympia and he and he was heighted in at a lower height and he had to lose an exorbitant amount of weight, right? What year was that? Two, three years ago, >> he had like everyone like everyone know he had to it was uh 2023 he had to make the weight and he failed to make the weight. >> But wasn't it because he was hiding at a lower height? No, no, >> no. What happened was he he had to make the wait. I knew what the wait was. We left the hotel room. Uh, and my top priority only was to make the weight and he made he he he went to weigh-ins and he didn't make the weight and we didn't have much time and so we went back to the hotel room and I like locked him into the bathroom, turned the hot water on and you know sat in a tub and he was extremely dehydrated and we walked in late to the weigh-in and they weighed him and and he made the So, because he was so depleted, apparently, he went and they measured his height and they said, "You're not tall enough." >> Oh my god. >> And just a little tidbit, there were two people in that room checking that height and weight. >> One was Chris Bumstead, one was Hanny Ramod. >> Oh, they were worried about him. >> Like Logan Franklin. like Logan Franklin who said that um Ramon Dino would not make the weight. They thought he wouldn't make the weight, but nobody expected him not to make the fight. >> Right. >> So when they hided him in, not only did they hide him in, his feet were held on the platform. >> Are you serious? so that he would not cheat. So this is why this is the best show on bodybuilding, heavy muscle radio. That's a fact. His feet were held, which is fine because there are rules. Only this year, this past week, do I see pictures of at the same show, Chris Rumstead wearing a wig being measured in this much taller? >> You mean last year's show? >> No, you was two years ago. >> Oh, two. So, at the same show you're talking about the same show years ago. >> Okay. The same show. >> And then last year we saw, >> you know, the weird hairds on the Liberace hairdo on S >> and we saw the, you know, the woodworker here do on >> your funny dress on on >> Mike bike Mike bike Mike bike Mike bike Mike bike Mike bike Mike bike Mike bike Mike bike Mike bike Mike bike >> Mike and the point is is I did not know that people would show up at Titans with an idea that I am going to come in and skirts the official height based on my hairo. That is not fair in the context of two years ago I just told you what happened. Raone did not make the weight and he made the weight and then everyone was surprised. People on the scale were surprised that when they put the thing on his head, they like did it like four times and said, "You know, you're not tall enough anymore." And he only had 15 minutes to make the height. That was a a gut punch because in my head I it never factored in. you spend all this time trying to make the weight and now you know you're a different height and I ask people and they're like these are the rules you know you have to be a certain height and weight and rules are rules I did not know that other people I just named them >> cheating >> cheated so I don't know how I don't know how we got to this point but as you know a week before um an email was sent out that said, you know, you must be, you know, we're not giving you an ounce on the scale and we're not going to give you a centimeter on the height. Um, and that's no problem if it applies to everyone, >> right? And so, you know, the way I look at it is rules are rules and these are, you know, a re reinforcement of what the rules should be. I don't know what happened is in the past, you know, how it got out of hand where I mean, apparently someone told me, I don't know if it's true or not, but had that hairdo so he could make the weight. >> I don't blame I don't blame him if it was working. Yeah. It's not his fault. It's the judges. the people who like fault. >> He did it. He did it. Somerfell did it. Bombstead did it. >> Right. Right. >> Raone didn't do it. >> Um, >> and you know what? Every pound counts. >> Sure. because I've always said in the past and I've said it a million times on the show, I sent you Dave pictures, hotel room pictures and which I used to send people who I know like pictures of Eduardo and they'd say this guy is unbeatable in the 212s and I'd say well he weighs you know it's going to be a a hard a lot of hard work um and going to take a lot of creativity to get them down to the 212. And when you're down to 212, when you're not really technically a 212 bodybuilder, you're almost on the edge of being a a good open bodybuilder, >> Plus, even two pounds can make a humongous difference. And and and the point is, look at Hardy. He's probably two pounds lighter or maybe three for the night show and he looked like blazing versus right, >> you know, really hard and pre-judging. So everything counts. So when you're when you have rules in place and they're not applied to everyone all the time evenly, it gets into this really gray critical you know messy area where accusations are made into like are you know why aren't we measuring people the way they should be measured. >> Right. Right. Because on the scale, you know, you couldn't come to the you can quote cheat on with this these hair, you know, with hairstyles, but you couldn't go there would never in a million years, you know, if you have to be 100 kilos, come to the weighin and they you say, "I'm 101," they say, "Okay, you're good enough. Get off the scale." >> No. No. It's not going to happen. No, definitely not. >> Definitely not going to happen. >> So, by definition, when you're cheating on the height, you're actually cheating on the weight. >> Well, yeah. You're giving yourself you're giving yourself the ability to weigh more. >> 100% Chris and um >> people there were people who said, "Oh, I didn't make the weight." Yes, you did make the weight. You just didn't make the hike. It's so funny that people said, "Oh, I didn't make I didn't make my weight class." You made it. You're the same weight as last year. You didn't make the hike. >> Let's let's let's look at uh someone posted something here. Let's see. Let's look at Mike Somerfeld from 24 to 25 right there. So he had to be he was 10 pounds lighter, right? >> Um I don't know what the the parameters were for him, but I mean >> well he was down he was so when when all was said and done and they hided these guys in, Mike went down a height class. So he had to drop at that 10 pounds I think. And I know Neil Hill was was very his coach was very upset. There wasn't I think there was a real I don't find >> really that they weren't they were they were going to actually take a legitimate height versus a >> I he he made it seem as though it was it was like a like a negative type of thing. But I I really if you think about it, it really was a positive thing because at least they told these guys when when think about it when Raone went there, they he didn't you didn't know until you got to the weigh-in that this was going on, right? I mean, >> no, no, no. That's not the context. He had always hided in the exact same and because he was dehydrated, he shrunk. >> No, no, I know that. But what I'm saying what I'm saying is that he wasn't giving any advanced notice. In other words, all these guys were given a week's advanced notice. Hey, listen. we're going to height you in correctly. So, you better make sure that you're going to make your your your weight for your height. And so, you know, if anything, the the competitors should say thank you for that because, right, because that they they gave the the ability to to to do make a to make a change. So, I think I found the video. Hold on. Let me see. And Neil's a good a great coach and everything like that, but you know, you can't be mad at the at the system. This is the way it works. Everyone's got the same. So, we never did anything all year or since the last show to prep for this. So, are we going to make height and weight? We'll have to wait and see because we spent 6 months prepping for this show. 6 months to make weight, >> not and and the thing is why did they change the rules? How can you justify changing something last minute? >> They really didn't change it last minute. They I mean they just said we're we're going to make sure that the heights are accurate. I think that was I think that that was a you know what they could have not done anything Chris. We've seen stuff like that happen in the past. I think the fact that they actually listened to the social media outcry about this and the hype discrepancy because people were putting pictures up with how they were hiding these guys in because they were taking pictures. I think the fact that they actually responded to the IFBB and said listen we're going to re we're going to make sure we reinforce these rules this time. To me, that's the right thing to do. I mean, right? Because if they would have said, "Ah, screw it. Who cares?" That would have been really corrupt, I think. So, I don't know what anyone's complaining about. I mean, they did the right thing, right? >> Well, that video, I translate the video as, "Why aren't you allowing me to cheat?" >> It doesn't make sense because I and Neil is not is a very logical guy. I think maybe he just felt, you know, we work they worked so hard at a certain to shoot for a certain weight and now that's changing. But it happened to you and and and Ramon two years ago and you didn't even know about it till you showed up at the >> W. No, Dave, you you're conflating issues. You're missing the point. >> There's I'm not No, I'm not conflating issues. >> No, no, no. That video I'm translating that video. Why aren't you allowing us to cheat on the height? Sounds a little tough, but that's what it is. And my my point was that people apparently have come up with these creative hairdos or they've they've at times allowed that the top of the height measurement to come in and touch the top of their hair. >> Right. No, I know that >> to measure their height. In Ramon's case, he knew the weight. He knew the height because he was too dehydrated. He couldn't make what was always his height. So therefore, they said two years ago, you are not meeting the height criteria and you won't be able to compete and you have 20 minutes. And >> he got stretched out, right, by someone >> stretched out and he made the extra two centimeters. >> Yeah. You know, so it's different than you're going to We weren't going to a weigh in and hoping that they would, you know, Ramon was have some type of creative hairdo with with with moose up another five centimeters and they would put the the top of the height measurement on top of that hairdo. >> Right. Given the fact that Mike had to make a lighter weight, which he did, thank God. Love Mike. Love the guy. The guy's a great guy. I feel bad for him, but you know what? Those are the rules of the rules. It happened to Raone. It happened to other people, too. It wasn't just Mike that had to go down. There were guys that had to go and kill themselves to make that weight. >> Michael Dool had a, you know, he had a big problem making that weight. So, these guys all eventually made it great, you know, which is good. But the the look was different. Mike Mike at 10 pounds heavier at the Arnold is devastating. I mean, Mike 10 pounds lighter is a little more vulnerable and um you know, his legs weren't quite as big and I think that opened the door for Ramon to come in and win the show. It was still very close. Give me your analysis of these two guys against each other. >> Uh very close. Very close. Um, >> I mean what what was you give me the breakdown of like what you thought what you saw between the two? >> Uh, I thought that um, you know, I couldn't make up my mind after prejudging. I I I knew for sure nothing was clear-cut in my mind. I knew for sure. Um, I thought that judges would lean towards uh, some judges may lean towards Ramone, some towards Mike because they're both fantastic. I just but at the night show I thought that Ramon was like fuller, denser, harder and I I thought it would be um unanimous. No, closer to more ones for Raone at night, but I looked at the score sheets and it was I think a point in both prejudging and finals. >> Yeah. You know, the irony is, you know, Mike came down, he still looked crazy because his condition was better even at a lighter weight than than when he's, you know, heavier. >> What's interesting is that they only had one score on the scorecards for the uh >> I thought they had two. >> I only see one. It says it says judging. There was nothing for the finals written there. >> Okay, then maybe I maybe I just read it twice. >> I don't know why, but I mean it was a onepoint decision. I mean, Raone won by one point literally. So, I thought that, you know, when I was talking to people in the audience and asking them, I think people felt that Ramon had a more of a classic physique look versus Mike, who's more of a bodybuilder. And I think the fact that Mike's size that was down a little bit, he was more vulnerable to to Raone because in the past, he would he would outsize Raone a little bit. And that's why I was always very suspicious of I'm like, how the heck did this guy make weight? I love his physique. You know, he's he's one of the best posers I've ever seen in the classic division. But I'm like, I don't know how he's making weight. And obviously, it was the hairdo the hair do trick. And a lot of them were doing it. So, it wasn't just Mike, you know. And uh I'm glad that everything got straightened out and got done the right way. And uh Ramon, is he the first Brazilian uh Olympia champ in the men's division? >> In the um Yeah, in the men's division. >> Yeah. So, he fell to the ground. He was he was overwhelmed with emotion. It was it was a it was a great great um experience to watch him. I mean, you could tell he legitimately was just thrilled to death. And the Brazilian fans love that obviously, right? I mean, you they're so passionate. The Brazilian I wish I wish the American fans were that passionate about bodybuilding. >> He was he was like like trending number one on uh Google Brazil and X and CNN Brazil did a big story and all of news blah blah blah mainstream news and Brazil covered it. >> That's awesome. >> I think this tells a lot, Dave. This this this tells a lot of their you know I think Rone structure like to the shoulders this is them I think waiting for >> Yes. >> And when you see him just right there there's the taller bigger guy. Um >> well I mean that's why Bumps that's why Bumpstead ostensively beat Summerfeld right last year. Better structure. >> Well I mean >> Mike was bigger. Yeah, he was he was bigger. Actually, >> a lot of people thought Mike should have won last year, but we we at the end of the day, the analysis was that >> that um you know, Bumpstead was a was a more classic look. And I think the same took place with Raone here. >> I thought Mike was Mike was a very good sport about it. He did not get upset. He congratulated him and I thought that was a you know that was a true champion does that. So that's great. >> This um this this class to judge. I mean, it's it it's it's not easy, but it's a little little bit it's a lot of people can judge the men's open olympia, you know, first to like 16. There were like 80 guys in the class. >> Yeah. >> What a hard class to judge. >> There's people There's people who got, >> you know, 11th, 12th, 15th, 18th, didn't play. threw a lot of good physique in that. >> Third place, Terrence Ruffin. I know you love Terren Ruffin. You You can't say enough great things about Terrence Ruff. >> Yeah, this was this was his all time alltime best combo of everything. Size, shape, balance. He got bigger. He looks more conditioned, even bigger. When look at um >> he looking absolutely incredible. He's a great >> bodybuilder. >> Yeah, he's he's he's great. There he is right there. I'll tell you one thing about Terrence Ruffin of all the routines I watched and I watched every routine. This is the first year I actually sat and watched all the routines because I was sitting next to Sergio who was making me laugh the whole time. So, I I actually enjoyed watching everything because I wanted to sit next to him and [\h__\h] with him the whole time. And I'll tell you, Terrence Ruffin had the best routine of the night. The guy is a masterful poser. It reminds me of Melvin Anthony. He he he knows how to entertain a crowd. He knows how to get people pumped up. His routines are a little You know, there are guys who go out there and there was a guy I don't even want to say someone went out there and posed to Michael Jackson like some something that Kai would post to. Not his physique at all. I think it was Martin who did it. I don't know. I don't remember. But you got to you got to put some effort into your posing routine. I mean, and Terrence, you could tell, spends an an enormous amount of time choreographing his routine to every beat of the music. And he brought down that crowd. If there was the best poser award given out that night, he would have won it for sure. No doubt. And he deser the only knock against him is he's short. And we always say, especially in classic, a good big man beats a good little man. And he's, you know, any other show of the year, he probably wins in that shape. >> I mean, if if if Mike is at close to his best run close to his best, you know, he's he's incredible, >> right? It's just it's it's crazy how good he is. I mean, he's like he's he's inches multiple inches shorter than these guys and he's holding his own against them. But you can see the difference how tall they are compared to him. And that really does count at the end of the day. It it sucks that it does, you know, but but it does. I mean, you could really theoretically you could pro and I don't want any more any more classes. You could make a short and a tall class for the classic like they used to have back in Arnold's day. No, you remember in Arnold you want to really make >> There'll beund Well, they changed your qualification. I said you'd have 160 people qualify for the classic Olympia >> or no or or do it this way. Don't do it for the regular season. Only for the Olympia. Have a short and tall class. Make it more interesting. And then the two that the short and tall guy goes over, you know, competes against each other for the overall. Only at the Olympia though you do that. Like Franco used to compete against Arnold, you know, for the old for the overall. And you can justify doing it because that's what they did in the classic years, right? When everyone had the classic physique. So >> yeah, >> do it again. Why not? Terrence wins the short glass, Ramon wins the big glass, po final pose down against those. The crowd would go nuts over that, you know. I would love it. I thought I think it would be a great idea. But I don't want to I don't want to see high classes like in the in the shows during the year. I only want to see it for the Olympia because otherwise, you're right. We're gonna have too many people qualified to I already think and I I'm I'm We might as well go on the record and say this. I already think that they had like 45 I think. I don't even remember. It was over 40 guys in the classic physique and every person at prejudging got to do their routine or whatever. There's 60 seconds of >> I I I maybe I'm wrong. I thought it was like 80 for sure. >> It wasn't 80. It wasn't 80. >> Definitely 40 more than 45. Has to be more than 45. >> Let me let me see. Um So you got 16 17 18 19 20. There's probably about 40 something. But the point is that, you know, that takes like two hours, you know, to do the posing. You know, if you were doing the NPC nationals and they had 40 people in the heavyweight class, they would do an elimination round, which means you come out like they always do. You do your quarter turns, you hit a couple shots, go backstage, and they would pair it down to 15 guys. The other guys would leave, the 15 guys would do their routine there. I mean, there's 60 seconds of free posing and then they'd come back for comparisons. They should do the exact same thing at the Olympia. There's no reason to let 45 people pose. It's too much. And it it happened with the men's physique and the bikini, too. It takes too long. That's my only criticism of the whole weekend. Otherwise, everything ran smoothly. I People ask me, "Did you agree with the judging?" I said, "I actually agreed with every decision they made pretty much." Um, men's physique. Uh, I don't know. What did you think about men's physique? Let's talk about it. >> Um, >> obviously you had a horse in that race, Ali Bal. >> I think it's I I see, you know, Ali from the front and Ryan's got a better back. >> Yeah. >> I mean, I I think I'm bi I That's division I'm definitely biased. >> Well, Ali Ali has the best abs ever, right? I mean, let's face it, the guy's like a he's an ab freak, you know, and it's hard to, you know, to take your eyes off those abs when he's on stage. Is it enough to win? I don't know. I thought his back was good. You know, a lot of people say his chest needs more fullness. I I like Ryan Terry's physique. I'm not overly thrilled. You know, you know, all the the the debate lately, Chris, with everyone saying, you know, well, not everyone, but people saying, "Well, we should use AI to judge it." And they're always putting the the results into AI, and I think I think someone said they put AI in, and they said Andrew Jack should have won the show according to AI. Well, I put the men's physique lineup, which no one does that, and and they said that Aaron Banks should win. So, I don't think AI is so is such a great judge because Aaron looked great, but, you know, he certainly wasn't the winner in my mind at that show. Um, he definitely deserved what he got. It was and he's he's a great competitor with great structure, >> but I'm no expert in men's physique by any stretch of the imagination, >> but I I did watch the prejudging and and >> Ryan and and Ali were the like >> surprisingly 80 people, whatever they had, you know, those are the two that like heavily stuck out. I thought there were um I thought it was a it was one of the first men's physique Olympians that I really got excited about. And um I mean it's really whatever you like. I I mean I I don't know what I to be honest with you. I I don't really know what the judges love about Ryan Terry other than he really doesn't have weaknesses. He's pretty well balanced, but there's nothing like spectacular, you know, about him. and sometimes balance and you know he's obviously always in great great shape. His conditioning is stellar. Next probably the best conditioning on the stage but like nothing pops out at me as like saying holy macro. Like when Aaron Banks was winning shows I was impressed. I'm even more impressed with with Brandon Hendrickson to be honest with you. Now Brandon Hendrickson doesn't have the conditioning of Ryan Terry but Ali Bal does and that's that's why I thought that Ali should have won. But, you know, what do I, you know, what do I don't know? I'm just uh that's just my observation. >> Well, Dave, the the interesting thing is like I'm obviously biased towards Ali, but um like I we you just talked about like agreeing with the scores and agreeing with the judges and you know, I went through like the top five in the in the other divisions and I thought it was spot on. So, I thought it was unanimous for Ryan and that's why I prefaced it with like I'm no expert by any stretch in men's unique. I mean, you know what I mean? Like, so obviously they got those divisions right and this one was like unanimous straight one. So, they obviously got that division right. >> Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I mean, the problem with men's physique, it's a lot like bikini. You can kind of justify different physiques winning. Whereas with bodybuilding and classic, we know what we're looking for. Muscle size, you know, conditioning, symmetry, you you could tell who the winner is. With men's physique, you could really make a case for several different people winning. Just like in bikini. I you know the girl who won Moren Blanquista who was a who was a former champion. I didn't think she looked that great. I don't even know what the criteria was that they picked her. I thought some of the other girls were amazing. I thought and I thought Laura Potus was amazing who won last year and she didn't even make the top five. So you can really justify in the divisions where there's where muscle is not necessarily you know um the most important aspect of of the equation. you could make judgment calls and and and change your mind on what you want to be the new standard. So, obviously they want Ryan to be the standard right now that they're looking for. Obviously, Morin Blancista in in the bikini is the standard they're looking for, you know, for that. Uh Nathalia Quo, who won the women's physique, I can you and I can understand why she won. She was in better shape than Sarah. Sarah was not in the best shape of her life. Her tan was bad. Natalya's, you know, presentation is amazing and she just outpolished the champ and she won and I and we understand that. But then you go to, you know, another division that, you know, when they start, wait till they start bringing fit model in next year. We'll never be able to tell what the reason is. It'll be whatever that standard is for that particular year. So, I think that's where men's physique and bikini get a little lost. a lot of people like who are used to judging these shows based on what we know about bodybuilding doesn't necessarily apply all the time to that those those divisions and maybe that's why the hardcore bodybuilders don't really like those divisions as much because there is a level of we're really not sure how to judge it you know at the end of the day I want to I want to finish one final story Chris I know you got to go drive home and I'm losing my voice I'm in the expo I'm sitting on the steps and there was Uh, what did I I should give him a plug. I was getting worked on by this guy who works on Hunter Labrada in Texas and I'll look up this thing in a minute. He was he worked in me for 45 minutes. He [\h__\h] unbelievable. My shoulders feel great. He loosened my neck up and everything like that. And this this man comes up to me and he says leans down, leans over. He's like, "Who who do you think's gonna win the um the men's Mr. Olympia?" This is be This is Friday afternoon before the prejudging had taken place. And I'm like, um, I said, "Personally, I like Derek's physique the best. He's the most complete." I said, "But you never know. You know, Samson is the reigning champ." He goes, "You gave me the right answer." I said, "Oh, really?" He goes, "I'm Derek's father." >> Oh, that's funny. So Derek Derek's father came and he watches our coverage and he and we were we were BSing after that for like about a half hour. But yeah, it was Derek's dad. So uh he's like, "I was I wanted to see what you're going to say." I said, "Well, I guess I gave you the right answer." I said, "So I said, I hope we're both right." And of course we were. That's it was a little bit of divine uh divine intervention there and a little prophecy maybe all combined together. Derek uh you know did the impossible. won the Triple Crown, Arnold, Pittsburgh, Olympia, all in one year. He also is the first man to ever win more than a million dollars in one calendar year in prize money. Congratulations to that. And he's only the second guy, right, to win back the Olympia title after he lost it. Yeah. Jay Cutler being the first guy. >> It's uh it's been a remarkable year for him really. I mean, >> beat everyone three times. Did you um talk to him about 2026 yet or we don't know? >> No. Uh something tells me he may want to compete again. >> I think he's going to want to >> He's very competitive, you know. >> I know. I know. I don't play. >> He's like uh he's like the, you know, he's like the energetic dog who always wants to play. You know what I mean? And if you don't let don't let him play, he's going to rip apart your house. >> But you know what? $750,000 is a lot of reasons to do the Arnold. >> The other You know what? It's It's at the point now where a lot of people would say like after the Olympia, no, I'm gonna, you know, I'm gonna shut it down. >> Shut it down. Who invented that? Shut it >> I don't even know. down and uh you know you have to do this you know if I shut it down you know someone else may get to 750 and it's not >> you know and and what if someone else decides not to do the show and what if the top three don't decide to do the show >> right >> you know if two three and four and five decide to shut it down you know Derek in his mind may say like maybe I'll do it or if Derek announces announces >> and uh Andrew Jack say, you know, I'm shutting it down. You don't think Sam would be like, I'm, you know, putting it back into third gear. >> I guarantee you Samson's going to be in that show. Samson likes money. I know that. And and and I don't blame him. 700 >> 750 is 750, man. That's that's a lot of cash. You know, it it never, you know, it never crossed my mind about it. Money never crosses my mind in terms of like, you know, these things, but it crosses your mind when you say, you know, in a few months someone can win 750. If you're a bodybuilder and you're a professional bodybuilder and that's how you make your living, >> it's extremely hard to pass up the Arnold Classic, 50,000. I mean, I'm just thinking it for the first time. Take >> I know what you're thinking. You're thinking, I could buy an apartment building with >> It's a It's a lot of money. >> That is a lot of money. >> It is a lot of money. >> Yeah. Yeah. You could do a lot of great things and and set up your whole future with that. I mean, that's that's the that's the god honest truth. I mean, Derek is make gonna make in the next three years, he could make, you know, $3 million, you know, and he that's his retirement for the rest of his life. I mean, >> because let's face it, his body's not going to last forever. So, he might as well cash in now while he can. And uh he's the best bodybuilder right now in the world. So, no one can beat him. Wh why not do the show? I mean, who who's out there that's gonna take him down? That's the question. >> He's gonna watch He's gonna watch I I will make this prediction. He's gonna watch the show and that sent those those five or four sentences that you just said right into his head and he's going to take five days off where he doesn't >> like eat perfectly and that is going to recycle into his head. >> Yeah. >> And why not? I mean, why not? Of course it would recycle into your head. It's just like >> no one beat him all all 2025. You lost one time. >> Big enticement. The only issue is of course or for all these guys is injuries, you know, because when you diet down, you're so vulnerable. >> Yes. Yes. >> You know, you what's what becomes vulnerable is your joints and ligaments. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> You know, and it's just hard to like be d in a dieted state and come back, you know, and let your body weight come up and then diet it down. It's just anything, you know, you can pull anything. >> One more question I have for you and then I'm going to let you go. I know I said I lied already, but Nick Walker, I don't know what his next uh competition is. If I'm Nick Walker, I'd go to Prague and compete. What do you think about that? >> Um, >> he's got to get back on that horse, I think, very quickly. He can't shut He can't shut afford to shut it down for the year. I I really believe that 100%. He needs to get his mojo back. >> What do you mean? Like he needs a win to be able to motivate himself >> or or a very high place. And yeah, he a win would be great obviously, but he definitely needs to get back in on on that stage. Bring that Nick Walker energy. Don't worry about how you're going to place and and and finish the year on a positive note. I really believe it. >> Yeah. I mean, it's it's >> he could win Prague. He could win Prague. >> I mean, he could win Prague, but you don't know how people respond to, you know, adversity. People respond in different ways. When the second, you know, you hear people out on Instagram talking about adverse adversity. was, you know, there's different levels of adversity, which, you know, takes me back to, we can close the show by saying, you know, Derek just got the title back, but of course he he didn't lose the title last year to Samson. He lost it to two people, Samson and Hottie. So, >> right. I mean, talk talk about adversity, you know, which he does talk about a lot, but uh you know, going from first to third or or Samson, you know, he had the title last year. He went from first to fourth. They both were in the same, you know, Derek's in this was in the same boat this time last year as as Samson as this year. You know, leaving Las Vegas, I lost my title and I'm third or leaving Las Vegas, I lost my title and now I'm fourth. It's very emotionally and mentally hard to take for anyone. No matter how focused and positive they are, no matter how many times have won, nothing's harder than not only not winning, but dropping two and three places down. >> But you know what? Nick hadn't been in the Olympia for two years. So, this is this this was his comeback year, and now he's just going to move up from here. So I think >> well I mean his his his is a pendulum because he you know >> he said of course that he was going to win. >> There's nothing wrong with that but so there's a difference between leaving the show and say well I made the prediction I got second >> I made the prediction and I was close I got third and I was in that mix made the prediction and I was fourth made the prediction and he was you know probably eighth and three judging. >> Yeah. Look if I were him I'd say I'm just coming back. I'm going to be my best. And you know what, Nick Walker, you're stronger than you think. Don't let anyone convince you otherwise. And that's going to do it for today. Uh, as we say every week here at Heavy Muscle Radio, >> the truth hurts. >> Thanks for watching all our Olympia coverage. We'll see you next time.