Jesus. Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Yamo. Moto Nutrition. I'm Dave Palumbo and today's guest is IFBV Pro Craig Richardson. Welcome, my friend. Hi, thanks for having me, Dave. Craig, you've had a a really interesting career, a very long career. You're 42 now, but you you started, I know, in your teens. You won the teen nationals back at 18 years of age or 19 years of age. I don't know what you were, but um and then you you had a successful career. You made it uh to the a pro stage. you went to the Olympia in the Open. Now you kind of were had a reinvigorated career in the 212 division where you've been placing, you know, top, you know, top five or better in almost every show you compete at. This past uh I guess you could say a couple months ago back at the Charlotte Pro and one of the most competitive 212s we've seen all year, you play second behind Milan Shottic. Uh you beat Nicholas Vouad, you know, the young kid from Switzerland, and you're looking better than I've ever seen you. Um, what do you attribute this uh renewed vigor in your career to? Um, you know, I didn't realize that when you get a little older sometimes, you know, you have to change some things up a little bit. So, as age started to creep up on me, um, I would still diet, you know, my normal 8 to 10 weeks thinking it would be enough. and I would still do, you know, my 30 minutes of cardio a day thinking that would be enough. Uh, not realizing that I don't tighten up as easily in certain areas. So, you know, I had to stretch the diet out a little longer, double sessions of cardio, and uh, it all seems to be working out. I'm working with Chris Pacito now, as you know, and uh, he's awesome. Like, he's, you know, he's on top of me all the way. I'm learning a lot of new things from him and um you know I I think actually the best is yet to come. Now Craig you and I have worked together before in the past and and and Chris Aceto obviously and I are very tight friends and we talk and we both came up with the same analogy with with regard to you. Number one, you don't train that hard in the offseason and number two when you start your contest prep you look like you can't win Mr. throughout Long Island and then your body transforms almost all Kevin Levrone into some incredible new physique that we've never seen before and and you like like it go you go from one week where you're nothing to another week where you're like incredible. Um what what's with that? What's with the fact that you you don't have like a lot of consistency in the offseason, but you tend to get better when you start contest diving? Well, part of it actually my my actual training sessions are really good in the offseason. The problem is uh I eat too much in you know that even when I'm eating clean, you know, I'll gorge myself with large amounts of food. Uh you know, two cups of rice and, you know, 12 ounces of potatoes and and next thing you know, I start storing fat. um you know and then all of a sudden you don't realize that you're storing it till you're already 20 lbs overweight and then you look back and go, "Oh man, I got to get this stuff off now." So I think that's what happens and I have to watch it a little bit more in the offseason where I'm going to have to keep my carbs a little lower, uh keep my protein moderate, uh so that way I don't put on that body fat in the offseason. You've been saying that for 15 years. You've been giving me the same response to that question. I know, man. I know. It's hard, man, because I, you know, I'll eat and eat and eat, and I mean, like I said, even when it's clean food, I'll just eat a big amount of it, man. How old are you kids now? Oh jeez. 26. Uh, well, she'll be 26 uh next month. Oh my gosh. 247. I have one. They all graduated from the high school where I work. And uh my youngest is the senior now. Wow. How does that how does that uh bode for them? You know, you daddy's at work. You know, you really can't get away with you you can't do whatever you want at school when when daddy's in charge of, you know, security there essentially, you know. Oh, absolutely. Well, it's so funny because all the teachers, if anything ever happens, they always have access to me where they'll pull my office or they'll shoot the spell. I've gone to my kids classrooms and pulled them out, you know. I'm right there. So, and it's so funny because my kids, they're, you know, by me being the attendance officer, their attendance is all always perfect, you know, and they're they're never uh late for any classes because, you know, I'm a stickler to everyone else. So, I definitely have to be on top of them twice as much. Yeah. Now, you I always see you as like a kind of a very laid-back, lax guy. What kind of a dad are you? Are you like strict? No, mom is the like the enforcer. Okay. Jesus Christ. She's like yelling and screaming and I'm usually the one that they come running to help get him out of jams before he bad or you know. Um but I always tell him, "Listen, I'm I'm going to help you get out of this." And then afterwards I explain to him obviously what they did wrong and how to avoid it the next time. Yeah. And then we have to tell your mom. Your son is pretty tall, huh? Taller than you. Uh yeah, man. They're all taller than me except for my 17-year-old. She's only 5'5. She takes after me, my sister. But everybody else, their uncles and everybody else, they're over six feet. So, they're taken after them. Even my oldest daughter is 58. So, you got cheated on the uh on the gene pool for the for height, not for physique, that's for sure. Do they have good physiques like you do? Are they athletic? Um, my youngest daughter and my son have very athletic builds. Um, but they're lazy. They're me offseason. So, yeah, they they watch you. They're watching you, actually. Yeah. Yeah. That's funny. Now, you were second at Charlotte this year, which I don't think a lot of people thought it was going to be as competitive as it was. It was one of the best 212s I've seen, you know, maybe in the history of 212. It was I mean, the top three was very tight. Uh you and Milan Shottic right there. One and two. Obviously Nicholas Vouulad could have been it right in that running too. He had a little problem with that one shoulder. There was a little deformed looking there and I think the judges marked him down for that. Uh you know I thought you I thought you going to take home the win on that one. Uh I thought you had everything that you needed to do to win. Obviously Shottic another tremendous 212 guy coming out of Europe. What was your take on the show? Were you upset with that loss? Um, you know, Dave, like we've known each other for a while, and I never really get upset. I try to figure out what maybe what what could I have done better uh to make myself better on stage and try to fix it for the next show. Um, Chris and I knew that I wasn't going to be completely 100% for the show, but we knew I'd be good enough to get me there. Actually, I'm going to be much better in New York. Um, so that's the one I was really gearing up for. North Carolina just happened to be a show a few weeks before I kind of said, "Hey, you know what? Let's just give it a shot." Yeah. So, you know, New York is actually the show that I was gearing up for to be 100%. Those guys gave the best they can give that day. So, they're not going to be any better uh you know, on the 20th, but I will be. Right. Well, um Vouad will not be in the lineup. He's getting some surgery on that shoulder. He told us on a on a show obviously Shottic will be there. Guy Sister Nino will be there. I know. Trying to defend his title that he's won the last two years. Uh can you beat Sister Nino? Yeah, I can beat Sister Nino. Another Jersey guy. It's Listen, I love Guy, man. You know, but it it's it's like every time I compete against him, I get like the short end of the stick somehow some way. But this time, this time I'm going to be ready. Guns are blazing. All right. Can you take out Shottic? Do you think you're going to be better than him at this show? Absolutely. Absolutely. Without a doubt. Like, believe me, if if people think that, you know, you seem in North Carolina. Like, believe me, I'm going to be much better in New York. All right. Well, I'm looking forward to, you know, I'm a big Craig Richardson supporter. I actually told Craig, I think it was like maybe it had been maybe two or three years after he won the TE Nationals. I I we saw each other the show and he was he came to shake my hand or something like that and I don't know if you remember this and I said man you look really you got a great physique great future and you're like man I'm [\h__\h] compared to you or something you said something to that degree like man don't tell me that you know you know I'm I look up to you and and and I thought it was a very you know humble statement on your part but then we became friends obviously after that and we've seen each other a million times since then and talked and worked together so it's amazing how you you know you meet people and and you stay kind of friends with them you know throughout their career careers and uh obviously I'm not competing anymore, but you still are. How how much longer do you think you're going to continue to get up on stage and uh and try to compete against these young guys? Uh I think I might have another two or three years left of me, Dave. All right, that's you know, but let me just respond to when I first met you. When I first met Dave, he was walking around with a tank top on and these little shorts and he looked like he was two weeks out, but there wasn't a show in sight that he was getting ready for. And I can remember just saying, "Wow, how big is this guy?" Like, what the And when you came up, you know, we met for the first time, I'm saying to myself, if I only put on size like this, you know, you were a monster to me. Yeah. And and I was saying to myself, if I only had this guy's genetic structure, I'd be Mr. Olympia man. The combination of my size conditioning and your shape would have been brutally tough to contend with. But God plus everything, did he? Yeah, only Ronnie Coleman got everything. I don't know why, but he got everything. Craig, great talking to you. Good luck this weekend. We will be there cheering you on and hopefully I'll be interviewing you in that winner circle. Uh, best of luck with the last couple days. Thank you very much. And like always, Dave, it's been a pleasure. Um, you've always been a gentleman and keep doing the good work that you're doing promoting bodybuilding, man. Thank you so much. And that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live with brought to you by Yamamoto Nutrition. I'm Dave Palumbo and we'll see you next time.