RX Television on RX Muscle.com. This is Ask Dave, better known as AskDave, brought to you by species nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. Host Fui. This is your weekly 30inut question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. all your questions on diet, training, supplementation, IFBB pros competitions, the Olympia, oh just over a month away. Hard to believe just over a month away. It'll be the Mr. Olympia competition as we now bring in Dave Palumbo. Dave, a lot going on. Tampa Pro this past weekend. Joshua with a big winner. Derek winning his pro card and pro show in the span of a week. But the big talk right now, the sidebyside comparison of Big Romney 2017 versus Big Romney of 2016. You just put up a video about an hour ago. Yeah. You know, um, someone posted this video of a comparison of Ramy at 6 weeks out from last year when he was working with Chris Aceto to six weeks out now working with the camel crew. And uh, you know, there was a lot of controversy about it. I know Chad Nichols posted about it, Chris posted. I see everyone's chiming in. So, I figured, you know, I'll give my two cents about it. And uh if you go watch the uh my my rant, you'll see what I have to say. But, you know, obviously he was in better shape last year at this time out. Doesn't mean he's not going to be in shape and stage, but you know, knowing how long it takes Rammy to get into shape, it it does seem like it's uh they're pushing the envelope a little bit at this point. And I think that if Ramy's weight doesn't start coming down, there's there there's going to be some ramifications. And the ramification is going to be that he's going to be on stage not at his best and and that's not going to farewell for him if he's looking to, you know, break into that top three or higher uh this time around. Let's get to the questions again. If you want to join us, you can join us on the Muscle Central forum on rxmuscle.com. If you're not already registered, it is free to do so. You can join us on our Instagram page, official_rxmuscle. You can tweet at us using Askdave or our official Facebook page. Let's go to Big Popey John. Is it less effective to use the same compound with a different Esther backto back in prep? Example, using Tren anate for six weeks than Trenacetate for six weeks. Um I like to switch up the compounds every six to eight weeks. Um that's just the way I am. you know, if you switch from trend acetate to trenanthate, um, it's it's still trembling. You know, it's just one's a longer acting, one's a shorter acting. So, it's the same it's the same compound interacting with the receptor. So, you know, that wouldn't be an acceptable like, oh, I'll do trenetate for eight weeks and I'll do treninth for eight weeks. It's the same thing. You know, it's like saying uh if I take testate uh for eight weeks and then I go to test propate, is there going to be a real difference? No, it's still testosterone. the release times may be different but it's still the same drug. Now the great thing about testosterone is your body doesn't really acclimate to testosterone. So um to answer the question you know I would switch to another esester in between maybe go trenantate for eight weeks go you know equipoise eight weeks and maybe go back to then try tren acetate for eight weeks so but to use something continuously like that usually your body starts acclimating a little bit. Let's go to Damian T. Dave, did you or rather Dave, did you use um I don't know how this is all written out. I think he's trying to ask did you use clenbuterol in his days and for Okay, so I guess in your day, do you use clenbuterol and for how long? Like how many weeks and how many years? Um you know, it's funny because I used to use clenbuterol in the offseason. I mean, when I was off cycling, I never used it for shows initially because I really didn't I used to get lean pretty easily. And then I I said, you know, I look so good on clamutrol. So, I started using it for competitions, but I never really used more than like two or three pills a day, you know, 20 micrograms three times a day. But I was an exception. I was very, very lean. Uh, so for me, using two clamutrol, I looked ridiculous when I would take this stuff. So, you got to, you know, you got to use how much is necessary to get the job done. So, you know, a lot of people have to go up to five or six a day, you know, 120 micrograms a day to really get the best fat burning, you know, and I don't really recommend going over that. So, I might use, you know, 20 micrograms six times a day with people at the end of the toward the end of their their contest cycle to get them to their peak shape. But if I have a client, you know, who's really got a fast metabolism and doesn't need more than two or three a day, then then I'm not going to give them more. So, you you can't make a blanket statement. Most people do go up to five or six a day um to get as lean as they need to be. But the people with the fast metabolisms, you got to temper that down a little bit. Let's go to Astonlyes. As a natural bodybuilder, what's realistic? Uh what's the realistic aim for one year one year in an offseason? Like shoot for a certain weight or just overall improvements on weak body parts? Look, I always tell people, don't put a number on it because when I was competing, um, you know, the first once I started, I guess, really cycling, I was putting 20 pounds of muscle on a year, you know, I put 100 pounds of muscle on in 5 years. If I would have listened to people say, "Oh, you only had 10 pounds of muscle a year." I would I would have only gained 50. I would have gained half that. So, I didn't listen to people and I maximized my gains. one year I think one in 17 months I think I put on 30 pounds from 1994 to 95. So uh I mean that was probably my biggest improvement and that's when I really started looking super freaky. So don't put limits on people. You know I was talking to Aaron Singerman the other day who owns Redcon nutrition and who sponsors Dallas Macccarver and we were talking about Dallas is like weighing like 345 pounds or something like that and he's not even trying to grow but you know he lifts super heavy. He eats a lot of food, you know, he he lives the bodybuilding lifestyle and he's got great genetics. So, he's growing just by virtue of of of doing what he's supposed to be doing. And, you know, he'll probably be 26 360, you know, by the Olympia the way he's going. That's the way bodybuilding goes. Don't put a limit on what you could put on because if you put a limit in your mind, you'll never pass that. Morgan Mack. Bodybuilding. Dave, is it better to run a higher dose of trend ace than test up or the other way around or run the same amount? Look, you I've gotten this question a lot and I I know people are very confused by it because I have another guy who just texted me recently or emailed me and said there's a guy out there who's recommending only take deca. Take like 1500 milligrams of Deca a day a week and nothing else. I mean, people are always trying to make up cockamamey kooky cycles like as if steroids haven't been around for 30 years and we haven't experimented with every conceivable concoction and mixture of of how this stuff works. The best results come from a high testosterone dosage with a with a moderate anabolic dosage. You know, 1,000 milligrams of testosterone a week, four to 600 milligrams of an anabolic with it, whether it be dakopoise, you know, or tremblone or something like that. Those are those are the the dosages that work. You know, um if you're taking 1,000 or,200 milligrams of tremolone a week and you're only taking 400 testosterone, you're you're cheating yourself because tremble is very high in androgens. At that level, at 1,200 milligrams a week, you're going to get a lot of side effects. Anxiety, overstimulation of the nervous system, super high cortisol levels because the nervous system is so tweaked out. You're not going to sleep at night. So, more is not better of that of that compound. Now, that's a very high androgen compound. If you take a compound like echopo and take it at,200 milligrams a week and only testosterone of 400, you're not going to grow as well because it's not as strong and anabolic as testosterone is. So the reason why we have created these these protocols, people like myself and other, you know, guys out there who've been around for 20 years is because they work and we've tried all the other combinations and they don't work as well. So, you know, you guys can do whatever you want out there. I'm just here to inform you and give you information and give you my empirical data that I've accumulated over the years. I think someone asked me the other day, I forget the question. They said something to me like, um, how do you know? What studies have you read to prove that that this does this and this and this and this. I said, "The studies are life." Okay, I've worked with thousands of athletes over the last 25 years and I see what works and I know what works on myself. So, that's the evidence. No one does steroid, okay, uh, controlled published studies. You know, they might do testosterone replacement, but they're not doing like if you take this many milligrams of this and this many milligrams of that, this is what happen. It's unethical. So they don't do that. The only people who are doing those studies are the athletes themselves. And the only people who know the data from those studies are people who've worked with these athletes from innumerable years like myself and other people out there, not just myself. So you know, a lot of the stuff that we we give you uh information-wise is just from data that we've accumulated from seeing what works. Architect personal training. What's the longest or most drastic prep you've had to do to get someone in shape for a show? Look, I I I've I've I've gotten people on diets, okay, 300 280 pound guys that are were eating less food than some bikini girls that I've worked with. I've said it before with Hakee Williams and and Rashid Alreaker. Uh they need to do extreme things. I've had people on three hours of cardio a day, um you know, maxed out, you know, eating like protein and vegetables every day, you know, like like ridiculously low calories. and that's what they needed to do to get in shape, you know. And then I've had other people like Juan Morell who you could feed thousands and thousands of calories to and they still it's not enough to keep them from from going flat. So there's no rules. You have to just go by what you have. And that's why a good coach understands, okay, the science of what is going on from a nutritional standpoint to a supplement standpoint to a performance-enhancing drug standpoint. uh if you don't understand that you can't make accommodations when you get someone who doesn't adhere to the rules and that's why I started holding my secrets to becoming a diet guru course that I give because I realized that people there's a lot of coaches out there there's a lot of people who want coaches so I said let me start certifying coaches so they know how to coach so they have the educational background to go along with the experience that they're going to get gather in the field so to speak um and for anyone who's interested just to let you know there's three spots available for the secrets to become diet guru coach um on September 2nd. That's Saturday, September se uh that's coming up in a couple weeks. You can register at dave palumbo.com. Don't wait if you really want to take it. It's a terrific course, 10 hours. Uh I take you guys to lunch. We learn a lot. We laugh a lot. And uh you get an 85page manual with all my protocols in there as well to take home with you. So it's a great course. And once again, you know, there's nothing better than learning by experience, but you have to understand the science, too. Zoro 5144 Dave when are you gonna have the debate with Milos Sarsv on intraworkout nutrition he believes it's a must-have most effective are the BA BCAAs etc. That would be something awesome to watch. The problem with that is first of all I like Milos a lot so I don't but I and Milos does like to argue like I do so it wouldn't none of us would take it personally but it's his opinion you know and I can give you my opinion but that doesn't you know mean anything I mean we it might be fun to just do it because um because we both have differing views on it but you know meos is all about insulin you know feed take tons of insulin and then because you have all this insulin on in your bloodstream you got to feed that insulin or you're gonna go light hypo So if you're taking, you know, 60 units of insulin a day, obviously you you got to consume a lot of carbs and you got to consume a lot of, you know, he puts all the branch stains in there and the creatine and and just pile drives everything into you. That doesn't mean it's working better. Uh I don't I haven't seen it work better. It just bloats you up a lot and you look big, you know, and then these guys when they start dieting for shows, they come down and they lose all that weight from all the bloat from the insulin. So there there's some merit to it. I think that Milos would be a great coach, believe it or not, for for endurance athletes because the endurance athletes really need to be able to store all these nutrients. So, because because they're exercising for such long periods of time that intraworkout nutrition actually works terrific for them. You know, imagine Milos on on the uh on the tour to France, you know, running a cycling team. They they they'd be uh they'd be marked for uh for for random drug test every single day because of him. But it would it would pro they'd probably be winning all the tours because the recovery would be so good. It might happen. It might happen. Kind of a general question from Kasum Century. I know we've kind of discussed this before, but he wants to know how to get the quad tear drop popping even more. How did what the quad the quad teardrop popping more? Popping more. You mean me tear retaring my quadricep? Is that the question? No, no, no, no. the the tear drop, the quad tear drop, right? He wants it to pop more. Oh, he wants it to show more. Question, but yeah. Okay. All right. Well, you know, um there's different exercises you can do. Okay. And a lot of people think that when you take a nice closed stance when you squat, you're going to work more of the front quad. And you do do a certain degree, but it it puts such a weird torque on your knee that I always felt that I I I got knee pain. I couldn't lift as much. Uh, I just felt it was an unnatural movement for me. When I opened up my stance, okay, and was able to open my knees when I came down. I felt now, not only was I involving the glutes more and the inner thighs, the adductors, but I felt that my my teardrops got more involved. Why? Because I was able to go down much lower. If your feet are right next to each other, there's no way you can lower the bar that low without leaning forward. When you when you open up your stance, you can kind of sit back more. And I found that my legs, especially having long legs, I was able to go down further and involve more of the muscles, recruit more fibers in the teardrops at the bottom of my knees. And I found that my legs came up better that way. So even though it's against conventional wisdom to think that a wider stance would work more of the teardrops, I found that it did in my legs and and they responded very favorably. And let's face it, most people's legs who have think they have small legs, it's not because their teardrops are not big enough. It's because their inner adductor thighs are not thick enough and the only way to thicken those up is wide stance squats. Let's go to Jackson.Adam16. Dave, respect you and the RS muscle crew. What are the reasons why some people experience testicular atrophy and some don't while on steroids? You know, there's a lot of theories on that and no one's really proven it, but you know, let let's understand why the testicles atrophy. If you take a shot of exogenous testosterone, okay, what happens? Well, a certain percentage of it converts to estrogen. That estrogen then feeds back to the brain. Inside the brain, there's a there's a gland called the hypothalamus. Estrogen shuts down the hypothalamus. The hypothalamus then can no longer send out gonadotropen releasing hormone to the pituitary. And because the gonadotropen releasing hormone in the pituitary, it tells the pituitary to produce LHFSH, which stimulates the testicles. So when we shut down that that that feedback loop now the testicles are getting no stimulation from the brain from the pituitary to produce testosterone. So what happens is the testicles stop producing testosterone they stop producing sperm and as well and then they shrink up because there's no there's no sperm being stored in there. Okay, that's called testicular atrophy. Now, in some people when they take exogenous testosterone, especially if they're taking high dosages of it, the concentration in the blood gets higher and higher and higher and as that concentration runs through the testicles, it starts stimulating the testicles again to start producing this stuff, sperm and testosterone, okay? Which is weird when you think about it, right? But it's not because the reason why we produce sperm, okay, down in the testicle area is because the testosterone is being produced right next to it. So when testosterone gets produced next to the sperm producing cells, now the sperm gets directly stimulated to be produced and you get, you know, high sperm output. When you're taking like one shot of testosterone, it gets watered down throughout the whole body. So the concentration running through the testicles is very low. So very rarely do you see a guy who's on like replacement therapy get his wife pregnant. It's usually the guy who's on like two 3,000 milligrams of stuff a week that says, "I don't know understand how I did it. I got my wife pregnant. You know, I got my girlfriend pregnant and I was on a ton of stuff." It was because the concentration running through the testicles was so high that it reignited the sperm production cells again. And once again, it doesn't happen to everyone. I could take I I never got anyone pregnant. I could take probably 10,000 milligrams a week and I probably still would be infertile, you know, and I'd have to take HCG and Clomin and all that stuff to get my my my natural production going. Some people just have good genetics. Ronnie Coleman, you know, enough said. Let's go to Lift Forever for 20 hate the show more than Sid hates the Mets 2017 season. hard times. My friend Dave Mark Law Blender recently stated that insulin is the most anabolic hormone ever and that nothing will size like insulin. However, I've heard you say numerous times that testosterone is the most anabolic and the best muscle building hormone. Do you agree with his assertion regarding insulin versus testosterone? And can you explain the difference? Well, I here's my challenge to Mark. Let's get two guys who are relatively the same weight and height and same genetic structure and you put them on insulin, okay? And I'll put my guys on testosterone with no insulin. And let's see whose guy gets bigger. And I guarantee you I will win that bet. And then Mark will change his mind that testosterone is indeed much more anabolic than insulin. I promise you that. His guy might get fatter, but um but my guy will put on more lean muscle. Okay? And that's just the way it is. insulin doesn't build muscle. It drives nutrients into the muscle cells, but that doesn't mean it's it's building muscle. Your natural insulin production is is working in your body. Okay? Then then that should be fine. If there's no muscle building qualities to insulin, in other words, it's not like IGF-1, which which actually stimulates the satellite cells inside the muscle to to to replicate themselves and and produce new muscle tissue. And it's not like testosterone, which tells the muscle, existing muscle tissue, get bigger. Okay? That's not what insulin does. So that's why I, you know, if you want to call, you have to understand what how we define anabolic. When I start to talk about a drug being anabolic, I mean it builds muscle. Uh, not just driving nutrients into a cell. I mean actually building muscle. Let's go to Abde Deal 6013. I hate this show so much I went and applied to work for MD. Dave, when running Primo, what's the optimal dosage week of primobable? Is that what the question was? Yeah. Um, you know, it back in the day we would do 100 milligrams twice a week and and we thought we were doing a lot, you know, and if you were cutting edge, you did, you know, three 100 milligrams three times a week because it was expensive. It came in ampules and you'd crack two ampules a week and you do it, you know, maybe Monday, Wednesday or Monday, Friday, Monday, Wednesday, Friday. Nowadays, if if there is real Primo out there, and I'm sure there's some out there, but a lot of the people who've been testing their Primo with the Reid test kits that I sell at Davemo.com have been coming back and telling me that they're usually testosterone proponate or or or Dianabal or or methyl testosterone. So, I haven't really seen too much real primabone, but real prione at about 100 milligrams every other day if you can get it and you can afford it because it's usually very expensive is is a good is a good dosage. Now, here's the problem. The reason why people fake primoblone so much is because it is really expensive. If you saw the interview I did with Bill Llewellyn, he explained the same thing. And so, you know, cheap stuff people will put in everything. You know, test propate for instance is cheap. Put it in everything because everyone will feel it. The problem is, you know, if you're a woman and you're using Anavar and you where you think you're using Anavar and you're actually using Diana, you're going to get a lot of side effects. I had a girl just recently who who contacted me and said, "Thank God that you told me to buy those Roy test kits on your website because I tested my Anavar and she sent me the samples and the colors changes and she had Danol in there and she could have really screwed herself up had she not checked it." So, um, if there is real Prima out there, about 300 milligrams a week is usually pretty good. Jay Stantenno, Dave, your opinion on straps for drugs? I've heard a couple guys say straps equals no traps. Straps for uh for which for exercises? Shrugs. Oh, shrugs. You know, I I always use straps uh for back and shrug exercises. And I'll tell you why. Because your hands give out way before the traps give out. So, I was able to I used to grab the 200lb dumbbells and I would shrug them. and my traps are really strong, but I couldn't hold those in my hand probably for more than two repetitions, but with the straps on or that I used to use the Versa Grippers, I could hold them for forever. It doesn't there was no, you know, I would do 10 reps with it in there. So, what do you think is going to grow better traps? Doing two reps with no straps or doing 10 reps, okay, with the straps. The straps aren't making you cheat. They're just they're cheating your forearms. But remember, you're not training forearms while you're doing traps, just like you're not training forearms while you're doing lat pull downs. So, it's fine to use straps on back and and and other pulling movements, but on forearm day, do forearms, you know, don't use straps for forearm training. Uh so, I think people try to, you know, they they they confuse the fact that, you know, hey, if you use this this little crutch, you're not going to be training the muscle properly. That's not true. You'll never get a big back without using without using straps. Most people cannot hold the bar long enough or hard enough to be able to maximize and really fatigue those lat muscles because the hands and the forearms always give out first. Let's go to Rammit Tanner or Rammy Tanner, I hate your so much yada yada yada. Is it okay to drink Diet Coke or Diet Pepsi, Diet Seven Up, Bolero or Crystal Light during contest prep? keeping in mind that I won't be overdoing it only 500 ml per day. That's fine. I I have no problem with that. A matter of fact, if it helps stick you stick to the diet better, then it's a fantastic tool to use because if you can drink a couple, you know, Diet Cokes a day and prevent you from going into the cookie jar or or eating a jar of peanut butter, then then of course it's going to work. Now, obviously, if you overdo anything, it's not going to be good for you. But, um I used to live on diet soda. I would live on coffee with, you know, sweetened with stevia and whatever else we put in, you know, aspartame back in the day because that prevented me from eating foods I shouldn't have been eating. Let's go. Good one here from Lee Axton. It's going to make you think a little bit. Um, looking at Big Robbie this week, I'm more and more convinced that we'll see a return to smaller cranes on stage within five years, somewhere around 260 pounds. Yes, he can be aesthetic at 330 pounds, but it is pleasing to the eye. I don't think so. Your thoughts? Bodybuilding is about big freaky bodies. Let's face it. And that will always be the appeal. So, if we got 10 big Ramies coming up, people will love it. I mean, go look at Ramy's Instagram. He's got a million followers, okay? The guy just barely started speaking English just recently, you know? So, people love big freaky bodybuilds. I look, I I can't stop looking when they put the pictures up. I mean, I'm I'm a fan, too. Even though I was a big freaky bodybuilder one, I'm still a fan of the sport, and I like to see what the limits of of development are in bodybuilding. So, to me, I could appreciate a physique like Shawn Rhoden, but I like seeing how big and freaky some of these guys can get on stage. That to me is is appealing, you know? So, um I'm about whatever looks best, but bigger is better in bodybuilding if you can bring the conditioning and you can keep the symmetry to go along with it. So, I don't think we're going to be seeing, if anything, we're going to be seeing bigger physiques. Wait till Dallas Macccarver, you know, get comes into his own over the next two, three years. This guy's going to be 350, you know, uh, you know, in the offseason lean and he's going to be 320 on stage. I mean, so that's that's certainly not downsizing the physiques out there. If anything, they're getting bigger. And I think we went through a little lull for maybe five or six years when Phil started first winning the Olympia and then and Kai Green was kind of the last big guy on the block. you know, Jay Cutler, the last big guy got buy on the block, but now I think we're getting back to some of the bigger physiques are coming back to the stage, and I think we're going to see a lot of a lot of super freaks out there, you know, uh, over the next couple years, and that to me is exciting for the sport. Mike Castle Grant, how does one maintain fullness while on keto? Yeah, I I think that you have to have you can't put two strategies into the same bottle, so to speak. Okay. When you're trying to burn and maximize burning fat, you can't worry about being full. Okay, what what first of all, what's the purpose of being full in the gym anyway? You get slightly better workout, better pump, right? But it's not really functionally doing anything for you. So to walk around flat, I'm not talking about excessively flat where you look like you're you should be in Ethiopia. I'm talking about a little, you know, deflated in the gym. That's good. Why is that good? Well, because when glycogen stores are low, you're malizing more stored body fat. If your glycogen stores are fill to the brim, okay, because and you're quote full, why would your body dip into stored body fat for fuel, it's not going to. It's going to use the the carbs that are there. So remember, you only need about 40 to 50 grams of carbs to get you through an intense weight training session. So, and you get that indirectly even on a ketogenic diet. Plus, your body's constantly making glucose from uh from amino acids via gluconogenesis. So, stop worrying about being too so full while you're dieting for a competition. The the goal of dieting is to maximize fat loss. Let's go to Jimmy Mack fit. What causes hormonal acne? T DHT or E? Um, high DHT levels will irritate acne in people who are are genetically prone. meaning if you don't have a genetic predisposition to acne, you'll you won't break out when you even if your DHC levels are high. Um I don't think I ever saw a pimple on Jay Cutler's body, you know, or Dorian Yates's body for that matter. I on the other hand, uh I took one shot of testosterone and I was my whole back was broken out, you know, and I had to take Accutane because of that. But I was prone to acne before that. I have big pores. My body finds the fact that my skin pores are big is a good way to to detoxify itself. So, if you're taking steroids that are creating toxicity in your body, how's your body going to get rid of them? It's going to dump them out of the pores. When you're dumping a ton of toxins out of the pores, it irritates the pores. They can get infected. Okay? Bacteria grow there and you get pimples and acne, you know, going on. So, not everyone works that way. Some people's body get rid of toxins through other methodologies, not through the skin. Same thing with hair loss. Some people have a predisposition when DHC levels are high and estrogen levels are high that they lose hair, okay? More at a at a much more accelerated rate than they would naturally. Other people could take 6,000 milligrams of testosterone a week and they wouldn't lose a hair on their head. That's just good and bad luck. That's all there is to it. Genetics. Jack and Juicy. Dave, your take on pure maltodextrin compared to your carboly. Moltodextrin is basically sugar. It's technically a carbohydrate, but it metabolizes like sugar. It I've always found that it bloated my stomach. Um, I just think it's like putting like, you know, low test gas into a into a into a high test machine, so to speak, you know, like a Ferrari. Put the highest quality stuff in there. High molecular weight carbs like high amalo highweight amalopectin like I have in in in carbaliz or some of the vitargo products out there. They empty from the stomach quickly. They pull nutrients really well, driving them into the into the muscle cells. They they are super easy uh to consume. Um I like them. That's what I use. That's what I recommend. Malttodextrin's old school. It's Yeah, it's cheap, but you know what? You get what you pay for. If you want an upset stomach, it's going to get all bloated after you, you know, post work drinking that post-workout shake, then drink multidextrin. If it doesn't bother your stomach, then don't worry about it. You know, like I said, and I don't put a gun to anyone's head. I just try to introduce people to the highest tech ingredients out there. And that's what I try to put into my species nutrition line, the highest available, you know, potency stuff out there that's going to actually do something. You'll have to use it, but I found that these things that I recommend are the most, you know, I'll give you for instance, someone contacted me. They were having knee pain. I said, "Look, have you ever taken any glucosamine?" "Yeah, it doesn't work." "Well, how much have you taken?" Well, I take a thousand milligrams twice a day. Well, that's not enough. Try Arthurize. It's four grams of glucosamine a day. Yeah, Dave, you sure it's I said, let's try it. If it doesn't work, you you wasted one bottle. The person used it. They wrote me a brilliant letter today saying how much that that I saved them. They were suffering for six months with all this pain and now it's gone. Okay, it wasn't that I'm that smart. It's just that I've learned what works over the years and that's what I've put into the Species Nutrition line of products. It's not that I I just sat down and said, "How can I make the most money?" Because believe me, if I did that, I would the products wouldn't have half the ingredients they had in them. Okay? I put in there what works. If it's a little more expensive in certain areas, then then that so be it. But I want people to take supplements that do something, not just that that in their mind do something because it says it on the label. And and that's just the way it is. You know, it's a very honest approach. And like I said, some people love it and some people don't believe it because they don't want to spend the money or whatever the case may be. you know, they don't personally like me or they do personally. I don't know. But what I try to do is is give people knowledge and then you could take that knowledge and do what you want with it. A dot scrunchy, how far out from a show should you introduce trend into your cycle. I usually do it around 8 to 10 weeks out. Um I usually do the last eight weeks on trend acetate and that seems to work really well. uh you know before that you know what the problem is tremblone like I mentioned earlier it has some central nervous system stimulating effects sometimes people can't sleep at night from it they get anxious and anxiety so you don't want to be putting on you don't want to do 16 weeks of that it's just too much let's go to well so before I ask this question if you haven't seen it already right now on the rxmuscle.com YouTube channel we have uh Dave's rant on big Romney somebody posted a picture earlier on Instagram today comparing 2017 to 2016 and obviously working with I guess oxygen gym working with last year. So Dave did a rant on that but let's go to the question. It is by Don Bailey. What do you think of those picks of Bitcoin? Do you think they're posted? Here's a thought from buying games or is that his real condition? Also, was the bet excessive to gain back? All right, this is sort of totally different question. Do you think it was buying games or is that really his condition? I I think that that's what he looks like now. And I think that they the the camel crew over there feel that he looks very big and that they wanted to show that off and they didn't think probably there would be backlash. And you know what the truth is? Everyone's a freaking critic. You know, the bottom line is how will Rammy look on contest day? Um it doesn't matter what he looks like today. It matters what he looks like at that Olympia when he gets on stage at prejudging. If they have a game plan and they're going to pull, you know, they're going to follow this game plan and they know that they can get them in shape and it works, then we're going to applaud them as being brilliant. If it doesn't work, we're going to be critics and tell them that they they screwed up. That's bodybuilding. It doesn't happen with just Romy. It happens with every single bodybuilder in that in that in the top echelon of of pro bodybuilders. If someone comes off, we're going to crucify them and their coach. And if someone looks brilliant, we'll we'll we'll applaud them and their coach. And and that's bodybuilding. If you don't like it, get out. Don't take it personally. I know Bader doesn't take it personally, and I'm not taking it personally, and I'm sure Christo may take it personally, but but everyone else doesn't. So, that's just the way the sport is, you know. Um, did Romney look better at this time, six weeks out last year? Yeah, he did. Um, but the bottom line is that it doesn't matter what he looks like at six weeks out. It matters what he looks like when he gets on stage. Take one more question from It's Lit Bra Dave. the craziest preworkout ritual you've heard of someone doing from back in the day and what kind of crazy preworkout substances have you heard being used back in the day in the 90s when it was legal? People used to use Dan Duchain's uh pre-workout called Ultimate Orange. My friend Vinnie Hanzik used to sell it in his store and Ultimate Orange was a like a mix of a fedra. I think there was some caffeine in there and there was like a it was like a some kind of carbohydrate. It probably was like a high molecular weight carbohydrate knowing Dan Desain he probably he probably had it 20 years before everyone else did and you would you would I never used it because I was into stimulants but I I know a lot of guys used it and you would just shake it up and you would drink it. I think it's still on the market but I don't think it has it doesn't have the same ingredients in it obviously and people would be jacked and they would go to the gym and they'd have great workouts. Um that's what most people used either I used to use coffee back then. Um, there was the preworkout um, uh, genre or the pre-workout um, I guess you could say cate subcategory didn't exist in nutrition. That was the only one. It was the first one and it was the only one for probably 101 15 years and that's what people used who who liked that type of a feel before they got to the gym. Everyone else drank coffee or maybe popped a caffeine pill. I don't know. uh nowadays it's like it's a science like of who how can we find the closest drug to aderole or crystal meth and put it into a pre-workout uh to jack people out of their minds and some people like that feeling and I know there's a lot of people who don't like that because when my Nitrolyze was out the one without caffeine a lot of people bought it um but um there is certainly a uh subop out there especially young guys that that like to get jacked out of their mind before they go to the gym that's going to for this episode of Ask Dave brought to you by species nutrition. Once again, visit speciesnutrition.com. Again, reminder that big read by Dave earlier today is onmuscle.com and YouTube channel. Go check it out. We have interviews planned with Derek Lunsburg as well as Sergio Olivia Jr. Why isn't he competing at this upcoming Olympia? Keep it a lot to muscle.com for Dave Palumbo and Johnny Styles. I'm speaking for people. We'll see you next time.