Dave Palumbo here for another installment of Creative Cooking. Now, sometimes you just don't feel like cooking. Sometimes you don't have time. You're in a rush. You got to get out of the house, but you need a meal and you're on a diet and you're on a ketogenic diet, low carb diet like I recommend, like Quest Nutrition recommends. And guess what? They got Quest keto meals. It doesn't get more convenient than this. You might want to eat their bars. Maybe, you know, I don't really recommend bars while you're dieting. This is something you can eat while dieting. These are very convenient. They get shipped to your house on dry ice. They're simple meals. This is cheeseburger hash. It's 20 gram or 18 to 20 grams of protein in here. About 45 grams of fat because the the Quest keto meals are a 2:1 ratio of fat to protein. They have virtually no carbs in here. I have not tried this yet. I'm going to open it up. Basically, it looks like a cheeseburger. I don't know how. And it and it's got bread in there, but it's not made of bread. It's It's not bread. And there's no there's no net carbs. The great thing is you put this in the microwave for 1 minute. 1 minute. I'm going to go over to my microwave. I'm going to put it in here. I'll see you in 1 minute. Okay guys, now I had just got back from a bike ride. I threw this in the microwave for a minute and then I realized I read the directions. This actually needs 2 minutes for the cheeseburger hash meal. So, I put it in for another minute and we're ready. We're done. We're ready to go. 2 minutes and I have a a cheeseburger hash meal to fuel my post exercise requirements. Now, I have not tried this before. So, I'm going to taste it. Okay, let's see this. It's so It's so delicious looking. I don't even know what to eat first. Oh, it's got some veggies in here, too. It's actually like a a cheeseburger. Wow. I got to tell you, the meat is so tasty and it has no gristly feel to it in my mouth. This is all organic grass-fed beef, too. So, everything in here is super healthy. It's all organic as well as ketogenic. And this is like a delicious meal you can eat in two seconds and you're out the door. You got protein, you got your fat, you're good to go. Quest is making it so simple to diet and to stick to a good diet and to so you can lose weight and have a nice physique that you know what, if you don't contact them and check out their website and get some of their products, you're foolish because it it it is really unless you have time to cook yourself five or six meals a day, this is a convenience that you cannot be without. Dave Palumbo with another creative cooking segment here at rxmuscle.com.