Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Lab. apps. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Thursday, February 23rd, 2017. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, after months of going into hibernation and making his best effort to drop completely off the radar, I'm happy to announce that Big Ramy has finally returned. Earlier this week, the big guy released some rare footage from a recent chest training workout where we see one of the baddest men in bodybuilding looking like an absolute world beater. If you remember back to the end of last season, Rammy really started to come on strong, especially during his spectacular post Olympia run. For years, bodybuilding fans have been waiting for Rammy to take the last step towards greatness. And if he has indeed finally arrived, things in the bodybuilding world are about to get a whole lot more interesting. I don't care what division you compete in, there's one simple truth that crosses all borders. Conditioning win shows. And in the men's physique division, there aren't too many guys who are consistently more conditioned than George Brown. Less than two weeks out from heading back to the Arnold Classic stage, the Ohio native looks like he's going to be bringing the heat one more time and looking to avenge last year's close runner-up finish to winner Brandon Hendrickson. Pound-forpound, Brown is beyond any shadow of a doubt one of the best athletes in the entire men's physique division. And I think the three-horse race between Brown, Hendrickson, and Ryan Terry is going to end up being one for the ages. It feels like winter is finally starting to break out here on the east coast. Or maybe it's just all the heat that Jerseyy's own Nick Tragilli has been throwing out lately. The soon-to-be secondyear pro has been training like a man on fire over these past few weeks, and I think it's safe to say that the results speak for themselves. After an impressive rookie debut back in 2015, Tragilli sat out all of last year and looks like he's well ahead of schedule to come back bigger and better than ever. For a big guy, Tragilli has the sort of sneaky good symmetry and aesthetics that can overwhelm guys in the right lineup. But the real question is, does he have what it takes to knock the rust off after having such a long layoff, all the while dominating his first competition back to the stage? When you have a nickname like the Arabian Stallion, you can't just go out there and talk the talk. You better damn be sure you can get off your ass and get out there and walk the walk. This week, some new training footage surfaced of Ibraham Fahhem absolutely crushing an offseason shoulder workout. Since he linked up with our very own Middle East master technician Chris Aceto, Fahhem's physique really seems to have exploded. And when this guy finally starts to chisel it all down, he's going to surprise some people when he shows just how dangerous he can actually be. We've seen a lot of crazy transformations happen over the years, but what Brandon Curry's been able to do over the past 6 months is downright ridiculous. Just under 3 weeks out from unveiling the new and improved Brandon Curry 3.0, know the former Arnold Brazil winner seems to be getting better by the day. Not only has Curry packed on an absurd amount of new size, but he's also bringing what will far and away be the best conditioning of his entire career. I'm not about to put the cart before the horse here, but I'm telling you what, if he keeps this up, we're going to see this guy start stacking up the wins left and right over some top quality competition.