Heat. Heat. Whatever the case may be. He has a 15. I got a 15. Step up your game sneak. 15 sneaker. Size 15. I got a 15. Step up your game sneak. 15 sneaker. Step up your game sneak. 15 sneaker. Okay. Step up your game sneaker. 15 sneakers. Okay. Got to be a freak. RX television on rxmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, better known as # Askdave, brought to you by Species Nutrition, Ariel Cuts, and Liquid Sunra. I'm your host, Sudep Farooqi. This is your 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. All your questions on diet, training, supplementation. IFBB pros competitions, whatever's on your mind, it is all on the tables. We now bring in Dave Palumbo. Dave, yesterday we released a video interview that you did with Jorge Bettincourt, a name that, if you're familiar with the '90s bodybuilding scene, one of the top young prospects from that time, and we, you know, portrayed the route that he took from being one of the young faces in bodybuilding now being a flatout bodybuilding mogul. Yeah. You know, I I know George for years and you know, when I was coming up, you I used to watch him on ESPN even though I'm older than him. He was like, you know, a little teen phenomenon and they, you know, Lick got a hold of him and they were putting him on TV all the time because they had a show called American Muscle Magazine. That's what we used to watch all the time. Remember, there was no internet back then. So, he was very well known. You know, I don't I don't you know, I I figured he was making a lot of money from it. And evidently, you know, he was doing well. He won the team nationals. He was on his way. And then, you know, it's very hard emotionally a lot of times for young guys in bodybuilding to take that and then translate it into a a successful pro career. And not many have done it. Uh Jay Cutler was one of the few, and Jay didn't even win Teen Nationals, but he won his class there. Branch Warren did it obviously. And there were there were a few that that they were able to, you know, mentally be tough enough to follow through from teenage years from the teenage years into their, you know, obviously the top amateur and then pro. uh George just let it get the you know let it get the best of him he really you know kind of you know didn't like it anymore and it was too much pressure and he got out he then got pulled back into it because he loved the sport and as a supplement company owner and then he sold the company the vitamin shop and he made a lot of money and now he's trying to get back into the industry after his do not compete has been I guess exhausted so it's a great story you know I I think a lot of people you know should pay attention to these stories of guys who've started started out young, had maybe some troubles in transition and then and then, you know, kind of figured things out, so to speak, uh because that's life. I mean, that's all of us go through that. We all have those growing pains and it's how we deal with them and get past it that makes us and defines us as who we are later in life. And so, I I love the interview. I enjoyed it. I like I said, I know George for quite a while and uh it was great to talk with him. And I think that I think the fans are responding very favorably to the interview. That interview right now at rxmuscle.com and of course the RXMuscle YouTube channel. Let's go to the questions. The first two questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. First question. If you truly look at the physics of deadlift, the lats, traps, and lower back are used much as stabilizers. As we all now know, isometric exercises do not do much uh as much rather for body for building muscle. The hips controlled mostly by the glutes and hams and the quads are really the one going through the range of motion. Can you explain why you feel the back is being developed uh from deadlifts? I see you seem to include this in your plans every other week only. Yeah, you know there is a lot of leg involved in deadlifts. There's no doubt about that. But it's one of those movements that just just makes you stronger. And when you're stronger, you grow. Think about what you're doing. You're you're pulling weight off the floor. Yeah. You're using some leg, obviously, some glute and stuff like that, but what's holding the weight? I mean, you're pulling from your traps, your your spinal erectors are finishing the movement. It just thickens your back. And just the sheer aspect of moving that kind of weight off the floor, it involves your entire body, whether they're stabilizers or main movers, it doesn't matter. That movement makes you stronger for everything you do. And that's the same thing with squats. If you've ever heard the term squats build mass throughout the entire body, um it's true. Just because you're squatting and using mostly legs, think about what think about when you have 600 lbs in your back, how much stabilization, how much, you know, um how how how thick the muscle has to be to stabilize that upper body. If you had if you never trained your upper body and had decent legs and train them whatever, you know, just doing leg presses and stuff like that and you went under a squat and never squatted, you'd probably collapse to the floor if you ever put a lot of weight on there because your upper body needs to be strong to hold that kind of weight. And that's why deadlifts and that's why, you know, bent rows and that's why, you know, squats are like total body movements because they involve the entire body. When you do a bent row, also you're bent over, you have to stabilize with your legs, you have to stabilize with your upper body. that just builds, you know, general, you know, brute strength and that really helps with development because let's face it, if you can lift heavier weights, you're going to grow better. Uh, you know, a great thing. Also, I just want to bring up about the Day Plum Experience app. You know, I try to bring it up very quickly every week. I don't want to bore you guys, but for people who don't know, it's an app that you can download for your iPhone or to your Android. You just go to the app store and get it. It's $29 a month. you get access to all the articles I've ever written, all the videos I've ever done, and there's an exclusive Q&A uh excuse me, video on there every week, which people don't have access to access to unless you're an app member. And I call those questions from the people, the questions that people ask on the app. So, all the app members can ask unlimited questions whenever they want. I I answer them on the app in a generalized forum so everyone sees the questions and the answers. So, everyone gets access to that. And then I do the I take the best ones and I do a video every week and we put now we started putting up recently workouts of the week. So you get a a free workout as well for the week and people are loving it. So just tell your friends about it. Once again it's a great resource to have very few very there's a couple of them out there but there are very few people who provide a resource for people to have access to information in one concentrated you know place. When I was a kid, I used to go to Encyclopedia Bratannica or I forget there was another one that I used to use as well. Every time I want to look something up, I'd go and look it up there. Nowadays, people go on on the internet and go to Wikipedia, but truth be told, there's no real Wikipedia for, you know, for the kind of stuff that we discuss on this program regarding bodybuilding. So, I think people really like the app a lot. Also, I want to just mention people have been asking the secrets to becoming a diet guru course is scheduled now on the schedule. It's for uh the Saturday uh June 29th uh over here in Cape Coral, Florida in my office is here. The last class filled up very quickly. So don't wait, guys. I've been having a lot of people ask about this one. You can sign up at davepalumbo.com. I promise you it's going to sell out. I've already sold half the seats already, so don't wait on this one. It's June 29th. Let's go to the second question again from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Dave, in your power building program, as an example, it has eight sets of bench press. It does not take me that many sets to warm up to four to eight reps. I only bench 275 uh by six. What would I do on an exercise like this in that program? Yeah. Well, the first I have a a program called the power, you know, my power phase workout, which is like a six to eight week period, like where you're really trying to put mass on. And what it does is it eliminates all the like shaping type exercises and it allows you to focus exclusively on the the the main prime mover movements, bench press, bent rows, deadlifts, squats, you know, the the the mass shoulder presses, the the mass builders. And and it it involves more sets. The reason it's more sets is not so you can warm up more. You're going to do more working sets with it. So let's say for instance um you bench press 225 like you said or whatever. um you know you might do you know your one you know 135 you might go up to say whatever the next 185 then you might go 200 225 and then what I would do is I would take breaks I do three four minute rest and I would do 225 and then maybe have a if you have a training partner there move it up now you have an opportunity that you want to go up in weight so even though you can only do 225 for four reps now you're going to try to do 240 or 250 you know for even one or two even if you need to have your partner help help you with the one or two or three reps, forced reps. That's how you grow. Okay? The idea is you don't have to worry about doing anything after that. You're done with chest after that. So, you focus on the one movement, incline presses or flat presses, whichever you're doing for that day. You're doing eight sets of it. You're going to work on getting stronger those days. Those you're going to, you know, once again, you need a training partner for this type of training. You can't go in there yourself and do it because you cannot spot yourself. Obviously, you're going to need someone to push you through these reps. You might go do your heaviest weight and instead of doing the four you normally could do yourself, you might do eight, but you might have your partner help you a little bit. You might do a strip set and do, you know, drop it down to one plate on each side and do a couple more. But the great thing is that you're going to be shot when you're done doing these eight sets and you're going to go home after that rather than have to then go to another exercise. Because when you know in your brain, I got two more exercises, three or four sets each for those exercises, you're not going to push to the ultimate limit on the on the exercise you're doing. This enables you to focus on that one movement. We actually have two uh insulin related questions. So, I'll take the first one from Fernando or Royo. Again, we're on our Instagram page now. If you're not already following us, it's official_rxmuscle. Fernando or Royo, what are the care that should be taken while taking insulin to avoid health risks? Well, you know, insulin is not bad for you in the sense that you're not it's not toxic or anything like that. The problem with insulin, the number one mistake that I think the dangerous mistake that people can make is they don't measure the insulin properly. Okay? You tell someone to take six IUs and they're taking 60 IUs. Okay? insulin syringes measure insulin units. So if you have a if you have a half a cc syringe, okay, every single little line is one unit. So when you see 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, the 10 means 10 units, okay? The 20 means 20 units. You're not going to be taking 20 units, you know. All right? And now whether you're taking a fast acting or short acting, it still measures insulin units. So if you were taking Lantis, which is long acting, and you had to take 15 units before bed, it's still you go to the 10 mark, you go five more, and you got your 15 units. It's the same. It it me that's they purposely um dilute insulin so that you're measuring the syringes perfectly measure the units on the insulin syringes. So that's number one. Okay. Number two is you know are you eating enough carbs to cover the insulin that you're taking? So if you're taking a shot of let's just say humulin R 10 IUs okay 10 units you for humulin R because it's kind of it's not super fast acting but it's it's it's faster acting you need to take five grams of carbs per unit so you know if you're taking 10 units of this stuff and you're eating 50 grams of carbs now and then 50 grams of carbs at your next meal in two hours you're going to cover your insulin if you eat 40 grams or 30 grams of of insulin excuse me of carbs you might go a little low now you're not going to die from it, you're going to feel like low blood sugar and you're going to have to eat more. Um, if you did 50 units instead of 10 by accident because you didn't measure right. Okay, now you you might drop your blood sugar very very rapidly and that might be scary. Okay, I can understand that, but that's because you're not measuring the stuff correctly. So, the the um I guess you could say the uh danger in insulin lies in ignorance. Basically, not understanding how to use it properly or not being advised how to use it properly. You know, there are people out there that tell you to take 20 units of insulin before you go to the gym. That's that's nuts as far as I'm concerned because you're going to take that much insulin. Now, you need 200 grams of carbs to cover that insulin. Why would you do that right before you go to the gym? You know, you're going to train, you're going to be using glucose, and that's going to lower your blood sugar. So, that that's not smart. So, people do dumb stuff, have dumb happen to them, and and that makes it dangerous as well. So, before you start using insulin, make sure you understand how to measure it. Make sure you have someone who's advising you who knows what they're talking about and it's not going to do anything dangerous with you and you know and and don't be you know ignorant about insulin because that's something that acts very quickly. Whereas an anabolic steroid you take a shot of that it takes two weeks to work. So you're not you're not going to drop dead the next day or you're not going to have any incident. You know the problem with that is you know are you using real you know um steroids. The good thing about insulin is I've never seen a fake insulin out there. So you because most people get it from a pharmacy. It's not like you can make that in your bathtub. So that's a good thing. So let's uh continue with that. Uh Jacobe Al wants to know uh why did Jason Arn who you had on the show about a couple of weeks ago. He thinks you could become diabetic by using insulin where you have said before that it takes the burden off but doesn't shut it down. Who's right in that argument? Yeah, I mean I I just think Jason just didn't speak right. I think he just he might have confused himself. I obviously not taking insulin, you know, and and putting your body in an in a state of insulin resistance constantly where your body doesn't have can't produce enough insulin is going to make you much more susceptible to becoming diabetic because you're going to burn out your pancreas. Taking insulin is taking the burden off the pancreas doesn't have to produce as much insulin. It's much less likely to burn out in that sense or or die off. And so that's going to preserve beta cell function. So, you know, back back in the 80s, excuse me, back in the 90s and early 2000s, people thought if you took insulin, you could become diabetic. They didn't understand the dynamics of how it worked. I'm not saying Jason doesn't. Jason's a smart guy. He I think he just he just, you know, he missed, you know, maybe he just mispoke, you know, in terms of saying that, but the bottom line is yes, taking insulin is going to help you, you know, stop from becoming a diabetic. Let's go to pumping. Rob Dave, how can I get details in my legs? I'm lean, but I can't see separation and veins. Do I simply not have enough muscle? It's possible. Or you I mean, I don't have pictures of you, so it's hard for me to say, you know, or, you know, you might just be very depleted. When you're glycogen depleted, even though you're lean, the muscles are not stretching the skin tight. So, I see a lot of guys, they think they look terrible. I'm like, just wait. Just wait till I carb you up, you you know, and then as soon as you put the carbs back in, everything just comes alive because now the muscles fill up, the skin gets tight and it sticks to the it like aderes to the muscles. You see all the separation and grooves. You take the water out and everything looks great. So, you know, it depends on where you are. Some guys have to really extremely deplete to get in shape to lose the body fat on their body. Sometimes they go too much. I remember in ' 96 when I was getting ready for the USA, I was I was just I was just dieting too hard and I I didn't need to. I was probably ready to go at at 270 lbs and I was I dieted down to 255, you know, and because I just kept wanting to get harder and harder and harder and after a while, you just don't get any harder. You get you flatter and flatter and if you stay flat too long, you can lose muscle. So, you got to know when to, you know, that's why with with certain when I work with people, if they if they're flat too if they get too flat, a lot of times I'll just feed them out of nowhere and they're like, "What do you mean? You've been starving me for, you know, for two weeks now. You want me to have a cheeseburger and fries?" I'm like, "Yeah." and and and then they eat the cheese, burger, and fries and the next day they look wacky, you know. So once again, you have to know when that's why it's important to have a coach that knows what they're doing so that they can look at you and they can know they know when to make you suffer and they know when they have to pull back. Sometimes, you know, I'm working people, working, working, working them. I want them to get leaner, leaner, leaner. And I just noticed that nothing's working. So I, you know, instead of giving them two and a half hours of cardio again the next day, I tell them no cardio. And they're like, "What? No card?" you know, it's like it's like you gave them a a day off from school or something like that and they almost don't know what to do with themselves because they just need their bodies need rest and so you have to know when to, you know, you have to know when to push and you have to know when to pull back a little bit. Let's go to Red's 55 Raky. During your suggested detox cycle, you say to take apple cider vinegar, but also state that the body likes to be al in an alkaline state, which helps prevent cancer. I find it odd that we do both in a detox. Can you elaborate on the apple cider as part of that process? I've done a video on apple cider vinegar which beyond me my I don't even know what it's up to. It's probably like a two million hits this thing, right? It's crazy. But you know, apple cider vinegar into your body, it it tells your body to stop producing as much acid. That's why if you have indigestion, you take apple cider vinegar, it kind of takes it away because it turns off the acid production in in your body. Likewise, the the uh the ash or the pulp of the of the apple because it's what Bragg's apple cider vinegar is unfiltered. It's the uh the pulp of the apple that's in there actually has an alkalinizing effect on the body. Now, we can go and debate this and I know there's the people out there think it's but you know what? Until you use the apple cider vinegar and you feel how good you feel on it, then you'll know that it works. You know, it seems like a little pseudociency, but it makes sense. you know, if you're taking a mild acid, you it basically tells your body to stop producing that strong acid in the stomach, which in essence reduces acidity in that area. Um, once again, and also the the pulp of the apple will have an alkalinizing effect on the body. And that's how it works. So, you know, it sounds weird, but you're replacing a stronger acid in your body with a weaker acid through the apple cider. And that's why you you can kind of instantly cure acid reflux. If I go out to a crappy restaurant, you know, and I have a little cheat meal or something like that, I always come home with like I'm like burping up. Soon as I do the apple cider vinegar and eight ounces of water, boom, it's gone. The acidity goes away instantly. I have no more burps. It's like it's like a miracle cure. And like I said, try it. Once you you don't have to believe me, do it. You'll see what I'm talking about. It works. Oh, Jalano has a question about you. During your competition career, why did Dave cut so much weight for his competition who's pretty shredded at 3:15? Yeah, you know, I I everyone always used to say, "Compete at 300. Compete at 300." Well, you know, in the gym in a tank top, I look like a like a freak at 300, but you know, I did a show the North Americans in 19, excuse me, 2001. I was 282. I weighed in it. That was the heaviest I was. Usually I competed around 16 265 uh 265 to 268 around there. That was a good weight for me. But when I competed at at 282, I looked really good. I was huge, you know, but I lacked the Dave Palumbo separation and and conditioning that that people were used to. I was still the most conditioned guy on stage, no doubt about it. Glutes, everything, but I just wasn't as hard. Now, if I had the shape of some of these other guys out there, you know, that were gifted in that sense, and I had a, you know, a nice vtaper and I I had better genetics in the structural component, I wouldn't need to be as hard as I would. I in order to beat guys that had structures better than me, I had to be crazy conditioned beyond conditioning so that people would say, "Holy mackerel, we can't not give this guy the win." You know, because if I was this if I was the same as them or if I was just a little better conditioning wise, then I wasn't that much different, you know? And for some reason, I didn't look as big on stage when I wasn't as wacky condition. Now, once again, if you put me in the gym for a photo shoot after, you know, I looked you know, and and that's really what I think people responded favor favorably to. And I wish I had more pictures from back then because we didn't have cell phones to take pictures like that. Those pictures would have been priceless, you know, because I had some there were days that I just was in the gym and I was like, "Holy, I can't I couldn't believe what I looked like." But no one had a camera back then. It just, you know, I impressed the people in the gym. And that's why you hear people every once in a while come on and tell stories about seeing me at a show or wearing this outfit or that outfit because people didn't see. There wasn't a lot of people like me walking around at that time. And you know, probably me and Greg Kovac. There was a couple like, you know, just nutty looking people that had a lot of size in them, but it wasn't a lot. So, we were far and few between. But once again, there was no cameras back then, so we just don't have a lot of documentation of that. But yeah, that's the reason. Let's go to Ivan Bodybuilding. Tom Platt says that he looked much better when he was eating around 400 grams of carbs during his prep and only nine grams of fats. What do you think about that? Many bodybuilders are prepping on low fat and have amazing results even though highfat diet really does make a lot of sense. Yeah. Well, you know, you got to remember when you're eating a lot of protein, if you're eating 600 grams of protein a day, you're eating a lot of fat indirectly. Okay. you're probably eating, you know, 150 grams of fat just indirectly from the protein sources. So, what a lot of, and I've said this before, a lot of guys are getting a lot of fat in their diet indirectly because they don't even realize it. And that's why they they don't understand why they have to eat so much protein because I know pros that are eating like, you know, 5 600 grams of protein a day and they don't, you know, and I know and I have guys I help and I give them 400 grams of protein a day and they're fine because I'm feeding them fat. The difference is that when you do get your fat indirectly from your protein sources, you're getting all saturated fat essentially because it's mostly coming from chicken and red meat or you know some a little bit of fish fat obviously in there as well which is good. But the bottom line is that when you pick the fat sources you can choose better sources of fat essential fatty acids. You can choose more monounsaturates like macadamia nut oil and avocados. You can choose, you know, you know, omega-3 fats from fish oils and from, you know, sources like that. So, you know, you have more control over it. I like to control that better. Now, in Tom Platt's day, okay, as well as in the beginning of my career, which started at the end of the 80s and beginning of the 90s, no one ate fat. We didn't do fat. It was it was protein and carbs and that was it. So, when you don't eat any fat calorically, you're pretty low, you know? So, you need to eat those carbs to make up for the caloric deficit because let's face it, when you're training in the gym, you're expending a lot of calories, you know? So, if you're not eating fat, you better eat your carbs or you're going to lose muscle. And that's a lot of guys noticed that if they didn't eat enough carbs, and even if they did eat carbs, they still were going flat and they didn't understand why. It was because they were fat deprived. You know, then what started happening is before the fat re, I kind of brought in a lot of the fat stuff into the bodybuilding world. But before that, guys were noticing that I got to eat more red meat. If I eat red meat, I stay fuller. Why was that? Well, because the red meat had fat in it, whereas chick lean chicken breast and and fish didn't. So, that's where people were getting their fats. And that's how I discovered I started eating McDonald's hamburgers. I'm like, I'm freaking growing. I can't believe this. What's going on here? Well, what's in McDonald's hamburgers that's not in everything else? fat. That's that was the difference. And that's when I started exploring what fat was and how what fats were were essential to the diet and which was weren't because everything's all fats are really conditionally essential. Even saturated fat is is is essential because the cholesterol and the saturated fat that we get from like red meat and some chicken is what your body uses to make testosterone. So, you do need all kinds of fat. It's just got to be in the right ratios. And I I have found over the years that the right ratio is the the majority of your fats should come from the monounsaturated fats which are the heart-healthy very clean burning fats like your macadamia nut oils like your extravirgin olive oils like your avocado oils. Let's go to Bonets Ivan. If a competition prep lasts for 16 weeks and you're around 15% body fat with how much cardio would you start and how often would you increase it? Same thing with carbs. How much percentwise would you cut at the beginning and how often would you modify usually? I know it's always different. Yeah. Give me a hundred guys. I'll give you a hundred different ways to to to start cardio and and and and start carbohydrate intake. Everyone's different. You got to know who you're dealing with. If I'm working with a guy who has a crazy fast metabolism, I'm going to start him on 20 minutes of cardio maybe twice a week, you know, and see how his body responds. I might start him on 300 grams a day of carbs, you know, 350, maybe more depending on what his what his metabolism. If I got a guy with a slow metabolism, he's got a lot of body fat to lose. I'm gonna start him on, you know, maybe 30 minutes of cardio every day and see how that responds to, you know, how he responds to that. And I'm gonna, you know, also have him eating a lot less carbs to start because I know his metabolism. Now, if I'm working with someone I never worked with before and they tell me they have a fast metabolism or they have a slow metabolism, that's good data to have ahead of time, but I usually put them on a moderate approach and then see if I need to add or take away food. And that's where coaching comes in because everyone is different. And you know, I have a, you know, a generalized idea in my mind template-wise what people need to be on given what their body weight is and what their goals are. But sometimes I'm 100% wrong and sometimes I'm 100% right. And that's why we started 16 to 18 weeks out so we can play around the first few weeks and figuring out what what needs to be done and what not. Sometimes I'm I'm terrible. Sometimes I I give someone a diet and they're losing like, you know, way too much weight and I could tell that, you know, they're just flat as can be and they just don't I need to give them more food and they're starving to death. Then I have people who tell me they're starving to death and they haven't lost a pound. I'm like, I don't care if you're starving to death because you haven't lost any weight, so obviously you're not losing any muscle. That's the funniest thing. I have people contact me, they're like, I I'm ravenous. I I I I must be losing muscle. I'm like, well, how much weight did you lose this past five days, you know, since the last update? Well, I actually gained a pound. All right. Well, how did you lose muscle if you gained a if you gained a pound? And it's usually because they're eating extra food. So, you know, you you can't you have to really, you know, just know your person and do a little trial and error at first and then you'll get the assistant by by two or three weeks in, you know what you have to feed people. Let's go to Alexander Jeramazov. Since building a spectacular physique requires a lot of money for food, supplements, enhancements to be able to turn pro, what are your tips for making money as an amateur who just started competing? You know, it's hard. It's hard to when you first start because even if you have knowledge, even if you watch this show every single week and you're Dave Palumbo disciple and you have all that knowledge, no one thinks that you know what you're talking about because you don't have the physique to to demonstrate it. You know what I mean? Once you start winning shows and once you start looking good, then people want to know what you're doing, you know, and I I have I have a lot of people that I help. I have guys that are teenagers that I help and that are doing diets for other people and making money, you know, with other teenagers. So, you could always The great thing about today's marketplace is that you can make money doing coaching. And you know what? If I was a young guy and I liked love the bodybuilding world and I wanted to make money as a coach because you can make six figures easy a year as a coach down the road if you really know what you're doing and you build up a clientele, I would be taking the secrets to becoming a diet guru course that I give. It's a one-day course out of your life. You'll sit there and you'll at least have a baseline of knowledge so that when you give diets out to people, you can troubleshoot problems. You understand the different steroids and how they interact. you understand supplements and you understand basic nutrition 101, protein, fat, carbs, how to write diets, how to, you know, include the right supplements to help assist with the dieting process or the andor the muscle building process. You do that and now you have a vehicle to make money for yourself. Even if you have one or two clients, that's your food money for the week, you know, and you have to look at it from that perspective. Don't try to conquer the world. Don't look, oh my god, I got to make $100,000 a year starting tomorrow. No, make your food money for the week first. Then go then go for your rent, then go for your car insurance, you know, that kind of stuff. You build up little by little, and the more successful you are yourself, and the more successful you are with helping people, the more people that are going to come to you. And that's just how it works. And you have to take the steps, you know, small steps at a time. But the most important aspect is educating yourself because ignorance is no excuse. Let's go to RR Prov. A couple of questions on cutting. Can you substitute trend E for trend A when cutting? Just do just adjust the dose accordingly as tren has more active ingredient. Yeah, I mean trend is trend. It's it's you know one's faster acting, one's slower acting. I personally believe that trenetate uh is a better is a better drug. Um I think it has a more of an anti catabolic effect. It blocks blocks the effects of like cortisol better. Um, and I don't know if that's because of the speed with which it's released into the system. I've just found that it works a little better uh pre-contest. It also makes you a little crazier and it makes it much harder to sleep. The trend inate which is slower acting, which is, you know, that seems to be a little more controllable. You don't see seem to get as the ups and downs so much moodwise. It doesn't seem to affect your digestive system as severely. So, for a lot of people, the the the longer acting one is a better choice. Uh, but if you can handle the Trenacetate, I I would say do that. Now, here's the thing. I I I was giving people 100 milligrams a day, and I still give some people 100 milligrams every other day, excuse me, of the Trenacetate. I've been cutting it back to 50. You know, back when I was competing, I was using 50 every other day, and I got really good results with it. I think when you cut it back, you're getting the same benefits with less of the side effects. I think a lot of guys are getting more side effects nowadays, especially with the uh you know the inability to have an erection because they're raising prolactin too high, inability to sleep at night. Uh some of them people getting indigestion from it. I think it's because they're taking too much of the trenacetate. Try to cycle that back a little bit. Less is better with the trenet. It hap it hits you so quickly that you don't really need a lot, you know, whereas with the trenate, you could take 100 milligrams two to three times a week and it doesn't seem to have any negative effects. Another cutting question from Marky Mart. Creatine while cutting beneficial and if not why? Yeah, I like creatine because it keeps a little water on the muscles which helps protect the joints a little bit while you're dieting. You got to just remember that at two weeks out from a competition cut it out. It doesn't it's not necessary. That'll let all the extra water kind of subside. And you certainly don't want a creatine load. Someone asked me the other day, should I creatine, you know, take creatine like the last three days before a show to look fuller on stage? I'm like, first of all, you you absolutely don't want to take creatine the day of the show when you're not drinking. That's the most that's the most dangerous to your kidneys. You need to be well hydrated when you're taking a creatine supplement. So, creatine's fine if you want it and if you like it and you like the way you're feeling it, but you cut it out two weeks before. I know we're pressed against the clock. I wanted to get a couple of more in. Uh the celery juice phenomenon, uh Syler Brandon's been doing it a couple of weeks now, has had good results. A lot of people are talking about it. He says it's helped with his bloating and with his skin. Is this something that should be postponed during prep? So, I guess first your general thoughts and then in regards to prep. I didn't even hear what you said. What was the celery juice phenomenon? Celery juice. Yeah, I guess a lot of fitness influencers are now talking about jumping on celery juice. So, celery juice. Celery juice. Yeah. Yeah. Look, you know, I've heard about juice. There's so many juicing detoxes, juicing uh uh healthpromoting effects. This has been going on since Jack Lane, guys. Jack Lane was juicing vegetables back, you know, 30 years ago and people were doing that. I don't have anything against I was juicing vegetables at night, you know. Now, the key is with juicing and and celery juice is good because it's a green. It's you don't want to be juicing stuff that has a lot of sugar in it like carrots and and apples and all kinds of fruits. But, you know, once again, it's it's an alphalinizing type of supplement. Um, the problem is it's a pain in the ass if you have to if you don't juice it yourself fresh. You're not getting the benefits of it because a lot of times it gets oxidized if it's if it's in a bottle. And if you do it yourself, you know, you got to clean the juicer. It's a it's a pain in the ass. So, um, personally, I use a green supplement. I use a product called Juice Plus. I've been using it for years. It's the it's all the phytonutrients in in in a capsule with none of the sugar. Obviously, there's no liquid and there's no fiber. That's all removed. And it's fruit. It's a there's a fruit bottle and there's a vegetable bottle and I've been doing them for 25 years. And I'll tell you something, when I get sick, it lasts a half a day. I just don't get sick for a long period of time. Very rarely do I get hit with anything. And and I really attribute it to that. Um I'm a big believer in fruit and vegetable extracts. I think they're really good for you. I think that there is a place, you know, if you have the extra cash and you can buy a product like Juice Plus. It's about 40 bucks a month. Uh, I have a link on my Dave Palumbo.com website if you want to get it, you know, then great, you can do it. But, you know, obviously you don't want to you don't want to take that and not take your multivitamin, multi mineral, your essential fatty acids. So, it I wouldn't call it a must-have supplement. It's a luxury item for sure. But, if you have extra money, it definitely works. Once again, I'm not into the juicing of the vegetable. I don't have time to clean juicers and and go buy fresh vegetables every single day. So, you know, if that's something you want to do, that's great. But like I said, watch certain vegetables have a lot of sugar in them and when you concentrate them in a juicing a juice form, obviously that could screw up your diet. So you got to be very careful with that. Eberg 1971. When calculating calories, do you factor age into the equation or just activity level? I know guys that are 60 years old that have better metabolisms than 20 year olds and vice versa, you know. So it depends on the person, you know. I I I I treat everyone as if they're a human being, you know, and I don't necessarily give less food. Although, I will tell you one thing with with older people, if I'm dealing with guys over 50 and 60, I don't give them as much protein. Usually, they don't need as much. It's weird. It's when you get older, you become more efficient at extracting what you need from the protein you eat. Um, that's why I found, at least when I started getting older, I didn't eat as much food to maintain my muscle mass anymore. And, and I don't know, like I said, if it's just because I had a lot of muscle for a long period of time or what. So, the only thing I really adjust, like you said, is like I just said, is the protein amount. I think younger people could handle more protein, kidneys are fresher, they can do better stuff with it. I find if you overwhelm older people with too much protein, that the creatinine levels go up a little bit. Red Zraki, what's your go-to now for watershed now that he says your product uh Aqualyze is discontinued? I, you know, with guys that that take uh anabolics and stuff like that, I usually use, you know, we usually use prescription diuretics like dioide. That's my my go-to. Um, for people who are, you know, don't want to use a prescription diuretic or who are natural bodys, you know, because I don't produce Aqua anymore. I just tell people to go buy generic Yuva ursi. I've said it on the last show, too. It's UVA URI. You can go on Amazon and get a bottle of it. And I usually use about 800 milligrams of this stuff with every meal the day before a show. And that works pretty well. Um, it's pretty strong. It's pretty reliable, you know, and uh, you know, it works. You know, you could do too much of it. I know I I was helping someone who just came to me. They I think they were like they wanted me to help with the last few weeks of their prep and they were once every day already, you know, and it was like four weeks out. I'm like, you can't this stuff is serious. This stuff works. You can't walk around dehydrated. You're going to work feel like you have a hangover for the next four weeks. So, yeah, you don't want to be dehydrated for long periods of time. That makes you very catabolic and obviously puts a lot of stress on on the kidneys. One and a half more questions. Benjamin Pacina. Dave, if you could go back in time and give young Dave three pieces of bodybuilding advice, what would they be? It's a good question. I don't know. Um I, you know, I don't really have any regrets in my bodybuilding life, you know, because I always say, well, people always say, well, you know, you had bad shoulders. Would you train differently? I don't know. I don't know. If I train differently, maybe I went to bed as big as I am now. So that that would be tough. I probably would have, you know, I would have started out, you know, training differently because I overtrained for so long in the beginning part of my career. I would definitely I would have cut that out. Obviously, I would have put fats into my diet much earlier on and I would have wouldn't have eaten as clean and I probably, you know, when I competed, I probably would not have overded, you know, for a couple of the shows that I did, you know, thinking that I that more was better. uh I think I would had a little bit more uh I guess balance because I I had a tendency to overdo it because I wanted to be so good and and to be my best and you know I had that runner's mentality that more is better, more is better and it took me a while to kind of calm down on that and realize that it was all about balance. One more question from Patrick's Effect. Dave, where is Jimmy the Bull? I just talked to Jimmy the Bull the other day and he's still in New York. He's driving a truck, you know, doing his thing, making his money. And uh I've been working on him to try to get him down to Florida for the last two years to move down here permanently. And he keeps telling me, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm going to do it." And you know, you know, Jimmy Jimmy's like Jimmy's like Jimmy's like my father. It's like having my father back. Like it's like trying to get my dad to do anything was was was brutal because he become even though he's not happy in what he's doing, he'll still stay in the same environment because he's he's he has a fear of of change of environment. So I but I'll get Jimmy down here. I got to keep working on him and once he is obviously if I get him to move down here I'll have him on the TV show. At least he'll have his own show once a week. That'll be great. So I told him that and Jimmy loves to come on the TV show. You know that. So you never know. The bull might be down here one of these days. That's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. Again brought to you by Species Nutrition Liquid Sunrays and Ariel Cuts. For our producer Tyler Shore and Dave Palumbo, I'm Sad Fori. We'll see you next time.