You must eat protein throughout the day. Every every 3 to four hours for men, every two to three hours is more is more effective. And that's undeniable. And I the reason I spent so much time explaining that is because you have to understand how important that is. That's not debatable. Now, how much protein should you take? I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. I will probably talk way too long. So, I'm sure Dean will cut me off when when we're time is up. >> I'm going to be here no matter what. >> Oh, well, we could be here a long time because I can talk. You know, I I always think about like what topics I want to talk about at the different seminars that I do. And I haven't really done too many of these live ones recently, but I'm kind of back on the road now. I do another one next week or next month I should say in Alabama Montgomery. There's a show down there. I'll be down there as well. But you know, we're at a show. So I always feel like guys and women want to know about diet. You know, I'm sure all you probably have coaches. There's some good coaches in the audience. I see here been doing it a long time as long as I've been doing it. And you know, there's there's a science to bodybuilding. And I think that when you learn the science of bodybuilding and I always call it the instruction booklet for your body, uh, things come a lot easier and results come better. Unfortunately, a lot of us learn the hard way and it might take us five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10 years. Some people never learn the right way to do things. And so when I do these seminars, I try to educate people as to what the right way to go about losing body fat, putting on muscle, because there is, like I said, there is a way to do it the most efficient. And if you have just the bare bones science of what's going on, it really makes a huge difference in the results you get. And a lot of you might be just here because you're competitors, but a lot of you might eventually become coaches. And if you're a coach and you don't understand the science of what you're doing with your athletes, you're really doing them a disservice because what happens is you get good results with the people who have good metabolisms and the people who are a little genetically blessed. And then the people who don'tite quite go by the textbook or who maybe have stubborn metabolisms, it's like you can't troubleshoot what's going wrong with those people because they don't really adhere to the hey, anything that I give them works protocol. And I see that all the time. I see these trainers, they're like, "Oh, I trained Phil Heath. I trained this guy. I trained that guy." Well, yeah, those guys, my my son, my nine-year-old son can get those guys in shape. But what about the person who has that stubborn metabolism? What about the person who puts muscle on real easy but doesn't lose body fat? We've seen them. What about that girl who's never ever had her legs lean ever and she's like, "I got gone from coach to coach and everyone tells me it's just my metabolism." Well, that's not the truth. There's a science to understanding what you this it's like you almost have to be like Sherlock Holmes. You have to be a detective and you have to learn to ask the right questions. I've been doing this a really long time now, like 30 years. So, I kind of know the questions to ask people when things are not going right. You know, if I have a girl who's who swears she's sticking to everything I'm telling her to do diet-wise, and she looks like she is, and then, you know, I I start asking questions like, "Well, you know, are you chewing any gum?" Well, I chew some sugar-free gum. Well, how much is some sugar-free gum? I probably do two packs a day. And then they don't realize that like it's sugar-free, but it's still each piece of gum still has two grams of carbs. You chew, you know, 40 pieces of gum a day, that's 80 grams of carbs. You just add it to your diet. That was, you know, that's a problem. You know, that that could sabotage your weight loss. Likewise, seasonings. I see people use seasonings. They're like, "I use sugar-free ketchup. It doesn't have any it has no sugar in it." I'm like, "Well, yeah, but ketchup is made from tomatoes, and tomatoes are ketchup. They don't add any sugar to the ketchup, but they but it has carbs. You're eating carbs. Same thing with the hot sauce. People put hot sauce all over. People use that. I can't believe it's not butter spray. All these zerocalorie uh sprays, Pam, those are oil. They lie on on the packaging, you know, about because they they base everything on serving size. So, if one quick spray is serving size, no one uses a serving size. Everyone uses 10 serving sizes. So, there's a lot of, you know, ways you can sabotage your diet and and you as coaches, if you're going to be coaches or even just if you're doing your own diet, you have to know how to read labels and you have to be smart. And that's why it's good to have a coach who can help you through these things because if not, you're you're not going to be able to navigate these waters and you're going to sabotage yourself for stupid reasons. Here you are, you're going to the gym. You're doing your workouts, you know, five days a week. You're doing cardio every day. You're you're torturing yourself. You're spending money on on on supplements, and you know, you're entering shows, hair, makeup, tanning, and you sabotage your diet because you're chewing too much gum or you're using the wrong seasonings on your food, or you're you're cooking your foods the wrong way. And that's, you know, that's that's sad. And that's why you you really need someone who's going to be able to figure out what's going on. or if you're a coach yourself, you need to ask the right questions of your clients because a lot of times it's not them. Now, granted, there are people that you're going to work with and you might do it yourself that you actually cheat on your diet. You eat too much food. Uh I have people I ask, I'm like, "Are you eating are you cheating on the diet?" Like, "No, I eat everything you tell me to eat." I'm like, "Well, all right. I want you to do a food diary for me." Well, food diary is basically you write that down everything you put in your mouth over the course of a day. Liquids, condiments, food. And I get these diaries at the end of the day and I know I'm analyzing them and and I find problems all the time, you know, with with the stuff that people put down, you know, from different seasonings to all these people love to look and you know, you guys know when you're dieting, you're in the store and you're always looking for the the free calories, right? something that has I can put this on my food and it's not going to add any calories, right? Or I have these a lot of women do this. You get these cabbage huge I tell someone they could have a salad and they have like the salad is like like this big and you know they think there's no and then what what they're doing is they're stretching out their stomach so that they're always hungry and then they wind up snacking all day long. um you know so there is a lot of pitfalls you can make but I think the basic core nutri basic core principles you need to know about dieting is macronutrients versus micronutrients. The macronutrients are your protein, fat and carbs. Okay, I think we could all agree here that we need protein in our diet. Okay, because you need protein whether you work out or not, right? hair, nails, skin, internal lining of your organs, uh intestinal tract, GI tract, everything is constantly in a state of flux and turnover. So the the skin you have today is not going to be the skin you have tomorrow. If you want to make new skin, okay, or new hair or nails, you need to have protein in your diet to make it from. Okay? So there's a there's a core protein requirement that we all have whether we work out or not. Now, if we go to the gym and we break down muscle in the gym, that increases the need for protein. The problem with protein intake is that there's no place to store it in the body. And I think that's what a lot of people don't realize. Fat you can store as fat. Carbs you can store as glycogen in the muscles and the liver. There's no storage facility for protein. So, what happens is if you go like 5 hours without eating a meal, your body needs protein and there's no storage for it. So, what does it do? It breaks down skeletal muscle. It breaks down your actual muscle and uses that protein and gets the amino acids from there. So, you're actually losing muscle because you're not eating. So, people think, "Oh, I well, I don't eat, you know, I stop eating at 6:00 every night." I said, "Well, what time do you go to sleep at night?" And they're like, "Well, usually midnight." I said, "Well, that's 6 hours. That's fine if you go to bed 8:00, but it's not good if you go to bed midnight. If you go to bed midnight, you probably should have your last meal at 10 p.m. So, you got to space your meals out a little better than that." And so, these are just little pitfalls people don't realize. You can't store protein. Now, people always ask me, "What's the most protein you could absorb at a meal?" Does anyone anyone want to offer a suggestion? >> 45 grams. >> Okay. What? >> 130 grams you're saying per meal? Okay. Any other numbers? The most protein that you could absorb per meal? >> 25. >> 25. Okay. Do we have uh do I have 26? What Why did you say that? You were the first person to answer. Why did you say 45? >> Just learned anatomy. >> Okay. and and what was the basis they told you of that >> just studies throughout trials. >> All right, so let's let's all right let's look this is good this is AI think this is a good topic. All right, if you eat 100 grams of protein in the way of a hamburger okay what's going to happen? It's going to go into your stomach where protein digestion is going to begin. It's going to then move into your intestinal tract where protein digestion is going to continue and finish. And then you're gonna absorb the amino acids that it gets broken down into through the intestinal lining and it's going to go into your bloodstream. So if you eat a 100 grams of protein in a hamburger, which would probably be about a pound, right? You're going to absorb 100% of it. So the answer is a trick answer. It's whatever you if you eat a th00and grams of protein, you're going to absorb a,000 grams of it. The question is, what does your body do with it once it's in the bloodstream? How much of that protein can it actually utilize for repairing muscle? Because remember the body can't store protein. Now that's a loaded question too because it depends on what your protein requirement is. This guy down here who's huge, right? Mike requires a lot more protein because he has a lot more muscle that he's breaking down in the gym than this little lady over here because she's a little smaller than him. So everyone's protein requirement is different and it's based on how much skeletal muscle you have. Okay? So if he eats 100 grams of protein in a meal, he might extract 60 of that and utilize it. She eats 100 grams of protein, she might only need 30 of that. And then what does the rest do? Well, the rest turns into something else. And the body doesn't really like to turn protein into fat. It's not that efficient, but it can turn it into carbs real easily. And then what do carbs do? Carb carbs cause insulin release because we need insulin to absorb the carbohydrates. And then if the glycogen stores are filled up, that insulin can store that carbs as fat. So if you overeat, if you eat 100 grams of protein at a meal, you're going to absorb 100% of it, you're going to use what you need, and the rest is going to get stored in some capacity or used for fuel, used as energy. So when people tell you you can only absorb 30 grams, only can absorb 25 grams, you can absorb anything you eat, it's what you utilize of that amount. So, if you're dieting and you're telling me I'm sticking to your diet, okay, but I'm asking you to eat 4 ounces of protein as a woman and you're eating 6 ounces, okay, you're not sticking to the diet. You're really cheating. Yes, you're eating the foods I'm telling you, but you're eating too much. And the reason you're eating and when you eat too much, some of that's going to convert to carbs invariably, and you're going to use that as fuel. So, that will shortcircuit your ability to lose weight. So, I'm sure a lot of you realize at some point if you overeat protein, you don't really get fatter, but you don't get leaner, right? It stops the the weight loss process, and that's a problem. And a lot of people lose a lot of weight. So, if I'm a woman starting at 180 lbs, and now I'm down to 140 lbs, my protein requirement is going to be a lot lower than it was when I was bigger. So, you have to reduce the protein that you're eating per meal. Okay? The key is once again spreading out that protein because you can only absorb and utilize so much per sitting and then you f three hours later, four hours later, you need more. Okay? So, you can't eat it all in the morning and then eat a little bit at night and you're done because what's going to happen in the middle of the day? That's why intermittent fasting, another little trit saying that everyone likes to say, I'm on I'm fast. I'm intermittent fasting. Now, intermittent fasting is really good if you want to live a long time. It does. There is some evidence to show that you probably live longer if you eat less food. Not really good for physique athletes, people competing. Matter of fact, it's really crappy because you're going 18 hours, right, a day where you're not eating any protein. So, what is your body going to do? It doesn't care that you're not feeding it protein. It will just cannibalize your own protein. But when you go that long without eating, what happens is your metabolism shuts itself off because it says, "Uhoh, we're starving. We're going to we better slow down." And that's exactly what happens. Your metabolism goes to zero. Probably if any of you have ever tried to fast, you get really cold. You're always cold all day long. And and and because your body is shutting its metabolism down. Whereas if you're eating all day long, you're sweating all the time, right? How much do you look? He's in a tank top. It's 50° outside. because it's hot. You're hot when you're eating all the time. So, the act of actually eating frequently throughout the day speeds your metabolism and makes you more likely to burn fat and more efficiently. That's why you don't want to intermittent fast. Intermittent fasting causes people to lose weight in obese people who don't exercise because they're just eating whatever they want whenever they want. So, the actual act of actually shutting their mouth for 18 hours a day will cause them to burn some fat. It's not going to make them look any better because once again, you don't you want to make sure you're losing the right kind of weight. I'll give you a good example. What's the most popular weight loss drug out there right now? >> Ompic, Mjaro, retrotide, right? All the new ones. The GLP agonist or GLP-1 agonist. They're called glucagon like peptide one. What those what those peptides do, we naturally produce them in our body too, but what they do is they tell the body number one, slow down the digestive tract. Number two, curb appetite. Okay? So, if you're a person that likes to cheat a lot or you, you know, you tend to be hungry all the time. If you take a GLP-1 agonist, you know, the it slows the transit of your food through your intestinal tract and you don't feel hungry in between meals. So, it makes you last a little longer. If you ever do, if you do do any of those drugs, you need to take a fiber supplement. And I highly recommend fiber lines from species nutrition twice a day. But anyway, you need a fiber supplement because it does slow the the transit of food. But what a lot of these like celebrities do when they go on these drugs is they don't eat at all because the drugs really do reduce your appetite and they lose weight, but they're losing muscle mass as as as much as they are fat. So they're losing lean muscle tissue. So when they go off the drugs now, their metabolism is like 30% less than it was before because they don't have any muscle to feed anymore. And they look they get this like kectic look in their face, right? Like you can just see like there it almost looks like they have cancer. But that's not being caused by the drug. That's being caused by not eating. Okay? Once again, you must eat protein throughout the day. Every every 3 to four hours for men, every two to three hours is more is more effective. And that's undeniable. And I the reason I spend so much time explaining that is because you have to understand how important that is. That's not debatable. Now, how much protein should you take what I usually do with people is offseason like where they're trying to gain muscle at least a gram and a half of of protein per pound. So if you weigh 200 lbs you want to eat 300 grams of protein per day divided over five or six meals. I mean that's that's pretty easy. Pre-contest when you're getting ready for a show you want to eat at least one gram of protein per pound. Okay? Okay. So, if you're 180 lbs, you want to try to get 180 grams of protein divided over five or six meals. Um, some people need a little more, some people need a little less. That's going to be up to your coach, you know, to to decide on depending on what your metabolism. But if you do that, you're not going to lose any muscle, okay? It's impossible because you're giving your body the raw materials it needs.