Dave Palumbo with an RX Muscle news update. I want to just get right to it, but I received a text message and phone call uh from Dallas Macccarver yesterday. He said he had a big announcement he wanted to make. Uh he wanted to do it live on the air on rxmuscle.com. Uh I tried to get the information out of him. He wouldn't tell him. He said, "I got to do it live." I said, "Okay." So, we have him here live from Boca Raton, Florida. Welcome, Dallas. Man, it's an honor to be here. Um, first off, part of the reason I wanted to go this avenue with things is that, um, I don't know if you remember, but you know, years ago back in 2012 when I turned pro of the North Americans, you came straight up to me and you were like, "Hey, I'd love to do an interview." And I was like, "Man, you know, Steve gave me this money, told me not to talk to nobody, this, that, and the other." And I was like, you know, and not like I don't mean in a bad way, like he gave me money. I took the like why would I not take the money, right? Yeah. uh you don't I won't ever turn that money on my table, but uh at the end of the day um you know things have transpired and whatnot and uh I've I've told you several times you know we've been in contact you know several times hey we should talk about this hey we should do this and it was never that I was opposed to doing it or had anything against you or anybody you know I don't have anything against many people at all but it's just a simple fact of I felt like I I owed a certain amount of debt and honoring you know the contracts and and whatnot that I had been under and you know yada yada yada Um, so all that being said, uh, you know, after speaking with Aaron and, uh, you know, thinking, you know, pretty much Aaron put it on my plate, he was like, you know, you can do what you want to do. You know, it's it's your call. Uh, it's it's your it's your income. Um, and it's it's basically only costing Aaron money. Uh, so he's like, you know, do what you want to do. So, all that being said, uh, Aaron and I decided to part ways with muscular development. um simply it's not very simple but it it was a hard decision you know and it's not there's so many people at muscular development that have been so good to me over the years so friendly you know David Bay back when he was there amazing you know great guy never had a problem out of David Peter McGuff never had a problem out of Peter you know I think the world of Peter and and part of the reason you know we talked about doing this way back when all of the things went down uh with David you know and all that all that came into the public eye and I was concerned that maybe my association with muscular development um was kind of hurting my image because when you're an athlete that's getting paid and people and the people in the office aren't getting paid. So you got people that are printing your images, people that are writing articles about you, people that are film producing these films for you, people that are helping you in all sort of ways, but they're not getting paid, but they're like I couldn't imagine being a guy that's like, you know, putting me on a picture or putting me on an ad and being like, "This [\h__\h] gets this much a month and we're the" And I mean, I I that to me was like a very weird it was a very weird situation and I wasn't sure how to handle it. And so, you know, um, basically I decided the last thing I needed going into the show all the other [\h__\h] I was dealing with and whatnot was was more stress. So, I said, "Let's just ride it out. Let's see how it goes after the show and uh and let's go from there." Well, um, you know, I'm not I'm not Look, first off, I'm not here to talk [\h__\h] about anybody because I'm honestly I'm so sick all this negativity surrounding everything. um you know um and and I just I just want to let people know but at the same hand it's like given everything that's gone down like I I just don't feel like I'm getting the support I'm giving you know I'm giving these guys I'm going out of my way to film you know three four videos a month for these guys training videos lifestyle videos all the by the way all this filming is come like all the production for these films we're producing them in-house we're filming filming them in house That's all coming out of paying Aaron's paying Steve a a lump song for for advertising. Um and and then I'm getting a little kickback out of that, which don't get me wrong, I love the kickback. I'm more than thankful for it. I would never have had an issue if everything that hadn't transpired had happened here recently given not only uh everything that David brought to light, but then just what I feel is is a general um lack of I don't want to say respect because I don't feel like anybody really owes me respect, but it's just a stop you for a second, Dallas, because you absolutely are due respect. You're their only athlete. You were over at MD. There was no one left. you were the exclusive athlete over there. Um, obviously you're a young guy. You're upcoming. People are excited about it. They they want to see you on stage. You know, you're over 300 lb. You know, most of the contest prep and we saw the pictures and everyone was getting excited. And MD was was certainly parlaying that into into hits on their site. And then all of a sudden, you know, we see Shawn Ray come out with this. And you don't have to talk about it if you don't want to, but Shawn Ray was badmouthing you, you know, essentially from the video starting with the video that you you did for Jim Manion posing when you were sick and he didn't even know it because he wouldn't call you up down to bad mouthing Chad for trying to kill you at the at the Australian Grand Prix, not even realizing that you had a a respiratory infection for three weeks. So, I mean, and that's team MD. Sean is team MD. So, yeah, you were disrespected and you don't deserve to be disrespected. Well, the way I see it is from a common sense perspective, right? Is you got you got two faces of this company, right? Basically, you got Sean who's the one on Well, I first off, I want to leave Peter McGuff out of this. I don't I have good things to say about Peter McGuff, but who's normally the one behind the camera, right? And and we're talking me. Well, clearly we're not aligning. You know what I'm saying? So, not only is it not good for me, it's not good for the company. You know, it's just and well, maybe it is good for the company because, you know, honestly, what I've come to realize in the last few weeks is that people want any any kind of hype they can get. And what sickens me is, you know, all these people could have been t reporting or whatever the hell you want to call it. You could have been talking about Cedric and the amazing physique he brought to the stage. You could have been talking about Brandon and God like what an improvement and an amazing transformation Brandon made. You could have been talking about, you know, countless other athletes that have improved and and but yet the all the attention seems to be want to be around a negative negative attention around me. That's fine. I can take it. You know, publicity is publicity. And you know, I'll be honest, like one thing I've learned, I've got the best fans in the world. like the things I've read are just comical, man. I don't even know, you know. Um, but yeah, it's just no alignment there. There's no teamwork. There's no continuity. We're not I don't feel like we were working towards building anything or growing anything. It was just working towards growing one individual's hype around one individual. and and and even me like that the negative attention around me like whatever it's it's this that and the other but I just I didn't feel like there was really anything positive going for me there and if if it's just a negative burden to me uh you know I don't need it man what Dallas let me ask you a question I think a lot of people are probably wondering what made you decide to to break the story here on rxmuscle.com to you uh you know as many times as you've asked me to interview and as many times is you've uh you know you've contacted me and asked me to do various things and and you you've never been you know one thing about you Dave is like have I read some things and or maybe seen some things like your your critiques and opinions and and your thoughts regarding not only myself but other bodybuilders that maybe I didn't agree with or maybe I was like oh that hurt you know yeah but on the other hand I never like you took a personal attack on anyone you know I feel like when you make it personal which has clearly happened on my end and the other end. I'm not saying I haven't said some things that I shouldn't have said. I haven't said I'm not saying that I haven't fired back, but let's be real. I took a lot of a lot for a long time. You know what I'm saying? Before I said a word. Um, so I just feel like the job you guys do here at RX is is true, you know, whether it be positive, negative, whatever, is true reporting. You know, like you said when I watched the video, you know, you kind of recapping the Arnold thing, you were like, you know, Dallas was freaking idiot. He was stupid for not getting on antibiotics. Yeah. Like, you know, I can't argue that. Like, given what happened, uh, God bless. I wish somebody would have been like, "Hey, jackass, take some emoxicylan, penicellin, [\h__\h] something, you know, like I would Christian Duke, listen. Listen carefully. Christian Duke Dallas agrees with me. All right, I just had to throw that in for a jab. Let let's talk let's talk about something more positive. So you so you're no longer exclusive with MD. You're you're you're pretty much a free agent, which is good. I think it's better for you anyway. 25, you should be able to interview and talk to whoever you want. There shouldn't be restrictions on you. You're a marketing machine now. And and I think you should be able to market yourself all over. Hey, these Hollywood movie stars, they go on the Tonight Show. they go on on this show, that show, this interview show because it's good for their image to be seen by multiple uh media websites or media outlets. Yeah. I mean, look, let's let's be honest. Like, in this day and age, the days of um the uh it's kind of done, you know, and and also not only that, the um the the industry is just different, you know, and it it's there there's so many more avenues to not only promote myself, but encourage people, promote positivity, give information that people need and and want, you know, things like that. There's so many more avenues to do that now. And it's like if you're committed to this one avenue of of marketing and and pushing yourself and expressing yourself, but you can't even express yourself or you can't even, you know, really help. It's not helping you because you're just getting [\h__\h] on, you know. Yeah. I mean, it's just it's it's a different world now. And uh you know while there's Dallas, let me let me stop you for a minute because I think you're cutting out on me. Um hopefully you can hear me. Um talk to me a little bit about about Redcon one and Aaron Singerman because you know obviously I have a long history with Aaron. You know we worked together for many years over at RX Muscle. We did radio shows together. Aaron has this new company now Redcon one. contacts you and says, "Hey, I want to make you our number one guy." Um, aside from the money, because I mean, I'm sure a lot of companies offered you money. Why did you decide to go with Aaron? And and what does he bring to the table for you that makes it feel like it's a good fit? You know, it's actually funny because it couldn't have happened at a more time, like better time is I was a little unhappy with the way I was being treated in my previous situation. Uh, I was in a very corporate situation. you know, say say I needed approval for a plane ticket or whatever. Email this person, they email this person that emails this person that emails this person. You can't get away on the phone and then three weeks later the events passed and I end up paying for my ticket out of pocket or something some something like that. You know what I'm saying? So, I had I had been kind of putting the word out quietly that I was looking to go places and I contacted Aaron first and foremost because I'd only met Aaron a handful of times, but I was like, you know, this guy is a pretty successful guy. Um, and I respect the fact that he wasn't always that way, but he's very he's very just down to earth. You know, we seem to get along well. And once he ran by the idea of the company and how we were going to do things, he's like, "It's not going to be about marketing products. It's going to be about marketing, you know, information." And while we, yes, we're a company, we do have products to sell. That's that's what we do. That's how we really make money. But, you know, there was so many more um thoughts he had that I just thought were amazing. You know, for instance, like I don't think you'll find a company, not even a magazine, a company, nobody in the in the industry putting out content like we do, you know, just daily free content, whether it be my training, my diet, my video blogs, you know, it and while yes, it all, you know, ties into the supplements, it's still like, you know, I think in the few months we've been up and running, the amount of support, love, and following we've gained really goes to show that he was on to something with that with that type of mindset. You know, believe that people are seek information and that's, you know, that's what we are here. We're an information uh hub essentially at RX Muscle. And I think that's a it's a good strategic move on Aaron's part with Redcon and using you because you, you know, a lot of athletes out there don't want to work. They want to sit back. They want to watch TV, play video games, and and they they want to just go to the gym and eat and sleep. and you happen to be a unique athlete in the sense that you don't mind going places and doing things and and and doing what's required of you, I think, and that's probably why you're going to be a success long after you probably stop competing. Well, that's the plan, you know, is is first off, I always want to be somebody that, you know, and I know everybody wants to be somebody people like. Well, maybe some people don't give a [\h__\h] but I I personally want to be somebody that like, you know, people can like and respect and and whatnot. So, you know, when it comes down to it, it's like I think a lot of the issues that people have with some of these athletes is like, you know, yeah, we might buy your products. Yeah, we might we might come and stand in line for four hours to shake your hand, but then when we meet you, you're a [\h__\h] and, you know, we buy your products and and you you give us nothing. Like you you can't even like you know we we get to see on a video once a once a whatever once a blue moon you don't reply to our this that and the other like you know in my mind it's like if you truly want people to support you give them something like is it that hard like you know I mean whether it be you know what you guys do what I do whatever is every relationship in life's got to be somewhat mutually beneficial. If you're just milking people for their money and not giving them anything in return, uh you're only going to get so much milk out of that cow. Yeah. And you know a lot about cows, too, coming from the big country. But let me ask you a question, a little bit more of a controversial question because uh at the uh Arnold Classic in the United States these a few weeks ago or two months ago, whenever it was, it feels like it was forever. the Universal Nutrition booth um was charging or was it Ultimate Nutrition, Johnny? Ultimate Ultimate Nutrition was charging you had to buy $50 worth of items to see Phil Heath and Dexter Jackson and get your pictures taken with them. You know, obviously you're not an owner of a company, but how do you feel about that as an athlete where where a company would try to leverage you for people to buy force them to buy product to see you at an expo that's open, you know, to the public? Well, man, first off, I hope Dexter and Phil got a big cut of that. You know, if if you know, this is the first time I've heard of that. I wasn't aware of that. So, yeah, this excuse me. Um, you know, man, my issue with that is is the the people have already bought their tickets to be there. What's a ticket for the expo? 75,50 bucks, some [\h__\h] like that. I don't know if it's that much, but yeah, but you're right. For the weekend, it's it's an expense. You know, you already paid to be there, right? So, like you assume when you pay to be there, um, if I was a fan, I I wouldn't be buying 50 bucks or I wouldn't be buying a damn thing for them ever. There was no there was no line on that's for sure. No one was waiting to see them. So now let me let me clear the air in saying that like I don't I'm not saying that that's a knock on Phil a knock on Dexter Dexter personally and I can guarantee you that they probably didn't have a lot to do with that. You know what I'm saying? Like I don't think Dexter is the kind of guy to be or Phil especially either one of them you know you got to pay 50 bucks to come meet me. I don't I don't think they're that kind of guy. They've been working that expo for years and shaking hands and kissing babies as long as they've been doing this right and and no issue. So, I don't see that being anything against them. So, I hope people I hope for their sake people aren't holding that against them and but rather the company. You know what I'm saying? I don't think so. I don't think anyone's holding against him. I just think it's it was a bad policy uh by the company to do that. Weird, man. Um gosh, I don't know. Yeah, I I definitely wouldn't feel comfortable with that, you know. Let me ask you another Let's Let's talk about the Arnold Classic. Obviously, the second place behind Cedric McMillan, a huge huge boost in your career. You know, people sometimes think you have to win a show to really get a tremendous foothold on the industry and and a fan base, but I think your second place really solidify the fact that you're the real deal. Uh you you're bringing the goods to the table. You can bring conditioning, you can bring aesthetics, you know, you can bring size. Um obviously you and Cedric matching up very well at almost the same height. Um how did you feel after the show? Were you happy with with the results of it and how you looked, you know? Was I happy with second at the Arnold Classic for my first time ever? Yes. If I wasn't, I'd be a real self- entitled [\h__\h] you know. Um, but now on the flip side, uh, when I saw the pictures, you know, I just know I could I know there's better. I know I've got better in me. Uh, I thought I could have been drier. Thought of it could have been crisper, especially in my the back, lower half, glutes, um, hamstrings. um you know and and then so that's what we did you know moving forward you fast forward to New Zealand now granted we're fighting everything you know we got going on and we don't even talk about that cuz uh you know but at this point not to get too sidetracked but about this industry there's a group of people that are going to believe what you say and there's a group of people that aren't and I could have told them I was dying of heart and kidney liver failure and had cancer in the fourth degree and you know I was I I had a week to live and they would still say I was lying So, it doesn't matter. Like, that's neither here nor there. If you want to believe me, thank you. If you don't, okay, I'm, you know, I'm still going to be here. Um, so anyways, so then moving forward to New Zealand, you know, we pulled back on the food tremendously. Try to tried to, you know, come in a a drier, you know, sharper meat, and I was about 8 to nine pounds lighter actually in New Zealand. and um which sounds like a lot, but when you're 297, you know, 298 and then drop to, you know, you know, 289, whatever, it's not that big of a deal, but it's still a big drop. Um, and I thought, you know, I was really, really disappointed in myself in New Zealand because when I woke up that morning, I text Aaron and Chad and everybody, you know, even my boys back home. I was like, "Y'all about to see the real [\h__\h] deal." Like, this is the best I've ever looked in my life. Like, for real. Unfortunately, when we get into backstage in New Zealand, and this isn't a knock on the promoters or anything. This is just the way stuff goes sometimes. Yeah. They come and get us, you know, uh like 4 hours before we went on stage and we're like, "Hey, you need to start pumping up. You guys are going on in 30 minutes." I'm like, "Okay, cool. Cool. I'll start pumping up." And then, uh, you know, we all get pumped up and you can ask Wel, all these guys. Like, they were all, you know, kind of, "Oh, this sucks." And, um, we start pumping up. We get good and pumped up. Get get our spray our oil and stuff on. We're ready to go, right? Oh no, it's going to be like another hour or two. Like y'all chill out. Really? I didn't know that. Crap. And like by this time I'm like feeling my stuff like just, you know, because I was right on that edge of being flat anyways, you know? Right. Right. Once you start going flat, you know, the water starts seeping out under the skin, the whole look changes. And um so then they come back and get us again, tell us to start pumping up. This happens three times before we go on stage. No one knew this. I didn't know this. That's crazy. Wow. This is not This is not Dallas making up [\h__\h] This is not Dallas talking [\h__\h] Uh, every competitor that was there can confirm the story. Uh, this was a real deal. Now, granted, in the situation, I could have probably handled it differently. I probably should have started eating, started, you know, maybe doing this, that, and the other. But you didn't know, you didn't know how long you were going to wait. Yeah. And you know, Dave, as as people are quick to forget, you know, and I know you know, but I think um I I still think I've done less than 10 shows my entire life. Crazy, you know. So the the first time I did the Olympia, it was only my fifth show ever. Wow. You know, so it's like I've I'm still learning this as I go, you know. It's not like I've been doing this 20 years. So when situations like this come up, I have a hard time knowing what to do. And unfortunately when I was in New Zealand and Australia, I couldn't talk to Chad unless I had Wi-Fi because for whatever reason I we couldn't communicate on not even on uh text messenger like we had to communicate on Facebook. So it was just a a big a big you know uh I don't know what to do. I'm freaking out. And then so I think I significantly faded. So I I feel like the package that I hit the stage in New Zealand and the package that I woke up with was was pretty different. That being said, Brandon was on. Brandon was on. That Brandon had to go through the same thing I had to go through. You know, he ain't he didn't go to [\h__\h] He obviously held it together just fine, right? So, uh I've got no excuses, but that's just the truth of the story, you know? It's like I felt like I had really nailed it for New Zealand. And then with the pictures I saw on stage and once I got on stage, you know, when you're posing, you got you feel like you got nothing in the tank. You just know, you know? So, they got to let the pros go on first. It's It's not fair to them, you know. I agree. I just prefer the format where it's like even if it's a prom show, you know, hey, you guys are going on at 700 p.m. Come rain rain sleeve or to shine, you better have gas lined up at 7:00 p.m. You know, that's that's all I I need. And I understand. I think there was some miscommunication between a lot of people and it's nobody's fault. It's just sometimes things happen. And obviously other competitor, you know, Brandon particularly and some of the other competitors may have dealt with it and known what to do more than I did. So, uh, it's, you know, again, just one of them things you live and learn, man. Yeah. Well, Brandon had the camel crew there, so, you know, you didn't have Chad with you, so he probably had a little more expertise. I told Aaron, I told Aaron and them both. I said, uh, you know, if, uh, you know, Chad be coaching me, uh, you know, we ain't going nowhere without, you know, I ain't dealing with that [\h__\h] again. Having to do progress pictures on Skype and stuff, that's out of the question. Yeah. Know, it's more difficult when when your coach is not there for certain. Let me ask you this question. Obviously, the week after New Zealand, you go to uh Australia for the Australia Arnold. Obviously, at this point, you want revenge on on Brandon Curry. you want to beat him. Uh, you're not feeling well. Uh, the bronchitis or whatever you had, respiratory system thing going on got worse. Uh, you pushed forward. You you basically said, "Hey, Chad, like I'm doing the show. I'm I'm okay." When you're up on stage and you're posing and then all of a sudden, tell us what happened because we see you kind of lean over a little bit like maybe you can't get a breath of air. Walk us through what happened on stage. Yeah. I mean, um, well, first off, when I came out for my 60 seconds, Yeah. I didn't hear a lot of what you just said, but I I I know what you asked, so I'll just go with it. Yeah. Walk us through what happened in on the stage in Australia. Yeah. Um, you know, first off, I come out for my free sec 60 seconds of posing. Oh, we're good. Okay. First off, I came out for my 60 seconds free posing. And um you know, I'm posing, I'm feeling good, everything's feeling really good. And the pictures I've seen from the 60 seconds weren't that bad, you know. Um but did we lose him? I think we lost Dallas there. Let me uh Dallas is is is walking us through what happened at the Arnold, Australia when he had his problem, and we want to find out exactly what it was. Obviously, Guy Cistino told us it was respiratory related. There might have been some electrolyte issues as well. Um, we want to get his his firsthand uh feeling about what went on because, you know, it's scary. I I cramped once on stage, not terribly where I had to walk off stage, but it's a scary feeling because you're like, "Oh my god, I cannot go on." And that's something you just don't want to have to deal with uh when you're up on stage. I can't imagine knowing that, you know what, I might pass out. I don't feel well. So, I think we got Dallas back. Dallas, keep tell us tell us what happened now. Walk us through it. Yeah. So, go out for the 60 seconds. Having a hard time catching my breath afterwards. Then I come backstage. I tell the medic. I say, "Hey, man. I need the oxygen." Well, they didn't have it hooked up. Um, so he he goes to hooking it up for me, you know, very kindly, um, hurrying, hooking it up for me. By the time he gets it hooked up, I have to go back for the the first round of comparisons. So, I go back for the first round of comparisons, and by the time I come off thin, I'm like, "All right, man. Seriously, like something's wrong. I need that oxygen. You get what it feels like to you. Like are you having trouble getting air down your lungs? Yeah. I mean, I I it's like I was I was getting breath, but it was just like that gargly like, you know, crud in your chest, that fleg and [\h__\h] you know, mucus or whatever you want to call it. And um then uh I I was having like these coughing fits like because every time I try to get a breath in, it would like, you know, kind of choke me down. I'd start coughing. And um so he he gives me the oxygen and I get a few good hits and then they call what this is why they're doing the second round of comparisons and then they call me back out for the the first call out. But I knew I knew walking out for the first call out like I I'm in trouble. You know what I'm saying? Like I like looking back on it, I should have just sat down backstage and been like, "Hey, I can't." You know, I I'm sorry. I can't. But that's not in our DNA as bodybuilders to stop. Yeah. If I would have done that, I never would have lived with myself. I would have much other things played out this way. So, I go back out out on stage and uh we're going through the poses and I'll be honest, like as soon as I like the first lost him again. All right, let's uh So, he's he's about to go through what happened when they do this first call out. They're going to go through the poses. I think they go through the front double bicep and then we see Dallas start to have some issues. Uh that's when uh the guy runs out from backstage, Big Al, and then I know Guy Cesterino ran over there. So, we're going to get Dallas back on the line here. Having some connection issues here, but we're talking to Dallas McCarthy. Go ahead, Dallas. You you go through the first pose. Yeah. So, the first few poses I was good. Um, you know, obviously really struggling to breathe, but there wasn't anything that I thought was, you know, bad happening other than just being sick and having a hard time breathing. I turn around to the back, rear double bicep really like was very very hard. Um, and then the rear blast spread. Uh, I remember like kind of just, you know, and and I lost my footing. You can see on the video like I shuffle my feet. I get it back like I Okay, like I'm telling myself like, dude, get your [\h__\h] together. Like for real. like you're going to embarrass yourself up here if you don't get it together, right? So then it's side tricep and I reach for my side tricep and when I'm reaching for my side tricep like I'm just you know panting like a dog and and I just I knew right then I was away for Al and uh Al comes at me and I I see Al and I just you know hug him and um you know and they took great care of me man. Thank God for the people backstage. Thank God for Guy. Um Jeremy Buendia was also somebody that came running backstage and you know ushered me um whatever I needed. Like the these guys like guys in the middle of competing in a show and he's cleaning my vomit off of me. I'm saying like what an amazing guy, you know? But let me ask you this question. Obviously it it's over now, but looking back when you're going through this, are you nervous? Are you like, you know, maybe I maybe I'm gonna die or something like that. Maybe I did something really screwed up to myself here because that that would I'm a nutcase. I'd be thinking like, "Oh boy, what did I do to myself now?" Because when you feel like you're going to pass out, you feel like the lights are being turned down on you. That's not a good feeling to have. Well, you know, I grew up with a lot of respiratory problems anyways. Always had this nasty like hacky cough. It's just really loud and I've been real susceptible to like bronch bronchitis, you know, upper respiratory infections. So, it's not like I've ever I'm not you and I played athletics all my life, you know, I was a football player, played football in college. Um, you know, I played a full football game with like, you know, damn near walking pneumonia. They told me not to even go out, right? Uh, so for me, it's like I'm used to the feeling of struggling to catch my breath. So, I wasn't that nervous until like I remember lunging it out and then like the next thing I know it's just kind of all and then I look up and guys standing over me. They're trying to put an IV in me and the oxygen mask and then I'm like, "Oh shit." like this might like for a split second I was like this might be really bad like I I I don't want to think like this could be the end because that sounds a little dramatic but like like this this is really bad right and then once I got some breath of the oxygen and and got the the fluid in my arm um you know everything seemed to come around and also want to point out that the only reason I was throwing up is because I was chugging Gatorade electrolyte drinks. Wow. Okay. So that that made you gag a little, huh? So, I think we lost him again. You know, when you're drinking a lot of fluids and you're really dehydrated and you can't breathe, it definitely can stimulate the gag reflex. And I'm sure probably that's what happened. I don't think it was an electrolyte depletion. I think it was the fact that he was, you know, what they do is backstage when you don't when you pass out, they just make you drink stuff. And you're laying down. It's not a comfortable position. Probably shouldn't be doing that. Uh, but you know, you want to see the guy come too. And I guess, you know, for whatever reason, Dallas wasn't getting enough oxygen in him. Uh, once they put the oxygen on him, it woke him up. But probably the fluids also he drank after that probably didn't sit well in his stomach. And I think that's something I've seen happen with a lot of people before. They don't throw up until you actually start putting fluids in them. It's kind of like when you have a stomach virus and you know, everything you put down your throat, you're throwing up. You could drink water and you'll throw up. You might even have anything in your stomach to throw up, but it'll come up. And and that's that's usually what what happens. Unfortunately, when you get to that point, uh, as Dallas has reiterated already, he knows he probably should not have been out on that stage. As a bodybuilder, however, we never want to back out of a competition, especially after you've flown halfway across the world to compete in Australia at the Arnold Australia, knowing that Arnold Schwarzenegger is going to be there. And I'm sure he was hoping to win this show uh not just for the prize money but for the you know the title and then get interviewed by Arnold. And so I can completely see how that could be a problem. You know not you know people say why didn't he just stop? It's not that easy to just stop. Okay. You spent 18 weeks dieting, killing yourself. You sacrificed a lot in your life to get to this point in your career. He's a top tier pro. You don't quit. Okay? You need someone to tell you you're done. That's the only way you'll stop. And you know, I hate to say it because we all want to think that we're smart enough to not risk our lives, but at a certain point, you know, when you get to that show, it's it's everything. You know, that that's the most important thing you got is being at that show and putting your best performance forward because that's how you're going to be remembered. So, Dallas, I was just kind of going through and reiterating to people what it's like, you know, to to to be in a situation where you really shouldn't be on stage, but you've traveled halfway across the world and you just don't want to back out. Oh, I think I thought we had we I thought we had Dallas Macccarver. Anyway, so to re reiterate anyone who's, you know, tuning in late, Dallas came on rxmuscle.com for this exclusive interview to talk about, you know, what happened and why he decided to leave Musk Development, his exclusive contract over there. He terminated it. He felt he was being disrespected. He wasn't being represented properly. Uh, the team that he was working with there wasn't, you know, didn't have his back and he felt it was time to move on and and explore other avenues. is and I'm glad that he called me and uh and decided that he wanted to get in here. Dallas, I think we got you back now, huh? Yeah, man. Uh sorry about that. I don't know what's It's probably us. We got a terrible connection over here. So, yeah. So, anyways, they get me backstage and they I drinking all the Gatorade and electrolyte drinks. I start throwing them up and then yeah, the pretty much the rest is just me, you know, limping around, hacking my head off and going, you know, went and saw a doctor. uh gave me a few uh inhalers, breathing treatments, uh steroid pack, you know, the works. Um we lost him again. All right. Well, pretty much Dallas is going through what what happened backstage after he got off the stage. He obviously saw a doctor locally who gave him, you know, some inhalers and some uh steroid packs to help reduce that inflammation around his lungs. He obviously sounds pretty good now. So, I'm sure he's been on antibiotics for a number of weeks since the show and uh and he's recovering from this thing. It's very important for people to realize when you have a bronchial type infection, okay, where you're coughing, you can hear that deep deep cough with that flemy, you know, mucousy. That's the first stages of pneumonia. Okay, pneumonia kills people. It's the number one killer in old people, okay? Uh who are o over the age of a certain, I think over 70 or something like that. So you got to be careful of that. And if you get that type of coughing or hacking, okay, for a prolonged period of time, you got to go to the doctor and get antibiotics. There's nothing wrong with taking antibiotics. Okay, they first of all, most of the penicellin based antibiotics that they give for for respiratory infections have no effect on muscle. They have no effect on your physique, on fluid retention. So that's not going to be something that you should worry about. And I think a lot of people think, well, I can't take antibiotics, so I got to compete. Well, no, you're not going to be able to compete if you don't take the antibiotics. Okay, so that's what I was talking about on the rant that I had done a couple weeks ago. And I'm glad that Dallas obviously saw the wisdom in what I was saying. Now he knows if it ever happened again, I'm sure he will go right on antibiotics. And and that's for any of you guys out there. If you have an infection, whether it be from a sight injection or you have an infection due to a sickness, go to the doctor and get on antibiotics, okay? Because it's going to it's going to reduce the amount of time you have it. you're going to be able to then compete and do what you need to do in the gym. All right, Dallas, hopefully we won't lose you this time. Uh I was just telling you went to the doctor locally. They gave you some inhalers and some steroid packs and uh then you flew home, I assume. No, I went to the doctor actually once I got home. I went straight from the uh from the airplane to the ER once I landed here in um here in uh Bokeh. Would they put you on some antibiotics? Yeah. Yes. everything you just said that all that all happened here in Boohoo once I got home. Uh should have went over there but you know again just trying to make it home and by the time I got off the flight here I was in pretty bad shape like I was having trouble just walking to the airport and stuff you know so it was time to go. Yeah. Yeah. I know. So now you sound a lot better now. Obviously I'm sure you've been on the antibiotics for a while. You seem to be recovering well. What's the next step for Dallas Macccarver now? I'm assuming that you're going to shut it down to the Olympia or will you even be in the Olympia? Yeah, I'm definitely going to shut it down for a while. Um, you know, I don't think I'm going to be qualified for the Olympia and I I don't really want to go to the Olympia on points. So, honestly, right now, my biggest focus is getting back in the gym. Um, you know, getting back on top of everything and and kind of seeing in the next few weeks where my body goes and then from there, uh, you know, we'll make a decision about maybe a qualifying show for the Olympia and possibly the Olympia. you know, I hate to sit it out. Um, but if that's what I have to do because, you know, I just don't I'm not going to do it unless I feel comfortable and feel like I can put a package on stage that's very presentable and, you know, obviously better than the Arnold. Uh, if I can't do that, then uh obviously I'm going to put all my efforts into winning the Arnold next year, right? I think that's a good strategy. I And I I think just if I was a man, a betting man, which I'm not, I would say probably in you're going to start feeling a lot better in another month or so. And then when you start, you know, gearing up again and trying to get back into that contest mode shape, I I think you're going to probably look better. I think the sometimes that rest, that force rest is exactly what you need for your body to kind of take a jump to the next level. I definitely needed some rest. I mean, you see how I train and how I push myself. So, I definitely beat myself up pretty good and uh just need, you know, breath of fresh air is what I needed and uh literally and uh that's that's what I'm getting. So, uh, I think moving forward we're going to be in a much better spot for sure. Now, you're you are one of the strongest lifting IFB pros. Probably you and the Keem Williams lift more weight than anyone I've ever seen. Even I mean, you guys are lifting heavier weights than Ronnie Coleman in some in some respects. Um, do you ever have people come up to you and say, "Oh, you shouldn't be lifting that heavy." you know, because you obviously got the Charles Glass method where they kind of do all these different angles out at Gold's Venice on machines and then you kind of got the old East Coast mentality, you know, hardcore free weight movements, you know, pushed to the to death basically. Uhhuh. Yeah. I Did we lose him again? Johnny, try to get him back. Basically what I'm asking Dallas is if uh you know if his hardcore lifting you know techniques uh if he if people try to you know put their two cents in and say hey you should be doing this or that or your lunges instead of squats and you know we hear it all the time. I have people contact me all the time and say hey should I be doing high rep sets getting ready for a show and I'm like no why would you do that? Obviously lift the way you lifted to get there. If you have a lot of muscle on your body and you lift heavy, continue to do that right up to the day of the show, you know, or a week before the show, whatever, because that's what got you there. You don't change the strategy. So, you know, it's interesting because he is one of the the strongest guys out there if he'll continue to do that um moving forward into the future. Obviously, Ronnie Coleman did it his whole career and it look how it served him. He got eight Olympia wins under his belt. Hakee Williams has made ridiculous progress over the last five years training the way he does, squatting routinely, seven, eight plates on each side, uh, deadlifting 800 lb on on a routine basis. Uh, Dallas has that same work ethic in the gym. Dallas, I think we got you back here. Talk to us a little bit about your training. All right, I'm blaming Johnny for this, even though I know it's not Johnny's fault. We have a terrible internet connection. We will be back in the uh we will be in the new RX Muscle Studios come next week. Uh hopefully we'll be uh filming from there that week leading up to the Fibo Pro show or I should say FIBO Expo. There is no pro show there. Johnny and I will be out in Cologne, Germany covering that and and then we'll be back in the whole month of April. We'll be in the new studio and uh hopefully you guys will get some great we have some hopefully we have a better internet connection there than we do here and all is good. All right, I got Dallas back. Dallas, talk to us about your training. Yeah, man. I mean, you know, I just I like to train heavy. I like I like to have fun when I train. And to me, training heavy is fun. And I think if you're going to do it, you got to have fun doing it, you know? So, it's just uh it's the way it is. Yeah. Well, I have AI have a promoter in um in Texas. He owns a gym, my friend Kyle, and he wants to have we want he wants to have a Bros versus Pros, and he wants to have you and Aake Williams lift against each other at that Bros versus Pros. Would you be up for that? Sounds like a good way to get hurt. No, no crazy weights. Reps. Maybe if we lift for like we'll do for like reps or something. Yeah, I'd be in for like reps, but not Yeah. If you put me in a kee in a room and like, "Hey, squat and deadlifts as much as you can either we're going to break a bar or a something's going to give. Like it's that's scary to even think about." Yeah. No, we're going to do reps. We're going to do uh what do we what do we do? 315 for reps for for deadlifts and maybe we'll do a squat one 315 for reps. We'll do like Yeah, we do like five or six plates reps on deadlift and four or five I'm sure will be up for it. We'll we'll definitely make it happen because that'll be the most exciting. That'll be the true world's strongest bodybuilders title because no one does that stuff. It'd be fun. Yeah, I'd be down for that. All right. Well, talk to us one more before I let you go because I don't want to lose you again. uh talk to us where you're going to be making appearances over the next couple months so people maybe who are in the area or in the United States or overseas, I don't know where you're going to be going, can come see you. Yeah, I'll be everywhere, man. You know, uh unfortunately, I have had to cancel a few guest posings due to the time out of the gym, right? Um but now, you know, I've got uh I've got, you know, a gym show in Pittsburgh. Um, that's an honor to We lost him again. He'll be He was just telling us how he's going to do the Jim Manion show. For those of you who don't know what Jim Manion show is all about, the NPC IFBB Pittsburgh Championships that always takes place that first weekend in May. Jim Manion gets a a panel of people to guest pose out there. It's like the Olympia lineup basically. Obviously, no one's not everyone's in shape because, you know, it's still quite a few months out from the Olympia, but you're going to get Phil Heath there. You're going to get uh you're going to get Shawn Rhod in there, you're going to get obviously Dallas there, you'll get hopefully Cedric there. You all the top names in bodybuilding. So, it's a super exciting type of thing to watch. Now, I was telling everyone about the Jim Manion show that you'll be guest posing at with all the other Olympians. Yeah. And then also, you know, uh, as far as guest posings, a lot of them are still up in the air because of the way I look. And I don't want to ever put put anything on a promoter stage that's not worthy of their money. It's just disrespectful, right? But, uh, just due to being sick and stuff, but um, you know, Brad, you know, we talked about Brad and his show, Emerald Cup, 35th anniversary. You'll be out there doing a seminar. Yep. Doing a seminar there. Uh, several other things here and there. You know, I'll be posting it all on social media. still a lot of it's in the works because you know some of these promoters if I can't pose I'm not really worth anything to them which is understandable right um you know so being six really set me back a little bit on the appearances but I I'll get a definite schedule you know sure I'll be in contact with you guys we report in hopefully we'll do this more often absolutely any discount codes for the RX Muscle viewers for Redcon yeah promo code Dallas 10% off everything that's can't beat that we love discounts all right Dallas thanks for coming uh calling in and giving us that special announcement here exclusively at rxmuscle.com. Uh it means a lot to us and we we support you and we want to see you have a a very bright future ahead of you. Uh continue to keep us updated and give my best to Aaron. Absolutely. I will. It's an honor and a pleasure, guys. Thank you very much. All right, that'll take us to the end of this episode of RX Muscle News Update. I'm Dave Palumbo. We'll see you next time.