Hey guys, I just want to congratulate RX Muscle on their 1,00 that's hard to say 1,000th episode. You guys are awesome. Thank you so much for providing awesome, great, useful, and entertaining content. You guys are the bomb.com. Okay. Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Friday, December 23rd, 2016. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. I can't say for sure whether or not Dallas Macccarver landed on the naughty or the nice list this Christmas, but I can tell you that 11 weeks out from making his Arnold Classic debut, this guy is looking flatout nasty. This week, the manchild released his latest set of jaw-dropping progress photos, showing off a 318 lb physique that really seems to defy all logic. Over the years, we've been witnessing some truly historic performances at the Arnold Classic. But someone showing up shredded at 300 pounds might be able to top them all. And if he can hold it together for another 2 and 1/2 months, 2017 just might be the year of Macarver. Speaking of game-changing 300 plus pound freaks, this week the biggest and baddest man to ever grace a bodybuilding stage was spotted back at his old stomping grounds. Down in the heart of Texas at Brian Dobson's Metrolex gym, some new leg training footage surfaced of the great Ronnie Coleman blasting through another intense leg session as he continues his postsurgery comeback. Although it may be a far cry from the 2200 pound leg presses that's burned into all our collective consciousnesses forever ago, it's still great to see the champ out there doing what he does best. And I think I speak for every bodybuilding fan across the globe when I say Ronnie Coleman, you're still unbelievable. I'm pretty sure Santa is going to need some help carrying his sack as he's slinging toys across the UK on Christmas Eve. And if I were him, I'd probably think about picking up the phone and shooting a text out to Hamid Juma. This week, the 28-year-old English Grand Prix champ was spotted dishing out a little bit of holiday cheer at the bar, where he made a 545 lb squat look it was barely more than an easy warm-up. So far, Juma seems to be taking full advantage of his offseason and packing on the sort of quality muscle that ends up separating the men from the boys come showtime. And if he can bring back that nasty next level conditioning to the stage, my magic eightball tells me that a 2017 pro card just might be in his future. If you were wondering what all that boom boom pow outside your door was about last night, well, you can rest assured Santa's sleigh wasn't backfiring. It was just the tank letting off a few warning shots to his fellow Arnold Classic 212 competitors. It's go time, boys. Some new chess training footage shows a very focused looking Charles Dixon starting to kick things into high gear as he gears up for another title shot. At this point in his prep, Dixon is already well ahead of the pace he set for last year's top six finish. And with some of the improvements he's made, he could very easily find himself landing somewhere squarely in the top three. If he can nail the sort of look we saw him bring into Phoenix last year, there's a very real chance he ends up being one of the show's real wild cards. Charles Dixon won't be the only one looking to ring the bell in Columbus, Ohio. I hope the tanks got his heavy artillery dialed in because it looks like Guy Sister Nino is ready for war. Last year's fourth place finisher has been training like a man on a mission lately, and it really seems like he's starting to ratchet up the knob on the intensity to an entirely new level. Last season's Arnold served as a bit of a springboard for Sister Nino, who went on to deliver a dominating performance at the Miami and New York Pro shows a few weeks later. And if he can manage to leave the milk and cookies alone and keep focused on the mission at hand, well, which is a ridiculous supposition when considering we're talking about Guy Sister Neato, who knows how far it can go in 2017. And finally, I'd like to wish our entire bodybuilding and fitness industry a very merry Christmas and happy holiday weekend. This is one of those special times to reflect on the past year and spend time with the people who matter most to you. Put aside all those offseason and pre-contest worries. Forget about all the bills you've yet to pay and focus on all your dreams that have yet to be realized. And as a wise old elf once said, "Merry Christmas to all and to all a good night." Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo!