I'm standing here with our first Classic Physique Olympia champ, the one and only Danny Hester. You won the first Classic Physique Pro Show and now you're the first Classic Physique Olympia champ. I love that gold medal. I'm going to hold him cuz I don't know if I've ever held one of these. And check that out. That's pretty damn cool. That's what we all work for. And you've been doing this almost 48 years you've been alive, Danny. I can't believe it. Yeah. No, it's been a while. Can you believe you're the champ? It still hasn't sunken in. I think I need to go eat a bunch of cheesecake first and then it it'll start kind of getting into my brain. I think the last time I interviewed you, I just turned pro and it took 25 years for you to turn pro. Uh, and that was a monumental thing, an achievement in and of itself. And now you're in the Olympia champ. And now next year coming into this, you're going to be the defending champ. That's right. And you did make a statement up on stage, I noticed you said, "I could do this forever." Why is that? Yeah. It's because it's a lifestyle now, you know, for me. It's more of a priority and it's just I have more respect for it now. Before I just did whatever and jumped into a show and, you know, it was more of a hobby and so I just I enjoyed more of the camaraderie and everything in the, you know, in the gym more so than the actual sport itself. So, it didn't really bother me. I just wanted to be respected. But now it's to the point where I have so much knowledge and so many people helping me and everything and you know getting the discipline being married now wife supports it you know it's just makes it a lot easier and and I can do this forever honestly I peaked right now I peaked this is the best I've ever looked conditionwise it's funny because now that you don't show your glutes you probably have glutes I do my glutes the irony in that cuz my back was so strong and it was such a contra between my hamstrings that I just could not get that sure, you know, I'd have to like suck down so low to get those shredded. But now I learned I didn't do a lot of different things and I did do a lot of different things and it just it was actually not hard. I just had to really put a little bit more work and concentration and dedication into it. No one will doubt that your posing has always been classic physique. you've always been a classic composer uh in the sense that you're a performer on stage and I have to believe that that had something to do with the victory here today because um it was a tough tough lineup there. What do you think won it for you? I think uh me being around for quite a while and being known as a classic physique even before they came up with the sport. Good first representative. Is that what it is? Yeah, I think I was already representing before they even had this. So, you know, that's most of the shows I'll take, you know, I usually take second and and and third all the time at the national levels and I was a crowd favorite cuz I, you know, they always got the compliment that you have such a classic physique. When uh they announced the the formation of the division, did you immediately say, "I'm doing this." Or did someone have to say, "Hey, Danny, this is for you." And they have to convince you? Um, I wanted a guinea pig. Actually, my boy Stan McQuay, I thought he was going to do it first and then you beat him. Yeah. Yeah. No. And then I jumped in. I'm like, "Oh, it's in our hometown, you know, backyard, you know." So, it was good. I'm glad I did it. I won the very first one. I know. And you And you beat a good lineup. Darren Charles and and Stan McQuay. And it was close, too. Yeah. No, it was really close. Do you feel that you changed a lot since that first show physique-wise? Yeah, definitely. 180. 180 as far as conditioning and everything. Arash Rabbar second place up there. Obviously a lot bigger than you. Um, obviously it's scary when this this guy's bigger because you're all in good shape. Um, what do you think clinched it for you over Arash? What what made the judges sway in your favor? I think overall balance, you know, he's got some really strong points and he's fairly balanced, but it's just a difference. It's a little like apples and oranges, you know, it's the lines are a little bit different. Mine have more of a classic look to it, I think. you know, my my joints are a little smaller and they they're a little more full. And what's interesting also is that Arash is not a young guy. He's 38. You know, it seems like the older guys seem to be better in the classic physique division. Why do you think that is muscle maturity? Yeah, I think they have more appreciation for it too to certain degree. You know, they understand it and they study it and cuz that's what kind of got us going, you know. Well, detail doesn't seem to come out, I think, when you first start training. Yeah. I'm talking about physique-wise because I think that it seems like you need much more years of training to have that that cuz you can't be you can only be so big. You got to show detail. No, it's true. And it's it's interesting you say that because the guys like Zayn and all those guys back in the day, they actually look older than they were, right? You know what I mean? It's the weirdest thing. And not not they look like they're old, you know, decrepit, but they just look more mature, older than what their really age was. So, it was interesting. So, now what's next for you? Are you going to just kind of chill for the rest of the year and defend your title next year? Um, I'm just going to keep improving. I've learned so much, you know, thanks to my my my boy Masawi, you know, Abas. I mean, he's been kind of steering me in the last 3 weeks was so crucial and he kicked my ass. Congratulations on the win. Uh, as a guy of the same age, 48, 48, I almost feel like I was up there on stage. So, you won it for us older guys. Congratulations. Thanks so much, Dave.