You underestimate the power of the dark side. Yes, it's me, Dave Plumbo, here in RX Muscle Studios, and I Yes, I broke some blood vessels in my eye rubbing my eye yesterday, and I look like the evil emperor in the sixth episode of Star Wars, uh, Revenge of the Sith. So, I figured I'd do my impression to you guys. What's up? This is my first Periscope. I don't really like Periscope, to be honest with you, because I don't like the fact that the video disappears after 48 hours. So, to me, that's a waste of time, but I'm doing it anyway because I I have to put it out there that I'm doing something because I I think I could probably do a reality show every day. And it seems like people seem to be interested in what I have to do, even though to me it's kind of boring. Um, we do have a great show tonight, Iron Debate, live at 7:30 Eastern Standard Time. Jimmy the Angry Bull will be on there uh giving all his uh very strong opinions. John Romano will be there. Chris Aceto will be there. Some great topics tonight. Don't miss that live at rxmuscle.com. But right now, I got to do something to my fish tank here. This is my monster fish tank. The reason we call this a monster fish tank is because the fish are huge and it's a 600galon tank. Every fish in here was about an inch long when I first got it and they're all humongous now and they eat lots of food. Maybe we'll feed them for you guys. They just ate. But um you can see our albino pacu there. He's huge. You can see my Oscars are usually the biggest fish in the tank. And these are all Oscars over there. And they're not uh the biggest fish in the tank by any means. Uh you can see my right to the left of the screen. You can see my uh red spotted sever. Really beautiful. You can see my albino silver arowana swimming along the top of the tank right there. He'll get the 3 ft. He's about probably 2 feet now. I have some very big uh iridescent sharks. Albino iridescent sharks. And they didn't look like sharks when they were babies. Now they look like sharks. And then to the right of the screen, you can see my albino uh clown knife, which is really been eating really well. Doing well. Uh I have some cool catfish in there. There's my long fin Oscar. Anyway, uh the tank is not light enough. So I am going to try I'm getting up on a ladder, which is dangerous to begin with here. And I have a light bulb. I'm going to try to put a new light bulb into this light fixture that, by the way, I just I learned how to become an electrician these last couple days. The control panel wasn't working and I couldn't get the light to stay on. So, I emailed for some help and they sent me some information on how to get the thing. Oh, look. The light was working. I don't even have to change it. See, I don't have to change the bulb after all that. I don't know how that happened, but everything's working. All right, good. I'll save this bulb. I was going to show you guys how to change a light bulb, and I know that there's plenty of Polish jokes about how many Polish people it takes to change a light bulb. Well, it only takes one Italian person to change a light bulb. Although, I am half Jewish, so maybe that might Did you Did you fix the crack? They want to know. Did I fix the crack in the tank? No. I will show you what I I screwed up the tank. You see this right here? This is acrylic. This is not a glass tank. This scratch inside the tank was done by me like a dummy. I was using a magnet and and a piece of gravel got caught in there and it scratched my whole tank which kind of ruins the tank for me. It It bothers me every time I walk past there. But the dirtier the tank is, the less you see it. So, no, I didn't fix it yet. And I have to drain the whole tank to do that. And no one in this office will allow me to do that. So, it'll probably stay here for quite a while. Um, I'm just going to pretend that look, we're all not perfect. We all have our imperfections. And knowing that, I can deal with the fish tank. As long as the fish are healthy, I'm good. So, I don't have to put the light bulb in. I wanted to show you guys one more thing. As you know, I'm going to be starting a show called Muscle Puppets. And uh I've only given you guys like a little a little taste of it. This is uh this is Stevie B. Yeah, he Why cut back? You know, that's that's his moniker. And uh you know, uh I might be making an appearance on Iron Debate tonight. Not sure, but uh the the topics there might be something that I can, you know, I gave Jimmy the Bull his first chance. I put him on the cover of MD years ago, and I don't know if Jimmy the Bull is really ever understood that I gave him his shot. I also told Chris Aceto that I gave him his first shot, but Chris reminded me that he worked for Flex and Muscle and Fitness for 10 years before that, but I still think I gave him his first shot. Now, let's go and talk to Johnny Styles over there for a minute. Johnny Styles, I told you how talented you are, and I always said, uh, if you want to come work for me, uh, I can make it happen. And, uh, you know, uh, money. Yeah. I I I I Yeah. Well, uh, we could talk money another time, but, uh, you know, you're very talented and you happen to be a very handsome man, too. Did anyone ever tell you that? It's crazy. If you if you want to ask questions for Dave, you can type it in and he'll let you know. This will be like a different Ask Dave. We have a new show coming up. It's going to be called Ask the Muscle Puppet. And every week we'll have a different muscle puppet. You can ask Stevie B whatever questions you want. So, and I know that on on Periscope, I believe they can ask questions, right? So, uh, anyone have questions for Stevie B? Heather Dees is saying, "Hi, Johnny." Hi, Heather. Heather, I always tell people how beautiful you were, and I if you want, we could talk. I'll put you on the cover of MD. I know Dana Lyn Bailey was the first one on there, but I I promise you, we can give you uh some publicity. I'll make you a star. Go talk to Sid. Now, let's go talk to Sid. All right. Now, Sid, um, you know, I'm a Jewish man and I'm not sure about your religion, but, um, uh, uh, you know, are you allowed to work on Thursdays? Because, uh, uh, you might want to go home. I know this is going to be a very popular iron debate, but maybe you should head home. Well, the only religion about tonight is the fact that the Jets are playing the Bills and Rex Ryan makes his return to New York. Have you seen Victor's glutes lately? They're not as sharp as as they used to be, I think. Are they sharper than Rex Ryan's glutes? I think Kai's glutes might be better. Okay. So, who has the sharper glutes, Rex Ryan or Victor? Uh, uh, uh, Victor, I think. Yes. Cool. I always believed in him. And when I was going to let him go and fire him and I got bad, you know, press, what did I do? I resigned him. Oh, okay. So, he's back. But you let go of him and then you resigned. Um, I didn't really let go of him, but I was planning on it. Got But then Dave was gonna interview him. Oh, actually Dave did interview him. Violated his contract, so I I I let him go for 30 hours. 30 hours? Yes. Wow. And then uh But then you renegotiated with him. You brought him back. Yeah. Yeah, that was what it was. Okay, good. But I always believed in him. Oh, you believed him? Absolutely. Right. All right. You're going to go to sleep. We'll talk to you later. Um we also have puppet George Farah, who's resting in the back. who's wrestling in the back taking a nap. He's taking a nap because um you know that long day. Well, it's been a long day and you know, Iron Debate's coming up and you know, he has to um he has some I think he's working a late shift on the on the police force. Okay. A little later in Rockchester, right? Um and then he's going to head to the hospital because he's got to work the ER, you know, room. Sure. Uh you know, he's a doctor, too. Right. Right. And uh I believe he has to do a tour in Iraq after that because he's he's in the he's an Army Seal, a Navy Seal. So that uh it was Karine's birthday today. So Well, yeah, but it's close enough. Today's your birthday. How old are you? 20. You're still You're still She's still in her 20s. I think she's the only one in the office still in her 20s, right? 29. I'm 29. Yeah. Okay. So, this is the last good year of your life. So, you better enjoy it. I feel good. Now, are you spraying anyone this weekend? No. No. This weekend is my birthday. You're awesome. And what are you going to do for your birthday? Because I I've known people who had birthday months. You're only having a birthday weekend. Well, last year it was a whole week birthday for me. But this year, it was kind of quiet. I was like, I don't know yet what to do. Are you taking your cake home with you? Of course. Let's see the cake. Cuz the cake was a really nice cake. It was one of the deepest cakes I've ever seen. It was a very tall cake. You know, usually cakes are wider, but Karine got we got her a tall cake. And I don't know, is there an advantage? Did you like the taste of the tall cake better than I like things that tend to be flatter? Like I go for chocolate. So I go for flat like the flatbread pizzas. You know, I don't like the thick thick pizzas. Oh my god. Actually, we had pizza today, too. Yeah, we did. That's a See how thick that is? Look at that. That's got to be a good 6 in. That's a very tall cake. And see the purple color. It's very beautiful because it's purple. Very beautiful. So everyone, we're, you know, we're we're at the end of the day here for most people. Most of the workers have gone home. However, we have a TV show tonight, 7:30 p.m. Eastern Standard. Iron debate. We don't stop working here for nothing, that's for sure. Um, I did bike ride this morning and then it rained, so I got my bike riding before that. So, my legs are feeling a little sore. And, uh, you know, I just cleaned all the snake tank. Actually, let's go look at the snakes because I I fed the snakes today. No calves. No calves at all. Terrible. No calves. Little cycling. No calves. Johnny's upset that my calves have gotten smaller because uh I'm I'm cycling now. Everyone's eaten or this this beautiful snake has eaten two two mice today. She ate. You can see banana pastel sugar. Okay. Now, this is a ball python. Now, we're going to go and I'm going to show you a boa constrictor that ate a lot. Okay. Uh, she ate two huge rats. And you can see that belly on her. You see that belly? That's a big belly. That's not a GH belly. That is a rat belly. Okay. It'll probably take her about 4 days to to digest these. I also tried today, and I don't know if you guys have seen my Quest video, I tried a pumpkin pie Quest protein bar, which is delicious. I don't know if anyone out there has tried Quest protein bars. You know, I own Species Nutrition, but you know what? When I see a good product, I tell people about it. This pumpkin pie bar is the best bar they have. I know they're saying it's a seasonal bar, but if you guys in Quest get rid of this bar, you're a dummies because this is the best bar you got. Best tasting. It's got a crunch. It's got a It's got a coating on it. It's by far the most advanced best tasting bar. And it's got 20 gram I think it's got more than 20 grams of protein. It's got uh 21 grams of protein in this bar. All from whey isolate. No whey concentrate. Doesn't bother your stomach. No lactose. So guys, try this bar. Uh you know, I did my evil emperor impression, but I do have my little Darth Vader bobblehead. Now, I bought Chris Aceto a um Yoda bobblehead and I kept the Darth Vader one. So um also uh Oh, here's Oh, here. Oh, look who's here. Brother, I you woke me from my nap. Brother, I was I have a late shift at the hospital tonight. George, look, you got to get up for the Periscope community, right? I mean, the nationals are coming up. I'm sure you got athletes in the show. Brother, I get I have I have company with 250 employees and I have to work shift in at at police station. Then I go to hospital and and then after that I go to gym because you know I run every morning. I know George I know you told me you started doing some running and and keeping your heart in shape. You know I'm into cycling right brother. I I run the marathon three times a week. I said you run the marathon George that that's 26 miles. I don't understand how you how do you maintain any size? I'm I'm getting I'm losing all this weight from just from cycling. Brother I have secrets. You want to know secrets? I give the rock. Well, I I you know, I work with Triple H. You know, you you do know that, George, right? I I you know, I tell Triple H, I don't try to steal him from you. I tell him I have secrets that I give The Rock, I could give to you, too. I said, but George, you know, Triple H told me that you actually tried to take him away from me. Not true, brother. He come to me. People come to me. All right, George, go back to sleep. Go back to sleep. All right, hold on. He's got to go back to sleep. All right, come over here. Big Serge says he has the protocol. He has the protocol. All right, let's look into my crystal ball here. Let's see what we can find. Let's see if we can predict anything here. All right, I'm going to rub the crystal ball. A lot of cool stuff in my office, as you know. Let's rub the crystal ball. Will Jimmy the Will Jimmy the B come to Iron Debate tonight? I'm not saying Jimmy the Bull in Iron Debate. Jimmy, will Jimmy the Bull come to Iron Debate tonight? You'll have to tune in 7:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time tonight. I guarantee the Bull will not be getting along with John Romano and Chris Aceto. There'll be a lot of debate tonight and uh if there isn't, I'll make sure I don't agree with him. All right, come into the studio here for a second. Let's let's check out the festivities. This is the Messi studio. Before we get started, we just had uh live with S. Sandre Blockman who uh is going to be competing at the NPC Nationals in the bikini division. She'll be going for her pro card. She is a species nutrition athlete. And as you can see, I call it the wall of shame. If you look at the wall, these are all the people who used to be on the Heavy Muscle TV show. Starting at the top left, Joey G, which is Mr. G's son. Uh Diego B in the middle. Jeff the producer, who did not show up at the 100th anniversary of the Heavy Muscle Show. Uh Ronnie Coleman was not on the panel, but he's been a guest before. And then there's Jeremy, the casting director in the middle. Uh, if you move over to the left, you can see the Long Island legend Vinnie the Chin. Vinnie the Chin. And then if you go down a little further, you can see Adela Garcia, who used to be our Muscle Girls Inc. uh, radio co-host. And to her right, we have Eugene Mission, who, as a lot of people have known, has done surgery on his uh, on his throat all by himself. Behind the green screen, you can see, let me see if I can pull that up. We can see Jimmy the Bull, the angry bull. There he is. Uh Guy Sistanino is on the wall there. My good friend Anthony Derzo who's longer with us. May he rest in peace. Evan Sentani after he won nationals down there. And then we have Melissa Deweiler a little further down. And Tony Freeman in the corner. I don't know if we can make Tony Freeman out there. He's all the way over there. That's a sign picture. Uh we come over to this wall, the back wall. We could see the uh the one of the former Whack Pack group shots with Eric Singerman in there and his wife Dariel and Pete the producer and uh Colleen and Jimmy the Bull and Sally Taylor and Brian Hildebrand. And then we have the Johnny Styles uh celebrity picture there. And then to the left, Pete the producer who's no longer with us either. So that's the Rustle Studios. And uh what about the snake? This this snake is uh is being healed. You know, we have this is the sick tank. So when people get like an infection or they get like a little sick, we don't want him to infect all the other snakes. So we put him in here. By the way, Amanda, he shed today. Uh so I don't know if that's a good sign or not, but she's still got a he's still got a little bit of a sniffle. So we got to make sure we like to when when the snakes have sniffles, I I give them I have to give them shots. And the the vet says, you know, are you okay giving a shot? I said, "Oh, I have lots of experience with that." So, as you guys can imagine, that's not a problem for me. So, uh, this is pretty much what I do all day. Here's all the snake tanks, you know. Let's see what we got here. Let's see. This This guy wants to come out looking. Oh, this Oh, she's good. This is a super This looks familiar. Coral Sununglow. The coral is the pink on the sides. Oh, Anastasia. Amanda's favorite. She's Is that Anastasia or is that the uh Is that Susan? She's pissed off. Kira, let's see. Hopefully I won't get bit. She ate a very big big meal and she's not in a good mood. See her? She's not in a good mood. I got to clean this out later. She's a little stinky. All right. She's going to We don't want her to strike. South American um actually should say Central American boas like to hiss. It's It's really means they're scared. It doesn't really mean much of anything. They just like that. It makes them feel good to hiss. So, we we let like a child, we just let them hiss and we don't we ignore them. Uh there's plenty of snakes here. We we'll get to look at them another time. We don't want to go too too crazy. But once again, uh I am going to go now because I I've been over stimulated today. Um 7:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Tonight, Iron Debate with Jimmy the Angry Bull, Pletia, John Romano, Chris Aceto, and yours truly. Catch it for now. I'm out.