Old School Bodybuilding Clothing Company. If it's been 3 and 1/2 hours since you last ate protein and now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for 5 minutes between sets playing with their phone pisses you off, you are definitely old school. osbc.com for the hardest training athletes. All right, we're back with another episode of Live with Dave Palumbo. As always, I'm going to be your host, Anthony Pasquali. And if you've never if you're new to this segment, we basically bombard you with random questions that I selfishly come up with of topics that I want to talk about. So, Dave, how you doing? We survived the hurricane, so we're we're we're back to normal over here today. You you look like my uncle Vinnie with that mustache, I got to tell you. Well, this is the there's a the true story here is I shave my face now once a week with hair clippers. And when I I I naturally shave my face on one side and then do the other. And a lot of times I just shave half of it and do like a Harvey Too Faced. And as I got to the mustache yesterday, I was like just going to leave it. And then I was like, [\h__\h] I got to do a YouTube thing with Dave and people are going to be like, who's this tool with the mustache? Must I think mustaches are back in in style. Chris Bumpstead had one uh last year's Olympia, right? And he Well, remember even like you even said it to me. I remember eight years ago when I was we were prepping me for USA's and I had the mustache in all the pictures. You're like, "You look like Tom Celich. You do look like Tom Celich. You look exactly like him." And if you lost a little weight, you probably look like Ray Mensah, you know. Yeah, that would work. Yeah. I'd be getting a lot of ass if it was 1975, you know. Mustaches are in. I'm telling you. Yeah, mustaches and and skinny jeans and we can't do skinny jeans. No, my father had a mustache my whole life practically. And um I you know when he he one day he shaved it. I didn't even recognize him. It was like it was like that was just like my my image of my father. I never saw him without a mustache. And uh but uh you know it works for some people like some people don't look good without the mustache, you know. It's true. Yeah. Some people have a certain look. They can only look a certain way. No, that's very true. It's always felt like mustache made people look more intimidating. a little little meaner looking, you know. Totally. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's always like I always said it's like if you have a son and you name him Carmine, by default it he's not going to be a wimp like you know what I mean? Like it's a good name, you know? Carmine. It's like no. Did he did he go to jail or is Yeah. Carmine looks like he busts legs on the weekends, you know? Yeah. He's going to do shady stuff like, "Oh, my boyfriend's name's Carmine." Everyone's like, "Oh, this is going to be good. I can't wait to meet him." Yeah, that's right. So, one of the questions I wanted to start with for you today was and a lot of people are new to the channel, but I've been following you a long time. A lot of people as well. I know obviously you've done fish, you've done cat breeding, snake breeding, you've done a lot of stuff that I'm not even thinking of right now. Do you in Florida, do you still have a lot of plants around your property? Like, you into plants anymore or like what do you what do you have going on for plants in your home or on your property that you like? Oh, yeah. No, I'm big into plants. I have a lot of trees, but you know what? I really didn't water them that much and we had a really dry winter and I I a couple of them I lost a couple but I around my garage Tyler sees it all the time. I I put like my seedlings and my little clippings and stuff like that and I have like cacti growing and I have um I have all my fruit trees in pots that I'm growing up from from small little either seeds or little clippings. And it's funny because the ones in pots do way better than the ones in the ground. And I don't know, aside from like the big fruit trees, like I have mango trees on my property, some avocado trees. But um I think because I water them every day, plus the soil is not great in in uh so you have to fertilize a lot in um Florida. And for some reason, the citrus trees do horrendous in the ground because the bugs get them in pots by my garage. It's amazing. It's like I have a like a green like I almost have a greenhouse like right outside my garage. I forgot because of several months ago, I think it was a pineapple. Did you get your first pineapple you took an Instagram video with? I've done a pine I got pineapples, but I also there's another plant that's like a red pineapple, but it's not edible that one. And I just I just actually I have some pineapples now. That's just once again, they're not edible, but I'm I'm going to take them and I'm going to like make more of them because they look cool, you know, even though you can't physically eat them. We produced um mandarins. Um I actually produced my first I had planted in a pot a um a blueberry. I don't know if you even knew this. There's there's red blueberries. No, I didn't know that. Yeah. Yeah, I produced a couple of them. They taste really sweet. They're uh they're really cool looking. They look pink almost. They're like pink blueberries and they're really cool. I did those. And I'm always I'm always planting some. I have a little planter also out there. I'm always putting stuff in there. And I I actually, you know, I eat red potatoes and purple potatoes. I think we talked about this in one of the episodes. So, I took the purple potatoes and I planted them in the planter like buried them in the soil and I forgot about it. And I saw sprouts coming out of them and stuff like that. Sometimes, you know, if you leave them in your house too long, they start sprouting. I threw them in the so I instead of throwing them in the garbage, I threw them in the soil and they grew branches and stuff like that. And I forgot about them. And then I said to one day, I was like kind of just like playing around with the soil. And a potato popped out of the soil. And then I remembered that they grow under the soil. There had to be like 30 potatoes under the soil that I grew. So I actually have produced potatoes, too, believe it or not. Well, I didn't know I only know that because back, you know, you know how it is. I'm sure in New York they did it too somewhere, but where I'm from, you know, in the fall you go apple picking and pumpkins and all that, but then they had these rakes and you would rake and you could dig up potatoes. So, that's how I learned. I'd never done that before. So, it was kind of it was kind of cool. Yeah. You know, carrots are in the ground, too. I Yeah, it'd be cool to do someday as the kids get older, you can take them, you can rake the potatoes and then they'd understand like, "Wow, that's why they're dirty. They come out of the ground, you know." Do you have any do you have any animals that try to eat everything or is that a problem or not? I have uh I have wild pe they were originally domesticated and now they're they're free peacocks that run around my neighborhood and they steal all the fruit. They steal my I have blackberry bushes too that are delicious huge blackberries. They steal everything if you if you give them a chance to and they're like it's like a it's like a troop of them going around. You would think like and they like for some reason my porch is there like over they like to hang out there in the morning and so you know you know how you get up in the morning and you like I got my contact lenses in I go to the window to look out see how it is and there's like a peacock like in my face and like I like and then there's one peacock a female that like thinks my the top of my BMW X7 is a nest. It's in my garage on the top of it and my kid to throw bread up to it, which means it's never going to leave, you know. So, I'm just waiting for one day I come out here and there's going to be like a nest of eggs there and stuff like that. So, they never It's just so funny how your life is so different than what you would have described it of 10 years ago. And the funny thing is this is the kind of I love animals like so this was like my dream. I'm like, you know, my kids are getting if I would have had this as a kid, I would have probably been a veterinarian or something like that, you know? Yep. Well, no. I I I and I've I know we've talked about it before, but the say I've been to your place a half a dozen times. Every time I come up, even like you said with the porch, it's a nice piece of land. Like even for it's like it's just kind of you always have like a little breeze going on and you got the water in the back. It's nice. It's a nice place. I'd like to build like my own zoo eventually, you know, there. But, uh it's it's slow and going. I just actually got blue tree monitors. I don't I wish I had some video we'd put it up, but um they're they only get about they're about three feet with their tail, but they're you know, their bodies are about this big. And they basically they're aroreal. They like to hang out in trees and that's and they'll eat like, you know, bird eggs and stuff like that. They'll eat they'll eat piece of raw chicken off off of tongs. They'll eat insects. They'll pretty much eat anything, but they're really tame and they're they'll come on your arms and stuff like that. And they're they're blue. It's like the most incredible looking thing. Maybe Tyler can find a picture of a blue tree monitor and put it up there. But they're they're really kind of cool looking. And that's that's my new little obsession I have now. I'm trying to build a big aroreal cage and I'm thinking about either putting it outside or maybe keeping it inside. I haven't decided yet because you could actually keep reptiles outside in Florida because the weather's still there. There. Look at those things. I don't know if Anthony can see it, but the No, but the rest of the people can see them. They're just they're super cool. You would never know that these things exist if you didn't know. Is is uh is your wife Amanda thrilled with this new project idea? Um, she's, you know, I think at first she didn't really, you know, she was like gh, but then I think she saw them and she thought, I think she, you can't not think these things are cool. That is cool. So, I bought quail, have you guys, have you ever tried quail eggs? I love quail eggs. Yeah. Loves them. Quail eggs is supposed to be If you ever go to a s good fancy sushi restaurant, sometimes they'll crack a quail egg over like a like a some tuna tartar or something like that. It's really good. But I actually really rolls. Over a masa roll. Is that what they do? Uh, and so they're like this big. They're like the eggs. And so supposedly they eat quail eggs, which which I went out and I bought. They actually have them in the public supermarkets down here. It's like five bucks for like and they're this big. I think there was six of them or or eight or 10 of them or Yeah, they're a little overpriced, but I figured, you know what, if I give it once a week, I'll give them a quail egg because the shell is made of calcium and calcium is, you know, good for the these animals need calcium. So, um, it's a good way to get calcium into their body. I mean, we think about it. We take supplements. Animals need to supplement, too. Especially if they're not outside and they're exposed to the sunlight and they're eating, you know, wild things and stuff like that. So, uh, quail eggs. So, I So, I'm so enamored with these quail eggs that I want to My wife, you'd eat the whole dozen. She's like in one sitting. They're so small. I said, I'm not eating them. But I said, if we got quail and we bred quail, because I don't like chickens. Chickens to me, I don't they just there's something about the way they look. It kind of freaks me out. And and they they poop all the time. So I quailes that kind of like almost look like dubs. They're they're really cool. If I can breed quail and quail eggs seem to be much more valuable than than regular chicken eggs, you know. Y that would be great. Tyler would be harvesting the I come out and be like where the hell are all the quail eggs? Tyler Tyler already like put them in his car, you know. So that's a possible future project. So, speaking of plants, this is this is an interesting segue and and maybe you've covered this on your channel, but we've never spoken about it uh one-on-one through all my bodybuilding time and to each their own. Yeah. But, you know, 2000 whatever through 2000 whatever. I never I've never smoked marijuana in my whole life. I've never liked the smell of it or whatever. And edibles weren't really a thing. And a point of frustration for me when I was bodybuilding was um I I sometimes I just wasn't hungry. And then once I realized that edibles existed back in 2018 and I tried one, I noticed I could eat more. And what I was trying to do in 2010 time frame when we started working together was I was always trying to get my hands on prescription marinol which was I guess stuff they give the cancer patients that doesn't get them high but allows them to eat more. So, but I always speculated, you know, I had good success within bodybuilding. And I felt part of the reason why I went by other people was I felt like a lot of the people I knew that smoked a lot of weed were they a little more soft and they held a little bit more water and they weren't getting as grainy. Now that was just my limited experience against other amateurs. But I just wanted to get your thoughts on all that. Did you ever use marinol? Had you ever considered it to eat more? Like what was your journey like with the plants in that way? I you know I probably have maybe smoked pot like maybe three times in my life. I I just it makes me feel very stupid and and I I I'm don't like that because in other words, it it's fine when you're doing it, but I feel like it has a residual effect afterwards. I still feel like for a couple days like I'm out of it. Now, I don't know if that's just because I'm not used to it, but so I never really liked it in terms of that. As far as eating goes, you know, I I came from a running background. So, I was running 10 miles a day for five years straight. My and I used to starve myself too because I wanted to keep my weight down because for running. So, my appetite is insatiable. So when I started allowing myself to eat to grow, there's nothing that could stop like in other words, even when I wasn't hungry, I could eat. I could always eat and uh I had the ability to just pour stuff down my throat and I don't have a gag reflex, nothing. So I I I had no problem eating. There were points where I didn't want to eat, you know, and I would force myself to eat, but I had no problem doing that. I know people that can't do that physically will throw it up. They just they get a gag response going. I somehow my body can handle. So, I never had an eating problem. Okay. Um, when I would diet, I I was, you know, I I'm very disciplined, but I hated it because, you know, I was I don't like to be hungry. I like to be able to eat what I want, you know. So, that wasn't an issue for me, but I do work with people who have appetite issues or maybe their stomachs, you you know, I was talking to a professional eater, Bartley Weaver, the other day, who just turned pro, actually, and he does eating. And you know, these eaters drink enormous amounts of water during the day to stretch out their stomach rather than just eating enormous amounts of food and they don't want to get fat. They'll drink like a gallon of water at one time. And that what that does it it stretches your stomach. And when your stomach is is stretched more, you can you're you're hungrier because it the the appetite shut off has a lot to do with the stretch of the stomach. So that's how they're able to consume so much food uh you know when they're doing their eating contest. So I believe that you know maybe from drinking a lot of shakes. I think I stretched my stomach too so I can my capacity for food was better but when I would diet and I would eat smaller portions my stomach shrunk up and you know that you know you try to go have a cheat meal you eat like you know what you normally would eat no problem and you're full right away because your stomach capacity. So, I think that's a trick that you have to work on. And if you can't do it with food, when you wake up in the morning, drink, you know, try to drink, you know, 16 32 ounces of of of liquid. Just pour water down your throat. The number one, it'll hydrate you really well. Number two, though, it'll give that stomach a little bit of a stretch and that's going to really increase your appetite or your capacity to eat more. Um, people don't get past that capacity to eat more and I think that's a problem. Now, if you don't have a fast metabolism, there's no reason to do that. But for people who have that super fast metabolism, you got to be able to consume enough food. And there's always that like, well, am I eating too much food and overstretching my stomach and am I going to get a distended stomach? Well, for most people, no. But, you know, obviously, you know, when you get to the level of 300 plus pounds, I don't know. Maybe that, you know, maybe at that point it becomes counterproductive. I don't know. But the point is that if you have trouble eating, that's number one way to do it. The second good way to do it would be to cut your carbs back. So, you're in the middle of an offseason, you can't eat. You're I can't eat. they can't eat. Cut your carbs back for 3 days, you'll be starving because your body will think it's dieting and your appetite will come back. And I do that with my guys. Sometimes they cut their protein back actually, believe it or not. Sometimes people are just a little overly toxic because they're eating so much protein that their bodies are kind of getting behind and processing it. And so if you cut that, like some I'll cut it in half and I'll actually increase their carbs for like a week and all of a sudden boom, they they're hungry again. So there's different reasons why people lose their appetite, you And um I've never really experimented. I know back in my day that a lot of guys used something called Perryactin. It was a an antihistamine. The problem was the first seven days you took it, all you wanted to do was sleep all day. Um I never got through the seven days, so I never really used it, but I didn't really need it. But I know a lot of guys used that back in the day, too. And the my next question for you, it just popped into my head, is speaking of that contest prep world, and I think this one's helpful to a lot of people. Now I'll share my experience anecdotally and then you can explain if it makes sense logistically. So we'll use me as an example. So, like a lot of times, you know, my diet with you would start just like everyone else's when they first start with you within, you know, some variance, right? A lot of times for people that don't know, when you and I would work together, my once my metabolism would get going, it would it would get going pretty good and then you would just kind of poke at it when we needed to keep it going, right? But interestingly enough, a lot of times I felt like I noticed say a week off from a show after doing 13 15 weeks of some sort of carb rotation, a lot of times it was I almost felt like you were you would flip me and you would then lower the fats and then increase the carbohydrates. And I always speculated that if you've been burning fat for say 13 weeks, right? And then you take someone who's pretty lean and then you switch the fuel source and now you pull fats from their diet and then they're burning on carbs that sometimes the person might use their own body fat because that's the only fat available. Does that anecdotally make sense to you or what are your thoughts on that? Usually when people get stuck at the end is when I start going anti-logic. I I go I call it anti-logic because logically you would think you would do this and this and this and it would work because it's been working the whole diet and then all of a sudden the person's stuck. So, you have to kind of do the anti-logical thing. Well, what let's do the opposite of what we're doing. Let's increase carbs. Let's cut back cardio. Let's let's shake their body up. It's not working the way because what happens is the body catches on to what you're doing. It doesn't want to do it anymore. Now, you you throw a monkey wrench into that whole thing and the body's like, "What the freak is going on here?" And it starts burning fat. I do this with women. They were on no food. They're on three hours of cardio. They're on, you know, ma maximum fat burners. They're not losing a pound. I say, "You know what? Don't do any cardio for two days." and uh let's add, you know, 30 grams of carbs, you know, three or four times a day. They're like, I'm going to gain weight. And they wind up losing like five pounds, you know. So, your body will only take so much. And then when it starts to shut down and rebel against what you're doing, that's when you have to do something else. That's why when people say, "Oh, uh it's the he gives the same diet to this person and to that person." Yeah, but you know what? doesn't it gets changed considerably different for different people because not everyone is the same and not everyone's body responds the same. So the initial template of how a person starts doesn't even matter. It's it's irrelevant. You can start with anything a diet. It's it's how it's altered on a on a on a daily, weekly, however often however often it gets changed. That's what makes the coach the coach is the person who is changing the program because it's dynamic. It's not a static program. Now, I've worked with people. I've gone 12 weeks in a row and never changed no damn thing again. They lost two pounds a week consistently and they got in shape for a show. I Why? I don't know. That's just the way their body worked. I said, I would say every week I'd feel guilty. I said, I feel like I feel guilty because I don't have to change anything. I said, but you know what? You're getting to eat a lot of food. You're not doing a lot of cardio and you're getting in shape. Who cares? The diet worked perfectly for you. But for most people, you have to make changes. And usually those occur more so as you get closer to the show as body fat levels get lower because then the body starts to say h what's going on here? We better uh we got to slow this stuff down. I don't like the fact that this body fat is so low it's making me nervous. So we got to trick the body into thinking that everything's cool. So sometimes more food or more carbs which stimulates more insulin release kind of will say to the brain, "Oh, we're fine." you know, we we got we got a lot going on. We got we got plenty of food coming in. Oh, okay. All right. Let's pick up the metabolism again. So, it's it's a game of uh of observe, process, and then make a decision. And that's why it's very hard to advise yourself that, you know, I have a guy who came to me this week and I'm helping him with the last week prep and I'm like, and he was reducing his fat burners and increasing his carbs and he's not in shape yet. He probably needs to lose another two, three pounds. I'm like, you're you got two days left to do this. I said, 'You got to this every day counts now. You got to suffer for two days and he's suffer and you know he's suffering and and he's improving. So, um it's hard, you know, he's reading in a book or online, all right, this at this point you had this many carbs. You can't follow formulas if your body is not in the right place, I guess you could say, you know, and not everyone needs that many grams of carbs or this many. It's so variable. And for me to make a generalization would be nuts, you know. Have you since, and I haven't asked you this, I was thinking about it. Since all that pancreatic stuff happened or whatever, have you made some did you make any dietary cho uh changes? And if so, how has that affected your physique either in your strength or your leanness or even your cognitive function? What's been going on with that? You mean with my thyroid, not pancreas? Sorry. Yeah. Thyroid. Don't give me any any pancreatic problems. No, thyroid. Thyroid. Thyroid. No. Yeah. You know what? Nothing. And when I say not, if I didn't know that I had cancer of the thyroid, I wouldn't believe I had cancer of the thyroid because I never had a single symptom. Um, the surgery, Tyler picked me up. I was pumping gas the day he picked me up from the surgery. I didn't have any pain. I didn't have any fatigue. Um, I went on the replacement like they told me to do. And he he and I didn't have any I didn't notice any difference in my metabolism, how I looked, or how I felt energy-wise. Um, my guy, my friend bumped up my thyroid a little bit from I think I was taking 137 to I forget what he uped it to. He upped like 175 or something like that on T4 just because he thought my TSH was a little high and I didn't even notice a difference. So, I'm at that. My last levels I got checked were normal. Um, and I feel this exactly the same. I don't feel any different. Like I said, I don't aside if I didn't have a scar here, I wouldn't I wouldn't believe I had my thyroid removed. And then I got the the the radioactive iodine, that one pill, I never even noticed I took it. Um, so I don't know, you know, I maybe I had very good results and I was lucky. I I'm hoping, you know, when I get scan and whatever it is, another three or four months, you know, everything is fine. But luckily nothing. I didn't change my diet. I'm doing exactly what I did before. Okay. Question for you regarding a supplement related question. You know, well, two questions for you. Resveratrol. What are your thoughts on it as I see it coming up more and more within the lifespan category? And as someone like you that's got a family, you're at that point where you care about lifespan, health span, feeling good, anti-aging. What's your thoughts on rveratrol? You know, the research seems to be there that it stimulates these cert receptors which, you know, have been shown when they're stimulated that it increases longevity. That's, you know, it's the same receptor that will get stimulated when you fast, okay? When you when you're on low calorie diets. So, it kind of like is a it's like a it's like a fast without having to do a fast, so to speak. Yep. I I've taken resveratrol before. I I don't even know if it's in my regimen anymore. I have so many vitamins I take. I kind of rotate stuff around. Um I don't think it could hurt. Although, I've read that, you know, you don't want as a bodybuilder trying to put on mass, I think 2 stimulation is not so great because I think it does reduce IGF-1 levels a little bit, which is exactly what they think. you know, less IGF-1, you live longer supposedly. I I don't know. There's there's a direct correlation. Remember, Steve, I gotta give Steve Blackman credit for this. He always says what's good for bodybuilding is not good for living a long time. So, in other words, inflammation is good for bodybuilding in a sense. Not excessive, obviously, chronic, but some inflammation is good because it stimulates, you know, arachidonic acid release and and it signals to the body to to repair and heal itself. Whereas if you try to live a long time, inflammation is not good because that's, you know, can lead you, you know, heart disease, cancer, all that other stuff. But once again, we're talking about acute inflammation is good because that's the stimulus for, hey, repair my body. Chronic inflammation, no good. You know, they did a study where they gave non-steroidal anti-inflammatories to older people in their like 80s, 90s, 100 years old, and they found that those people actually built muscle better when they were on these non-steroidals because it reduced because they were chronically inflamed for whatever reason. I don't know if it was age related or whatever, diet related. When they gave those same non-steroidals to younger people, they found that it inhibited muscle growth because in those people, it reduced inflammation too much. So what the the the the correct answer is is that you want to have some inflammation but not too much inflammation because some inflammation will signal. That's why sometimes if you eat if you eat a very anti-inflammatory diet like I do like fish and egg whites and stuff like that, it's a good idea to eat some red meat or some chicken in there periodically to produce excuse me a little arachidonic acid so that your body will and arachidonic acid we know is a is one of the essential fatty acids. The omega six is is a precursor to inflam inflammatory prostaglandins. So you want to have some. So it's not that's why if you're a veget vegan, which would be a very anti-inflammatory diet, you probably want to take like uh the X factor stuff I sell from billwellen on my Dave Palumbo.com website because that will that'll give you that arachidonic acid because vegans are very devoid in arachidonic acid and we know arachidonic acid is necessary as an essential fat to for muscle growth and repair. So once again, it's all about always about balance and so you have to find that right balance. I know I've I've I've seen on your Instagram or sometimes on your when you've posted stuff in the past that I'm sure there are I'm assuming there are some people that are surprised when Dave brings his kids and they eat some chicken nuggets or something like that and you're Captain Health. Everyone's everyone's super parent. We know that, right? Super everyone's a guru. So that being said, where I'm headed with this question is is as I love I always appreciate how you always remind me how neurotic I am to know what we is a mutual love and respect there and obviously at this point in my life I'm not a parent but I have some family members that have some of our kind of characteristics and honestly they're phenomenal parents. My question for you is as someone that's neurotic with yourself in certain areas but maybe you're like you know if my kid wants some gummy bears and a Twizzlers that we're going to do that. Are there areas as a parent where you are neurotic though where you're like no iPads after 8 PM or like where walk me through this where the Davism shows up as a parent? Yeah, my my you know what my kids don't listen to anything I say unfortunately my my wife is is really the one they listen to but and they don't and even still my kids like walk all over us in a sense but but maybe we've enabled that. I don't know. I think my my son is a lot like me but he's also like not a he doesn't like to listen. Um I with food with kids it's weird because kids are weird eaters and stuff like that. See, you don't want them to not you don't want to make them so neurotic about food that they don't eat anything. So, you know, like my daughter that won't eat any she's in a stage because they go through stages where she won't eat any protein. She just wants like carbs fully fruit and she'll eat, you know, anything with carbs in it. Pasta, mac and cheese. She will just not eat protein. But you know what the do the pediatrician said? These kids will eat protein when they crave protein. And then I'll see my kids go through stage where all they want is protein. Like my son will be eating cheeseburgers and he'll be eating chicken nuggets. And you know what the truth is? I believe that kids can pretty much get away with eating anything. Um they're like they're like little garbage disposals. They can they can extract the nutrients they need from that because their bodies are so young. Now if they're overweight because they're eating junk food, like sometimes my my my second daughter, you got to be careful with her because she can has that tendency. So I got to limit desserts with her. I try to get her stuff that's like a little healthier. no fruit to high fructose corn syrup and stuff like that. But if your kids are not overweight and they're eating this food and they're metabolizing it, then don't worry about it. I mean, I ate McDonald's every day for for for 10 years and I have no blockages in my arteries because I had no I have no body fat. In other words, I wasn't accumulating this stuff. So, if they're burning it, I don't think it's the end of the world for them to eat stuff. And I'm changing my my paradigm because before I was a parent, I'm like, my kids are eating nothing bad. But it's it's an unrealistic paradigm because kids, you know, want to be kids. And so I and and if you deprive I find if you deprive them when they're young, they tend to go crazy when they get older and they have the ability to go buy the food themselves. My kids are like I was desensitized. My I had all junk food in my house as a kid. I don't know why. My mother bought whatever we wanted, sugared cereals and all that other crap. By the time I hit high school and I was becoming an athlete and learning about how to eat and stuff like that, I didn't even want any of that stuff anymore. I'm like, I already had it. I'm like gh, you know? So, I think that there's a balance. Look, I eat the chicken nuggets. When my kids leave over the chicken nuggets, I'm like my father. I I clean off their plate. I eat everything. That's just the way it is. You know, we go to We went to a water uh what is it called? Sunsplash. It's a water park. They got a snack bar there. You know, they What do they got there? They got burgers. They got fries. They got chicken I eat chicken tenders there. They're They're probably The burgers are probably healthier than the chicken tenders because they're all breaded, you know, deep fried. I'm like, "Oh, at least I'm eating chicken, you I'm eating I'm eating everyone's French fries and I'm eating their burgers that they leave over. So, you know, but I got a fast metabolism. I don't do it every day, but you know, every day I'll eat a little snack here and there, but like I said, I can do that if I was overweight or, you know, sometimes I I'm always checking my blood sugars. If my blood sugars are high, I'm like, I got to stay away from these fried foods, you know, or maybe I'm eating too many carbs, you know, I'm a little neurotic, but at the same time, I'm a little more relaxed now because I'm not really competing and stuff like that. Um, I try to balance my protein intake with my carb intake. So, sometimes, some days I'm higher in protein. If I feel like really depleted, I'll go higher in carbs. I kind of go by instinct now. You know, my my blood sugars are usually fairly good. Sometimes they run high. If I eat a really, really crappy meal, they'll stay elevated for a couple hours, but my blood work is all pretty normal at this point. So, I'm not really getting too crazy about anything. You know, kid, I always check my kidney function. I know that's something you probably do, too. creatine levels. If your creatinine's normal, then there's nothing to worry about. If my if my when my creatinine was a little higher several years back, I was watching my protein intake. Now, my protein intake has has I've raised it up a lot more um and reduced my carbs a little bit more because my my kidney function is fine. Now, I probably didn't even need to reduce the protein intake, but that's how I'm like you. I'm totally neurotic. I go by blood work. If the blood work is not right, then I want to give my body a rest and let my kidneys regenerate a little bit. And when my if my creatinine is normal, which has been, you know, almost like one or something like that or, you know, 1.1, then I feel good eating whatever I want in terms of protein. So, you know, but that's what happens when you get older. You have to kind of like cycle your eating. I think that's that's a good good way to put it. I just don't think at 53, 60 years old, unless you're competing, okay? Because if you're competing, obviously different thing. If you're not competing, there's no reason to be eating, you know, six, eight times a day, you know, jamming three, 400 grams of protein in a day. I just don't think it serves a purpose. Um, if you're competing, however, and that's something that you want to do, then obviously that's then that's you have to eat that way. Talk to me a little bit about I I don't know if I you when you lived in New York, you had at least one you might have had two properties at some points or maybe even other things, right? So obviously at some point you dabbled in real estate and you know you have your place here in Florida and obviously you've been close with Chris Aceto forever and from what I can recall I know he's comes from the real estate world so and you he lives and operates in within that extensively. My question for you is as someone that's been in that world and then you know I get you see stuff on YouTube with people like oh buy a single family home when you can. What's your thoughts on that as someone that's kind of been down that road? You know, the thing I I I did in in New York, I had actually at one point I had three houses and I sold one of them that was in not such a great area. It was in a okay area and I was making rents, but for some reason the town was breaking my balls about they wanted it to be owner occupied. It was a two family house, but they wanted you to live in it. Why they changed the laws after however I owned it five years. So I sold it and I actually made a very good profit on it. I think I made like 200 grand profit on it or something like that. And right after I sold it, the real estate dropped. So I actually did well on that. When I sold my two, so I had one house and then I had another house around the corner. I was renting one of them out. And when I moved, when I decided to move and I sold both of them, it was at an all-time low. So I made a few bucks on the houses, but I couldn't there. Right now they're like they're double what I what I actually sold mine from. So it's kind of like but the taxes there were really really high. So, when you buy a house to invest, you have to number one say, okay, it's not just how much the house costs. What is it? What is the maintenance on? What is it going to cost you to maintain the house? What are your taxes? In New York, it's really high. You know, these the taxes are so high, you almost can't make enough money on the rents because if remember, there's always going to be months where something goes wrong and someone's going to pay your rent. You're going to have to kick out a tenant that doesn't pay you for two, three months. Are you going to lose money because of that because you're paying, you know, $2,000 a month in taxes? you know, you have to that has to be, you know, figured into the whole process. So, I I really didn't like being a landlord because, you know what, whenever I let my friends live there, I always had a problem because then they thought they didn't have to pay me. And when I went through real estate, I got better results, but when people are at the end of their string or they don't they lose their job or one guy became an alcoholic. Now, I got to so I got to hire a lawyer. I got to get them thrown out. I got to get them evicted. It was a pain in the ass. So, I I really didn't enjoy being a landlord. Um, however, I'm not opposed to buying real estate as an investment. I bought the house across the street where I live for here. Um, because I liked it. You know, I thought it would be nice to have be able to give it to my kids. I thought it was a good investment. The real estate here in Florida is crazy. I could almost, you know, double maybe double my money. I don't even know. But I don't even I don't want to sell it though, you know. So, and it'll never be this high again. It'll probably go back down. So, you know, why you have to say why are you buying the property? you buying it as an investment or to sell or to rent or you buying it because it's something down the road you you want to have, you know, or as because I I think real estate is better than money in the bank, you know. So, if you can get something low at a good deal and you have the money in the bank and you can buy cash, I think that's I think it's a great investment because land and and and houses don't, you know, don't lose value if you get them at a good rate. Now, if you're buying high now, you can lose money, you know. So like now if you go buy a house in Florida now you're going to pay a lot more than it's worth probably and they they might drop down you know considerably over the next two years but everyone wants to move out of New York and they want to buy a house in Florida now. So the real estate's super high. So this is but I there will be a drop and that's during that drop if you have money and you want to invest it's a it's a good deal. I tell people all the time if you're renting you're crazy. You go buy a duplex like you said down here in Florida you live in one side of it you rent the other side out. the other side pays your mortgage and all your expenses and you live for free. I mean, that's the first house you buy. You don't go buy a small house that you have to lay out money for and have a mortgage on because now you're I mean, it's better than paying rent, don't get me wrong, but if you can get someone else paying your mortgage and rent, even if it cost you a little bit more upfront, you'll make out like a bandit. And then I know people that, like you said, will buy multiple units. they'll take every dime they have or they'll just they'll get mortgages, you know, they'll get, you know, they'll put down the minimum, but then you're you're banking on the fact that these people are going to pay you rent every month. Now, renting is good now because people want to rent, but that doesn't mean they're going to pay you because if they if they lose their job or COVID hits, people just don't care. They're just not going to pay. They don't it's not going to they're not going to lose a day a night of sleep over it. But you will when you have to still pay your mortgage. So, it there's benefits and there's there's negatives. You know, it depends on, you know, if you if you like to gamble. But like I said, if you have money in the bank, I know guys like they got settlements for court cases or their their job gave them something and they went and they I said, "Go buy a house. Buy a house. Buy a house. Buy a house." And they went and they this, you know, over the five years spent the money on nothing and they have nothing to show for it. If they would have bought the house, lived in half of it and rented half of it, they would have something to show for their money, you know. Yep. Yeah. What I've been doing is um I'm experimenting with it now. So I I won't know for seven years, but I'm one of those people that guy Grant Cardone on YouTube. Yeah. So I gave him money. So we'll see in seven or eight years if I get a lot of money back. So Oh, yeah. I have a couple people that did that. I know a couple guys that did that. I have a a snake a snake breeder I'm friends with and he's he's big into like getting involved with these these guys that have these funds where they they buy developments and they buy complexes. Exactly. So yeah, he thinks it's a great deal. But you know what? I I I got a very bad taste. I invested in a gym a number of years ago, about 10 years ago, 15 years ago. And I was making a good I was making a good amount of money. They were paying me every month and then they just stopped. So I said, I'm never investing with someone else. If I'm going to do it, I'm going to do it myself now because you know what? I'm smart enough now to do it. I learned the hard way. I'm not giving anyone else my money because you know what? If they need my money, then maybe it's not such a good investment. Why wouldn't they just use their money, you know, to do it? So now I understand there's people that get other people's money and then invest it and they're making money off your money. But I I get worried when when that comes about. Yeah. Because I I I have a very similar approach where I tell myself where once I give someone money, I have to assume I might not ever get it back anymore. Byebye. Byebye. Exactly. So I've accepted that it's gone and if it comes back, I'm just going to be thankful. So that's but that's how it is because otherwise I wasn't at a point where I could buy a commercial building in Florida before CO for $3 million. You know, that wasn't going to be realistic or I didn't want to get into a situation like that. So Sure. final questions to close with today is um it's funny because we were talked about it before we we went on camera, but not this specifically. You own a snake business, which some people know. What's the hardest thing about owning a snake business? If you were isolated to one thing, what's the hardest thing about it that people wouldn't know? Um, well, number one, I don't have enough time to to dedicate to it. Luckily, I just hired someone fine, like a full-time worker, and he's been really, really good. This guy Pablo, and he's uh he's into snakes, too. And he was one of my customers, and he lives local to me. So, he's really been helping me out. But the thing about business, especially if you own more than one business, is you you need help, okay? Because although you don't want to create another job for yourself, you want to create, you know, a way to make money. Now, I I breed snakes. I love the snakes. I wouldn't do it if I didn't like it. I don't do anything I don't like, okay? So, I really love it, but I I've escalated the size of my collection. You know, people ask me, "How many snakes you got?" And I I've been telling him about 350. He This guy probably counted my snakes. I have 650. Okay. So, I underestimated my collection by by 50%. And now I have babies hatching from my eggs. So, I'll have another couple hundred. So, you know, you have to, you know, that there's a lot of, you know, poop to clean and a lot of mouths to feed. And there's a monthly expense to that. I don't that's not intimidating because I know I've been sell I sell a lot of snakes and I use my YouTube channel my muscles university YouTube channel to educate people like I do here on RX Muscle and that's how I sell snakes because people you know feel comfortable buying from me and I and I'd like to believe that I have good quality animals um and and good cool new stuff I'm I'm always producing and that's that's the creative side of me that's like the instead of painting a picture I'm painting a picture with animals. So, uh, but the take-home message here, the hardest thing to do in business is if you don't like the business or you don't like what you're doing, you're creating a very, very, very big job for yourself that you're going to hate every single day. I like what I'm doing or I would not breed animals. And so, that the easy part for me is the fact that I'm doing something that I really like. The hard part is that is managing all the different working parts between. Luckily, my wife runs the the the nutrition business and the arcs muscle, all the books and stuff like that. She does all the orders and everything like that for dayp.com. But it's a team effort. You know, we we you know, I'm always moving myself around. And then you want to make sure you have time for your kids. So, that's the hardest part, finding the time to do what I need to do over there. Final question for you because you just gave some great business advice for people and I was thinking about this from a more personal one is I know you've talked about it uh over the years. I've heard you mention it in your late 20s, maybe late 20s, early 30s, you you were married once. Yeah. Now you're in a second chapter of your life. You have a family. You're married again. As someone that's, you know, does does this now and kind of making it all come together? What kind of advice would you give to people as someone that did it once and then did things again? What have you learned in the context of relationship now that you're 53? We'd say, "Hey, this is what I've learned is is really the keys to making relationship work now that I have a lot more experience." The the key is you attract who you are. You understand what I'm saying? Yes, I do. The reason why a lot of us are not in the very few people meet their high school sweetheart and go through their whole life and and die, you know, 90 years old holding each other's hands. Okay? Because most people change as they as life progresses. They hit different stages in their life. And the person who they met when they were 22 that served them beautifully then, right? The relationship was amazing then because that was what who you were then no longer serves you when you get to 30 years old. And then the person you meet at 30 years old, okay, which was heavenly, right? It was perfect. Everything worked perfect. No longer serves you when you're 40 years old because now you have you're some people change. Some people never change. So, so those people, so you can go through relationships and and I've been through relationships and with people who I'm no longer in a relationship with and they're the same as they were. I changed, you know, so I, you know, no longer attracted that person. So now I'm attracting something different, you know. So I think that, you know, you shouldn't get so hung up necessarily on the fact that you made a mistake or that you didn't do anything right. You know, when I was bodybuilding, it was a selfish lifestyle and I was dating people who were, you know, selfish, too, in a sense. And um, and it worked, right? I wasn't looking to have kids or anything like that. But when I started not competing anymore and I wanted to move on to that next level of having a serious relationship with someone who I would who I'd even consider to be the mother mother of my children. You attract a different person. That's when I attracted my wife. So, you know, that's just part of life. And I think we all go through saying, "Oh, I got to find that person. Oh my god, you know, I'm going to go to this club this way. I'm going to go to this side." No, don't even worry about it. you will attract you'll find them in the supermarket or you'll find them in uh you know my first my first wife it's funny I I was very depressed I was in medical school it was my birthday my sister said I'm going to take you out to a club for your birthday I was dieting for a competition I'm like I don't want to go out I'm like I'm dieting no you're going out okay we go to this club and my sister had been telling me about this girl that she knew from the gym or something like that and we we my sister says insists on holding my wallet because I have one of those big fat Italian wallets I always have you know and I had my rent money in there and I had no money at this point and my sister lost my w it goes in the bathroom and leaves my wallet on the sink or something like that and they call me on the overhead speaker that they found my wallet or they found a wallet and they describing it and and it was mine. I knew it right away. I'm like you have my wallet. She's like so I go in there of course everything's in there except the money which was my rent and then so I'm like really mad at my sister now and I'm hungry and I don't want to be there and then all of a sudden this girl you know comes up. Hey, what's up? She thinks my my sister's my girlfriend. I guess I had seen her in the gym a couple times. I didn't know that that was the same girl my sister was talking about and it turned out to be the, you know, my first ex-wife, whatever, Barbara. And we w up talking. She gave me her number. I said, "I got to get out of here." My sister lost my my rent. And I I was I didn't even care. I could care less to meet anyone on that particular day. You know, usually you're out looking looking. I had that like I don't give a [\h__\h] attitude. I just want to get out of here. You know, I'm hungry. I That was the last thing. And that's how that's how it happens, you know. And so, you know, you attract who you are and it worked. I really I was with her for like, you know, eight or n eight years, something like that. So, and it was, but the point is that I think people try too hard and then they try to go back and analyze what did I do wrong. Well, you know what? You probably did nothing wrong. You know, you probably that's who you were. You change who you are. You attract someone different, you know. Yeah. Final question for you. I keep saying it, but now I I got to work in one more because I'm just fascinated to hear your answer. So, you have three kids now. So you're like a professional baby making factory over there. Was going from two to three hard or was it just business as usual? Like I've always heard one's like, "Wow, this is a change. Two, you like a crew." And then three, what's three like? Is it any different? Yeah, three was harder. Yeah, because then I, you know, I really had to take a really really active role because um obviously my wife couldn't, you know, handle, you know, three kids and she's with the baby and so I had to really, you know, be up be available a lot more to watch the other two kids and yeah, there's a definitely the more you have, the more level the higher the level of responsibility and, you know, try taking three of those kids out, you know, with you. If my wife and I weren't together, they would be my son's everywhere. I mean, they're running around like lunatics. It it's Yeah, it absolutely is. But it's it's it's good. I I to be honest with you, I really wouldn't I know my wife wants more. Would say she would want more. I don't want anymore. I think three is great. And this is not the reason I don't want more kids. It's just that I think when you get too many, it's like you start neglecting some of them. And I don't want to ever I want them all to feel like they got my attention even though they're super jealous over, you know, if this one gets this and this one doesn't get that and I want to go with daddy and you know, that kind of stuff. But it it does get more complicated. I think three is is ideal right now. And we have three bedrooms upstairs. So, yeah, I don't want to start doubling up, you know, kids into bedrooms. Yeah. Everyone 12 years old lives in the house across the street. Plus, I'm plus I'm 5. My wife's young. I'm 53. I don't, you know, I don't want to be 90 and be taking my kid to graduation, you know. Well, I recently heard like like Clint Eastwood, of course, super famous. His son Scott Eastwood, I think he had it when he was like seven. Yeah, I believe it. Yeah, I believe it. Yeah. Yeah. He Yeah. Some of these guys had some some Michael Douglas, didn't he also have kids later? Yeah. Yeah, you're right. Yeah, with Katherine Zeta Jones. So, there you go. You like you the bodybuilding version of Clint Eastwood. There we go. Well, I always say it's funny. Chris Chris Aceto had had um has a young kid, you know, he's got two grown teenagers, but he's got two young ones, too. So, I'm like, he's got four and they're all boys, you know, so because they were trying to go for the girl and you haven't got the girl, you know. So, yeah. Well, that's good. Well, I think that's what we're going to close with uh here today, uh Dave. So, thanks for as always making the time and uh educating the listeners. So, until next time, we're out.