Old School Bodybuilding Clothing Company. If it's been 3 and 1/2 hours since you last ate protein and now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for 5 minutes between sets playing with their phone pisses you off, you are definitely old school. osbc.com for the hardest training athletes. Dave Palumbo here for another RX Muscle rant and I am fuming mad. So, this is going to be a good one. I can't tell you how many times, you know, I get text messages, emails from people telling me, asking me, "Hey Dave, can I have this on my diet?" Which is great. I completely encourage all my clients to always ask questions because rather than make mistakes. and I received a a text message with this image of Muscle Milk. Now, you guys remember Muscle Milk, okay? That's been around for years. Recently, I don't remember what year, they were bought by Pepsi. So, Pepsi actually owns Muscle Milk now. It was a huge sale and they have a relatively, I believe, new product out um where they actually um sell it or market it as dairyfree. Um I don't know if we can pull up those images. And on the front of this uh label, it says nondairy or dairyfree protein shake. You can actually it even says it right on the packaging there. The first thing you see is nondairy protein shake. So you figure, okay, if it doesn't have dairy in it, that means that it's that that the protein source in there must be either like plant derived or maybe from from eggs. I've never seen an eggshake, but it's it's got to come from something other than milk, right? because milk is dairy. But then you go and you look and you turn the thing on because what I always ask my clients, I always tell my clients, "All right, you sent me the package of this thing. You ask me, is it good? Let me see the ingredient list." Because nothing the the supplement fact paddles don't impress me because they they can fudge those. The packaging doesn't, you know, impress me. I want to see what's in the product. You have to look at your ingredient list. That tells you the whole story. So, if you pull up the ingredient list on Muscle Milk, you'll find uh the first or actually the first ingredient is water, but the second ingredient is milk protein isolate. Milk. Milk. Milk. Milk is dairy, guys. Dairy. And on the front it says nondairy or dairyfree. It contains freaking milk. Casein comes from milk. What? How are these companies allowed to do this? Milk is in there. It's not dairyf free. I produce a product called isolife. Okay. It's the highest grade whey protein isolate you could pretty much buy. I I can't find an ingredient that that is is is any better than that that has filtered more lactose and crap out of there than than my protein whey protein isolate. And you know what? I don't put lactose free and dairy free on my product because it's not even if it has trace amounts. It's not. This is not even using a whey isolate. It's using milk protein uh isolate in there. Milk is is dairy. How could they have the audacity to put and this is a company that's owned by Pepsi. It's not some little, you know, company that's trying to scam people that popped up out of nowhere and they're trying to make a few bucks on Amazon. This is a This is Pepsi. Pepsi is huge and they're putting And you know what? I looked up the term, you know, dairyfree or non-dairy. And the FDA for some reason has decided that that they don't regulate that term. Why? I have no idea. They regulate every freaking thing else. You can't do this. You can't say that. They can't make claims. They're claiming it's dairy free and they putting milk in it. It's the second ingredient. The reason I'm I'm going nuts over this is because th this is not the only Okay, product out there that can be con can be can try to screw with the people's minds. Okay, there are other products out there that do the exact same thing. There's an ice cream that I I I found in the supermarket because I'm very lactose intolerant. So, I'm looking for maybe an ice cream that doesn't use milk in it, right? So, I find an ice cream that says lactoseree. To me, that means there's no lactose in there, right? I mean, that that that's I mean, my father was an English teacher. I don't know how else to interpret that. And I look on the on the back and there's milk is one of the ingredients in the in the actual ice cream. How could you say it's lactoseree when there's milk in there? Once again, the the the the most incredible highest quality whey isolate that has removed and filtered the most lactose you possibly can do given the modern technology we have today is still not lactosefree because there's always going to be trace amounts in there. So if you have a lactose allergy and you see lactose free and you eat this ice cream, you could die from it if especially if the allergy is severe enough. So read your ingredient lists, okay? Don't believe the supplement fact panels because once again it's based on amounts you see in these butter sprays out there. I can't believe it's not butter. You know, two or three sprays, they have it has zero everything. It has zero carbs, zero protein, zero fat. How is that possible? This stuff is pure soybean oil. If you read the ingredient list, it's soy. How can soybean oil be zero fat? It's because it's based on serving size. So, always read ingredient list. That's the take-home message. don't believe the claims and marketing they put on the front of these labels or in the ads that they they put out there on the internet because they lie and fudge and use every little legal maneuver that maneuverability that they can possibly muster to get away with it because the FDA doesn't regulate the term dairyf free. They put dairyf free on there even though it's not. I wouldn't give Pepsi any of my business for the sheer fact that they're deceiving the market. Okay. So severely because Coke tastes better and Tyler said because Coke tastes better. It's it's really an atrocity and it's and it really pisses me off when I see stuff like that because you know what? As a supplement company owner, I really try to be fully transparent and tell people the truth. And you know, I could tell people my product is is is lactosefree because you can you can pretty much use isol and not have a problem if you have lactose sensitivity. But I'd be lying. it it has trace amounts in there. And so I don't believe in lying on my products. So listen to me. When you go out there and you're looking for products, okay, read the ingredient list. If you don't know what a certain ingredient might be, guess what? Google it. They will tell you. We have a wonderful tool, okay, called on our phone, on our computers called Google. You can put any ingredient you want in there. You will find out in 3 seconds what it is because they disguise sugars as different names. They disguise everything nowadays because they don't want you to know what you're really consuming. Be an educated consumer. And I promise you, you will avoid the pitfalls of making huge mistakes on your diet. And let's face it, you know, you work so hard in the gym. You work so hard on following a strict diet and doing your cardio. You try to get enough rest and do everything right. And then you screw up because you know what? Some stupid and unscrupulous company out there has deceived you and tricked you into using a product that you shouldn't be using. Dave Palumbo here with an RX Muscle news update.