I am standing here with not only the wellness overall champion but the figure overall champion as well, Jordan Wellnitz. Well knits wins wellness. Yeah, right. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here with Dean Caputo at the North Coast Championships. Your name's on that poster, so you must be important, Dean. A little bit. I try. Uh, it's mainly just, you know, what we've done in the past and trying to keep it going into the future. Well, I'm going to be interviewing all the overall winners here today because we want to give these individuals their day in the light, so to speak. And we're going to be putting this on RX Muscle. And Dean brought me in here. I did a great seminar last night. We've been here all day with the men, the women, the overall champions are all getting their expenses paid to the team universe, right? Or North American championships, whichever one they choose. with everyone North American or the universe whichever one they choose this year is a great great accolade for them to say hey now I can go do nationals it's not going to cost me anything exactly that's what Monica and I we always try and give back to the athletes and that's why our slogan for the North Coast is where the competitor is a star so that's why we try and do as much as we can for the athletes and we try and give as much as we want and we thought this year let's help them with their expenses to those shows awesome plus Rich Gaspar an icon in our industry is here as well spent the whole weekend with and fans were loving it. So, let's get to the interviews with the overall champs. I'm standing over here with our men's overall champion, Ryan Castile. Just turned 40, his first show ever, beating all the big guys. Yeah. Yeah. Trying to trying to keep up with the young guys. You know, I was looking from backstage at the overall, and I said to myself, that guy's cheekbones are the only cheekbones that are in shape that I can see. He's going to win this show. You have the best tan, best presentation. You did it right, man. It took you 20 years to get the stage. What took you so long? Uh, life. I mean, kids, work, they come first in my life. How old are your kids? Uh, my daughter's 12, my son's seven. Sports. Yeah. Keeps you busy. Yeah. So, I've been I've been struggling. But what made you decide to pull the trigger? It's a bucket list. It's been a long long list on my bucket and I wanted to cross it off as soon as I could. I was just getting older. It's all about conditioning. You You prove that today because you came in here peeled to the bone. The last 10 months have been brutal. I'm gonna tell you that right now. The bulk 10-month diet. I started bulk and then I I did like a It was like a 14week straight diet. Hard hardcore. Just strict. You You just showed that the guys that are in the best shape win these shows now. What What's next? I mean, do you have AI mean, you should I can see you going right to the national level at this point. Yeah. Yeah, I'm going to try. My coach is pushing me. I told him we see how this show goes and we'll go from there. Well, I guess we found our answer. So, Well, you got to find out if the kids have sports though on the same day. I'll mix it in. I'll mix it in. Trust me, I've been doing it for the last 15 years. So, what do you do for a living? I'm a lineman for Ohio Edison. So, that that takes a brutal tool. Yeah. You're out in you're out in the storms working 16 24 hours a day. So, it's hard to balance this and I bow to you. I bow to you. It's hard to balance family work and and get on the body stage and look this good. Hey, I appreciate that. It's hard. It's hard work. Congratulations on the big win. Very much. Thank you. I'm standing here with our classic men's overall champion, Vincenzo Yokalano. Tough tough class. You beat some really good guys out there. What do you think won of you? Uh conditioning. I think conditioning and posing. We had uh took it home for me. I'm very pleased with it. Probably the best legs on stage, too. Thank you so much. The legs brought me far. I got to ask you about this tattoo. What does it What does it say? Turn. Show the camera. To hell I go. To hell I go. One of my favorite songs from uh Zack Bryan, so I just had to get it. I'm very spur of the moment with all my tattoos, so there's not too much meaning. I, you know, whenever I see someone tattoo their head, I think Lee Priest, but I'm a little bit crazy. You got to be a little crazy. A little bit crazy. Now, coming into classic physique, obviously, you could have done bodybuilding as well, you know? You you kind of have like a crossover type physique. What What attracts you to classic? The beauty of classic physique, the flow. Uh, I just I've always loved the old school classic bodybuilding, and this is what it reminisces. So, that's just what I guided myself towards. How old are you now? 31. What's next for you? The the next show, North Americans. That's awesome. I want my pro card. Yeah. And you got some some real good accolades here. You beat some really good guys. Um what was the biggest challenge would you say coming into this competition getting ready for it? Beating my own mind. Uh the expectations I set for myself are higher than anybody could ever set for me. So, uh I'm I'll defeat myself before anybody tells me. What are those expectations? I've been lifting for 15 years. So, I figure I'm going to go out there. I don't care. This is my first show. I'm going to bring the absolute first show guy. Wow. We just interviewed the men's bodybuilding open. He was at 40 his first show. Oh, really? Yeah. This is my favorite. What made you wait so long? You never know. I don't know. I figure I'm going to do it before I can't. So, this is what I Well, I'm just saying this has been something that you've been passionate about. You've been training so long. Why did you wait so long to get on stage? I've been passionate about weightlifting. That's just been my go-to thing. So, I decided to gear myself towards something to have a goal so I don't end up just killing myself for no reason. Right. Right. So, in other words, you were doing it anyway. And and then you probably said to yourself, "Why am I killing myself if I'm not going to get up there?" Now you tested it out. Now you won an overall and you go into North Americans. What's your expectations going into that show? Uh just bring a 10 times better package. Uh I I've already beat myself here, so I just got to do it one more time. It doesn't matter who's on stage next to me. I'm competing against Vinnie. Congratulations. Great job today. Vincenzo Yokalano, our classic physique overall champion. Dave Palumbo standing here with Jay Northrup, our men's physique overall champion here at the North Coast Championships. Tough battle. Wasn't there wasn't a lot of guys in the show, but the guys were all good. Yes, very good. Great conditioning. Uh, and they came prepared. Posing was amazing. You know, I look at your physique and I'm like, this guy's got legs. What made you decide men's physique rather than going classic? Uh, I have a small waist, big upper body, the dorito shape as they say. So, um, it just kind of fits and everyone said that this is something I'd be good at. Is it something that you enjoy? I love I love competing. This is my fourth show. Uh, best run show I've been to and, um, yeah, it's just great just being out here and trying myself every single time. Now, that now that you've won the overall and I know that there's some little perks that you're going to get, will we see you at a national show? Yes, I plan on doing Universe actually this year. That's going to be super cool. And I know they're paying all your expenses, which is great. Yes. Yes. Let me ask you this question. Okay. What do you First of, what do you do for a living? Uh I do clinical research which means what? Uh so I work for a biioharmical company and I run phase one through four clinical trials. That is awesome. Any anything we should expect uh on the horizon? Anything cool? Unfortunately I signed NDA. Ah okay. All right. Now how do you get how did you get into lifting you know with that type of a background? Uh I played college sports. I played um division one rugby at Kent State and then from there um just kind of this is really your hometown. Yeah. Yeah pretty much. Um but then From there, um, I've always been big into weightlifting, playing football and everything. And this is just something I kind of just gravitated towards after, um, I was done competing in rugby. How long how old are you now? I'm 28. Yeah. It's funny because the first guy I interviewed who won the men's overall was 40. Okay. The last first show, last guy was 31, first show. You're you're a veteran already, and you're still in your 20s. Obviously, you got a long career ahead of you. Uh, everyone's always wants to get a pro card. That's everyone's goal, but what what's your trajectory in your mind at this point as to where you want to be to say this time next year? Um, this time next year, I mean, obviously I would like to get my pro card and be a pro and I feel pro, but um, honestly, just better myself, grow. I know I have a lot to do in this sport in terms of I can bring better conditioning, I can bring better shape and structure and add more mass on. Um, so those are things I'm just kind of looking out for me and my coach. Coming from a a science background, I'm sure you do things very methodically. So, I'm sure we're going to see dramatic improvements as the years progress. Yes, very much so. Congratulations. Thank you very much. All right, we're standing here with Kaylee Plancker, our first ever fit model overall champion here at the North Coast Championships. And uh you haven't really been training that long, huh? No, not not long at all to be honest with you. Inconsistently for the past like four years, I'd say. Um but I started my offseason with a coach last June. Th this is what this division was created for. For people who are just getting into the industry who don't maybe have as much muscle as some of the bikini or the figure girls. You're like the the the cover model for this division. And how does it feel to be the first champion? Really good. I don't think words can explain how good I feel. Um the work that I put in definitely been through some trials and it all paid off. Now, are you one of these people that lost a lot of body fat to get in the best shape of your life or you a person that struggled with putting muscle on? So I actually used to weigh like 190 lbs. No way. Wow. So, I have uh slimmed down a lot and tried to keep as much muscle as I can, but it's been an overall like just weight loss journey and then I transformed it into bodybuilding. That's awesome. What do we weigh today? 124. This is a real transformation. We got to get we got to get you you got to give me your uh your before picture so I can put this into this interview because I don't think anyone will believe it. What's next for you? Um I plan on uh going to offseason and keep competing and maybe build into a different division. I don't know. We'll see. Don't go up to 200 lb, please. No. Oh, no. No, no, no. I plan on eating a little bit, but not that much. We got We got to keep an eye on this one because uh you could be dangerous. Any desire to like go to that next level, try to get a pro card, or you or you're not ready for that level yet in your mind? I'm not sure yet. Okay. I don't know what's in store for me. All right. Well, enjoy this spoils of your victory. Enjoy your meal. Not too much. No. And and we'll see I'm sure we'll see you back on stage again. I'm standing here with Haley Woods, our bikini overall champion here at the North Coast Championships. You got a big fan base over there. You got like a whole cheering section. Yeah, I couldn't thank my coaches enough. That's why I'm You have multiple coaches. It seems like I do. I do. I have CC and Rushka. They're awesome. What is the secret to your win tonight? My secret um staying dedicated, staying disciplined, and remembering that you're doing this for yourself at the end of the day. What color are your eyes? They're hazel. They say that hazel eyes are the most rare eye type, actually. Oh, really? I didn't know that. I I got a question for you. Um well, not really a question, but I kind of helped you indirectly. I didn't really know. Dean Caputo, our good friend who runs this show, called me up one night and said, "I want you to talk to a friend of mine. She's having trouble uh keeping her stomach flat and and I made a couple recommendations, one of them being fiberized. Um because as we know competitors when they're eating low carb diets, low fiber diets, they sometimes get backed up. Tell us your experience with fiberized. So I started taking Fiber cuz I was not going to the bathroom for about a month and I never thought I'd be on an interview talking about my bowel habits. But you're help You're helping other women though. You're helping other women. Yeah. And so I couldn't go for a month. And then um I was put on the phone with uh Palumbo and he basically told me about Fiber. And Fiberlize is probably the best treat you could have before bed. It's like Okay. No offense, but it's like drinking applesauce. That's what it tastes like. So you let it get thick then? You didn't just guzzle. I just guzzle it usually, but yeah. I'll let it like thicken up a little bit and it tastes like applesauce. So it's like a sweet treat before bed. Some women put it in the refrigerator and make Jell-O out of it. And others put it in the freezer and make ices out of it. Oh my gosh. I didn't even know that. So if you want some extra recipes there. Oh yeah, cuz I mean I'm probably going to take this the rest of my life. You should. I tell that with all the commanders. And this is not a shameless plug, but it really did help her. And as you can see, she probably has one of the smallest waste of anyone in the show. Yeah, it definitely helped. Are you going to the national level at this point? Well, now that I got a free entry, I think I got to go take on Miss Universe. You're going to go to the universe in uh Tene, New Jersey then. Yeah. Yeah. Good luck with that pro card. You know, you never know. I know your cheering section here is definitely pushing for you. Yeah. Anyone you want to thank? Um I want to thank God. He's the reason why I'm here and he's blessed me so so much. I want to thank my family and my friends for always supporting me. All right. Haley Wood, our bikini overall champion. I am standing here with not only the wellness overall champion but the figure overall champion as well. Jordan Wellnitz Wellnitz wins wellness right wellness. That's a tongue twister. Yes, it is like Peter Pcker picked a peek of pickles peckers. Shel by the sheep shore picking picking up. I don't know that one either. I I see some very interesting tattoos on you. I think Lee Priest might be jealous. I hope so. How how I see one on your lip right there. Yeah. How painful was that? Um that was actually pretty rough actually for some reason. But the chin wasn't bad. It was just the lip that was bad. I know that I if I ever get a pimple on my lip and I pop it. It's like tears are coming down my eyes. It's so bad. It's that was like the worst part, but the the rest of it wasn't that was okay. So you also have one on the palm. Hold hold up your palm now. What is that? It's just a mandala. Yeah. What made you decide to get on the palm of your hand? I don't think I've ever seen a tattoo on the palm of someone's hand. Um, it was my artist, my tattoo artist's birthday, and he has never done a palm before, so figured you'd be the guinea pig. Yeah, I let him do it. And I was telling people that I had this like tattoo on my wrist here that looks like pathetic compared to what you have. And I was crying like while you were doing it. And then I looked at your leg and I was like, "Holy mackerel." Yeah. That was a rough one. That took about six sessions. So, you know, I I got to tell you though, you know, I've seen tattoos on people that just wasn't tasteful. like this is like really art artistic. I I I have to I really like the tattoos. It's uh it's been since I was 18. So, I kind of accumulated like this art style that I wanted and it kind of all came together really well. Yeah, you won figure and wellness, which is a weird combination because, you know, which just tells you how good you were here tonight. Thank you. Uh that's got to be I don't know if it's got to be a record here at the North Coast. Where's Dean Kabuto? I think so. I think so. I was going to do physique as well, but ended up not being not doing that. You might have won that, too. Then you could have had three. Now, let me ask you this question. What's What's the division that you like the most that like if you went to the national level, you would we would probably do? Um, I'm actually going to be going to nationals in a couple of weeks and I'm going to be doing figure and wellness. Are you doing them both? Are you allowed to do both? Yep. I guess if you pay for it, they don't care. Yep. They don't care. So, Dean has to pay for two of them then. Yeah. So, you basic two two but then he but he only has to pay for one trip. So, that's not so bad. Correct. Dean two divisions you got to pay for. Sorry. How did you get into this whole sport? Um I went on vacation to Florida two years ago and uh my friend who's a bodybuilder, she had never competed. She we did a photo shoot together and she was like, "You have to you have to try." And I was like, "No, I just like lifting for fun." Um and then I ended up hiring a coach that You've only been doing this for two years. Yeah. Holy macro. Thank you. I was a gymnast for 17 years. So Okay. So you had a lot of muscle. Yeah. Yeah. I had a lot of muscle and then I was a gymnastics coach and as a gymnastics coach I had to be able to like spot my kids so I lifted a lot so it kind of You could probably theoretically do fitness too if you really wanted to. Yeah, I've had a couple people tell me to do that. You can do like four divisions on stage. She'll do women's physique, wellness, figure and fitness. It would be it would be fun. I thought about it too because it looked like a fun division. So yeah. So we're going to see what team universe. Is that the next step? I'm actually going to Junior Nats first. Oh, Junior Nats. All right. So that's going to be what in two weeks? Uh it's about three three and a half. So June 21st, end of June. Anyone you want to thank out there? Um I just want to thank all my sponsors, uh my boyfriend and my coaches Mike and uh Dion. I would have not made through this prep without them. So I really really love all of them so much. Well knits one wellness. Remember that. You can't forget that. It is a tongue twister, but you were awesome tonight. Thank you so much. All right, I'm here with Sam Khazar, our women's physique overall champion trained by my good friend Brian Huyik. Brian Huyik, congratulations. Thank you. Another tattoo girl. Let me see. Let me see that Beetlejuice. Show that camera the Beetlejuice. That's pretty cool. Thank you. What's this? Um, that is the Mad Hatter and the Cheshure Cat and the Mushroom. Alice in Wonderland. Yeah, Alice Wonderland. Very cool. I like it. Very creative. Creative hair, too. Thank you. All right, so you won here. Yes. Uh what's next? Um we're going for the next show hopefully or think pink in the fall. So that's they're paying. You can go to nationals. I know. I know. It's going to be it's going to be a word with Brian. Trust me. Yeah. Brian, come here. Oh, I I got to bring you just because you know Brian and I know each other for 30 years. What's next for her? Uh I don't know. We were talking about maybe September 7th there's a show that she's going to do. So they'll they're willing to pay for the nationals. though. She's got a free uh ticket. I know, but I don't think she's ready for nationals. All right. She knows she's not ready for nationals. Yeah. Is physique the the division that you feel most, you know, compelled by? Yes, absolutely. Did you start in physique? Yes. Yeah. Brian put me in physique and it's just it's been a good road with him. Yeah. How does it feel to have be the overall champion today? Feels amazing. She said she was going to win it. Yeah. I I already came in here with Guns of Glory. I already knew I was taking it on. So you had you had a good mental state the whole way through the whole way through. What was the hardest part of the diet? She diets good. There's really no hard part of the diet. It's keeping your mental state in check cuz then it makes everything else easier cuz then I was telling him I was sitting there in the eating cold food and I didn't think twice of it because it's just really going you're only so many days away. Why stop now at what you're doing? I always say that it's only temporary the pain and you could eat whatever you want when the show's over. Exactly. So, I enjoyed a chocolate rice cake as an overall winner. It's the small things in life that give us things in life. Yes. Exactly. Great job, Brian. Thank you. And great job and hopefully we'll see you on stage sometime soon. Yes, absolutely. Thank you.