All right, I'm standing here with David Barton at David Barton Gym here in Belleview, Washington. Dave, you got a a lot of gyms. A lot of people know the name David Barton. Now you're you've branded yourself uh you're in Miami. You're in New York City. You're here out in Washington. Uh a lot of people don't know who you are, though. And a lot of people don't know that you were one of the original Bob Grushkin bodybuilders back in the day. That's right. There is a David Barton, and it's me. And um yeah, I haven't uh competed in quite some time. Um now I'm just uh making gyms for uh you know, for other people. You look young, Dave. But how old are you nowadays? Oh, man. I don't like to say I You were competing back in the 80s, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to be 50 in a year, so I figure maybe I'm Yeah, man. You know, I'm getting We're getting over both. Close. I'm 45. I shouldn't talk. Yeah. No, I haven't competed since 1991. But yeah, Bob Grman was my coach. And uh what were some of the shows you did back in the day? Well, I um actually I don't know if I should say this. I went from NPC to AAOU. Oh, you did. You switched. That's when Bob was I did. Yeah. Yeah. And they were real nice to me there. So, um you know, the last show was right before the AAU uh or the NAB Universe. I stopped. I was opening up my first gym. It was 1992. And um before that, I did a lot of the you know, I did all the MPC shows. Um and uh what made you say I'm going to go into the gym business? Cuz it's not an easy business really. And you've been very successful at it. Um I, you know, I don't know. I was the gym business. Um I was I got out of college. I thought I was going to go into music. I was I'm a musician. I was a drummer. I rock bands. I still play in bands. I was like a punk rocker. I loved working out. I looked around at these gyms and I thought, you know, gyms were I loved working out, but I wanted a gym that would kind of mix like sex, drugs, and rock and roll and working out, you know? Sure. How do you mix sex, drugs, rock and roll, and health? So I did like let me like make a cool gym. It's kind of rock and roll. And um it turned out to, you know, it was a big hit that first one. And um is this the coolest gym? This is the coolest one I've seen. I think they're all pretty cool. They're all different. Um this one's uh this one's special. They're all my babies. It's hard to say which is cool. How much money did you spend on this gym? This gym is I mean, we're standing on a on like a an extreme sport ramp, I guess you could say. It's the entrance way to the gym here. Yeah, man. This was a billion dollars to I swear to God, it looks like it was cost a billion, man. It was. But you know, people are worth it. I wanted to this place was like really like a you know it's like a you know this place is like a palace and if you could see you did it did you say what am I [\h__\h] nuts I know I'm [\h__\h] nuts but you know I I wanted like this this is like a skateboarders ramp I you know halfpipe I wanted to bring like the outdoors in Seattle people love the outdoors but it rains like 11 months out of the year like let me bring the outdoors in turn it upside down like you know your kids skateboard on this thing you don't let them no I kick their ass if they try so uh no this is just for you know it's for looks but you're good Man, bring a skateboard. You can like skateboard. I'll kill myself. I already broke tore my quad on the staircase. Talk to me a little bit about is it uh the lighting here because I know last year I was told by some of your employees you weren't here last year. That the lighting alone you spent almost a million dollars on. Yeah. No, the lighting listen lighting gym is really important. First of all, you want to look in the mirror and look amazing. You know, like I you know um when I build bodybuilders always hit poses and we always like good lighting. Want to look good. Want to look good. Want to look beautiful in the beer. So, um, you know, like I just wanted to take the fluorescent lights out of the gym, make it cool, give it good music, you know, rock it out, cool stuff, and, uh, you know, make kind of sexy, which it should be. And, you know, um, lighting just wasn't being done right. So, I I I put a lot into the lighting. How much? Seriously, is it was it a million or is that an exaggeration? Uh, I'm falling off your lighting. Lighting here was almost a million bucks. That's crazy. Now, um, what kind of a clientele do you have here? Is it mixed? Are you one of these gyms that doesn't want bodybuilders here? I love bodybuilders. I'm I'm a bodybuilder. What am I going to discriminate against my own? Some guys do. My cat sold out. You went Planet Hollywood. You went Planet Fitness. No. Um Planet Fitness? No, man. I let you listen. You know, I like to get a mix of people, you know, like men, women, young, old, just like everything. And um to me, you know, listen, bodybuilding, you know, everything I everything good in my life came from bodybuilding, you know. It taught me how to be disciplined. It gave me a career. Like I just, you know, um, you know, bodybuilding is like in my soul, in my blood. If you cut me open, bodybuilding would spill out onto the floor. I'm glad you haven't abandoned those roots. Now, I noticed you got the couch over there. I like the couch. We'll show all this after. And, uh, Brian Moss had the couch. I remember at Better Bodies back in the day. Did you get that from him? No. Um, I don't think so. No, it we just we had a little area. I wanted to have a place the gym. I wanted a place for people to hang after they train. So, I had somebody make that. It's a very long like chest. I had somebody I had that made for me. But now I like to put furniture in the gym, let people hang out. Brian's gym was cool, man. Brian was uh you know that was there was like three gyms in Manhattan back then. Remember there's like no gyms and you know where where do you have what gyms? What's the locations of the current gyms you have? So you have three in New York, one down place, one in Chelsea, one upper east side, then one in Miami Beach, South Beach, Chicago. Where in Chicago is there one? It's in River North. It's on 600 West Chicago. It's like on the river um in a really groovy neighborhood. Um I want to do more stuff in Chicago. Chicago is a great city here. Um and then uh we're in um uh Vegas in which is Summerland, which is like a suburb. Right. Right. Right. You're in Vegas, not in the strip. And uh two in LA. Is that a headache though? How do you manage all these? Do you own them all or you are these franchises? Uh no. No, we uh own all of them. And um and uh the ones in LA, we did a partnership with a guy out there, so they helped run it. Um, but uh uh is it a headache? Did you say you look so mellow? You want drugs? You're not taking drugs, are you? I don't know. I can't remember. Yeah. No, man. No, it's No, I can't. That's like Yeah, that not healthy. David Austin, what you did is very innovative and there's not many people doing anything innovative, but I'm going to I'm going to put you on the spot. I want a front double bicep for the cavern to show. You still got your bodybuilding. Look, the guy's taking the shirt off and everything. I hate that. perform into the cal there a little bit. David Barton, he actually still uh walks the walk. He's got ripped abs at 50 years old. Skull chains on. And what do you got about 18 19 inch arms there? Oh man, I don't know. I don't know. Like I think split bicep. Look at that. I think they're they're getting smaller as I get older. But I'm I got to keep in shape. I think you should compete. You look like you're ready to compete this week. Maybe I will then.