I'm Dave Palumbo and I'm about to give you a little glimpse into my world. This is my life. I am back again with another great nutrition tip. I know you guys have been clamoring for when I'm going to come out with my new raw cacao bar. Now, I've been talking about this on the Heavy Muscle Radio Show. I've been talking on the Heavy Muscle TV show. I've even mentioned it, you know, in person to a lot of people at seminars and uh people are excited about it because uh I put together a raw cacao bar, not cocoa. Cocoa is made from cacao. Cacao is the raw nutrient that they make chocolate from. This is un unadulterated in any way possible. And it has tons of polyphenolics, antioxidants, anti-deoxification properties. Plus, it tastes really good. And the best thing about raw cacao is that it doesn't stimulate you. It dilates you. What that means is it dilates the brain vessels and it give makes you feel alert without any stimulation. Now the advantage of that is that no rapid heart rate, no elevated blood pressures, no anxiety, but you're focused. Matter of fact, I am on a little bit right now and I feel very focused and you know I'm against stimulants. So if we can dilate the brain, that's the right way to help increase mental focus. um these raw cacao bars and I'm happy to say they just came out today. I just got the wrapper. I think they're beautiful. Dave Palumbo's raw cacao bars. You know, I want to show you guys what this stuff looks like. You know, there's if you open the bar up, you can see this there's there's eight little squares like this. You take one square and this stuff is potent stuff. Don't just eat it like it's a candy bar. You have to savor it. Take little bites and you let it melt in your mouth. This contains raw cacao powder, cacao nips, which give it a little bit of a crunchiness, almost like a Nestle's crunchiness in here, except they're all they are is raw cacao nips, and raw cacao butter. That's what gives that melted taste in your mouth. And I just love I'm like salivating. It's so good. And when you're hungry, especially when you're dieting, this is going to taste super sweet. The only thing is it melts. So, you're going to have to keep it, you know, relatively cool. We'll ship this out on ice so you won't have any problems especially in the winter in the summer months. In the winter obviously we don't have that problem. They contain absolutely zero carbohydrates. Now what's the advantage of that? Well, as you know I'm a big believer of low carb diets. Anyone can use these while they're dieting when they're not dieting. Uh is eight squares, eight little uh chocolate squares in each one of these uh wrappers. And you do one or two squares per day. Each square is 44 calories. It's it's um 2 g of protein and 4 g of fat. All good healthy fats. Uh saturated but good healthy saturated fats. They're not going to impact your diet. If anything, they're going to curb your appetite. Number one, most important probably when you're dieting. Number two, they're going to help with mental focus, which is great, especially if you want to get to the gym. You're not going to have to take that caffeine that you normally take. If if you have to go into a meeting and you want to stay focused, I always break off a little piece of that and I'm good to go. and and it's going to detoxify your body. Why? Because we have mushroom extracts in there. Very potent mushroom extracts, but it will help pull toxins out of your body. You'll probably notice that you're going to be going to the bathroom a lot more for the first couple days that you start eating these. Once again, I recommend one to two squares per day in between meals, okay? And appetite suppression, um detoxification, mental focus. Three great aspects of this bar with zero carbohydrates. And you know what? Who doesn't like a nice chocolate taste, you know, when you're dieting and you're starving? We use pure stevia in here. Uh, so no artificial sweeteners whatsoever. It's a pure natural bar, 100% raw. Give it a shot. Dave Palumbo's raw cacao bars. I bring you only the best. Check it out at davepalomo.com.