Dave Palumbo with another RX Muscle Redcon 1 RX Muscle rant. Guys, today's topic is more of a a plea to you guys, a suggestion, a AI'm putting out to the universe. Please invent this or bring this to me. And what I'm talking about is some way to organize your vitamins. This is what I carry right EVERY DAY. THIS STUPID BAG because I got to empty all these pill bottles into here, plus more I have at home. Okay, I got so many pills. They sit in my pocket. I forget about them. They drop out. It's a pain in the neck for me to open each bottle every single day. I got to pour out 50 this and this and that. I don't know what to do anymore. It's driving me crazy. I know what you're going to say. Get one of those little pill organizers. I wish I had one, but I threw them all in the garbage. I'll tell you why. Because you have these little things. They have every day of the week. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. You put your pills in but this and this and this and and it's all nice and neat and organized until the day comes and I happen to be very, you know, accidentrone. The day comes where you drop the pill thing on the floor or your cat knocks it over or your son knocks it over and five million pills are all over the floor and there's no way you could ever organize them because all the pills look the same. So now you got to throw them in the garbage. So, that's not a a viable solution to me. Now, a lot of people said, "Well, there's some products out there that come in little packets already." Well, that's not all the pills I need, though. I have other things that I take. So, I want some way to organize my pills, okay, where it's easy. I can put them in my pocket. They're all pre-done ahead of time. I don't like baggies, though. Baggies are a pain in the ass. They open up, they spill, and I don't necessarily I don't I think they hold moisture, and moisture is not good for pills. We need someone to invent like almost like a pill box, but has different little um little I don't know, little capsules that kind of fit in there. So, you can fill those up and you can just take the capsule, put it in your pocket, and this way when you when you get it to work and you want to take your pills after you eat your meal, you pop them. There's got to be an easier way. I know you guys are very innovative out there. Once again, I I have no time to invent these things. If they're already out there and I'm not aware of it, put it in the comments below. Contact me. I want to know the best way to organize your vitamins that you take every day in an easy to use way where not every day I'm not going to be going through these pill bottles. I want them all pre-done and I don't want them in a tray that's going to fall and mix my pills up. That's the problem. When I first started species, I every pill had a different color just for that reason. But you know what? Now with everyone complaining about, oh, I don't want coloring in the pills. So I for the vitamins, I have their all clear capsules. So I don't do that anymore. Now they all look the same. in the capsule. So once again, I am calling for you guys out there. I know you're a very intelligent, very innovative group of people. Find me a way to organize my vitamins and I will tell the rest of the world about it. And if someone wants to invent it, I'd be more than happy to help you promote your invention as long as I can get one for myself. Dave Palumbo with another RX Muscle Redcon one call to arms from you guys out there. Let us know your ideas.