Dave Palumbo here in Milan, Mal Pensa Airport. We just are getting picked up by the Yamamoto crew here and we are going to have a spectacular weekend of coverage here in Italy. That's right. We're in Italy at the Yamamoto facility. We're going to be traveling there right now. to get some great footage. Johnny and I flew all night on a redeye. We're a little tired, but you know what? We're inspired. Uh we're here in the Italian countryside. The weather is beautiful. It's about 65°. The air smells great and I'm looking forward to getting some Italian food, some authentic Italian food. It's first time I ever went through customs and they stamp my my passport and they're like, "Oh, italiano." And I'm like, "Yes, I'm home to the mother country." So guys, stay tuned. All weekend long we're going to have some great coverage here on rxmuscle.com. All right, we're here at the Hotel Iso in Iso, Italy. It's a beautiful mountain town. Uh Johnny and I just got here. No one's here yet. Um Yamamoto hasn't picked us up yet, so we're kind of just, you know, hanging out. The rooms aren't ready yet, so I can't show you the rooms, but I can show you the little bit of the uh this is a typical very Italian-ish looking town. It's mountainous. You'll see they have uh plants here, which I love. You look at the little lemon trees over here that they got planted. I think they're lemons. I got to ask Amanda. Amanda is the fruit tree expert. These might be oranges, but they look a little lemony to me. Um, the only reason I say it maybe orange is if you look at this one, it's kind of like got like a like a teardrop shape and that can be like a honeybell orange. Like I said, I'll have to ask my wife Amanda. She's the fruit tree expert. But I love the fruit trees in the pots. This might be something I actually do in Florida now. Now that I um can grow fruit trees, I might put them in pots when I build my pool. Now, if you look at the backdrop, you can see the mountain range. Uh, I guess we're in a mountainous town. a lot of bike riders here. So, I'm assuming they they get some really good workouts here. They got a really cool little train station, the train that went runs through town. And then I was I the main thing that I I always see in Italy is and you know, if you watch the Godfather, you'll see they love to plant tomato plants. My grandfather did it. Taught me how to do it. Uh I love the gardens. If you look come next door here um you can to the hotel, you can actually see a cool authentic Italian tomato garden. Now I know my my wife Amanda and I are going to start planting a garden ourselves uh now that we're established. We're going to do right behind our warehouse. Look at those big tomato plants all staked up. No tomatoes on them yet. Um, but if you look down here, look at the cabbage. And they have some basil over there. Some ice. That's um romaine lettuce over there, which I love. That's my favorite type of lettuce. And I believe this is zucchini here. It's either zucchini or squash. So now I'm I'm totally inspired. When we get home, Amanda, we're going to we're going to plant our plants. We have all our seeds and and little plants ready to go. We just haven't had a chance to do it. Look, if you look over here, this is this is what I really like. I love the trees in the pot in these huge pots. I mean, I have them in the ground by my house in Florida. But some reason, this I just love this. I want to put this on like my patio or something like that. When we when we build out our pool, I am going to get potted plants. This way, the the roots don't grow into the into the pool and break up the the liner of the pool or whatever, however that works. But as you can see, uh we're just Johnny and I just had a cup of uh cafe here. They don't call a cafe. It's like a little tiny little shot glass. And uh it's like I guess a espresso. And him and I both had a regular one. So we're awake now. We're ready to go. We're going to head over to Yamamoto, see where all the products are made, how they're manufactured. I know you guys I love that. That to me is like the most exciting thing I can do. Uh so hopefully you guys will enjoy it. Stay tuned for more Italy 2017.