Dave Palumbo here with rxmuscle.com and I'm going to talk a little bit about classic physique. As we all probably have heard and read on the RX Muscle website and all the websites out there for that matter, the powers that be have decided to raise the weight classes of the proclass physique division, which means that per your height now you can weigh 5 lbs more than you did before, which is obviously a benefit for guys that were having trouble getting down to weight and who probably couldn't do classic and maybe had to do regular bodybuilding. Um, it's a disadvantage obviously for guys who were making the weight easily because now you got bigger guys squeezing down into a class that's supposed to be designed for shape like or I guess you could say classic physique or classic bodybuilding. Now the question is is it a good thing or a bad thing? And there's, you know, several arguments in each direction. Most people think it's a good thing because for most people they're like ah I can grow more. I can grow more. I can grow more. And in that respect I think it's it is good. we're going to see better, more developed, well-developed physiques. The the negative is if it keeps climbing up the class, hopefully they won't keep raising the limit. Now we're getting into bodybuilding again. Now there's going to be a blur between men's bodybuilding and men's classic physique. What's the difference really? Are the guys that close that the classic physique guy can win the open division? We don't want that. We want a distinct division. We want men's physique, classic physique, and bodybuilding. We want to be able to distinguish between those divisions. While I like mass and conditioning as much as the next guy, I don't want to see classic physique turn into men's bodybuilding again because that's not what it was designed to be. It's designed to give guys who don't want to do bodybuilding, who don't want to take the the supplements, they're going to have to boost their body weight up that high to compete with other guys that are that big. So, in essence, I think a 5 lb increase was the right way to go. I know a lot of people were hoping for 10 lbs. I think that would have been a big mistake because I think it would have been too much weight. Now you're forcing these guys to do things that are that they may not want to do and it's taking the the division in the wrong division. By taking the 5 lb jump, it's enough to boost up the weights a little bit but not ruin the physiques. And I think that the powers to be probably sat down and I don't know, I wasn't in on the meeting. They probably sat down and they probably really had to think a lot about what the right limit of raising it was. And you know, this was not an easy decision to make because guys wanted it much higher. So I think it was a great King Solomon compromise uh on the part of the IFBB. Uh whether the NPC follows suit, we will have to see. Um I know that the pro division weight limits are more than the NPC amateur division is. Now another question is what about the the trunks? Should the trunks be made smaller? Uh I I've said that I I think that there should be more leg being shown in the trunks. Um, I think that the old Arnold trunks, even though we made fun of them, you know, we like, "Oh, look at those trunks. They're kind of like goofy looking." I think that would have been perfect for classic cuz that's the classic look. Um, I think that the Spanx they're wearing now, the bike shorts are a little even though you do see legs, there's still a little too much material there. Um, whether that gets modified or not in the next year or so, we don't know. No one's made any comments on that. But for now, the 5 lb increase on each high class uh that has been instituted, I think will bring in a better quality competitor without ruining the shape and classic beauty of the physique. So, I think good compromise by the IFBB. I think it's a lot of uh motivation for a lot of competitors who might have grown out of the class or thought maybe, hey, this class is not for me because it's just the weight limit is just too low. I can't make it. you might see more bodybuilders now step back into classic physique and that's good for that division. I think 2017 will be the true test of how powerful that classic division is and I think in 18 we're going to see it instituted across the board everywhere and I think it's going to be pretty much a division that a lot of people will be entering and I and and I'm predicting and I'm not doing this because I want to because I really love bodybuilding. I think by 2019 you're going to see more classic bodybuilders than you're going to see regular bodybuilders. But I think the regular bodybuilds will still be extreme enough that we'll have enough enjoyment out of it. To me, it's better. I'd rather have less in the open division so I don't have to critique as many people, just the best people be there and have the the almost like the the the upand cominging guys in the classic physique division. I think it's a great great middle division. They set the rate the weight limits properly. Let's work on those trunks, guys. Other than that, uh I'm all good. I'm I'm 100% cheerleading this whole thing up. I'm looking forward to 2017. see what these guys bring to the stage at with that 5 lb weight limit. I know Sadi Hodzik is probably licking his chops on that one because he's one of the taller guys who can definitely hold the weight. Arash Rabar also probably licking his chops. Here's his opportunity to put on more muscle, come in bigger on stage, and certainly dominate these lineups. Guys, Dave Palumbo with another rant and opinion for the day.