I'm Dave Palumbo and I'm about to give you a little glimpse into my world. This is my life. We're back again here and uh I got another tip for you guys because everyone seems to like these little quirky tips that I bring out and for detoxification purposes, for health purposes, for for bodybuilding purposes for that matter. You know, a lot of bodybuilders, we eat a lot of protein. Uh we carry a lot of body weight that sometimes invariably raises blood pressure. Uh puts a strain on the kidneys, you know, and a lot of us are worried about our kidneys because we know without our kidneys, we die. Kidneys filter the blood. We need kidney function to be perfect or ideal or at least below certain parameters that are set up on blood panels that we we go for. when you go and get your creatinine and BUN or blood ura nitrogen levels checked that will check your kidney function because if the kidneys are filtering these waste products this blood ura nitrogen and creatinine out of the body then we know that they're working efficiently. A lot of times though bodybuilders have high creatinine levels high BUN levels and that's not good and a lot of people don't know what to do for that. You know there's a lot of liver detoxifiers but people don't know know what to do for kidneys. I came across this great product called kidney stuff and I was a little skeptical at first and I said, "Yeah, I don't know." Now, I I tend to have normal creatinine BUN levels, but on the higher side. So, I figured if if this product can bring them down a little bit, then then then it definitely works because I know what my levels are. I go for regular checkups. So, what I did was um I said, "Let me try this for a month straight." And what I did was you get your water and first thing in the morning, you can do this before bed. I get my alka. This is my alkalinized water. You know, you guys know that you don't need alkalinized water, but it's if you can use alkalinized water, it's better. Uh if you don't have a filter, you know, on your tap like I do, you can buy the ion pod I sell on dpalumbo.com, which will make, you know, alkalinized water for you. I usually try to fill up a full glass, a little maybe a little less, because this stuff takes up space. And if you read the ingredients, it says to take three level tablespoons daily. Okay? Not teaspoon, tablespoon. That's quite a bit amount. So you go in there, you take your your tablespoon. I take big tablespoons. So if I take a heaping tablespoon, I can do a little less than three. All right, there we go. So I got my three, you mix it up. The stuff is a little it has some fiber in there. So it's a little fibery. So it's actually good for your your colon, too, in addition to that. And it doesn't taste too bad. And then you just drink it down. I drink these very quickly. The quicker it goes down, the easier it'll go down. It gets a little thick if you let it sit and it's got a nice aftertaste for some reason. It's kind of like it's got a little flax sea in it so it's not too bad and it doesn't bother your stomach and it'll actually help clean you out too. But what I noticed after doing it for 2 or 3 weeks, I went for blood work I think on the fourth week and my creatinine BUN levels were were at least 20% lower. So if you guys have kidney issues, you're worried about your kidney issues, try a month or two of kidney stuff. I sell it at davepalomo.com. I believe in the product. It it's it's good stuff. It's high quality. And as you know, I only like to bring you guys the stuff that actually works. And this stuff works.