Why didn't you tell Steve Blackman and John Bailey. Two of my biggest influences in bodybuilding. Steve, good to see you. John, good to see you. I just want I want to just say, John, you were a huge influence on on on me in this industry and uh you know, I don't think any of us would be here if it wasn't for guys like you, pioneers with Iron Man magazine and uh you know, and and and just all the stuff that you've done leading up to today. Well, Dave, thank you. I mean, uh, it's been a, as I said, I've been in the right place at the right time over about 50 years. And you've seen the evolution of this sport, especially the the reporting of the sport, and it's changed from from a magazine based to an internet based cuz everyone wants the information yesterday. Instantly. Yeah. Correct. Absolutely. Do you think that's good for the sport? Do you think it's a it's going to help grow the sport for because it more people can see it? Well, I I think it number one, it has to happen because that's where the culture is going. The general culture wants everything quickly and we're a part of that culture. So I it I don't know if it's good or bad. It just is. Where do you see the magazines evolving to? Well, the magazines I think will continue. Paper will always live. I think it'll become more and more focused. Uh and then and deliver things that uh that the online won't or can't. It's got to be more information based as opposed to a results based. Well, you know, I think probably 10 years ago, we moved our contest stuff to our website. You were one of the first people. We were the first we were the first one to do that because we realized exactly what you just said. It's way old news by the time we print it, but that has only accelerated since then. So, uh you know, it's it's going to be interesting because you have to be able to be uh to adapt to everything and and uh I think that it will be a combination of enhanced multimedia, you know, etc., you know, and and the audience is still evolving. I mean, what people want to see. John, thank you very much for for being a pioneer in the sport. You're the last of the Moheagans, you know. Let's let's not put me that way. No, you carry the torch, John. Right. Right. Right. No. Yeah. I'm the last touch with the 60s. Yeah.