Danny Palumbo here at the White Plains Reptile Show 2014. Uh we just got here. We're about to go explore some of the booths, see what we might take home today in the way of purchases as well as in the way of wow factor. You know, sometimes we just like to look at things, see what's going on, see what the newest snake morphs are, the newest reptiles out there. And who knows what else they got here. So guys, stay tuned. Follow me around. Let's see what they got here in White Plains. All right, I'm standing here. Nice balls. Not the balls that you think. We're talking about ball pythons. And if you guys look over here, we got some amazing looking snakes. This is my favorite, the enti albino. Look at that. You can see the the oranges and the yellows in it. This is a real as we call designer snake, you know. And then obviously last year when I came we thought albinos were a big deal. Now we have pastel albinos. We have black pastel albinos. We have lavender albinos which have some purple in them if you look. It's really really cool. I mean you can go crazy here with all the amazing snakes. I love this albino stinger up there as well with the you see them with the red eyes and the nice cool looking yellowish coloration. Look at this caramel uh albino. This is just an incredible looking steak. I love that rich creamy caramel looking coloring. And you know, we can go crazy. If you look over there, you see the white snake. That's that's what we call a white diamond or a russo lucistic. It's it's got blue eyes. It's got it's all white. I'm going to talk to a little our snake breeders over here. Now, this is uh Hunter. Hunter, say hello. Hi, it's Hunter. Uh we're here at Nice Balls. Um I'm interested in competing in bodybuilding. Right now I'm doing powerlifting training. We always find bodybuilds. No matter where we go, we find someone who's interested in bodybuild. 16 years old, right? Yep. 16 years old. Um I'm standing at 198 to 200. I fluctuate. Um right now just doing powerlifting training, but I'm thinking about doing bodybuilding soon in the near future. Is it true that you actually won a free training session with Kevin English? Yes, I did. I went to an MPC show. Um I don't remember how long ago. It was when I first started training. You must have been really young. Yeah, I was. It was I was 15. So, yeah. A year ago. Yeah. Yeah. And how was it to train with Kevin English? It was crazy. I I decided to do legs. It was the worst mistake I've ever done in my life. You sick the next day for a week or two. I'll tell you that. It was at least a week or two. I was I was done. My knees hurt. They were aching. My legs were just so sore. So, you love the snakes, too? Are you into breeding them yourself? Um, I don't I volunteer with them. I have pets at my house, but I just enjoy it so much. I love animals. We're going to come back a little later cuz I might actually purchase something. Uh I don't know. I got to look around first, but I appreciate all the input and good luck with the bodybuilding. All right, I'm over here with Tony from Exotic Snakes. And I I have a question because I've never I don't really know what this is. I've never seen this snake. Okay, so these are Nelson or also called Sinnoloans. And uh these are kind of special. What these are, they have a clear belly. I don't know if you could see that. It's a clear belly. And their pattern is pretty different. Everyone is different. And it has kind of an albino tail. So I call them striped splotch nelson's or clowns. How big do these things get? These will get about 3 ft, but not very heavy. It's a It's a milknake. Oh, it is a milknake. I thought it looked like a milknake. Yep, it's a milknake. It's got an unusual morph. Yes, it's an unusual morph. Very rare. There's only two or three people who have these. And uh it's usually milknakes are not that expensive. This is a pretty expensive pair, so I'm assuming it's very special. Yes. And you I don't know if you got a picture of the belly. You know, usually it's the same color roller way around, but this is uh quite different. And again, everyone is like a snowflake. Everyone's different. Now, what what adults did you use to produce these two? Like what do they look like? I could actually show you a picture. So, this would be the albino version of that. That's awesome. That's gorgeous. And this is a more enhanced version where you could see that that pied or that white albino type of tail and all the different patterns. And that's the uh father. That is not the mother, but that's an albino version of it. When you first saw the babies come out, were you pretty like like were you like, "Yes, yes, absolutely. Absolutely." And you're excited. Yep. And this year, I want to do more of the albinos. I I would think that this would be a very popular uh morph. Yep. I didn't want to bring it today. It's cold outside, but I brought these. What's What's your website? exoticsnakes.com. All right. We're going to talk a little bit about carpet pythons. These are not Burmese pythons. They're not giant pythons. They're carpet pythons. Explain to me what a carpet python is and and and how it differs for like the pythons that we we're used to seeing. The carpet pythons are from Australia and they're a midsize python. So, they don't get as big as say your BMS and your your retix like that. And they are fairly slender animal. So, when you say slender, how big do they get when they're full grown? Like thickness wise? Oh, thickness wise, oh gosh, you know, about this big around. Not not too big. Um, they're a semi aoreal steak. So, they up in the trees or down the ground and they're they cover a big area of their habitat. What do they eat? Because they're in the trees. They eat birds or they still rodent. They're pretty opportunistic. They eat rodents. They eat birds. Anything they can really grab a hold of with their teeth. So, well, something you mentioned to me that's interesting is that when they're babies, they're they're kind of a little nasty and defensive and then as they get older, they kind of get very brash. Yes. Yeah, as as babies, everything's looking to eat them. So, they're very defensive. As they get older, they get some size to them. Not so defensive anymore. They're a little bit more confident and they can they can handle themselves a little bit better. That's like the wild type looking carpet python cuz I I'm looking at the zebra tiger and he's awesome. I can't imagine that's something you would find in nature. No, this this is something definitely this captive born and bred with a lot of um thought and process went into creating this one. The one below it right there is a wild type and that's what that's what you're going to see primarily out in the wild. Now, um when you breed these things, um I have to imagine that, you know, you have to sit there and try to figure out what you're going to create in your head and then hope it comes to fruition. What was like the the carpet python that excited you the most when it was born? Oh gosh. Um it would have to be uh the zebra tiger jags. That that was really exciting when when that one came out. When you see cuz you know it's kind of like you're hitting you're rubbing off a lottery ticket when the egg opens up. You see what you got. Oh yeah. I mean, you don't know what you're going to have until and the you get so many different ones in one clutch. So, you're going to get, you know, some that look like this, some that look normal, some that look not, you know, it's a whole mixed bag of of babies. What's your website so that people can check it out? Uh, east coasterpants.net. All right, we're over here at the Chameleon booth. Um, I want you to look at this chameleon. This is an umbilough chameleon. Now, all these chameleons are named after the town where they're found, actually. So, they have different names, but they're really just named after where they discover them. Look at the colors. A lot of people think the chameleons, you know, change color if you put them next to different colors. That's not really true. They can kind of blend a little bit, but they they don't. The colors they have are the color they they have. Um, if you look over here, this guy's like more red. The other guy was more blue. They're they're super cool. And if you look, they have a a cool prehensile tail. Let's let's look down here at these guys hanging from the top. You know, they can almost grip things with their tail. A lot of people like these Jackson's chameleons because they got the horns. You see those horns? It looks like almost like a triceratops dinosaur and they're just like super cool. They can kind of hold on upside down. They can look at them. They're walking on the screen on the side. They almost look like they can defy gravity. And uh they've become much more popular pets recently. Once again, they got those cool cool eyes that kind of like a periscope. they can kind of like just look anywhere they want, any any direction they want without actually moving, which would which would certainly be good for my dad because my dad doesn't like to move around that much. If he had eyes behind his head, he could kind of check out what's going on without actually getting out of his chair. So, um, once again, reptiles really seem to adapt very well to the environment. They do different weird things once again, but they all need heat. They're cold blooded reptiles, and that means that they need to thermmorreulate according to the heat source that they're presented with. That's why it's very warm in this reptile fair. Let's see what else we can find. All right, we're over here at a uh table that sells geckos. Now, geckos, you think of it from the Geico commercial, like just a real common looking, you know, reptile. But if you look at these geckos, take a look. You could see some of the most incredible color morphs you've ever seen. I mean I mean, look at these guys. I mean, look at the look at the blue over his eye. Look at that tail, the pink tail. Um they they have so many different varieties. I'm sure they all have different names. Look at the oranges in this one and the spots on this guy's head. I mean, each one is specifically bred with a different morph with a different name. And I mean, they're just they're just really incredible. To me, these are if I have to buy a a reptile that's easy to keep and that looks cool, I would go with the gecko if I was going to get this. If I wasn't if I wasn't so crazy into snakes, I would go with geckos. I mean, this this look at that. It looks like a um uh when you go to the Southwest, like Arizona, and you see you buy one of those rugs, that's it looks like a rug. It's so decorated so nicely. Uh just truly incredible. the world of reptiles, how they've changed with the different morphs and the breeding. The the breeders are just they're better geneticists than our geneticists. Uh if we could do this with humans, imagine imagine what we would look like. But the color morphs are just amazing. And it just the science gets better and better from year to year. Just one year I've come here and I've see all new reptiles that I've never seen from the year before. So that tells you how quickly the science is evolving. All right, I want to show you guys something really special. A scaleless ratnake. Take a look at this. What's your name? Aviana. Aviana. Is that the coolest thing you've ever felt? Yeah, it's I've never I never touched one before. Do you like a scalless better than the regular scaled ones? Um I don't know. I don't really like how they feel. I don't even uh It's weird. Like velvet, right? Yeah. This guy I think this guy wants to go home with me. He's like getting in my pocket here. This is If you look, there's no scales in this thing. It's completely scaleless. And he uh I guess he doesn't miss his scales. Now, now they're going to ball pythons that are scarless, but uh he's uh he's very friendly. And sometimes rat snakes bite. Have you ever held a rat? They did? No. No. This is my first time also holding one in a long time. At least at least this is my first scaleless one. So, you see the genetics of reptiles just keep on changing and changing. All right, let's take a look at the green tree pythons. They're a little nasty. They're what they're known as aroreal pythons. They like to hang in the trees. Now, they're going to be these are on the ground cuz they're in little canisters, but take a look. And you can look at this green tree pot. And that's what they look like when they're kind of get a little older. This is 3 years old. Um, now when they're younger, they have different colors. You see their oranges. Um, and what happens is as they get bigger, they they change color. Um, but look at even this one. Look at this green tree python. Beautiful when it's younger. And it just completely changes color as it gets older and it turns green. Uh, here's another one. Here's one that's in the process of changing. It's a high yellow. You can see the yellow now the coming in where the green was. And then eventually they'll turn completely green. But here are the real little baby ones. And they're so cute. Everyone like wants to get one of these. But what you got to realize is these pythons are a little nasty. They like to bite. They like to strike a little bit. They're kind of defensive. So you got to know if you're going to get one of these. They might give you a little nip here and there. And I know a lot of people are not too interested in getting bitten by snakes. All right. I'm standing here with Rick from Outback Reptiles. Last year we we came by here and we was we looked at the Brazilian rainbow boas and we saw that there was some very expensive ones that were head for albinism which means that they could produce albinos when they're bred. We don't know if they did. We came back this year and we see some amazing albinos. Talk to me a little bit about what it was like being the first to produce these. It's pretty awesome. It's It was years in the making from an original albino male we found that we had to breed several generations back to You found it in the wild? In the wild. B the normal females. Got hats that carry the gene. bred those heads back eventually and this year finally uh produced albinos. Proved out that obviously the albino is recessive trait and also it's just nice to see a project come to fruition like this. So like if I bought one of these for $35,000 and I bred it to a a regular rainbow, I could produce hats and then produce my own albino. Right. And what we expect is that we're going to probably sell females with hat males this year. So then people would be able to breed% you know breed those exactly and get 50% albinos uh 2 three years from now. And that's the quickest way. Yeah. How I was going to say how long will it take this snake to to get to maturity? About three years on a female, uh about two years on a male. Okay. And how big will they actually get? Because these are tiny right now. Five, six feet. And uh you know, maybe like silver dollar size around. That's amazing. Now, what what are you feeding these right now? A little bit. Right now, Yep. Fuzzies. Exactly. And how many how often do you have to feed some? I start them slow once a week. Once you put some size on them, you can kind of start to get them a little faster, but early on, you don't want to overdo it. Do do people tend to overfeed the babies cuz they get remotely. Yeah. It's it's tempting because you want to mess with them all the time. You want you want to do something with them, you know? You want them to grow. So, but it's better, I think, take it slow till they get to a kind of a more moderate size. What people don't realize is they like might think, well, 35,000 for a snake, that's outrageous. But the reason why they're so expensive is because obviously they're selling for a lot because they're unique, right? The rarity of it being the first time around. And quite honest, in a project like this, if you get in if you get in the first year or two, you're you're pretty much guaranteed to make money unless a catastrophe happens. But talk to me what it was like when that egg hatched for the first time and you saw this library. So, actually I'm out of my element. So, I knew what the due dates were. You're kind of like looking in there every hour. So, you saw a crawl out. What' you do? You know, it's I I filmed it for one, but it was Yeah, it's pretty awesome. I mean, it's it's a it's just you're kind of like, "All right, it's it's a huge sigh of relief." Basically, everything finally worked. Then you get really nervous like, "Oh my god, I got to make sure this thing is healthy." And you start being like like a little glass uh porcelain doll or something. You know, you don't want to, you know, do anything with it. But, you know, it's just as hardy as anything else. So, it's really not a big deal. If people can't get to the reptile show and they want to purchase, how many of these do you have actually available? Uh, probably just a couple females with hat males this year and then pairs of hats as well, too. What's the website? Uh, Outback Reptiles. All right. I'm standing here holding a frilled dragon, bearded dragon. Very cool. He's He's got like sticky Now I know why they can climb upside down cuz he's got sticky paws. He's stuck to me basically. I bet if I turn him upside down, he wouldn't fall. See? It's pretty cool. And uh this is what you find here at the uh reptile fair here in White Plains. And you see the little frilling here. I guess that's why they call it frilled. He can puff his neck out like a little dinosaur if he wants to. But this is a baby. This thing will get to how big will he get? Two and a half. Two and a half. Three feet. I mean that takes 12 years though. That's like this big, you know. That's monstrous. That's dinosaurish, you know. So it's a big commitment, you know. You might have to I'd have to leave him in my will probably, you know, to someone. That's how long he's going to live. I got a crusted greco. Crusted gecko here. He's got like Velcro paws. I think he likes me. They're a little uh aggressive. What's your name again? Tony. Tony. Look at this. Give me your front double bicep. I haven't been on stage in five years. Come on. Give me a Give me a bicep shot. I love to see muscle here at the reptile show. This is a big guy, too. What's your name? John. I know you, don't I? Yeah. You look familiar to me. Joe Carini, maybe. Like, I think so. Yeah. Yeah, he does look like Lou Frigno. And Andre is giant a little bit, too, with the with the haircut. Uh, so you guys breed these things? What else do you breed aside from geckos? The bearded dragons. Bearded dragons. Any pythons or anything? No, not anymore. All right. This guy's looking to jumps all over the place. Yeah, he's he's he's enjoying himself here. I must have crickets in my pocket or something like that. Wait, do you guys have a website? Yes. GG's Geckos right on Facebook. It's a lot easier than paying. All right, check them out. And you might even see them on a bodybuilding stage one of these days if we can get these guys to diet down. All right, I'm over here at Reptile Kingdom where I see some frogs. I'm not a big frog fanatic, but I love the Pac-Man frogs. What is this? You see these Pac-Man frogs? They're huge. They get big. These things will eat mice, rats. Can't really see them. Maybe we can get the uh someone to open one of these up and show us. You like that? E, it's a Those are big frogs, huh? Can we Can we Can you open one of these up so we can see them? This is an albino Pac-Man frog. Is that a business card? He's very small right now, but these things get enormous. They get like you can't even imagine how big. And they will eat pretty much anything that you give them. Mice, rats, uh frother frogs themselves. And they're just the coolest things. But they they don't really do very much other than eat, which is kind of like a bodybuilder if you think about it because all we do is kind of sit around, eat, and then we uh we wait for the next meal. I'm standing here with Vin Russo, best known for his Russu lucistic ball python. He's written the book of boa constrictors that you don't need to know anything else other than this book. The irony of this whole interview is that when I came over here and I met him for the first time, I realized it wasn't the first time. We worked in Petland discounts together in 1986. He had long hair. My hair was much longer, too. And it's it's it's an incredible coincidence that it's almost too good to be coincidence. That is that is true. You became one of the the most well-known boa and ball python breeders in the world. Yes. Um I'm up there with the top 10, I'd say. And I remember you were a real snake fanatic back then. I actually learned a lot of old nomenclature from you back uh when we were 18 years old. Yeah. I've been in the snake since I'm a kid. So this it's become a lifestyle and now my my business. Show me your Russo lucistic, which right now is it's kind of like old news by now, but this you invented this or you came up with it first. Explain to me, did you know this you'd get a snake that looked like this? And when it first came out, what did you think? You must have been like, "Holy mackerel." I I didn't know I was going to get this. I basically found a normal ball python like this in a shipment of wildc ball pythons. But this is a little different from normal. It's got a lot more yellow in it than a normal. And what is this called? This is a het lucistic. Now, I didn't um I didn't know it was a hell lucistic when I got it. I thought it was just a nice looking normal. So, when I bred it, half of its babies came out just like it, nice yellow, light yellow color. Then, when I bred the nice yellow colored snakes to each other, I made the first lucistic. That was 2001. And you didn't I'm sure I didn't know what the hell was going on. I have the faintest idea. I I couldn't believe it. Genetically, what is going on? Explain to our viewers. Well, you've got an incomplete dominant gene, meaning that um the recessive morph has a visual indicator of being a gene carrier for the lucistics. So, this compared to a normal ball python is about five shades lighter. Right. So, um you know, it's it's in reality uh you're creating a super gene. You got two of those those heads. Pure white snake is the super form. Exactly. Now, we've seen this is a this is a pure white snake with blue eyes. We've seen ones with black eyes. What's the difference? Um the blackeyed snakes are called um super fires and their their head is called a fire. It's a it's a different trait. It's not a leic with this particular snake. So if you bred a blackeyed lucistic to a blue-eyed, you wouldn't get lucistics. You'd get double recessives or double normal lookingings. So it's a completely different different trait. How long did it take you to write this book which everyone says this is the book of bubbles you got to read. It took me about 6 years just to write it, physically write it, sit down and and type it out. When you re go back and look it over again, do you say I did a good job or do you feel like you could do better? You know, believe it or not, when I was finally finished with that, I did say to myself, "Wow, that came out pretty good." And I'm glad I put the time and energy into it. And I have not yet said to myself, "Wow, I missed something or I should have done that. I should have did this." I took my time and did it exactly the way I wanted to. I'm about halfway done with it. I love it. And uh I wanted to say it's great seeing you and meeting you again and hopefully we'll uh remain friends. Definitely. Standing here with Brian Barick from Snake Bites TV. You guys who watch YouTube videos will know this guy. He is like the Dave Palumbo of the reptile world. I promise you that. It's great meeting you. It's awesome meeting you, too. Hey, you're in my world now. What do you think about these reptiles? Huh? I love it. You know, I sense your passion when you talk about them on the air. You get people excited. I get excited about it and then I get my people excited about it. And I try to do the same thing for the bodybuilding industry. You know, you could just tell that you love what you do. You know, I tell you, since I was a kid, I've told this story many times. My first memory as a kid ever, when I was 2 years old, was of a snake at a zoo. Not my mom, not my dad, not my siblings, a snake. And how old were you? I was 2 years old. And I tell you what, I remember it like it was yesterday. I remember the snake, the cage, everything about it. So, I've been so passionate about these animals ever since I can remember. Now, we all know that reptiles are an addiction, just like tattoos are. I know that's your newest and and working out now, right? Yeah. Right. I mean, hey, guys like you are inspiring me to hopefully better my body. But yeah, you're right. Reptiles are an addiction. I always say it's like a potato chip. You can't get one. You know what I mean? Just like What was the first snake you had? You know, this is crazy. I begged my mom till I was 15 years to have a snake. Every summer I would go out and collect garter snakes and have to keep them in the garage cuz I could not bring them in the house. And finally when I was 15 years old, believe it or not, she said, "All right, for your birthday, you can have a snake." And I bought a Burmese python. Now, these are the monsters. They get 18 foot long. And she let me buy a Burmese python. She didn't know, obviously. I don't think I knew. I was I just wanted a snake. And what happened was I went to a pet shop and and I knew I was going to buy a snake. And that was the only snake they had for And I wasn't leaving without a snake. You had to have something. Yeah. And I So, I was like, I didn't even know how big it got. And then I got it and I I started reading. I'm like, which by the way, I always tell people, please do your research before you buy snakes. Don't be like me and buy a Burmese python for your first snake. How big did that snake wind up getting? It it got over 18 foot. Oh, really? What' your mom think when it was getting crazy? Well, was funny is by the time I moved out of my house. And by the way, reptiles actually paid for my first house when I was 20 years old. Really? What were you selling that that that made you money? Well, you know, all you know, albino Burmese pythons, ironically enough, at the time were going for like a,000 bucks a piece. And these are animals that have 40 to 60 eggs, right? So, I was making tons of money, you know, great money on my mom's basement. I was going to college and I was making more money and I was like, why am I I'm just going to do what I love. But, uh, at that point when I moved out, my mom's basement, I had 50 Burmese pythons that were like 50 Burmese pythons that were all like 15 foot plus. And then I had a couple hundred other snakes and she wouldn't even go in the basement. I I don't blame it. Do you still have any of those now in your in your in your facility in Detroit? I do actually. I have a girl named Satan who's a That's one of the originals. That's one of the originals. And And then, of course, now I have Sunshine. She's not one of the originals, but she's been around for six or seven years. That's a big girl. So, uh, so yeah, I have a handful of the original animals and and they're amazing. Did you ever think cuz you were such a snake eye that you start getting into other reptiles? Like I noticed now you have geckos and you have uh bearded dragons. You know, it's funny things have become a passion of mine all of a sudden. I still love the snakes. You know, snakes are always going to be my thing, but uh yeah, I mean, blue tongue skinks, I'm a nut about blue tongue skinks now. Leopard geckos. Uh yeah, for some reason monitors I mean everything that basically has legs it seems to really be pushing me in that direction because of the addiction like I don't have it I got to have it now. Well I always when people say you know uh you know what what don't you have and I always say like I I want it all. You know what I mean? It's like what what what do I want? I want everything I don't have. You know but but within reason. I it's not like I'm collecting these like baseball cards. You know I mean there each of these animals is alive and I I respect that life so much. So, uh, but but you know, I guess the lizards have a little bit more personality. So, I've been having a great time interacting with them, whereas a snake, I mean, I still think they have somewhat of a personal, but a snake is a snake. You know what I mean? Lizards, they actually do have personality, so you can get to interact with them a little more. I put you on the spot. Last question. Favorite reptile of all time? Well, you know, I I have to answer it this way. Are you a parent? No, not yet. Okay. So, if you had three kids, what would be your favorite kid? Uh, the one that's here. Okay. So, I I can't I love them all. I can never pick a favorite. These are all my babies. I can't pick a favorite. Thanks so much, Brian. Brian Barick, Snake Bites TV. Catch them on YouTube, one of the most popular reptile channels. Standing here with Joe from JCP Boas, and I just bought another snake. Uh, this is a beautiful moonglow boa. It's a triple recessive. Explain what what the three recessive traits are. What it is, it's a anthoristic albino. And first means there's no pattern. No color. Color. Albino and hypo. And hypo means it's just lightened even more. Right. Exactly. All combined into one. And albino we know is white. So this is a this is a very unusual snake. It's got some cool really cool eyes. I don't know if we can get the eyes around here and take a look at those. And this is going to get how big, Joe? It's a male. They usually get four to six feet. That's a nice size snake. Yes. Good handable snake that doesn't take two people to handle. Great pet quality animal. Show us how you know it's a male. Can you show us? What I do is I do the rub method. The rub method. Yeah. It's harmless on the snake. Okay. You do is you hold it and if you rub your hands down like this, right? You feel two little bumps. Those are the hemipines. The hemipines. Now, snakes have two penises, right? Yes. Better than one, right? That's it. Well, thank you, Joe. Twice as much trouble that way, though. You're from Connecticut. What's your website? JPCOs.com. And people can purchase snakes from you, ship. Yep. This time of the year is tough because of the weather, but uh there's there's shipping. Well, they got another reptile show here in White Plains if you guys want to pick up any reptiles. That's on January 4th, so you might want to come down here and see Joe. Joe, thanks so much. I started off slow. I did some interviews. We showed you what was going on here. And then I lost my mind and I bought a lot of stuff. I got three snakes, a moonglow, boa constrictor. And we got two ball pythons that we I will show and reveal at a later date in a later uh interview, I should say. And we actually bought frozen mice and frozen rats, I should say, because it's a little bit more humane than feeding the, you know, the the live ones to these snakes. And so, we're all stocked up. I feel like I I I left my first fitness expo with a bag full of goodies. And uh we get to go home and play with them a little bit. And hopefully you guys enjoyed the whole day and meeting some of these celebrities of the reptile world. You know, uh, I might be a celebrity of the bodybuilding world, but these are celebrities of the reptile world. We we clashed heads, and I think I'm going to be training Brian Brian Barek for an arm wrestling rematch against Athena, uh, the bodybuilder from Canada that we all know. And I'm going to put a little clip in so you know who I'm talking about. And uh, we got him on the line of species nutrition products and we'll see what if he we can get a little muscle in those arms and and get him to win next year. For now though, I am Dave Palumbo here in White Plains, New York at the Long Island, or I should say the New York Reptile Show for rxmuscle.com.