standing here in Copenhagen Denmark. We're in another country. Two countries, two days. And I am in town square here or whatever they call this right here. Looking for things to do, looking for educational things to to fill you guys in on. Uh Aaron, I know, is looking for more chachkis, bells, and whistles, and whatever else he goes goes around looking for here. Uh it was an entertaining train ride. Aaron and I actually forgot we were in another country. We started paying with Swedish money, and they didn't know what we were doing. So, uh they're very close. Malmo is like 20 minutes on train to Copenhagen. Copenhagen is the kind of thing you see on TV all the time with the Danish women. So, we're looking for I'm looking for some Danish women now. Uh so I can give you guys some some interesting stuff to do. Uh I think I may join a protest here or there. Let's see what there is to do here in Copenhagen, Denmark. Since we're all locked out from uh You're being Oh, you're on strike. Yeah. No, no, no, no, no. We are being locked out. The teachers have been locked out. Why? Because they uh can't agree with the teachers with how our work condition should be. Really? That's terrible. My dad was a teacher for 35 years. So you guys are striking basically. N Oh, you just can't get in. We can't. Yeah, we can't get in, right? So now what's the potato? What's the significance of throwing the potato? This one says in English. Talk. Can you talk? Will you talk to the camera? So I need a word. Just a minute. The council council mean the council. Yeah, we are hired by the council. Yeah. What do you call that in where you teachers union? Teachers union. Yeah. Yeah. This one is for the teachers to win. Teachers union. Okay. That's a small hole. But you have and you have to stand behind. That's a very small hole though. Yeah. And if I get it in, what happens? You guys win. All right. And what's the what's the big one? Right. That's the council who we uh what do you call it? Council. So this is the one I want to get it in is what you're saying. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So, and so this is really good luck if I get this in. In other words, and if they agree, we can agree. The middle one. We have very little. I don't even know if this potato will fit through the hole. Probably not. This is for the teachers, Aaron. Only in Copenhagen. All right. Hold on. One more homework. That's a very small hole, which means there's a very slim chance of them getting back into that school. Very nice meeting you. Good luck. Good luck. I couldn't save the teachers today. Sorry. Here we go. There you go. I'm thirsty. You know, we're in Denmark and I did get my Denmark bell. I thought that a bell this powerful would call Dariel. She's not anywhere to be found. I'm very thirsty. I'm hungry. Standing here with Robert Wadlo, a small man if I may say so myself cartoon. This is a true lifesize replica of the world's tallest man. That right. I have big hands. If you take a look, my hand is not even half his hand. I'm only half the man he is. And you know, I wonder how Aaron Singerman would would stand up next to you. Notice his cane is up to my nipple line here. And his feet. You guys think I have big feet? You think I have big feet? This guy's feet are almost double the size of mine. And these are real representations. Pretty incredible. Aaron, I think he's about to stand up. Let's see if you could uh stand up next to this guy. Here he goes. Go, dude. All right, Aaron is is is measuring up. Will he measure up to the world's tallest man? Oh my god, Aaron. You're like a [\h__\h] compared to this guy. You're You're seriously half the man of Mr. Wadlo. I'm tall. There's my You're 6 foot. That's 6 foot here. You're a little older. You're bigger. You're like 6'2. He is eight over 8 ft tall. Wow. All right. It's going to be Aaron and I look at the camera, Aaron. Oh, I can't pull my thing out. Okay, I'm good. Aaron and I and whack a mole. Let's see who can whack as many moles as possible. You You had a little practice at first. So, I did one thing. Ready? 380. What do I got? What do I have? What do I have? I have four. You have What do you have? No, you have like 280, don't you? No, I have 580. 580. See, that's for bragging to first. All right, guys. We're still breathing heavy from whack-a-ole. But this coin is all made of jade. And in Chinese, jade is a is very good luck. You want to rub it. So, I'm going to rub the jade. I'm going to get all my body over this thing. I got good luckers. I got to get my shoulders against it. I want a lot of good luck. Your quad. With my quad rubbing against it. I think we have a lot of good luck coming up. Let's go on to the next thing. The [\h__\h] is Dave doing? What is he doing? So, what were you doing over there? I was trying to these tongue exercises. They say one in a million. You can't do this. And I was trying to bend my tongue. I had I don't even know what you saw me from the other side. Yeah, they have a mirror on the other side. This is a very interesting museum. I'm very My dad always had a manual typewriter. This like it looks like a Terminator made out of typewriter. I might try and take my dad's typewriter apart. Have him have him come home and just be surprised by that. You saw this thing. That's pretty cool. Dave, I think my typewriter is broken. I'm not supposed to stand up there. Set the alarm off. All right, let's try it again without me standing on there. Are you ready? All right, we're standing in front of something that I think is pretty impressive. the Taj Mahal which unfortunately uh Dave and I never got to visit in in India. I did want to go but Dave got hurt and we never got to see the Taj Mahal. But this Taj Mahal is made out of strictly matchsticks. Now I can't imagine how long or or what reason somebody would have to do that but I would imagine many many many years went into making this thing out of plain matchixs. 300,000 matchixs to be exactly 300,000 matchixs. It looks like more than that. I'm here in Denmark and I ran into Brian Hilderbrand, our RX strength editor-inchief. And I I see on the wall it says, "Find out what the Scotsman's wearing under his kilt." I know a lot of you probably wondering if these guys wear underwear. So, I'm going to move this aside here. And oh, it says, "Lift the sleeve here." I'll show you mine if you show me yours. You stink, Brian. I'm waking up to ash and dust. I wipe my brow and I sweat my rust. I'm breathing in the chemical. I'm breaking in, shaping up and checking out on the prison bus.