Dave Palumbo here. It is Saturday and guess what? We are going on a road trip 2015. We're going to Maryland to see Peter Coll. Peter Call reptiles. For those of you who don't know, Peter Coll is one of the leading reptile breeders in the world. He's invented more things. They have snakes named after this guy. He's he invented the pi at ball python, but more importantly, it's the trip along the way to get there. That's what's exciting. I know you guys like to see where I stop to eat, who I might run into on the way. We have some celebrities planned. Uh, and you know what? You never know who we might run into at a rest stop or you know what, Kevin Leone lives in Maryland. Will we see Kevin Levrone? That is the question, guys. Follow me along on road trip 2015. All right, we're approaching Coney Island here in Brooklyn. Uh, doesn't get much better than this. We're in actually a Keem Williams backyard, the BK Beast, and you'll see the sign. Uh, I'm going to do another road trip to Coney Island Aquarium sometime in the future because Amanda has not seen it yet. And I love the white beluga whales there. So, that's going to be a separate trip. However, you can even see the sign for the aquarium. This is as a kid, we would always go to the aquarium and, you know, go on field trips and stuff like that. I remember these white beluga whales. They're like the coolest looking. They look like huge dolphins, but they're all white. And uh it's probably the main attraction I think at the Conan Aquarium. And now that the weather's getting better, it's a better time to come, you know, go over there so you can see the outdoor exhibits as well. But uh we are going to be approaching the Verizo Narrows Bridge, which connects Brooklyn with uh Staten Island. And when we get there, I'm going to give you a little bit of history on that. So stay tuned. As you can see in the distance, the Verzana narrow bridge connecting Brooklyn with Staten Island. And as you can see, I'm on this belt parkway. And I can't freaking stand this parkway. Every single time I drive on it, there's traffic. It doesn't matter what time it is. Who the hell is driving at at 11:00 a.m. in the morning on Saturday? Where the hell are these people going? I have no idea. I don't, you know, there's no even reason to have traffic here because because people are too busy looking at the bridge and the people walking over on the side. That's why there's traffic here. And then that's why it takes 10 hours to get to to to Staten Island when it it's 30 miles away from my house. This was Texas. We'd be there in 20 minutes. So aggravation. Aggravation. But I'm looking for my favorite sign. There's a great sign here. Uh as you're leaving Brooklyn, going into Staten Island says, "Forget about it." All right, we're leaving Brooklyn. Forget about it. Getting onto the Verzano Bridge here, which uh if you guys remember from all the TV shows we do, my good friend Larry the bridge jumper, who I grew up with, jumped off this bridge. I think it's like 230 ft in the middle, the jump. I mean, look at the size of this bridge. Can you imagine any human being surviving jumping off this freaking bridge? I mean, it it it's mindboggling. Only he could have lived. He's such a lunatic. only he could have lived jumping off this bridge. And uh uh I I can't even imagine the balls it takes to do that. You got to have some one set of balls to do that's got to be the craziest way to kill yourself because I know when you kill yourself, you want to get rid of yourself, but that that's a scary thing to do to get up to that bridge and jump the hell off this thing. This is a big big bridge. This is like jumping off the Empire State Building. You can look out on the East River there coming in from the Atlantic Ocean. That's where the boats came in from Europe and they would pass Ellis Island. You actually might even be able to see it. I don't know if you can see it actually from where we're sitting here. We're not high enough, but this is where all the ships came in years ago. My relatives came over. not on the main flower, but they came over. They came over and came through Ellis Island here. And uh it's pretty cool. When you pass through the Verizon Bridge, you know you're in New York City. All right, we're here in Staten Island. I'm with Mike Cuchinello, the owner of Powerhouse Gym here. This is a new stronghold of hardcore lifting. You're reinvigorating this. You're redoing it. Old school doing everything over. No one does this anymore. We're back to the old school way that we used to do it. You know, change everything up. get us back to the old field. Why is Staten Island such a stronghold for bodybuilders, you think? Because you guys have a lot of hardcore guys who lift here. All hardcore. Everybody's hardcore. So, I'm trying to bring back getting away from that retro fitness sports club and give a place for the bodybuilders to come back to guys like us that have been around for years that we have no home. So, I'm trying to create a new home, you know, and it's it's working. Is there a business for bodybuilders still? Yes. Well, I'm going to make it. You know what they got here? We're going to take a look at the gym in a minute. You got the dungeon downstairs for all the bodybuilders. And then and then you put a little bit of more high class stuff on the upper level. Have three floors. Downstairs is the dungeon basically for the bodybuilders, for us type of guys. The middle floor is going to be all cardio setup, juice bar, very nice calm. Music is different, too. Right. Good. Upstairs we're going to have uh Astro Turf, 2,000 ft of Astro Turf. Yeah, I'm doing I'm doing drills now. My My wife has me doing like side to side. We have We have that upstairs. Cardio kickboxing upstairs. I lost my microphone here. Okay. Okay. So, we're going to have cardio kickboxing upstairs, uh, TRX training, kettle bells, uh, just changes. So, every floor is something different. So, we have something for everybody, and we're unique because we're able to do that. Well, I know we got the BK Beast in here, Keem Williams. Looking forward to this. Now, let me ask you a question. Does Leon Brown train here, too? He'll be here in a little while. Leon Brown, Arnold's trainer. I can't wait to see him. Let's go inside. All right. We're downstairs here in the dungeon in the new powerhouse gym here in Staten Island. Look around. This is where the animals train. This is true hardcore bodybuilding at its best. You don't have many gyms like this. You got all the hardcore lifters here in Staten Island coming here. I got my client here, Chris Ray. I got Chris Cormier here to do a seminar today. Uh team Williams is in the house. We're going to do a little bit of posing with him and get his uh presentation down. Pat, that's what we got Chris here. And you know, it's great to go and find these hardcore lifting, you know, gyms that are still in existence because with all the Planet Fitness out there, you know, it's it's almost depressing to see the fact that they won't let a bodybuilder in the gym anymore. And it's nice to see the guys can throw weights, grunt, spit, whatever they want to do here at Powerhouse in Staten Island. All right, look who I got here. Chris Cormier in Staten Island, New York. You're all over the place. Germany, I see you. Are you back in the in the swing of things again? Yeah, man. I'm uh just uh getting my spreading my wings a little bit and uh getting all over and getting uh just like I I think I got a little tired of being in the confines of gold gym Venice only. I've been you know competing there as a teenager and I think it's kind of cool to be out uh you know different places training. Bowski had you in Tampa, Florida for a while training? Yeah, I spent like four months down there. Four months? That's a long time. Yeah, a long time man. Was it was it productive? Yeah, I mean, yeah, we we got through some good parts and uh you know, it's still like I feel like it was some still some percentage of stuff that was still undone that that could have been, but it takes time when you help people. I mean, obviously, you're going to get the best results from people who listen 100% to you. Not everyone does that. We know that. Yeah, it's pretty hard cuz I was at that point. That's the thing. I I understand it because I was there. I was there, you know, with Robbie Robinson was trying to tell me, you know, how he wanted me to squeeze things and wanted me to do things when I was younger, but I was like, uh, I'd rather get to 110, you know, you know, and I understand I understand the process. And I even when Dorian was trying to get through to me at different times, I'm like, uh, he's like, "Yeah, Chris, you're swinging the weight too much." I'm like, "Fuck you. I'm not swinging the weight. I got this, you know?" Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I understand the whole process and mental when you're ready to be open-minded and ready to really just let you know just give your uh your your your training all the way to someone. When the student is ready, the teacher will appear. So you know hopefully you appeared for a Williams here because this is perfect timing. This is Keem's backyard right here. I think he's got some great potential obviously and I'd love to see you work with him a little on his back development, obviously posing. He's over here now. We're going to show some a little bit of your posing technique. I think that you probably have some of the best insights into posing. You know, there's there's good posers out there, but not many people that could teach posing, right? And I and I already been, you know, massaging his mind a little bit about my mindset and how I feel about training. I understand the strength that he has. I think he could be, you know, put out that ferociousness into the from the mind to the muscle and just make a big connection there and I think I mean, who knows what can happen, you know, potential is unlimited. Um, you know, you've been only competing for a number a couple years now. uh the progress that you've made till this point is is almost mind-numbing because you've gained like 15 lbs a year, you know, of muscle, which is unheard of in this industry, you know, or at least very few people are able to accomplish that. Um, obviously, you know, presentation is so important, and I know that you know it's important. I know it's important, but it's hard to really find someone who can teach presentation and Chris, I think, has a great skill in doing that. So, we're going to have him kind of run you through some poses and go over some stuff with you and uh you know, what does it mean to actually be training with like a legend like this? It's definitely an honor, man. And what he was talking about earlier, he was talking to me about basically just um doing more explosive reps and stuff like that. It makes a lot of sense because when you're hitting a pose like a back double bicep or back lat spread, you know, when you pull back, it's the same kind of movement that you should probably use when you um when you train. Exactly. The posing the train is it goes round and round each other. That's why I start people out in the pose room and I say, "Okay, we're going to take this. We're going to use that same mindset down in the gym with the weights, right? If you can't feel the muscle, I always said, then you can't you can't train it." And I always, you know, I would I used to see guys doing skull curses in the gym. And I never felt it in my triceps when I did it. And and I was wondering why my triceps elbows I was wondering why my triceps weren't growing. And I stopped doing them. And I said, you know, the thing I feel the most with triceps is reverse grip pull downs. I said, I'm just going to start doing those. And I got heavier and I did strict form and my triceps started growing. If you don't feel the muscle, it can't grow. Yeah. And it's got to be some some people get certain movements, some people don't get that movement. You know, sometime it takes time. It's not going to be overnight sometimes. Yeah. You got to relearn the process. Understand when you when you're doing these movements, uh whether it's posing or training, your mind's been clicking in a certain way already. So, what you got to do is try to rewrite your mind. Rewrite re rewire your mind. uh because it will try to revert revert back to what you did before. So what you got to do is try to keep reminding yourself, keep going over it, take notes, watch video, and uh keep visualizing uh whether it's training or posing. Well, people people are going to want to go back to old habits. It's just natural. All of a sudden, you don't see the results you want. You say, "Well, I'm going to go back to what I was doing." Exactly. And not on not not not that you're trying to. That's the way the mind works. Well, think about it. always when you first started working out and anything that you did build muscle and then what happens is when you start start hit that plateau and you don't gain anymore you say what did I do to to build the muscle so you go back to doing some ridiculous movement that you did when you first went into the gym and of course it doesn't work anymore so you know but that's you know that's people's mindset so it's hard to kind of get out of that look at this guy okay yeah but I told him I said you know it's good to get out of out of Venice and I to work with people that's like a dragster like this guy. It's like a high performance type car. So, that's that's cool, man. So, as long as you give me the keys to the car, we'll be good. First of all, you want to face the mirror. Uh-huh. Uh maybe stand back a little bit. Okay. Yeah. Right there. Okay. So, this uh how do you stand on stage when you just show me your presentation? So, right now you want to put pressure you want to pressure back your hips back towards Yeah. There you go. So, and then you're turning the muscles outward. Yeah, there you go. So, feet's going to stand in the same spot, but you want to force force uh you want to force the uh the muscles outward, keeping that keeping that mind muscle connection right here. Keeping the hips flared out. So, so then Yeah. So then, and just understand like your wrist everything is going to make is going to make a a big difference in your presentation. Like so what's with the eye sees is going to be it's going to be very important. So when I'm a judge, you know, you want to have nothing that's like like off like you don't want to have thumbs going down. You don't want to have uh something uh uh when you're doing a quarter turns, everything it's all methodically. Everything's uh going to be Chris. What are you What is your feeling about when you know when you're standing from the front? Should Why do some guys blow down on the abs and some guys stand big? What do you like better? Well, here's the thing. I I like I like to show definition here cuz I know a lot of guys I wasn't the biggest guy up there, but when I had someone like say Mike Francois, I just feel like I could beat him cuz I was my body was busier than hers. His his uh muscle showing and then once I I I talked to Joe Weider about it, he was telling me cuz I like when I was younger, I wanted to vacuum cuz I felt bigger. I think people want to feel big at that time. But they got to understand if this looks like it's like it's uh uh if it's plain or or not not muscles um popping or showing the person that's 15 rows back is going to look like it's they're not in shape. So what you want to do is create this illusion of you're in shape no matter where you are sitting in the in the audience. Whether the judge is right here it's a whole another show 10 rows back. Okay. So, so when you come in here, I think you got enough mass in your chest and everything to exhale. And I like to start from the outside in. Like I don't want to leave this blank. So I'm contracting all this in from the outside. Don't just leave pressure down the middle. So you got the outside obliques and seratus. You want to create if you blow the air out, blow your air out. Contract here though. Contract here. Now come and then come in through the middle. So, it's going to be like from the outsides and then the middle. And that's another thing. When you come from this, I want you to stay firm in your transition to your front door bicep. Don't let everything go. And then I'm going to go into my thing. Come from here. Stay firm. Everything's firm. Knock it out. So, you can make sure you got this definition. Keep going into your upper quads. You want to get these boys like this. So, just at the wrist, you want to get that as as a perfect uh uh bicep. So, don't close down on too too much. Let them see the bicep. Really flex these things. And it's not just the bicep. It's the bicep and tricep. So, let's get pressure on the bottom, pressure on the top. You see how that get that cut here? That's what you want. That's what you want. You want definition. You want like anatomy chart up there. We're going over the outer bridge crossing connecting Staten Island with New Jersey after a little bit of a traffic stint and leaving the uh powerhouse gym there where we saw Keem Williams and Chris Cormier. We're in lovely New Jersey now and uh we're on our way. We're a little late. We're going to we're always late so we got to make up some time uh along the way. And we got to go through Jersey, Delaware, and then Maryland. So guys, we'll keep you updated the entire trip. Well, usually we stop at rest stops, but we're on uh a very pressing schedule right now. So, we had to eat at the G. Luckily, the gas station I stopped at in Staten Island to get gas. Had real food. They had bagels. I was going to get a bagel, but then I said, "You know what? I'm going to get a bagel with chicken cuz they had grilled chicken." And then I told them, "Put a little mustard on it." But of course, they added cheese cuz everyone adds cheese to everything. Isn't that what everyone eats? I don't eat cheese, but I don't I like the taste of it. It's something that bothers my stomach. But so, I'm going to go with the chicken, melted cheese, and mustard on a bagel. A New York bagel here. And uh it doesn't get much better than this, guys. I mean, this is like the life. I got to say, the guy didn't listen to us, but the the food is really good. Um, if I can remember the name of the gas station, I'll recommend it next time you go to Staten Island. Exiting New Jersey, we're entering into Delaware. First, we got to cross the Delaware Memorial Bridge, which uh covers the Delaware River, or I should say traverses it. Uh, it's a scary bridge. It's like you go way way, way up in the air for those people who are afraid of bridges. I happen to not be afraid of bridges. We are going to head straight through Delaware at warp speed as Captain Kirk would say because uh we want to get over to Maryland as quickly as possible and check out the most amazing reptile facility maybe in the world. And uh that's really where we're heading to. That's our goal. Crossed over the Delaware Memorial Bridge. We're that much closer. On our way on road trip 2015, right, we just entered the state of Maryland. That was quick. Delaware is the quickest state of all time. If you blink, you'll miss the whole state. We We rushed. We might have made it through it in 15 minutes or less. Um, so we're here in Maryland now. Now, we got to find Street Maryland. I mentioned the name Street Maryland, which is the town that uh Peter Carl lives in to Kevin Levrone, who is an hour and a half from there. Uh, so we're not going to probably see him. He never heard of it. So, it's somewhere in the middle of Maryland. So, we got it in the GPS. We're looking for We're on our way on a mission to one of the greatest reptile breeders in the world. Peter call uh in the uh Mercedes trying to stay this around the speed limit. We're a little higher. No more. No, we don't want any tickets on this road trip. The last ticket was a nightmare. So uh stay tuned. Just entered the little town of Darlington. As you can see, this is very rural here. Got farmland. You have cows grazing. You have these old old barns here. We're going through these little country roads. Uh Peter Carl lives in a very interesting uh little remote place evidently, but very cute and quaint. I like it. You know, thank god there's no snow on the ground or it would be a little hectic going through these country winding roads, but I don't mind there's no traffic. I'm moving nice. It's a beautiful day out here. And we are closing in on our destination. Made it here to Peter Call's house. Uh it's 114 acres. I had no idea how big this was. He's got his own lake here all over the you can see him on his deck. It's beautiful out here. Uh it's he's got wilderness everywhere. Uh he's got a huge If you can look in the distance, he's got a huge reptile house. We're going to get to see in a little bit. Uh for now though, he's he's fixing his son's dirt bike. So, I'm exploring the territory and the property here. Just a gorgeous house and and and setup here. Uh, we're going to get to see some truly amazing animals in a little bit and I think you guys are going to be very, very impressed. I know I am impressed already and I haven't even seen anything. So, stick with us. Let's see what else he's got. All right. I'm standing here with Peter Carl. We're in the uh What would you call this? Do you have a name for your facility? Uh, Big Nelly. Big Nelly. Yeah, that's good. No, it's just this is this is the the building where we breed all the animals. And uh up here is where the ball pythons are on the main level, bows in the basement, and then we have a little bit of rodent room upstairs. And uh this is a pretty sophisticated facility. I I I've seen a lot of snake facilities, and you seem to have you have radiant heating here. You have I mean, this is the ultimate setup. Yeah, it's nice here on the property. We've been in in uh basement of the house starting out uh and then uh went into a warehouse at one point had another facility and it's it's nice to be able they say it's not really an a use but I I I disagree and I think this needs to be out on agricultural land and have you know farm and well you're certainly in the in the farmlands that's for sure here. Show us some of the the good stuff you got. Show us the exciting stuff you got going on here because I know you got some great stuff here in the ballroom. These are all uh like hold back. Most of the stuff I'm trying to hold over in this area here. So uh stuff I know you like the albino pides. Yeah. Yeah. I have a few of these. Group of them going from this year. Now what would make you decide to keep say this snake? Why why this snake as opposed to I'm sure you get rid of some one I really liked cuz of its color. Uh but no, I mean just keep them. I mean they're I love having them. the pie. I mean, I love the albino pie balls. I think they're just exquisite. I mean, the coloring and I love the yellow. I know my wife doesn't like them as much. She likes the darker ones, but um I mean this they're awesome. And I like the ones that are, you know, equi patterned that that's a Yeah, that that seems to have a little bit more dramaticness. Yeah. So, will you preferentially breed something like this to try to bring out more of that orange? Sure. Sure. Why not? And then lavender pi. Here's one of those. They're pretty too. Now, the the interesting thing about the lavender pi is that the lavender is not in the white portion. It's in this portion. Right. Right. And that'll start to get lavender. This will stay bright white. Correct. All of them do. And I like the lavender pides, but I also like the regular pides. I like the candy pi even better than these two. I have some of those in the back that are from this year that are big enough actually going to stick them in breeding here. So, all right. I I I think this is a great little tutorial here because this is a special pi or it looks like a special pi but it's really not. Explain. It's uh for a lack of better term right now we're just calling them a golden pi. Look at these like pides. They're amazing. This is a golden pi that just happens to be an exquisite looking regular pi that you've kind of isolated to a certain gene pool. Right. Exactly. It's and it's popping out and it's doing amazing things like this here. Now, what is this? Is is another one of the goldens. Now, this one looks like it has pastel in it, but actually, I'd have to check the parents. It looks like it in the head, but even if it does, it's amazing looking. Well, what I love, this one doesn't have anything else in it. This is exquisite, but I love this one because this one is the golden gene pi with the hypo. Right. Right. Just just like here's a the regular I mean, look at the color of this thing. It's a pastel ghost and it's just not even it's not even close to this. This has got the golden the golden hide gene in it and you could just see look at the oranges in this. It almost looks like there's like 10 other jeans in there. I didn't know what to think when it was in the egg and I cut the egg and I'm like I'm like looking at it in the egg going, "Oh my god, what is that?" Pretty cool. Peter calls got a great black blood python here. I know he's just starting to get back into breeding them again now. They they could be a little cane tankerous, a little nasty. Let me see if I can pick one up here and not get bit. Look at that head. All really dark black. That's great coloring. That's just wonderful looking snake. And he's pretty good. He got a little He's a little feisty, this guy. Little I think I'm going to close up the drawer. All right. This is a moonglow boa, but it's a melanistic moonglow boa, which is unusual because you don't see the black in it, right? Now, how could you tell? Cuz it black turns to white in albinistic form. So, see how the sides of the tail are. So, this is getting whiter, right? And it's losing its yellow goes to yellow where moon globe boas as they mature, they they're not going to turn they'll usually get you more yellow. Right. Right. Yeah. So, you can see the yellow on the top side, but the sides, and that's kind of how it's amazing. If you look at a melanistic um ghost, right? Okay. Which is the non-alvinistic form. Mhm. The top side of the animal is like a dark Yeah. Like a different color. The sides get black. Show us. That one isn't That one's pretty much black on it. But this is actually black. Yeah. See how black and then in here it's kind of got like a brownish color. That one's not as good of an example. So, this is a ghost melg. Yeah. Hypo anur img. Hypoanury and then img. And they vary a little. So, if you just threw the albinism gene in here, you get this, right? This moon moon glove. It's a big one. Yeah. The big mama's uh right here. She's the IMG, the first one. the original. Oh my god, look how big are you in? Could you take her out? Yeah. Started out. What color was she when you first got it? Just had a few specks of black on her. She was just had it like under her her sk her her uh hand markings were Yeah, she looked better. That light stinks, man. It's popped. I got to get a new I love that they almost get like a rainbowish looking to the to the when the light reflects off. She's pretty pretty mellow. She You just don't want to get her up to your face. She's a face. No, she's not. But you don't want to get bit by her in the face. So I just don't want to see that happen. No, I don't want to see it happen either. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We hit the pay dirt here, Pete. You got a crazy litter here of IMG babies. Yeah. Uh let's see. Daddy was IG and Yuri Posh had albino bred to a T positive Colombian male. So they're all had te paws, brother. Ro, there's babies. She's still having babies. She's still having it. That's They were hiding underneath. She's done. Let me get my hook. I want to pull her out. I'm going to grab her by hand. I got my little iPhone camera here. I want to stay out of striking distance of her. You're still in striking distance. She's not going to leave her babies, though. So, are you nervous? I'm not nervous. I'm not I'm actually not nervous. So, although she's she's not happy, but I do think it's pretty cool. All the babies there. That's amazing. Here at dinner time with Pete. Uh, we spent so much time in your warehouse in your facility in your property. What time is it now? We're at like uh I'm about to crash at his house. It's so late. We're starving to death. It's 9:15. They rolled in at what about uh we would we got in like 2:00 2:30 maybe. So, it's been a long long time. We hung out at the house with Yeah, we had a good time. I want to thank you for letting us into your facility and everything like that. That was great. And I know you guys would would be remiss. You'd be pissed off if I didn't talk to you about what I'm eating. We're here at a Japanese restaurant. I have some chicken curry. They make Thai food here. And then we have some sushi rolls coming. I'm going to eat this. And you know, I want to just taste it because I know you guys like to watch me eat food. So, let's see how this. Okay. I'm going to try one thing. Spicy. It's very spicy. Well, when you ask for anything spicy, they know me. They're probably thinking of me and that's why they Well, you know, I What did I tell you was the antidote for spice? Uh, coconut. Coconut water. Guys, drink coconut water. The burning goes away. Anyway, this is a great end to a great day here in Where are we in Maryland? What? Uh, we're in Harford County. County. And the town here is called Bair. All right. We're in Sweet Frog here. Amanda is going to fix herself a specialty yogurt thing. Now, you get to choose. You get to choose all these different flavors. Original. I would go for original. Maybe tart. I don't want uh Amanda is going for strawberry. Cake batter. Cake batter. Oh, let me see that. And cookies and cream. Cake batter. Okay. So, and she's putting a little cookies and cream in there as well. I don't have the cookies and cream fertilized. And this is certainly not health food. And then she can put a little more in there. Show you later. Look, she's really mixing it up. She's going with New York cheesecake. Wow. I wonder if this is healthy. No sugar added. It says, "How bad could it be?" Now she gets to pick her toppings. There's a lot of toppings to choose from here. She's going with what is that? Cookie dough. Cookie dough. And she's going with Reese's Pieces there. Whatever the peanut butter cups. Reese's peanut butter cups. My mom would like that. And what else? I would go with the maybe white chocolate chips over there. That's what you want. No, I'm not going to eat some. How about the strawberry juice poppers? That looks really good. There's whipped cream. I see there she doesn't like whipped cream. There's like candy. I don't know who would put candy on their yogurt, but people do it. Probably chocolate covered pretzels. I see. There's more Reese's Pieces going for the peanut butter. She's really loading up on the peanut butter today. And look, there's marshmallow toppings. There's What is that? Peanut butter topping. Wow. She's going all out. I've never seen anything like this. She's a peanut butter fanatic. Fire on I 95 North. Unbelievable. A car in flames. Have you ever seen that? Never ceases to amaze me. Hey guys, I'm here at a rest stop somewhere in New Jersey. We're not quite sure where, but we're at the rest stop. And uh I'm picking up a little Diet Coke here. A little shameless plug. Uh give me a little lift me up, pick me up. And I'm very thirsty from that sushi meal. So, we're about maybe a little more than halfway home. I'd say we've probably got about another hour and a half of driving to go. And this trip just doesn't seem to end. It's 12 midnight and we've been going since 9:00 this morning. So, um you never know where the next stop might be. So I appreciate it. Um, as you guys know, uh, my two road trips that I've ever taken for RX Muscle have now resulted in two pullovers. Luckily, this time I did not get a ticket. So, I told you guys when I was in the uh on the way back and I was at the rest stop, I said, "You never know what might happen on an RX muscle road trip." And you see, crime doesn't pay. All right, the day is almost over. 2:00 a.m. in the morning. Made record time getting home. Did get pulled over. Didn't get a ticket, so that was good. We just got to see Chris Cormier and Aake Williams today. I got to see my new friend now, Peter Kh, one of the leading reptile breeders in the uh industry. And uh got to spend some quality time at his house down in Maryland there. That was exciting. And you know, I always tell you guys when you have a very busy day and you have a lot on your mind and you know, I had clients texting me all day about the contest and a lot of people were in shows, it's hard to turn off, you know, and I just drove for two three hours. I'm all revved up. So, what do I do? You got to pick a nice spiritual book. I have my uh essential Wayne Dyer collection here. There's three books in this one book. And what I do is I randomly open it up to a page and I start reading and I read until I fall asleep. But when I fall asleep, I have all good spiritual, you know, thoughts in my head. I feel at peace. I feel, you know, connected to my source. And I feel like, you know, I'm aligned. When I wake up in the morning, I feel like I have almost like um a better connection to what my goals are for the day. And that's a good way to go to sleep at night. When you go to sleep at night reading things about bodybuilding and things about and thinking about your bills and stress, guess what happens? You don't sleep very well at night. You wake up in the morning more stressed out and you have a terrible day the next day. So get yourself a good spiritual book. I recommend Dwayne Dyer. Read a few pages before bed or as many as you need. And then when you fall asleep, sweet dreams. For now though, I am out of time. And uh until the next RX Muscle Road Trip. Good night.