Logan's captains. All right, Shelly, here's your strawberries. Yeah. So, we're going to do a little breakfast with Arya and Logan. Of course, we got these mac on the pan. Grease up there. The oldfashioned way. Use your fingers. Grease it up a little bit. And uh We got our egglins. Omega-3 eggs. Kids got to eat good stuff, too. We're going to crack some uh some eggs. We're going to make some toast. Personally, I would do the keto bread, but I don't like the keto bread, so I got to go with the the Italian white sliced bread. They love the bread, too. So four slices mac on it butter if you like that better train of salt and my hydrogenation my water hydrogenator hydronation >> water I got my whole house is actually on RO water. So, the whole house, including stuff we shower in, is filtered RO water with calcium added back into it. Put the eggs into a bowl, make the milk, we don't milk, a chicken patty for breakfast, breakfast for lunch. Excuse me. She doesn't eat school lunches. She doesn't like school lunches, right, Shayla? You don't eat no school lunches? >> No. >> She likes to bring her own stuff. Shayla, Arya, and Logan eat the school lunches, which I probably would do too if I was a kid. And we just packed some snacks. >> More sandwich. Already some toast. Shelly, you see what did you see in the water? >> Um, dolphins. >> Dolphins. >> Dolphins and >> energies. You're right. Dolphins and manes. And we saw and we all crab and Eric got a big crab crab. Got some cool shells on the beach. It was a little uh maybe arbitr. >> Okay, go. I like it. Ready? One, two, three. Gingerbread truck. >> I already did that song. >> All right. What song you want to do then? Oh, we got to go. I got to pack lunches. >> Okay. >> All right. Go ahead. Sing it. >> A B C. I'm going to miss you. I >> Oh, you know it. I love it. All right. >> See, we got everyone performs in the family. >> We get to go with the turtle. the turtle feeding raw my fing. >> I had a good time this weekend with you guys. I'm I hope you guys had a good time, too. And have fun at school. Love you guys. And we got you here just right time. High five. >> High five. All right. Love you guys. >> All right, Shayla. Take your time. >> Get your lunch box, Shayla. >> All right, guys. About to head into crunch. Get a little leg workout on. Remember, never skip leg day. Now, I won't be squatting today. You know, I'm not the young the young man I used to be, but we're gonna be doing a little legs. Uh, we got We went to the beach, the kids and I, yesterday. So, I got I got to take the car to the car wash. I'm I'm like trembling that the car is so sand on the seats, stuff like that. And we're going to go get something to eat. We got a lot to do. We have Heavy Muscle Radio at noon because now we do we film it on Mondays at noon live with Chris Aceto. So, a lot still to do to today. And you're going to get to see all my little uh chores and stuff I run around and do on a regular basis cuz this is my life. >> We all have injuries. We all get older. >> If I can't squat 600, that doesn't mean I shouldn't work out. I shouldn't do legs. You do what you can do. And you know, if I'm going to give advice to other people and I want to look good, >> um, and I want them to look good, I got to show them I can do it, too. And there's no reason. A lot of people are with me will say to me, "Hey, I got I got sick or you know, I got to go to my brother's wedding. I got to do this. I got an injury. I I see people who just train their pinky and and they don't go to the gym for 4 weeks cuz they're letting their feet be killed. I don't miss. I'm here no matter what. I've been up 6:00 in the morning the last couple days. Kids and I did some stuff. Dropped the kids at school this morning. >> I'm here. 9:00 we're going to work out and we're going to, you know, keep this day going. I got, like I said, heavy muscle radio 12. I'm going to get the job done. Even if I don't do it to the extent that I want. I know Christo always tells me if I can't strain the way I used to, I don't want to go to the gym at all. >> Get to the gym. That's the most important thing. Do the work. >> The gym is so slow, so busy in the morning. When I do legs now, I can't even do it in the in the order that I want to do. I got to do it in the order that the machine is available. So that's why I did I just did it uh abductors down the leg press. Whatever opens up next. Well, I might do hamstring set otherwise I'll be here day. You got to you got to do what's available. tell you something about this machine. It looks like a like a real like machine that a girl would use. These waist machines, they move your whole body and there's something about the positioning that I actually like. It really concentrates motion on on your quads. As you know, I'm not a big leg butt fan. I like the straight leg but I like a horizontal leg press. I don't like it before your butt. You never really feel it. My quads. This machine is really good. Like I said, but for my boobs and I just feel like it really good machine. The key is watch and on the way down squeeze on the way up and bottom will just use full back. I see so many people wrapping their knees in these sleeves and they use them almost as they go as a spring and they spring up the bottom and you're not going to get any quad development or anything adds up though can get the weight up. Don't worry about the wing. You roll the weight. You'll see when I do my next three sets like breaths. You know, I'll do uh need to do three sets of pretty I'll do preset of extensions, three sets of leg press, but I don't really do much of anything else. I'll do some I do some body weight squats just just to get that motion down and then I'll do uh extend uh leg curls three sets. I'll try to end with like one leg at a time. I'll do the abductor adductor machine. And once again, I'm not trying to set any records here. My legs throw really easy. So, thank God they still look good. You know, uh I still got the veins going on. And like I said, I'm working with like really half a quad on this leg and a fused ankle. So, it's amazing that I get my legs. That's why people when people complain for me. I'm like, listen, don't complain to me. I got plenty of injuries, you know. I'm not a good one. I'm in no pain, but it's because I'm keeping myself strong and I train the way I have to train given what I have. I can't get under a squat bar cuz I don't have the ankle flexibility that my age doesn't pay to do it. But if you guys are young and you want to build legs, you got to get under a squat bar. I yell at the guys here all the time, gentlemen, get them. They do Smith machine. that you own machines. I'm like, "Get under a free weight swap bar if you want legs." Girls, too. They all want big butts. They want every butt blasting machine this place, hip thrusting machine, and they won't get under a swap bar. I don't I don't know what the problem is. So, guys, you're not going to make legs just now. Yeah, I I have a fused ankle. You can't do calf presses on me, but I I move as much as I can and I actually still have a cat. They say it's impossible to train here through his ankle. Yeah, it's a little smaller, but it still works. So, it's even like just moving a little bit, I'm stimulating the muscles. Don't take no for an answer. I don't care what the doctors say. They told me I feel can't train calves. I'm training calves. Get it done. Now, this is the this is the weirdest leg extension machine you'll ever use. What get voice? So, it your whole body moves. And I don't know if I I like it. I think I like it better because it actually can force my my body into a motion that's actually comfortable. It seems like a natural movement. If you look at how you lift up my legs like your whole body is moving. And for some reason, at first I didn't like it. It's a little unnerving, but I actually like it better because it kind of takes the pressure off your knees. If you have a knee problem, try to twist. You not feel any pain in the knees whatsoever. I love straight. I love and hate hamstrings. I'll tell you why. It's painful. That's why people don't like to do it. But it's a good body part for me. And you know, if you have good glutes, when you're pulling that hamstring, that that bar, you know, those hamstring curls, those glutes will get it at the top of the moment. A lot of guys stop before they get to the top. Big mistake. You want that pad touching your ass. Okay. And key is also a lot of people set stay here. Want to set it up as high as possible. So it's it's like almost on your calf. If not, you're not going to be as strong. I'm telling you, keep this as close to your leg as possible. More down your ankle than this. It's going to be harder to pull it up. You're not going to get the contraction that you get as slow. Short arms like Lean Freeze. I always give a good example. They're quick barbell curls. They do barbell curls and they man the arms get huge from it. I got a long arm. I'm like out here. I'm like I don't even feel them. I feel my shoulders. I don't feel it in my back. I don't I don't feel them at all. So, I have to do like dumbbells or cable core curls. Same thing with hamstrings. If you put the bar on your the end of your ankle here and try to pull you further away from your body, you're not going to get traction in the hamstrings. But when it's up here, the the the ball you're pulling, you can get a much better traction. It's like you're shortening your arm. And that's why hamstring curls with the pad closer to your body is going to be a much better, you know, intensity traction and you're going to get better results. I promise you. Try it. you'll you'll you'll tell me. I'm right. Now, I'm going to go over and as much as I hate this machine, I just I just do it just for the heck of it. This is the glute press, but I don't know if they call it a blood butt blast. I think you can heal in. This is just you're driving your your heel back and it's really it is for glutes, but it also strengthens your quads and and the connection there. I once again, it gives me activation in that area. Something I can't do because I can't really squat at this point. So, I kind of do these tutti frutti movements here. You kind of just get some activation of the fibers here. But, um, you have glute issues. This could help you give you the mind muscle next to you cuz you you really have to squeeze the glutes to push back. Don't go too heavy on this. A lot of people using too much weight and they're not using their glutes to achieve the end of the day. training legs suck and it's great. It sucks because it it wears you out. You get winded, taxes your nervous system. A lot of guys get a little nauseous. They don't want to eat afterwards. Sometimes it's hard to sleep that night because you're traumatizing your nervous system. But at the end of the day, you want to a good great physique. You got to do legs. Legs don't just build legs. They build your whole body. Especially when you're doing squats, leg press, because you're putting all this weight on your back and you're having to support that. And that's an important aspect of building girth to your entire body. So that's why you ever heard the term >> squats build mass on the entire body. It's true. Think about what you're doing. You take that bar on your back >> and you're balancing it. You're walking back with it. That's all your core. Your whole upper body is work in that sense. You can't duplicate that with a machine. Machine does the work for your stabilization. Don't skip squats when you're doing legs. Okay? If you're doing that, you're cheating yourself. And if you want to be the best bodybuilder you can be, you want to build massive size and thickness and growth and density, got to do work. And squats is part of just like deadlifts on back day are part of >> building the girth in your lower back >> and your upper traps. You can't cheat. You know, you're only cheating yourself. >> Once guys started showing their abs on Instagram, every guy wanted abs, right? Before that, no one knew that anyone had abs, you know, cuz unless you read a magazine or something like that. But I wanted to mention one more thing about leg training. >> Yeah. >> Shoes. You notice I wear hocus now. Um I used to be a Nikk guy, but the Hocus actually allow your ankle to roll even though I have a used ankle. So I I that makes walking very easy. So these are probably the most comfortable shoes I've ever worn. A lot of medical workers use these. People are on their feet a lot. Poke is a rule. But I am a Nike guy. But the key is with legs. Doesn't matter what shoes you wear, but they got to have the heel has to be higher than the front. So, I know some basketball shoes, they're lower in the back, and a lot of shoes have no no heel lift whatsoever. They're flat, like you're flat on the floor, it's going to be very hard for you to push from your heels when you're training legs. If your shoe is this way or flat, you want it a little bit like this. That doesn't mean to put blocks under your feet. It means get a shoe that has a heel that's a little higher, which means it's going to have cushioning. running shoes, cross trainining shoes. I'm telling you, it it's a world of difference. You'll feel it when you when you take them to the gym. Never squat and deadlift barefoot. The only reason why dead uh the powerliffters do that is because they're closest to the floor when they they have no shoe on. So, they're moving the weight a much greatly reduced amount of of deadlifting off the floor and you're barefoot. you're going to save this much space and that could be the the difference between making a lift and not making a lift. So, that's why powerlifts do that. It's not because they're getting better at developing. Do not squat. Do not deadlift. Therefore, I'm telling you, it's a big big mistake and you're going to you're going to thank me later in life when you don't have injuries. You're going to get much better development with a pair of sneakers on that have a higher back. And even better, if you get a pair of custom orthotics and put them in your shoes like I have, that's going to correct the biomechanics of your foot and you can see much much better than like I promise you. As you know, I I don't really squat anymore just cuz hey, my knee, my ankle, I don't have the ankle flexibility, but I like to do the squat movement because I I want to get the range of motion. I want to stimulate the abductors. I want to feel the fluids. So, I do body weight squats. You know, I'll do I'll put two fingers on the on the machine. I keep me in the position I want and I squat down and if you notice I'm below parallel. You got to go below parallel if you want to get the abductions the glutes. When I drive up below parallel I'm using all glute getting abduction. That's why I had big legs is wide stance squat sitting back on the heels coming down on the heels driving from the heels. That's what builds big legs. Now obviously I would want weight on my mat if I was trying to build my legs. right now just simulating the lo the motion because once again I want to teach strength flexibility in my body without I can't put a weight see how I open my knees up and they're not straight they were straight I'd be using more quads because they're open I'm using more adductors glutes And that's the key. You come down, open the knees up, go below parallel. Squeeze. Don't spring off the bottom. I'm controlling the descent. I'm pausing and squeezing. That's how you squat. If you're not doing your squats like that, then you're wasting your time. >> Hey. Oh [\h__\h] This is Aman. A man runs species for me now. He's in the office with me every day, seven days a week usually. Yeah, >> he's missed two flights back to Jersey, but I still got him in here. >> Uh, yeah, they're finally going back in the morning. Like, I thought >> I've been coming in the morning. I I was coming at night and working species is a full-time job for sure. >> 10:00 at night sometimes. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But I love working. Dave is Dave is a great guy. Dave's not only been coach to me, but a father figure, a mentor, therapist sometimes, uh, super helpful and, um, he really changed my life. So, I'm really happy to work. >> I know since she was a teenager. Yeah. And I moved him down here now. So he's living down here at Cape Coral and he's uh killing it with species. So >> like my surrogate father doing it. >> All right, get back to work. >> All right, guys. So that was my leg training uh workout. Takes about 4550 minutes. I take enough rest between sets. A lot of people going a little too fast, too. That's going to limit how much weight you can lift. Remember, you're not doing cardio. You're doing weight training. So don't turn your leg workout into a cardio workout. Although now I'm going to end with a little cardio. 20 minutes on the recumbent bike. I I don't want to walk on a treadmill. So, I want to give my legs a break at this point when I want to flush some of the lactic acid out of my legs. I'm doing no tension on my legs just pedaling for 20 minutes. Once again, for me, it's more of like a little runner's high I get from it, but it actually helps. A lot of people think that they shouldn't do cardio with the legs, but it actually helps recovery because it does flush all that lactic acid out of your legs because you're getting better blood flow through the leg. So, I wouldn't be doing stair master. I wouldn't be doing, you know, anything high intensity, but if you can sit on a bike and just pedal loosely for 20 minutes, I think that's a great way to end your leg workouts. Join me next time. I'm going to head over and get a little uh >> I'll have 100 200, you know. >> All right, guys. Workout's over. Got my cardio in. Feeling very zen-like right now. So Jesse, our camera guy, got his workout in. We're gonna go eat my favorite place, Kudova, which is across the street. I got to take my car to get a wash today. I'm like shaking. It's so dirty. And then we're going to head back to the house. We're going to do some heavy muscle radio. Stay tuned. Intoa. This is my go-to. It's probably across the street to the gym. I like to stay in my I have a little loop I do all the time. But they got good food here. It's all fresh cooked chicken in here. And not open yet. Holy mackerel. I can't go here. That means I got to break my schedule because they're not open yet. And uh yeah, they open at 11:00. So, we're going to have to improvise. We may have to go to Dunkin Donuts and get some eggs. But, we're going to find a place. Stay tuned. For a coffee anyway. >> All right, guys. I'm going to get two cream. I'm going to get maple frosted. I'm going to get the strawberry frosted with sprinkles. I'm going to get some Boston cream. One of my favorite. I'll get about 20 of those. Where's my daughter? It's the next the next cabin. >> My daughter like the vanilla headlights headlights. That's my daughter's favorite. She will if they don't have it, she'll make me do Dunkin Donut. It's Dunkin Donut. My other daughter likes the Munchkins. So, the truth is I'm getting no donuts. I'm only getting bacon, egg, and cheese. And I'm getting coffee. So, maybe Jess will have some donuts. your egg. >> And I want hot decap coffee. >> All right, guys. Here it is. Two eggs on a bagel with some cheese and some bacon, which I will take off the bacon. And uh >> I just like the smell of the taste of it. I got my decap coffee here. And we're good to go. I'm going to eat this, head back, and uh I think we might uh might feed some I don't know if we'll feed snakes. We're going to do some little snake stuff, some fish. I'm going to show you all my animals. And uh we got heavy muscle radio coming up very soon. >> How you doing? Best ever. She wants a crunch. She's eating a donut. >> I earned it. >> Look at this. You earned it. >> I've earned it. I've done my master cardio for myself. >> Oh. Oh, so you do cardio so you can eat donuts. >> Yeah, I do. >> It's brilliant, isn't it? That's why That's why I don't care. I eat I do cardio so I can eat. >> I love it. I love see rationalization and I love it. It's great things. Hello. >> All right, guys. I told you we're going to do it. It's a little neurotic, but I go to the car wash a couple days a week. Probably more than I like to admit. I probably go to the car wash as many times as I go to the gym every week. Got to keep the car clean. You know what? The car for some reason always drives better when it's cleaner. I don't know if you guys ever noticed that, right? It's clean. It's good. My kids come in the car, it's a disaster. Um they their their mission I believe in life is to destroy anything that they uh encounter whether it be a house walls in the house uh cars, the carpeting in the car. They spilled the soda yesterday in here. Thank god it was a diet soda. And uh they they have footprints all over everything and I'm like a neurotic with my cars. So we're going to get the car washed on the outside and then I'm going to vacuum in the inside. And once it's back to pristine condition, I will feel much better. It's like it's like almost like AI have I need that to create a zen-like state in my I can't drive a dirty car. It's I don't know if you guys are like that. I see a lot of people driving really dirty cars. If you remember the movie The Transporter, Jason Staithm uh said in the Transporter, you can tell a lot by a man by the way he keeps his car. As you can see, we're in the middle of the car wash now. We have all the uh suds coming down here. And you know what? I actually interviewed Jason Stathithm at the uh International Sports Hall of Fame ceremony at the Arnold Classic several years back and I asked him about that quote. I said, "Do do you live by that quote too? Is your car clean?" He goes, "Of course he liv It's true." I don't even know if he remembered the quote, but I remember the quote. He had a beautiful 7 series BMW in that car and he kept it pristine. And I believe in the same. So if you keep your surroundings clean and organized, I believe your whole life is is organized. I think the the way you keep your car is almost a metaphor about how you keep your life and how you run your life. If your car is a mess, there's crap all over the place. There's no it's no organization. Uh usually your life is misorganized as well. So if you want to be successful in life, so organize your [\h__\h] Throw out what you don't need. If you haven't worn it in the last 6 months, chuck it in the garbage. I unburdening yourself will make you that much more successful. I promise you. Sorry about the the the the water sounds and the blower is going to be coming up pretty soon. But the car is becoming cleaner and cleaner as uh we see. Maybe you can look out the front window here and we're heading out the door and then I'm going to go over to the uh the vacuuming station. I'm going to vacuum the car. I bring my own Windex and then my own paper towels. I wipe down the whole inside of the car and we'll be beautiful and I'll show you the finished product in a few minutes. >> At the vacuuming station now. Got to get all the sand out of the car. My kids made this answer yet. They have no uh no sense of of not making a mess. They bigger the mess, the better. Times I clean these cars. I have to clean it every day. I'll clean it three times a day. I cannot drive a dirty car. So, there's a lot of sand in my car here. Kids can get footprints anywhere. They're all over the place. They step everywhere, but they're their sneakers. I got footprints on the ceiling of my car. I don't know how they got it on the ceiling. They did. >> My father used to My father grew up uh with these guys in the Bronx and they decided later in life they all all different walks. Some were, you know, made it very successful, some didn't, but they would go and have dinner once a month in the city. They call it the boys from the Bronx and they would eat and they get drunk and whatever else they did there um every single once a month and they would drive like my father hated driving but he loved going to his city to have that boys from the Bronx. And they would cook their own foods. They're all Italian. They cook their own food. And the Wack Pack show, the after hours show was like my boys from the Bronx. But I get to do it every week as opposed to once a month. I said, you know, it's not the greatest car I've had. I I really like this car. It's functional and for a big SUV, it drives like a car. It the thing is almost like got a mind of its own. It really it's it's an incredible vehicle. But like I said, if you're going to drive a car on a regular basis, it's got to be neat, clean, and it's got to be something you like. I always tell people, you're better off getting a car you like, spend a little more on it, you'll enjoy it that much better. All right, that's going to do it. Car is beautiful. The the rims could be cleaner. I don't have time. I'm sweating. I got to do heavy muscle radium. Let's get out of here. See, the kids the kids bikes are fun, too. I play with their toys as well. When I used to go on the Con O'Brien show um back in the day and CBS or NBC studios say it used to be freezing and I would do the Incredible Hulk skin and I would have no shirt on and I would be shivering and I didn't understand why it was so cold in there. And then I realized because the hosts don't want to sweat. They want to they don't because it ruins the makeup, you know, it's just it's uncomfortable with a suit on. So now when I come in here I make it frigid when I come here. And mine doesn't mind either cuz he's always sweating, too. All right, guys. Setting up for Heavy Muscle Radio. We're going to be going live and actually we should have gone live 2 minutes ago, but I'm always late. That's But when you're you're the boss, you can do that. And sometimes you got to make people wait. It's like, you know, showing up, you know, artistically late, I always say. And let's get this thing miked up here. No, two mics on myself. Hopefully, they won't interact. Let's make sure we get some battery power. Got battery. All right, we're about to go live with Chris Aceto on Heavy Muscle Radio. We're going to be talking about Nick Walker winning the New York Pro. Plus, there's a couple of other controversial topics I want to bring up. Uh Bob Chikorilla's viewpoint on uh Nick, especially after he predicted that Nick would finish eighth at the Olympia. We want to get to that. And Linda Murray made some very controversial statements about the fact that the women are not getting paid as much as the men at the Arnold and she's pissed off about it. And uh is she right? Is she wrong? You're going to find out her opinion in a little bit. So, let's get to it. As I'm waiting for Chris to come on, I'm like checking uh Facebook Messenger. I'm think checking my clients out. It's like it's like non-stop. Monday is crazy because I get all my updates from all my clients and I haven't looked at a single one because Jesse and I have been filming all morning. So, at some point I'm gonna have to do some emails. I haven't figured out what that point is yet. I have a feeling tonight I'm going to be inundated with emails, but we'll see. All right, let's let's see. Oh, there's Chris. What's up? >> How you doing? >> Okay, so I'm being I'm being filmed by uh by Jesse who's doing a day in the life of Dave Palumbo. So, let's see. We got here we got uh I'm chewing gum because Nick Walk can get away with it. You should know. Do it. Do it. Do it. Do it. It's fine. >> No, because his skin and his mother's skin. She don't like >> Oh, she Why doesn't she like it? What did you say? >> Because I I didn't have any. >> Oh. Oh my god. How How terrible. God forbid we don't God forbid we don't think they did that that someone deserves to win the show. And we're back for another live installment of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo, joined by the technician Chris Ace. And Chris, we are being filmed uh independently by my good friend Jesse, who's making a day in the life of Dave Palumbo. So, we're doing a day in the life of Dave Palumbo today uh which is probably one of my he most hectic days. It started off at 6:00 a.m. Uh I had to get my kids to school, Chris, after the weekend of having them. And uh we went right to the gym from there and it hasn't stopped since. So I know you had a busy weekend in New York, too. >> 60 minutes. >> Talk to me about Rean Grimes. >> That bad. What do you think happened? >> The biggest or fastest flattening in it was the biggest flattening and the splat name in the history of going to >> Wow. And that back double looks brutal right there. >> Brutal when he first came out. >> Yeah. I wonder what happened. >> It was brutal when it first came out. And you know, Tyler mentioned something that people won't get who don't go to shows, don't judge shows, just, you know, don't go to a lot of shows. you mentioned in that Pittsburgh rep, he said, "People don't understand how these guys, especially the big guys, at this level, can change minute by minute." >> And and he's right, of course. Um, but I have never seen the structure, the size, he just looked big. >> That back double looked like it could beat everyone, you know, >> it did when it first came out. >> Unbelievable. And then, you know, by the you know, by the last call with like he just changed very quickly. >> Yeah. Needless would say it was because he wasn't on enough insulin, I'm sure. Right. >> I thought up body was I mean from the front side was quote soft enough to not justify him getting by Jose at night. >> So I thought was better at night. I thought u was better in the morning. So that's how I saw the show. >> What did you think about it in Pittsburgh? >> I I didn't see it in Pittsburgh, but I'll say that's uh Jose was completely insanity insane. Insane insane condition. >> Let's let's let's pull the whole thing. So Oral raises the prize money to the oral class. big announcement as we know 750 grand. You predicted it. Uh I predicted it. We all said a matter of fact we all believe that Arnold will be the first person to give away a million dollars. But you know Jay Wood has a chance to to eclipse that at the Olympia if he wants to you know raise it up higher than that. Arnold goes from 500 to 750. That's a big jump. 250 grand for first place. You think we'll see hottie Chopen do it this year? >> Y >> I think so too. That's a lot of money in Iran. could probably retire on that money. >> He he can he could he could just never compete again and then probably just live like a king there. So yeah, that's that's a that's a big price. >> That's that that is a bigger announcement than it's a bigger announcement. >> They deserve equal pay. But when we talk about Kim Kardashian verse, you know, uh a lesser man, Kim Kardashian is going to bring in a lot more money and they're going to pay her a lot more. So, it's what the person brings to the stage. In the bodybuilding world, men's open bodybuilding brings tons of much more money revenue from live, you know, live streaming, uh, from ticket sales at the arena. It's just a fact. It's always been that way. All right, guys. We just finished filming Heavy Muscle Radio. Controversial show. Obviously, we we talked about Nick Walker winning the New York Pro. what won it for him over Bonak and Rean Grimes. We talked about, you know, Jose Manuel losing again to Rough Diesel in the classic division. What Chris thought about that, but probably the most uh controversial, you know, part of the show was the prize money. Arnold Schwarzenegger announcing 750 grand in 2026, the next rendition of the Arnold for first place. Lenda Murray, eight time Miss Olympia, went on the record on Instagram and was saying that it wasn't fair that the women, you know, have more followers than the third place guy, you know, and and who's making more money than them combined. And why aren't the women getting equal pay? And the bottom line is that Chris felt I agree with him. What he said was that the men are the draw. The open men have always been the draw. The women can't support, you know, the show on their own. If they held a women's show alone, they wouldn't get even a fraction of what the men bring in. And the question is really what Chris and I were were speculating on. Who will go to a million first? Will it be Jake Wood? Will it be Arnold? We're getting closer now. Now that we're at 750,000. Jake is going to have to make a move and raise that prize money again before the Arnold Classic. Will he go up to 850? I think he probably will. He might go to a million and try to say, "Hey, I'm first." But if he goes to 850 and then Arnold has a chance after his show to go higher, someone's going to hit a million first. I think we're going to see it in 2026. And that to me is super exciting. And then you're going to see if you got the Arnold and the and the Olympia at a million bucks. Who will go to a million next? Will it be Bader Badai in in Dubai? Will it be another Middle Eastern guy with a lot of money? Will we see it coming from Brazil where there's a lot of money available now and his bodybuilding is huge? Will Jim Mang do it, you know, in Pittsburgh? Will he get a sponsor to put that type of the cash up? I think we're going to see a change, a huge change in the in the industry. We're going to see a lot of talent coming into bodybuilding from other sports once they see they can make over a million dollars a year from the prize money. Something that was never even close to being a reality in the past. So, I think we're at a really good point in bodybuilding. It was a great show. If you want to check it out, it's at the RX Muscle YouTube channel, of course, as it always is. and we'll put some clips up with the most clippable stuff from the show on our Instagram. That's official_rxmuscle. And uh good show today. So once again, this is a busy day. You're getting a day in my life. This was a controversial show. It was a controversial weekend. And uh Nick Walker going back to the Olympia. That's the most important takeaway. So anyway, I'm not going to go through these now because we're going to go do some stuff. But um yeah, I have a lot of uh a lot of emails to go through. It's it's never ending. So once again, I I like the fact that I'm on CC's me on on all the stuff that's going on so I can keep apprised of it, but sometimes it's a little more than uh I need to take care of. But uh at least I got to I got to be on top of what's going on. So, it's body, it's it's bodybuilding, it's clients, diets, offseason, pre-contest, it's species nutrition, which is important. RX muscle stuff, which is a lot of I got I pay all the bills, you know, most of them are online, which is good. So, if they take you don't have to write checks out anymore. Like only Christo still writes checks out, but I I do everything online via zel wire, a wires, wire payments internationally and stuff like that. message definitely makes it a lot quicker and you get immediate like, you know, um receipts for everything you did. So, you can kind of keep track of that. I send it to my bookkeeper. She puts all that stuff in. So, you know, it's not that hard, but you have to just aortion enough time in every single day to get everything done. And sometimes I just I go very late at night. I just I can't do it. And then what happens? I get so stressed out. I'm like, I got to jump in the pool. So, 12 midnight, I'll go jump in my pool. Uh Jesse probably won't be here midnight filming me swimming, but I jump in the pool. pool. I put my wets suit on. I jump in the pool. I swim a bunch of laps, come out, take a shower, I'm refreshed, and I can go another 2 hours. So that's if I have to stay up really late, I do that. And uh you know, cuz you can't drink caffeine at night. I'll never sleep after that. I'll be like crawling the ceiling. So I it's kind of like better than taking a shower. I jump in my pool and it's kind of like refreshes me like let's it almost is like doing a reset on your brain and it feels a lot better. But um I have a consult in 2 hours. But I think we're going to go downstairs now. I'm going to feed my water monitors to clean their tubs out and show you the new fish tank I just bought, even though it's not filled yet. And maybe give you a little tour of the Let's do some animal tour right now. And if we have some time, I might actually go into Fort Myers and see this pet store and show you that. Um if not, we might just uh we might nyx that and do it another time. So let's let's see how much time we actually have left. All right. So, we're opening up Mr. G's box of goodness here. He sent me a bunch of If you read his box, he's got all these things written on the box like official snack of RX Muscle. Your own immune system is at their best. Success is one more step. Thank you, Mr. Postman. This box is patriotic. Never give up because God loves you. Lightweights. What does he have to say? Peace. >> Peace. Oh, wait. Uh, chocolate chip protein cookies and white chocolate macadamia nut coffee flavored brain cookies with with caffeine. No, these are with caffeine. Oh, you put sunglasses in there. Let me see what they do. Uh, white chocolate macnut coffee. Oh, this is just what's in there. Each cookie has a half a cup of coffee in them. Holy mackerel. All right. And what do they say? Here are four superhero sunglasses for you and your kids. Let me put the sunglasses on. Absolutely. Self, Mr. G. Okay, my thank you, Mr. G, for my cook for my sunglasses. Here's the cookies. These are the caffeinated ones. So, I want the decaffeinated ones. Let's see what these are. Uh, 35 gram of protein, 6 g of fat, half a gram of lion's mane. You know, these are the ones with the mushrooms extracts, omega-3 eggs, butter, isopure, protein powder. I got my Mr. G cookie here with lion's mane mushrooms in it, decaffeinated coffee, and I don't know if this is keto or not. Probably has a little sugar in there. That That's a fresh cookie, too. He must have just made these yesterday. Oh my god, I love it. the coffee flavor with the lion's mane mushroom because mushroom extracts have a little bit of a a coffee kick to them. They kind of have a coffeeish taste. Mr. G, this is a winner. Winner winner chicken dinner. Go to Mr. Che Breeze Mr. G's website and order these. Man, these are great. Holy mackerel. I have to take credit for them cuz I gave him the idea. I said, "Put coffee. Put mushroom extracts in here into your cookies." I said, "Cuz coffee and mushroom extracts compliment each other." Oh man, this is good. This is a winner. I would offer this on the website. I don't know if you are or not. Good job, Mr. G. So, this guy who sent us this order. >> Yeah. >> He says that the order that he ordered from Species was sent to his own Yeah. his ex-wife's house. And you say but he contacted you and said you told you the address. Did you change that address? >> Now I have to check if I had changed the address but in the email he said he got the order. >> So he said it was sent back to our warehouse. >> It said return to sender but then it also looked like he said he got the order. So I have to double check and make sure he >> So you think he went back to the ex house and picked up? >> I'm assuming that's what happened. Yes. >> So why is why is he complaining? >> Justice is just a complaint. I don't know. It doesn't like a >> People feel so crazy because they'll complain about the fact that an order was sent to the wrong address. Meanwhile, he put the wrong address in there. He says he corrected the address, which I'm sure I don't know, it slipped through the cracks, but then he wound up getting the order anyway. So, he sends me this email like complaining like, and like I always believe the customer is always right. I don't care. I'll I'll replace the order. I I never argue with anyone unless they absolutely was the mistake was theirs. It's usually ours. So, I'm like, just send him another order. But the guy got the order. He got it. >> So, why was he complaining about it? I mean, he was complaining like as if like outraged. and I would have given him sent him another order, but he actually got the order. >> The crazy thing is sometimes people like the worst thing was such I took off Friday through Sunday. I've never taken more than one day off in a row. I came back to like 30 emails. I'm like, "Oh my god, poor mom's trying to go to see his mom in Jersey for two weekends in a row." And as you guys know, as you guys know, >> Newark's like shut down. Two two weekends in a row is canceled. So he's he's like, "All right, I'll be at work. I'm calling him permission. I'm like, I know you missed your flight to go see your mother for the second week in a row. Can you come over? I got I got to move a fish tank into my facility. The thing weighed like 600 lb. So, mom came on Saturday and moved the fish tank first. I'll show you the fish. So, thank you for that stuff for us. No, Dave Dave's a good guy. Dave's uh >> I put him to work. >> Yeah, Dave Dave uh Dave very helpful. So, I feel indented a lot of times when he asked me to do something. >> He was very nice and came over and helped. >> So, we moved the the fish tank. It's weird because the even being a bodybuilder when you move fit the heavy [\h__\h] it's still you would think it's not as heavy but it's still heavy as hell like move >> him and I like you know it's pretty built right I mean I'm not what I used to be but I can still lift [\h__\h] my friend Chase who doesn't you know he works out but he's like if you looked at him he's hardly a bodybuilder but he does like you know manual labor he's like a contract he's a contractor so here we are him and I like you know like the two bodybuilders were both you know probably combined were probably like, you know, 350 lb, like lean. We get behind this fish tank. Two of us like on one side like I mean the tank was like 600 something lb and we're like like barely can lift this thing. My friend Chase, he's on the other side himself. He's a shell of what we are. And he lifts it up no problem. I'm like, "Chase, you fine with that?" He goes, "Yeah." >> And he's walking backwards. >> Yeah. And I look like we're having a heart attack. like our heart's going to explode like from lifting this tank up. I should have I should have had someone I should have had my son videotaped. It was so funny. But it just goes to show you functional strength versus bodybuilding strength is two separate completely separate things. That's why those strong men when you see the stuff that they do that's functional strength and that you you have to train for functional strength. So if you're doing manual labor every day, it's a huge difference than going to the gym every day. And I always say that to people. That's why my advice to mindful is is if you're competing at an elite level, don't lift heavy [\h__\h] That's how you hurt yourself. That's how you wind up tearing a bicep or or getting an injury that you didn't expect. Don't lift heavy [\h__\h] It's better to pay someone. That's why I don't really usually do that on a regular basis. I'd rather pay someone to lift it or I asked for help. I needed help. I had him come over because if I would have done that myself, I would have gotten hurt for sure. Not that it's too heavy. It's awkward. And bodybuilders shouldn't be lifting awkward stuff because we don't do that in the gym. We lift things in a in a range of motion that we're comfortable with. And we repeat the same motion every single time we go to the gym. We don't grab weird [\h__\h] hold it in weird angles. That's how you get hurt. You don't want to get hurt out of the gym. You'll be really pissed off at yourself. I promise you that. All right. I don't think I've shown you guys my cats on camera. This might be the first time. They're only I only had them for a few months. And these are what's called Siberians. So, they're from Russia. And uh too bad my friend Eugene Mission is no longer with us. May rest in peace. He would probably love these cats. He'd probably want to get a kitten. And this is my youngest one. She's about 4 months old. You don't like being on camera? She is a blue cream point Siberian, which means she's got blue eyes like a like a Siamese cat. She's got both blue and cream colored in her. Look at that tail. And she's a she's Oh, you're a cutie. you're a cutie. And Siberians are long-haired cats from Russia. They don't they haven't been mixed into a million different type of other cats. They're pretty pure. They're stocky. They're like they got these barrel bellies. That's what they're known for. The females are not as big as the males. The males get to be I'm going to show you my male. They can get to be 20 lbs. They actually take 5 years to mature. Um she's a little baby. She's teething on my fingers still. And let's see what we got here. Hold on. Who's this? Who's this? Oh, this is Solo. This is my boy. So, he's my one male I have. He You can see how big he is. This guy is 6 months old and he's a monster already. He's going to he's going to probably be 20 lbs when he's full grown. And they got this triple coat. I know for a triple coat of fur, they have a really nice coat. And I used to breed Persian cats back in the '90s, believe it or not. Some of you have cats in mind that I bred. I haven't done cats in a long time. So, we're going to I'm going to breed cats again. We're going to breed these these Siberians. What I like about the Siberians, first of all, I got to give credit to Michelle Prader, who is the one who got me onto Siberians. Thank you, Michelle. She's definitely allergic to cats. These cats don't produce any of the allergic, I guess, protein that comes in their saliva. So, most people think that cats, you're allergic to the hair. You're not. You're actually allergic to the saliva. Now, cats clean themselves. They lick themselves and the saliva gets on the fur and that's why you get the uh the reaction to the fur. But it's really the saliva. So they don't produce the allergen in their saliva which is called the feld one protein. And you know I'm very biochemistry and everything like that. And because they don't produce that, there's very little allergies to these cats. Most people don't have any. And he is a good boy. He's a good boy. Look at this boy. He is a white blue-eyed white. Once again I told you I like white animals. And he's my little boy. He's going to be the daddy to these other cats that I have. And these guys, if you like cats that act like dogs, that's that's what these guys are. They're like completely they listen. They come to you when you come home and they'll come to the door. They're cuddlers. My kids love them. And they're super super cool. And as you can see, I have all these cat trees all over the house because of this. Where's Oh, here she is. Here's my girl, though. This is my girl. Oh, this is him. This is all right. So, this is this is Princess Leia or Leia. So, I have I named my cats after Star Wars figure. I used to have a Jedi. I have Solo. Now, I have Leia. And then my kids named the other two Sparkles and Lily. But, uh she's she's a little the female Siberians are a little more they're not as crazy affectionate, but they usually bond with one person. She's like my little uh my little girlfriend because when everyone else is gone out of the house, I she's like my shadow. She follows me around, right? And she's she's a good girl. Okay, clean your eyes off here. She's also a blue-eyed white. So, we got the two of those. She came from Canada, actually. British Columbia. It's really cool. And I don't know where where's Sparkles. Sparkles, my kid's name. Oh, there she is. See if we can get Sparkles. Come here. There goes Sparkles. Smart. This is a calico. So, it's black and red and white. And I love calos and I've always wanted one. She's the first calico I ever had. I used to have Persians. Never had a calico. See, look at them playing like this. Look at those are the two youngest ones. And they're doing some they're kitten stuff. And it's interesting, but for those of you who care, cats can either be black or red. Males are only black or red because it's carried on the X chromosome. Females can actually have black and red in them. So that's a female that's a what's a calico. She also has white in her. That's the white gene. And uh but males usually are black or red. It can't be both. And so that's pretty cool. My my male obviously has white in him and but he has some black or red underneath all this. We just don't know what it is because the white is covering it up. So I have my three females, one male. I know you guys out there going to say, "Dave, I want one of these kittens when you produce them." Probably this time next year, we'll have some kittens. And you can say you have a jumbo Palumbo kitten. There you go. >> What do you look up for willow for that kind of thing? I don't want to go back. You know what I mean? But uh if there can use it on multiple devices, then if there is a way to switch. >> All right. We're going to start the animal tour off in my garage. I do have some animals in my house. You saw you saw my cats already. This is my fish tank here in the garage, which is it's very difficult because in Florida, the the garage get up to like 100°. So, this tank can get very hot. I actually have a chiller there. Most most people never even see what it is. Basically, the water actually cooler during the summer. And I have my angel fish in here. I have my mondiscus fish. Uh and some live plants in there. It's kind of cool. My kids just made me buy these little albino iridescent sharks. We have two of those. Hopefully, they'll live. My kids are like obsessed with these things. They wanted to get fish. So, put them in there. And then I have my turtles. Once again, I told you I like albino stuff. Here's my albino redeared sliders. Excuse me. This is my female. This is the male. A little algae on them, but they're albinos. You can see they have red eyes. This is my caramel albino. So, this is what's called the T positive albino. They don't have red eyes. They have almost all the melanin. The black pigment is gone, but not quite. And then this is a really cool one. This is an albino pink belly side neck. Now, the Asian turtles pull their head sideways, whereas the American turtles go in and out. See the difference? This is a albino pink neck or pink belly side neck turtle. He pulls his head sideways. And then we have the freak from turtle, which like bodybuilding world, bodybuilders love freaks. This is my te-our snake neck turtle. So, it's got a long neck, like a little snake. And uh he's a cutie. I've had him since he's a little hatchling. They're pretty rare, actually. My friend Tom Crutchfield breeds these. And so, those are my turtles. All right. So, guys, I do I'm into plants, too. I, you know, I got a green thumb or maybe a brown thumb. I don't know. But so anyway, I grow a lot of my plants. I make my own little clippings. I started out with I always loved cactus plants. And these cactus don't have a lot of they don't have thorns. They're not really sharp. All these cacti that's right were grown from something that is about from this a little stump and I just if you break off one of these leaves, you can actually put it in water. I'll show you. And you put it in water and it actually starts growing roots around it. See the roots? And you can just plant these. And you can keep spreading your cacti. And if you see, I've grown them all. These are all just grown from like one little piece I had uh over here. Now, these are my fruit tree. Now, interestingly, this is a banana tree. So, got to get your potassium. You get your banana right here. This is a fig tree I'm growing here. And this is my good friend James Hanoi gave me this. Guess it's considered like a cact some sort of a cactus plant, but it's I don't know. I forget the official name of it, but it's rare. So try he he breeds plants. These are my This is my pineapple plant. Every pineapples only come up every two years. I' I produce a bunch of pineapples. I have pineapple plants. That's another fig tree. And you come this way. This is my ponytail pong plants. This is my pool. They get they get if you look over there, they get kind of big. And we put some on my >> All right, guys. This is my pool. As you can see, uh I swim laps at night, so you probably won't, unless Jesse is staying till like midnight or 11 o'clock, you probably won't see me swimming later, but I do swim in this pool at night. I like to wait till the sun goes down and swim. Here's my tomato plant. I've actually gotten about five or six tomatoes off of it. Uh, this is a blueberry bush. Now, the reason I moved all my plants into the screen enclosure here is because I have peacocks here. I don't know if you guys have seen the peacocks. You can hear them yapping in the back. The peacocks eat all my fruit, all the vegetables, and any seed you plant, they will eat it. But I love them because they spiritual protectors. I need that. Here's some strawberry plants right here. This is Look at these peppers. These are red peppers. They're already springing up. And I got some more stuff planted here. There's some cucumbers going to be growing out of here. They're just starting to sprout out. So, you know, I like to grow my own vegetables. All right. Now, this is my prized mango tree. If you guys like mangoes, these are the best mangoes I've ever had. They're not they're not like very um fibery or anything like that. They're absolutely delicious. They're not ready to be picked yet, but they will be soon. And as you can see, this tree I has gotten huge over the last couple years. I got tremendous mangoes on it. This tree is not a fruit tree, but this is called a rainbow eucalyptus tree. See the different rainbow combinations. I bought this thing. It was about It was about this big when I bought it. So, this is about six years I've had it. And because I always I knew rainbow eucalyptus has this very very cool rainbowy trunk. And it took a very long time to get it. But if you see it looks like it's like a Picasso painting. Absolutely beautiful colors in the front of my house down there. I think we're too lazy to walk there, but they actually have coconuts on them. So, these will grow coconuts pretty soon. Uh they don't have them right now, but all these were planted by me. So, I feel feel like uh you know, proud father, so to speak. Probably another year before these produces coconuts of their own. Now, for those of you who who are into monounsaturated fats, u we got avocados here. Got to have your avocados from Florida. So, if you look, you got a whole bunch of cool avocados here growing. This tree was almost dead from a hurricane. If you look inside here, this was the original stump, the original thing. It's dead. And it grew up from the bottom. And someone told me they'll never produce avocados. It's never going to happen. Nice small. We'll see. I got avocados. It's a smaller tree, but these also produce some amazing mangoes. So, these things will start becoming ripe pretty soon. Once again, the peacocks that they pull them off. So, you got to keep an eye on these things. And then this thing right here is one of the most important things if you if you live anywhere, especially in Florida. It's a generator. It's a whole building generator. So, I have this on my house and on this building. If the electricity goes off for a second, this thing kicks on and you don't and you have electricity. And this thing will last for two weeks because I have a 500gallon propane tank in the ground. So, we're never without electricity. Very important, especially you guys up north. We're in snake room number one. We have three rooms. The snake room has really undergone a lot of differences over the last year and a half. I've downsized a lot. I've gotten more diversity of animals and higher quality animals. So, this is I'll start out here. So, you're here. These are my corn snakes. They gave me a clutch of eggs earlier in the year. And corn snakes will lay eggs sometimes two times in a row or two clutches a year. So, I'm just waiting for the next one. And so, I still have the male and female together. These are blood red albino corn snakes. Absolutely beautiful. You can find these in your backyard in Florida. Not maybe this color, but you can definitely find corn snakes. I know you guys love watching me give shots. I'm not giving myself a shot. This is an antibiotic shot for a snake. Now, when snakes get respiratory infections, it's very important that you treat them aggressively with with injectable antibiotics. Number one, because you can't put pills down their throat. Number two, because they have a they have a single lung. The other lung is is non-functional and it's all compressed. So, when mucus gets in there or they get kind of infection, they can die really quickly. So, you don't want to let that happen. So, we got to inject them. The problem with this snake I have to inject, it's a green tree python. It's actually beautiful. You're going to see it in a second. But they have very long teeth because green tree pythons eat birds. And to get through the bird feathers, they need long teeth. So if you get bit by these, I don't mind getting bit by a snake. It's no worse than getting stabbed by this little needle. But if you get bit by a green tree python, it hurts a little bit. So we're going to reach in there. Maybe you want to come on this angle. I don't get bit. Okay, here she is. >> Yeah. Please tell me where to stand with this. >> No, she's not going to bite you. She's going to bite me. So here's this beautiful little girl. And what we do is on either side of the spine, there's a nice amount of muscle. So, you want to This is an intramuscular shot, so hopefully she's not going to like go after me. So, we're going to get right here. We're going to put this into the muscle and we're going to inject this in there. She's being very well cooperative cuz I know it doesn't feel good. Doesn't tickle. And you can see these beautiful green color. This is an AU locality green tree python. And you can see the blues in it. They have nice and blues and white speckling. So, I think she's pretty much over. If she had a respiratory, I think she's over it. So, I just wanted to play it safe and we're going to put her back in there and we're going to try to feed her tomorrow. All right, we're in snake room two now. This is the bigger room. As you can see, this is this I used to have a whole line of snake cages right down the middle of this this u room. I was a little too crowded. I decided to get rid of it. This tank, the new tank I just got here. This is if you remember from earlier, I was telling you that Aman uh had to help us carry a tank. This tank is like 600 lb. It's really heavy and that's with no water in it. So, we got it set up here. Uh my friend Chase is going to plum in the the filter on the bottom. Otherwise, it's going to leak. We don't want to do that. And once that's done, we're going to add water in here. Then, we got to figure out what fish we want in here. My kids have their own ideas. I'm thinking maybe put those platinum koi in here. Haven't decided yet, but it's going to be good. I think it's The good thing is that snake rooms need humidity, and because in Florida here, we have to run air conditioning all the time. the air conditioning sucks the humidity out of the air, which is not good for the snakes. But if I have a fish tank here, it's going to be giving humidity into the air. It's going to kind of like they're going to compliment each other, so it's going to work really nice. All right, let's take a quick look. These are my carpet pythons in here. As you can see, she wants to be fed. Here's my female carpet. There's a there's a snow in the back. So carpet. If you come down here, you can see the albinos. We have a These are all carpet pipes. They're from Australia. Uh, and here's some more carp pythons. These are my kids favorite. Let me show you my the blue tongue lizards. Here's an albino blue tongue lizard, which doesn't have a blue tongue. It has a pink tongue because it's albino and albinos have no pigment. So, you see that little pink tongue. And here's the here's the regular. They named this one pry. All right. So, you guys know who Charles Darwin was, right? He designed and created the theory of evolution or at least popularized it for that matter. And he was did a lot of that work on the Gopagos Islands. And on the Gopagos Islands there was Gopagos tortoises. And he had one that his whole life as a pet he took back with him. And Steve Irwin over in Australia got that same tortoise cuz these tortoises can live up to 200 years and had that for probably 20 years in his collection. This is a Galopagos tortoise here, or they call this a Galopagos [\h__\h] I got him when he was about this big. And this is only in about a year and a half, he's already gotten this this big. And he's going to get huge. He'll get like that big. And he had a he had a girlfriend. But unfortunately, there was there was an accident when they were babies. So, we only got him. And once again, I'm going to have to my kids are going to have to take care of this guy because he's probably going to outlive me and them for that matter. and he loves his lettuce. And so we're going to we're going to probably build him an outdoor enclosure at some point because he's getting a little too big for in here. And he's our little like mascot. He's a good guy. Okay, I'll put him back. The the greatest bow as I produced. I'll show you a couple quick ones. So, we're just doing highlights here, but this guy uh he's in shed. >> He's he's I call him Mr. Blue. He was blue, but he's in shed right now, so you can't really see it. He's one of the craziest looking boas you'll ever see. I mean, you can just see the pattern and all the It looks like someone just painted this on him. Boas just don't look like this. This is just nuts. And once again, he's in shed, so I don't want to annoy him too much, but one of my one of the best of the best that I've produced. No one's produced anything like that. It's like a one of a kind. Now, the ones that I think you guys are going to really like, white boas are super popular, but they're kind of rare. I produced some boas, and there's other people have done it, too. It's called a super blizzard. They're absolutely crystal snow white. They never turn yellow. They never change color. They don't have any pigment in them. They have red eyes. They're absolutely gorgeous. I'm going to show you a really nice male that I produced. He's looking to eat. She just he just shed. So, this is going to be really nice. So, look at this. That is about as snow white as you get. It doesn't get much whiter than this. We even put them on the floor here. See, that is just absolutely gorgeous. Um the I produced a bunch of these in the last couple years and that they sell really quickly. People love these because of how white they are and you just don't see boas like this. It's just they're they're exquisite. My friend Mike Whitesman who was a popular bodybuilder in the California scene, he probably produced the first one and I got my male that I used to make these from him. So Mike Whitesman, let's give you credit where credit is due. Amazing boa breeder and once again one of the most popular combinations. All right, now we're entering snake room number three. You're going to see some really cool stuff in there if you're into dinosaurs. But before we get to the dinosaurs, here's a really cool bow I produced. This is a two gene animal. It's called a blood sterling. That means it has no pattern. The sterling has no pattern. It's got the blood gene in it. Probably one of the coolest looking bows I've produced. Also, just want to show you him and We saw some corn snakes in the other room. This is what's known as a pi sided corn snake. So it's it's got the white on the side which looks kind of really interesting and cool. And this little boy will be breeding for me at the end of this year. He's just gotten big enough finally. They were teeny tiny. Now they're she's almost she I think she's actually laid a few eggs. Now females in of the mon family will lay eggs even when there's no male present. Now they're usually infertile. Uh sometimes they can be pthogenic eggs which means they will it's like kind of the doubling up of the females chromosomes but most of the likely they're they're infertile and if they're infertile obviously they're not going to they're not going to uh hatch almost like a chicken egg. But we do have a male here and he is a monster. His name is I call him big boy but he's really he's really closer to big ramy this guy and he's much bigger. The males are bigger in the in the Asian water monitor family. Some females in with him. Hopefully, we can make some babies. Uh the interesting thing is that once the females lay eggs, it takes nine months for them to hatch. So, I guess he doesn't want to come out and play right now, but he is a big big boy. And if you see him, he's like he's massive. He's got super I tried to pick him up myself the other day and he's so big I almost couldn't handle him. Not because he's he's strong, but he's that muscular this guy. All right. Next, we're going to look at once again another Asian water monitor. This is what's called a black dragon. So, the other one was an an albino, which is a lack of melanin. This one has an excessive amount of melon, which makes it completely black. We call it a black dragon. Come over here. So, she's she's not going to believe. She probably wants to eat, but she's also another sweetheart. You can see her sticking her head out there. Come on. What's up? You know what? If I had a little food, she'd come out. She's she wants me to hand her a rat or a chicken leg or something like that. She'll eat anything of albino. She is um a female, obviously. The other one I showed you was a male. We're going to eventually breed him to her. You can see they have a smaller jaw. That male had a big thick jaw. She's she's got a much smaller head, but you see her belly is nice and big, which is she probably has eggs in her. So, we probably should put the male in with her. I haven't decided if I'm going to put her in with him or vice versa. So, right now, we're just, you know, we do what we do is we do little intervals of of uh attention. So, we'll pay rub her a little bit under her jaw. We'll pet her a little bit and then we just leave her alone. And what that does is it kind of makes her confident because she knows I cover her water balls every day. I give her food. She knows I'm the I'm I'm the uh the slave that takes care of her. So, as long as I don't scare her or do any dramatic moves, she trusts me. And the more you build that trust, the more they they want to interact with you. And once again, they're very smart. So, they they're thinking lizards. And they don't just act. They don't react. They're not going to just bite you out of nowhere. They're going to think about what they do. Now, if I have a rat in my hand by the sink and I come in here like a dummy without washing my hands and I go to reach in, she's going to smell rat and she's going to bite my hand. But she's not going to do that normally because she knows I'm not food. I'm the guy who just takes care of her. Which doesn't mean she neatly wants me to interact with her, you know? So, you got to you got to do it on their terms. Like, I'm going to like try to take this little shed off. Let's see if she lets me. Okay, good girl. Okay. So, she let me take her little stuck shed off and which is means she trusts me. She wouldn't let me do that, otherwise she would run away normally. So, once again, I'd love to make have some babies from her. Underneath here, there's like her nest, which makes it a little difficult to get the eggs out when she does lay the eggs, but eventually we're going to have to figure out a way to get in there and and get those eggs out because if you leave them in here, most likely they're not going to hatch. You got to put them in an incubator. They have enough humidity and the right temperatures. So, pretty cool. All right. So, this is a Bowlolan's python. Uh, we recorded before, but it didn't get recorded. You'll get to see some of the footage of him biting my hand. He thought I was feeding him. That's why I always put a glove on. And usually most snakes I don't do that with, but these guys are a little food aggressive. So, I'm going to reach in her again. Maybe he'll bite me again. You never know. I don't think so, though. He is such a sweetheart. This guy, he bit me because he thought I was going to feed him and he wasn't really ready. But normally he's he's a real easy snake to handle. This is a a Asian snake from Southeast Asia. The thing the reason why they're so popular, obviously their black color is really nice, but they are very popular because no one can get these things to breed. So these bowling pythons are very hard to breed. Matter of fact, this particular snake was given to me as a gift by Jason Hub. That's right. IFBB Pro bodybuilder Jason Hu. and he wanted to show his gratitude for you know helping him out over the years as his coach in early part of his career answering questions for him and you know it touched my heart he brought this over he's actually involved with Bolan's pythons and helping with research and funding that stuff so he had an extra male he brought it over a few years ago as a as a gift to me and I will cherish it as long as it's alive and as long as I'm alive so this is our male but the thing is no one's been able to get these breeds so of course that's a challenge for Dave Palumbo so I had to go and get a female there's my female Now, she's not quite as big as him. She's only um she's about 4 years old and well, she's going to Yeah, she's about going on four years old. She'll need another 2 years probably. I'm You have to slow grow these things because no one can get them to breed. Everyone thinks it's because people overfeed them. They get obese. When they get obese, they don't like to breed. So, I only feed them every two weeks, a rat. And you can tell they're nice and lean and muscular and healthy. And that's that's that's important. So the problem is this male is I think he's a 19. Let me see 18. So he's he's plenty old enough to to breed. He's, you know, almost 7 years old. Problem is the female really needs to be 6 years old, you know, and so she's not old enough yet. So we're going to keep growing her up. We'll keep them separate. When they're ready to breed, we'll put them together and hopefully we will get babies and eggs and eggs that will hatch. But no one else has been able to really do it. only one person did it by accident and uh he doesn't really know why he why it worked for him. So once again when the supply is low and the demand is high because everyone wants them because everyone wants to try to breed them the prices go up. These things can go up 8 to $10,000 a piece they can go for. And so this is a a beautiful snake. They start out like a reddish brown. After one year they go through what's called antogenetic color change where they change color. Uh the Australian pythons do that too, the carpet pythons I showed you earlier. and he'll turn and they turn black with these this beautiful light in it. So, they're really beautiful pattern. Like I said, very good personalities, really cool, distinctive face, and uh it's one of my favorite snakes in the collection. All right, so this is my incubator. It holds temperature at 88°. We put all the python eggs in here, and we leave them in here for about 60 days, and then they hatch. These are carpet python eggs. If you can take a look at them, they're going to hatch in on June 10th or thereabouts. And they're looking really good, these eggs. We hopefully we'll get snow carpet pythons, which are white carpet pythons. Uh that's something I'm kind of known for in the United States, being one of the few people that produce snows and what's called moononglow carpet pythons. >> We're at Pet Kingdom here. Hey, new friend. Hey, how are you guys? >> I had to bring you We do some business together. He's got great animals. I'm going to show you some of the Look at this guy. >> I got that Ricking. He's interrupting our our our uh interview here. >> Yeah. >> I brought him some species nutrition products because we got to stay healthy in addition to keeping the animals healthy. That's right. >> And uh this is for your apartment. Get this in this bag. >> Thank you so much. >> And I'm going to be picking up some birds from this is not a bird I'm getting, but I got to show you this bird. This is a pocket. This thing is a baby. Four months old. Awesome little girl. Look at this. What a cutie. >> I I love animals as you guys know. I showed you my whole managerie home. We took a whole >> big video there. There's a lot of noise here, but they're they're birds, right? >> Hello. Oh, look. Hello. That That is an older bird than that little one. >> By the way, >> hello. >> Hello. >> Oh, you jealous now? I was trying to play with you the other day and then I got a burn on my shoulder and you're jealous. >> I love you too. There's something unnerving about having a beak like right next to your eye, you know. But I love you too. Oh ow ow ow. Ow ow ow. No, no, no. I'm fine. I'm playing up for I'm looking for the camera. So anyway, it's all about, you know, animals, you know, we got to balance our our lives as bodybuilders with obvious Oh yeah, you you you don't say we got to balance our life as bodybuilders with a little bit of love from the animal kingdom. And I got a lot of animal kingdom in my house, as you know. And this is pet kingdom, which is perfect segue into what we're doing here. Uh we had a very long day. We were at the gym, we ate, we filmed, we did snakes, we showed fish, we showed fruit trees. You pretty much got a day in the life of Dave Palumbo. And we're going to end with I got a massage coming up in about 20 minutes. We got to leave. I had to drop these guys off some species nutrition supplements because this crossover, the animal world, the supplement world, the bodybuilding world, we we all got to like help each other, support each other, keep each other healthy. Cuz without health, it doesn't matter what we got, right? We can't We can be bodybuilders, but you know what? It doesn't last. We can be bodybuilders and we just need to have We need to have love in our life. Do you agree? Oh, that doesn't feel so hot ow ow ow ow ow ow ow. >> As you can tell, you got to love animals. If you don't love animals, you got no point. You got no place in my life. That's for sure. >> It's so funny. >> At the end of the day, it's all about loving life, right? And doing what you love. I love animals. I love bodybuilding. It's my life. We're at