 We all know DECA helps the joints, but what is the dosage for joint relief versus building muscle? If you want to know that, stay tuned. Stay tuned. I'm I'm I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Rx Television, RxMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave Olympia Week edition of Ask Dave. I'm your host, Sadiq Faruqi. Thank you so much for joining us. We are recording this full disclosure on Monday, October 6th. We go right into the questions. First two questions on this show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Well, one of the top competitors in the 212 class is going to be Kareth Bajo. Dave is coaching Kareth Bajo. So somebody wants to know from your app some of the training secrets and what kind of a diet do you have, Kareth, on? Keto, non-keto, or rotational? Yeah, I would say we're rotational. But the last couple weeks I've been giving him a lot of protein fat days. So he's not really technically on a ketogenic diet because the ketogenic diet would be every day you'd be doing protein fat. But I'm giving him some low days. But my low days, which are no carbs, can contain a significant amount of fat. So when we say my keto diet, yes, he's doing my keto diet like every couple days. He depletes down and then I might give him a burger and fries or I might give him a carb day. And so we're playing around with that. And his physique is such that, you know, he can drop weight and gain weight really quickly. So as soon as I see that he's too flat, I feed him. If I think he's too full, you know, then I'll cut him back. And we've been doing that back and forth. And, you know, there's a lot of, like, daily updates with Kareth because his body changes so quickly. He is a genetic freak. You can literally give this guy no carbs and he does not look flat. But sometimes, you know, your skin gets loose. And that's when you know that – that's when I know he's lycogen depleted. So obviously now we're at, I guess, Monday here. So, you know, we've still got a number of days. You know, he's at the weight. The great thing about Kareth is he doesn't have any problem making weight. So that's a good thing because we don't have to over-deplete him. Once you over-deplete someone, it's really hard to fill them up again. So he's got that little bit of an advantage that I can just, you know, feed him whatever I want. He's well under the weight and he's going to make it no problem, which makes him very dangerous on that stage. A lot of these guys have to suck down and make weight. Keon Pearson, another person well under the weight, obviously has a much easier time also coming in at his best because he doesn't have to deplete down. Clarita, same thing. So the top, you know, top three, four guys are going to be in that category of not having to worry about making weight. They're not going to have to deplete. They're not going to have to do diuretics to make weight. And that always – that's why I think the 212 guys have looked so good the last several years because no one is really struggling to make that weight class. But, you know, once again, you know, it's day to day. You know, if I see something that I don't like, I make changes. You know, if I see everything's going well, we don't do too many changes. I upped his cardio a lot more than it was earlier on. But that's because what happens is as you get leaner and leaner, your body gets resistant to losing the weight. It doesn't want to get rid of that little last bit of fat. And you got to kind of sometimes torture it off. But we haven't gone over an hour of cardio. You know, we're – and matter of fact, we're well under it. But we've touched – we've come close to it a couple days. You know, I've been pushing him a little harder this past week. Once again, when we get down to about Wednesday or, you know, Tuesday probably, I'm going to – you know, he's not going to go to the gym anymore. We're just going to do posing and I'm going to fill him up. So we're almost there. He's got a couple – two more days of torture and that's it. Second question, again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. DECA, you teased the episode with this. Your DECA dosage for joint pain and I guess what is the fine line between that and then for muscle building? Yeah. You could take 100 milligrams of DECA a week and get the anti-inflammatory effect that you're looking for, which is really nice. You know, it's a nice effect because especially if you're on TRT and you really don't want to do cycles of drugs anymore and you have joints, sore joints, you could take 100 milligrams a week. And you're going to get the benefits without having any of the negative side effects of guys who have high prolactin from DECA issues, which is an erection issue, can result from that. People who just, like I said, don't want their blood pressure raising too high. They don't want to put on, you know, too much weight because they're just looking to maintain health. It makes DECA a really appealing option. If, however, you want to build muscle on DECA, you need at least a minimum of 200 to 400 milligrams a week combined with something else, obviously. Ideally, I always found 400 to 600 milligrams built muscle. Ideally, some people do have problems with prolactin, like I said, because DECA can raise prolactin levels and people who are sensitive, they could have erection issues with it. Luckily, knock on wood for me, I never had an issue with that, but I never really used over 400 or 500 milligrams a week of it. Some people can look at a bottle of DECA and have prolactin issues. In that case, you could take a drug called cabergoline, also known as Dostinex. It does inhibit prolactin in the body, and it seems to help people who have the issues with the DECA. Some people it doesn't help. Some people it does. I've never used it because I never really needed it. I don't think you should just knee-jerk use cabergoline if you don't really need it and you don't have any negative side effects from DECA. I always felt that sometimes the DECA issue was a dose-related thing because some people get it with Tremolone too. Tremolone doesn't really raise prolactin that much unless you go really, really high dose with it. DECA, you can get it at a lower dose if you're prone to it. These two questions were both from the Dave Palermo Experience app. It's $29 a month. You download it, iTunes store, Android store. You get me as your coach in your back pocket. You get access to all my writings, all my videos I've done in an organized fashion. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum so you get to see everyone's questions and answers. It's a real good learning experience. I do a Q&A video. It's like an extra Ask Dave episode every single week for the app members. It's a real good learning experience. All my cycles are in there. Beginner, advanced, men, women. It's all in there. My diets, my keto diet, rotational diet, all my workouts are in there. You get access to pretty much everything I've done over the last 25 years of my career in one place. It's constantly evolving because I'm constantly putting up new material. Check it out. Like I said, it's a great value. Some people have my coaching and they have that. If you can't afford the coaching for $29 a month, everyone can afford that. It's a great learning experience. I want to thank you guys for supporting it. I can't hear you, sir. As we now go to our YouTube community page, we've really made a concerted effort to grow that side of the YouTube channel as far as our community pages as well as our short-form content on there as well. You've previously recommended a doctor for gyno surgery in the past, Dr. Blau. Do you recommend any doctors in the New York area for a torn bicep or, for that matter, any other major torn muscles? You know, I used Dr. Scaglione, who did my quad repair. And I think he also does shoulders. All those guys in the Northwell area are really good. Northwell, which used to be, I guess, Long Island Jewish Hospital in Manhattan. Long Island. But, you know, if you want the best of the best, you know, special surgery in Manhattan is probably the way to go. And there are guys on Long Island and Westchester that operate at special surgery in Manhattan. But they have offices on Long Island and Westchester. So, you know, you might want to go get those guys. Those guys are really the best of the best. I remember, I think Victor Prisk, when he was doing his residency in hand specialty and ankle specialty, was in special surgery there. Or in Mount Sinai, one of those guys. The best surgeons in the country seem to be in the New York area, you know, for orthopedics. So you might want to check them out. And update on Dr. Blau. Dr. Blau is supposed to retire, believe it or not, at the end of the year. But I'm working. He's working and he's been training this plastic surgeon. She's a board certified plastic surgeon, Dr. Liz. And I'm going to be doing some educational videos with her because she's going to be taking over as practice at some point in the future. Right now, I know a lot of guys are getting in there. They want Dr. Blau to knock him out before he retires. I don't think he's going away so quickly. But I know Dr. Liz is going to be doing surgeries. And she's been, you know, doing surgeries with him now. And she's really good. But I went to her and I sat and we talked. And, you know, she's got some good visions. And she's got some new cool machines coming in there to do resurfacing of skin and laser stuff and liposuction. So I'm going to be doing a lot of educational stuff with Liz in terms of the plastic surgery options that are available there. So this is something exciting coming up in the future. I'll let you guys know about that. But as far as orthopedic surgery goes, once again, Northwell, which used to be Long Island Jewish, and special surgery in Manhattan. Way to go. A question that's really up your alley. Cacao. Do you think single ingredient, 100% cacao, dark chocolate, might be an underrated healthy fat for bodybuilders considering the stearic acid, antioxidants, and minerals it provides as well as being one of the best natural sources of copper, which is essential for connective tissue health? I like, you know, I used to sell those raw cacao bars. They were, it's really a shame that I can't make these anymore. They were 100% raw cacao with cacao butter in it. And they were organic. They were sweetened with stevia only. So they had no artificial sweetness for the people who don't like artificial sweetness. And they actually tasted really good. It took a long time to tweak these things to taste as good as it did. I used to sell a ton of these bars. But here's the problem. When you don't put sugar in a bar, okay, because these had no sugar, no dairy in them. When you don't put sugar in a bar, they melt easily. Okay? So, because I live in Florida here and it's warm, and even in the summer it's warm, I have to keep them in the freezer or the refrigerator at the very least. I had to buy so many of these bars from this guy who was making them for me. He wanted me to buy, first it started out as $1,000, which was fine. Then it went to $2,000. I had three refrigerator and freezers all over the place. And my house is just with bars in them. And then he wanted me to go to 5,000 bars at a time. I'm like, I can't. I don't know where to put them all. I said, I don't have enough freezers and refrigerators for these things. So I stopped doing it. He started getting ridiculous. And the prices were not cheap. But I knew people were paying for it. It didn't matter. People loved the bars that much. And you only needed one or two squares a day. It wasn't like you were eating a whole bar. And it was great. So I mean, I'm a big believer in cacao. It's a great antioxidant, polyphenolic. It's actually a source of saturated fat. But it's a good source of saturated fat that we can use in our diet. And I think it's, like you said, there's a lot of interesting minerals and stuff like that in there. It's good for heart health. It's good for blood pressure control. And, you know, there's really no negatives to it. And I really miss it. And sometimes I'll buy some 100% cacao from, like, Amazon or if I see it in the supermarket. The problem is it tastes terrible. It needs to be sweetened with something. If you get the unsweetened one, it's almost impalatable. There are some that have a little bit of sugar in it. And sometimes I'll buy it with, you know, minuscule amounts of sugar just to be able to get it down. But the ones that taste respectable have a lot of sugar in them. So it's like a tradeoff. I haven't seen any people really making raw cacao with, like, a stevia-based flavoring system. Or even, I don't care. I don't even use Superlose. It's fine. But I don't see anyone doing it. Because maybe there's just not enough people buying it. Once again, I really wish I could make those bars again. Maybe I'll reach out to the guy and see if he'll do a limited run for me. Because they were very popular. And we sold a lot on DavePaluma.com. Second question about DECA. Earlier it was about dosages for recovery versus muscle building. Well, this is about negative press that DECA seems to be getting with today's bodybuilding community. Do you still have your athletes using DECA in their cycles? I do. I do. I do. I really, I like it off-season. Especially when you start getting real big and you're pushing heavy weights. Because it's really good for the joints. And it happens to be a really good anabolic. Stacked with test, it builds muscle. DECA and EQ are my two favorites, probably. Off-season for building muscle. I mean, trend is great, obviously. But, you know, people get crazy on the trend. So, as far as stacking with test, the least toxic, most anabolic, I find, that allow you to continue eating and opens up your appetite is DECA with test and EQ with test. My two, there's nothing better than that. And because they're so long-acting, okay, especially if you use like a test, Cipionate, and Nantate with it, a long-acting ester, there's almost zero toxicity. Okay? The only thing you got to watch out for is your blood pressure. You don't want your blood pressure to go too high. And if red blood cell count can get very high on all anabolics, you want to make sure they're not getting through the roof either. You might have to go donate some blood. But there's no liver toxicity. You know, no steroids are kidney toxic. You know, high blood pressure is bad for your kidneys. But, so, really, those two are absolutely ideal. And I love DECA. And I usually start, when I start guys off on contest prep, I usually start them on just 200 milligrams of DECA a week along with like maybe EQ and test just to start them out. Because usually when you first start dieting, you know, you drop all that water weight because your glycogen levels are lower because you're lowering carb intake. That's when people's joints start hurting them. So, I'll put a little bit of DECA in kind of to soothe the joints. So, yeah, I'm a big, big advocate of DECA. But, obviously, if an athlete I'm working with has problems with erection issues because of high prolactin levels and they just hate taking DECA, I'm not going to ruin their life with it. I'm like, we'll use something else. But for most people, it's a great way to, you know, it's a great drug. Question about length of prep. What is the longest you will have one of your men's bodybuilding athletes in prep for a show? If they have to do a long prep, say 20 or more weeks, how do you approach this? Yeah, I mean, a lot of guys need a lot of long times. Some people get really fat in the offseason or some people maybe haven't dieted in a few years and they just came back and they just need extra time. I've worked with guys for 24 weeks, you know, on a contest prep. I mean, if we need it, we need it. Look, I've started with guys. We started 16 weeks out, 18 weeks out like I normally do. And we get to about four to six weeks out. I'm like, we're not going to make it. And we push the show back another eight weeks, ten weeks. And so sometimes the contest prep can go, you know, almost 30 weeks, you know. Listen, I dieted for a show. When I was going to do the Metropolitan Championships in 94, I believe it was. I think it was 94. The show got pushed back because it used to be in February in New York. And then they pushed it back to like April or something like that. And I had a diet an extra eight weeks, you know, beyond what I normally would diet. And you know me. I mean, at that point in time, I did have some body fat. But I certainly didn't have a lot of body fat. So it became a really long diet. But you know what? I looked my best. I think I actually grew into that show because I was able to have cheat meals and, you know, buffer it a little bit. And I would carb up and then I would deplete again. And I kind of prolonged the diet. But for some reason, it seemed to work really well for me. So I don't mind doing long diets for people as long as you pace the person. You don't want to peak them and then have them try to hold that peak for eight weeks. That never works out. Question about the pump. I remember a long time ago we answered this question, sort of the scientific benefits of the pump. Where do you stand on the pump as an indication of muscle growth? Is it an indicator or is it something more placebo effect? Yeah, I was having this conversation with someone. You know, pumps don't build muscle. Okay. Fatigued feeling, dull ache. That's usually an indication that you've damaged muscle fibers. And that's what, right? Why would your body want to build a bigger muscle? Because you're challenging that muscle, okay? And making it lift weights that it really can't handle. You're lowering the weight under control. You're getting micro tears in the muscle. And the muscle is saying, you know what? We're not big enough. We got to get bigger. That's what builds muscle. Pumping tons of blood into a muscle, okay? Doing multiple reps with lighter weight doesn't make the muscle believe that it needs to be any bigger. It might need to be more aerobically enhanced, meaning that you might get more mitochondrial production or the upregulation of certain metabolic enzymes that help mobilize fatty acids. Okay? But you're increasing endurance. You're not increasing muscle size. So if you really want to, you know, make the muscle get bigger at maximum efficiency, you want to lift heavy weights that challenge the body to just barely get through the workout. Okay? So less reps, okay? Higher weight under good form and good control is what elicits the best muscle results. And look at the guys that are the biggest. Look at the Nick Walkers and the Andrew Jacks. When they build muscle, they're lifting heavy weights. And that's what, look at Ronnie Coleman. Look at Jay Cutler. You know, Jay said he did high reps, but he did heavy weights too. You know, it might not have been heavy for him as much as, you know, because of the size of him. But compared to the average person, they were heavy weights. Jay lifted heavy. Everyone lifted heavy to put muscle on. That's just the way it goes. Once you get the muscle, sometimes it's easier to maintain it. You don't have to go quite as heavy, but to get that muscle to begin with, most people have to lift heavy weights. I haven't cycled tests and EQs since 2016 when I tore my pec. Pec has been repaired, and I'm looking to get back on cycle after nine years. Your thoughts on running 300 mg a week of tests to ease my way into it. Will I see results with this starting cycle? If you're going to do a cycle, you're better off using two drugs because we know that when we stack two drugs together, it elicits a much better muscle building effect. Okay, so it doesn't, in other words, you're better off doing 200 mg a test a week and 200 mg a deco a week than doing 300 mg or 400 mg a test alone a week. You just get a better effect. So if you're going to cycle and you want to cycle low-dose drugs, that's fine, but combine two drugs together and you're going to get a better result. So, insulin, can I take it without GH? Whenever people say I want to take insulin, I'm always like, well, what are you taking it for? Are your fasting blood sugars high? Well, I don't know. I just heard that insulin builds muscle. Well, insulin doesn't build muscle if you don't need it, right? So what I recommend you do is test your fasting blood sugars every morning. If they're running over 90, okay, in the high 90s, maybe even into the 100s, you probably need a long-acting insulin. If your blood sugars are good and they're not over 90 every morning, okay, that means your fastings are under control and you're looking to add a little bit of muscle, okay, because maybe you feel like maybe you're eating a lot of food. Maybe you don't absorb some of these big meals that have a lot of carbs in them. You can use a fast-acting insulin like a Novolin-R or a Novolog, which is super fast-acting, but now you're going to have to count carbs. And so can you use it without insulin? Yeah. I mean, I don't know if it's going to build any more muscle. Usually what I found was I needed insulin when I would take GH because GH made me insulin-resistant, meaning I wasn't absorbing my food properly. I was probably running high blood sugars, whether they were fasting or post-meal, I don't know. But I'm sure with the amount of carbs I was eating, my blood sugars were probably too high and probably my pancreas couldn't keep up with absorbing all those carbs. So in that case, when I started taking a fast-acting insulin, I started to grow better. But not many people are eating exorbitant amounts of carbs like I was because of my metabolism being that fast. So to just knee-jerk take insulin is not the right way to do it. It's to test your blood sugars first thing in the morning fasting and then two hours post-meal. If the two-hour post-meals are over 130, then you probably need a fast-acting too. But most people who don't have enough insulin, it's the fasting blood sugars that are not doing it right. In which case, you want to provide your body with a long-acting insulin like Lantus or Trisheba or Tugea or Novolin-R, I excuse Novolin-N. Those are the right way to handle it. And the great thing about a long-acting insulin is you don't have to worry about what you're eating. It works in the background. Whereas when you're taking a fast-acting insulin, you need to calculate how many grams of carbs you're eating or you could go low. Before I take this last question, somebody did ask, aside from Urs, who else do you see from the Classic Physique division following him into the open class? And I guess my answer to that would be, for one, Wesley Visser has already said he's going to compete in an open show. That's to be determined. But I think what we'll have a better idea is after we see the lineup this weekend at the Olympia. I think that's a great conversation to have post-Olympia because then you'll have a really, you know, an idea of who's ready to take that leap into the open class. And I guess we need some time off before he does that. But we'll close out with a story or a question, rather. And I'll say story because this question made me think about an idea for a show the day that I ran past you earlier this week. And that is maybe you should have some sort of a – like I know Dennis James has his old-school roundtable. But I think they discuss, you know, topics that are very current. They react to news. They have current competitors. You know, I was thinking – and this is sort of how old, you know, after hours sort of, you know, started off where you have real old-school stories, right? You talk, you know, have an entire episode that's dedicated to your goals and events. Anyway, that for another time. But the question was right down that track, and that is about Mike Malarazzo. Great guy, great physique. You think he had the best calves ever. Also, what happened during his career? 91, he looked amazing. Then he seemed to be a bit up and down in terms of placings for the rest of his career. You think the scare he got at the 93 Arnold had an effect on his future preps for shows? No, I think Malarazzo had the craziest calves and arms I had ever seen. They were just wacky. I wouldn't say they were the best. They were just like genetic. You knew they were genetic. I mean, yeah, they grew from him training them and from him obviously taking drugs too. But I think they were just like something that ran into his family. His father had those calves. And he was a freak in terms of arms and calves. And look, arms and calves are very impressive on stage. The problem is his calves were so big that it made his quads look a little, they didn't look as impressive. So he had good front quads, but he didn't have, his inductors weren't that great. And his hamstrings were okay. But he got shredded. You know, Mike was a freaking maniac with dieting hard and making sure he looked his best. His back could have been a little bit better, you know, a little wider, more developed. But like I said, he would come in so shredded that he would always qualify for the Olympia every year, you know. And he was a fan favorite. And he had a lot of size. I mean, size counts for something, you know. Yeah, his back could have been a little bigger. Maybe his inductors on his legs could have been a little bit bigger. But he had everything else. And when you have conditioning and you have shape and you had a small waist and he had, once again, those impressive arms and calves, he was a fan favorite, you know. So, you know, I think he would have done really well in this day and age of bodybuilding. Because when he was competing, there was such genetic freaks back then. And he really, he probably would have won more shows had he not run up against the Flex Wheelers and Ronnies and all those Dorians and all those guys, you know. He had to go into Cormier and Nassar. Nowadays, I'm not saying he would be Mr. Olympia, but he would certainly be in the top five at the Olympia. There's no doubt about that. You know, he's a modern day Nick Walker, probably with better shape. Nick probably has a better back than Mike does. But Mike has certainly, you know, comparable arms, better calves, you know. And, you know, his conditioning is also, was always stellar. So, it would have been interesting to see how he would have done in this modern age. I think he would have been super popular. And so, he would have probably had millions of followers on Instagram because he was a really popular guy back in the day. Probably was one of the most popular guest posers. He was, I would say he probably guest posed at more shows than anyone else, you know. So, I used to, I guest puzzled him a few times. And, you know, he was just a, we had a friendship and he was just this rock solid guy. I mean, when we lost him, we really lost a really, really good guy. It's a shame because, you know, he was one of the good guys in the sport. Put it that way.