Scitec Nutrition. Premium quality products. State-of-the-art look. Uncompromised ingredient quality. Our products work and taste good. www.sitecnutrition.com. Gorillaawware. I'm standing here at the Gorilla Wear booth with Dennis James with his new Dennis James Gorilla signature series he's got here. How'd that come about? I don't know. I mean, they came out with uh jerseys and they said, "Why don't uh you know, asked me basically, what's your favorite number to put it on the jersey?" I I took my birthday, so 31. So, I thought that was your age. Well, yeah, it is actually. It works perfect. No, they came out with the jerseys and uh actually I'm pretty I like them. They're pretty good. Yeah. I don't see a big Ramy line, but I see a Dennis James line. That's pretty impressive. Is that because you're a legend? No. No. Ramy has one, too. Oh, he does. And Dennis Wolf. We all get one. Yeah. What is the Ramy line called? BR. What does that stand for? Big Ramy. Oh, I thought it stood for big uh I don't know. Big I don't know. Go to the mill. I don't know. Yeah. I don't know. No. What do you think about Ronnie? You know, moving. He's going to be competing at the Arnold Brazil in a couple weeks. No, I heard he's doing the New York Pro. Oh, first he's doing the art pro, then he's doing That's what I heard. I'm not sure. How do you think he'll do? How do you think he'll do? And how do you think he'll look better? He's not working with you. He's not working with Aceto now. We hear he could be working with George Farah. No one's quite sure because we can't trust anything that comes out of his mouth. I have no idea. I have no idea what he looks like. I don't know what I have no idea what he look like. I don't know what he's doing, you know. All I know is that um if he wants a New York pro, he needs to bring his aame because Victor's doing it and Victor looks pretty good for four weeks out. So, I can't say nothing about him because like I said, I saw him at the uh in in Columbus. We had a few a little chat, but you know, regarding his condition or his shape or his state of mind right now, I have no idea. We all know that Big Ramy probably should be Mr. Olympia one day. Do you think he ever will be? Um, if he gets his his mind together, if he gets his mind together and he starts doing the right thing and not the things that's going to, you know, that people tell him to do, you know what I mean? he doesn't have uh uh a lot of saying about what's going on in his life right now. I have a feeling unless he changes that and starts making his own decisions u and if he does then he will be in my eyes if he gets everything together an unbeatable Mr. Olympia. Unbeatable. That's coming from Dennis James and I I I tend to agree with him. All right, I want to ask you a couple questions. Arnold Schwarzenegger at the Arnold Classic on Sunday morning seminar made a statement that he felt that the judges should move towards a more aesthetic looking bodybuilder physique. He used Cedric McMillan's name in the mix. What did you think about that statement? Um, I wasn't there. I didn't hear it, but I was told. And, uh, I'm not sure, you know, he talked about Cedric, so I heard that he uh he said that Cedric should have placed better. He didn't necessarily said he should have won, but he should have placed better. Well, yeah. And and and I believe that Cedric is probably the most perfect physique on any bodybuilding stage. You like his physique? I love his physique. I love his physique. He has the height. He has the width. He has basically a flawless physique. He has the shape, the muscle bellies. All he needs to do is get the silver dry condition. And I think he going to be another unbeatable Mr. Olympia. Now, when we talk about, you know, Arnold saying, you know, should we go back to aesthetic? That's the one. He's an aesthetic pleasing true athlete. So, I don't think there was anything wrong. So, I'm not sure really what they're talking about or what I don't know what he's saying, but I I can understand that, you know, and bodybuilding shouldn't be about, you know, bloated stomachs and, you know what I mean, cuz I know firsthand how that goes. So, and and I think he has a he has a um a valid point, you know, he has a valid point. I'm not I don't know if we need to change the judges system. I don't think that needs to happen, but what they need to do is just probably punish people that do not control their midsection. maybe a little bit more. So, because if they don't get punished, they will not they will not fix it. You're right. I agree with you. That's I think that the judges have to put their foot down as to what they want and what they don't want. If they stop punishing that, then I think everybody will start working on that more and start controlling things. We've seen that happen before. It was getting out of control. It's gotten better and then maybe it got a little bit out of control. Talk to me about Fibo here. There was supposed to be a pro show here. They canled it seven days out. as an athlete, as a guy who competed, what would that mean to you and and and what should be done, you think, to to give these guys restitution? Well, I found out a week before the show was supposed to happen that they cancelled the show and I had uh I was working with FA who was basically I mean at his absolute best and he was in my eyes going to be would have been the clear winner. You know, we're going for a qualification for the Olympia. Now, they canceled the show and we got from the show. Now, this is what I think as an athlete. We signing contracts to do your show. We have to pay $5,000 if we don't compete for any obvious like health, you know, related issues. If I pull out because I don't feel like it or I can't afford it no more, then I have to pay $5,000 fine. Now, as a promoter, if you pull out of the show in week four when guys already bought their airline tickets, they made their accommodation reservations, they dieted for that show, which could have been because the next show is in four weeks. So, that's an extra four weeks of dieting, which cost a lot of money. I believe that these guys should all get kind of reimbursed for something. So I would have never paid the prize money back to the promoter for that and would give that prize money would to split it up between the athletes. Good. The guys who are registered ahead of time. Exactly. I would split it up cuz you know cuz as a promoter I know you got to pay the sanction fee. You got to pay the prize money up front. So that should be with IFBB and I believe that they should just give it to the athletes. Talk to me about Gorilla Wear. Uh this is a terrific booth here. They had one at the Arnold. You were there as well. I I everyone's walking around with Gorilla Wear clothing on. Is this the new company to look out for? Gorilla Wear is back. Yeah. Gorilla's been around for we know that we were kid. Yeah. For a very long time. And then they disappeared in the US. They were always here in Europe. Not as strong as they are now. And they relaunched the US last year and it's going great. You know, they sponsored the Olympia. They sponsored the Arnold. So Gorilla is on its way up. Get your Dennis James number 31 jersey here at Gorilla Wear all weekend long or you can check out their website. They're going to be in the United States for the Mr. Olympia for the Ronnie Coleman signature. And I know they're going to be at your show, right? My show today Classic May 23rd, Mesa, Arizona. Don't miss it. That show's gotten big, huh? It's my second time. The first show was huge. I heard you had a tremendous turnout for the first show. Yeah. Over 400 competitors. Yeah. You're making money now as a promoter now, too. I should have done that 10 years ago. Yeah. You probably have 10 shows. What do you think of all the different avenues? Supplement company, clothing, promoter, professional bodybuilder. What? Gym now. Now the gym now is gym. Oh, you got the gym in Australia. What What's the most profitable? Um I would say um promoting. Promoting is very good. You know, if you do it right, if you have a good show, you going to make a little bit of money, you know. And athletes prep is very good. And the gym is awesome. You got How many athletes you got now? You working? You don't even know, right? 200. 200. How do you do you text all these guys? It's crazy. It's crazy. Yeah. You must be a real fun to be around. You must be on that phone. But they're not all active. You know, if you have 200, you know, guys on the team, you know, I have phases where you probably know best where you have 10 guys competing at the same day in six different countries, right? So, there's there's no sleeping 24 hours. You know, I have faces and this weekend is one and then uh you know, this is the season. The season starts everywhere. So, Dennis burns through a lot of cell phone batteries. So, if you want to get on his texting list, get in line. Dennis, great seeing you, man. Appreciate it.