 I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations, dosed for maximum results, and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. He could have been harder if he wanted to be harder. But at the end of the day, the show was going to come down to, in my mind, running into the show for him in particular, being around everywhere. His legs looked enormous compared to last year. Which, why give him a leg workout? I'm kidding. Which, I just think that a rounder body on him, because he's so wide. Rounder meaning, like, big legs, big shoulders, not over-dieting, not over-training, not over-dieting. It's like, that's his formula. And when he gets away from it, even by two pounds, or three pounds, it's like a whole different body. What did you like about Derek? Just like, what he said is he had such roundness to the muscle. I mean, his back, there's nothing like his back. Huge legs. It's funny, even though he's like the shorter guy, he looks like the biggest guy on stage. Just his appearance. Have you ever seen width on a short guy like that? I mean, his width is obviously crazy. I mean, the only guy width-wise like that, at that height, is obviously haughty. Right. But, I mean, Derek looked crazy. I mean, I'm not going to lie. You know, the roundness, like you said. The conditioning, he balanced his physique out a lot more, top to bottom. I think even some of his weaker shots, like the most muscular, definitely look a bit better here, with a bit more fullness and a bit more pop to him. So, I think it was a really, really good Derek. What makes him beat haughty in your mind? I think haughty, the one thing I noticed is definitely that one quad is down. The right quad. And I think from the back, I think from the waist down. I mean, the back as a whole, Derek's just very dominant against haughty. I think the detail in the back from the waist up, and I think then just a little more sweep on the quads, a little drier and harder through the hamstrings. I think he definitely takes haughty from the back. Do you think haughty has a leg injury? It could be. One leg is his right leg, I think. Right leg. It's definitely different than the other one. But, you know, they've got to try to hide their weaknesses. But something you just can't hide. But it definitely looks like there's an imbalance there for some reason. And it wasn't getting any better as it was getting worse as time went on. Haughty had dominant legs. I mean, that was a body part that did knock guys out. Yeah, I mean. I noticed last year they were down. No one was really mentioning it last year. It's apparent this year. He and Derek were, like, both down last year. Yeah. You know, and Derek was up this year, and someone asked me how haughty looked. I said, reminiscent of last year. You know, it's just that Derek was bigger. And then, of course, you know, we'll get to Samson, but he was tiny. Who coached haughty? I don't know. I know who his interpreter was. Hany. A haughty and haughty collaboration, I think, you know. Hany's not taking credit for this. Yeah. Let me ask you a question. Samson Dowder. Everyone was telling this guy, come in leaner, come in leaner, come in leaner. Did it work against him? I thought it was a big mistake. I mean, I'm a big fan of Samson's. And last year I thought he was incredible. Incredible. And this year he just looked smaller. His legs really slimmed down. He just looked kind of just flat. You know, from what he was like. I think Andrew Jack's a place ahead of him. That's how good I think Andrew Jack looks in that show. We're going to get to Andrew Jack in a minute. But Samson Dowder, reigning Mr. Olympia, Chris. I mean, this guy's legs look like they were a shell of what they were last year. Did he make that mistake we talked about by coming in too small because he tried to get too hard? He was too small. And it's a little bit painful to watch where he may play. Because he looks at certain poses, abs and thighs are most muscular. And amazing side chest. Tiny. Even from behind. He is small. He's not lacking fullness. He's small. He lost muscle. Yeah, I mean, I definitely can see that he's downsized from last year. Considerably, for sure. I don't think, you know, asking the question that you asked Rich there, he definitely wasn't worth the tradeoff. I think he gained like 2% of conditioning but then lost 15%, 20% of fullness. And I think because he lost that fullness, he's not having as much pop against the muscle. So the conditioning doesn't look really that much better at all, you know. So, yeah, I don't think it was worth the tradeoff. You know, it's one thing that Samson overwhelmed people with was just obviously structural size. But just overall, just muscularity and presence and space he's taken up on stage. And he wasn't taking up more space than anyone in the top four, you know. When you see Samson on stage compared to what he looked like at the Arnold, do you think that he was told, you're just not hard enough and you've got to come in harder for the Olympia and he overdid it? I think, I'm going to use a Tony Freeman example. The year you worked with him and he took 10th in the Olympia, it was always get, you know, leaner, smaller. Fifth. I'm sorry, fifth. Don't try to come in so big. This was the opposite, which the same principle, but it didn't work out that way. When Samson first peeled off backstage, his skin was like tissue paper. And I'm sudden to myself, he's got to win. But then I looked at his whole physique and it's like, where did his legs go? You were backstage. Yeah, I saw everything from backstage. So it was noticeable that his muscularity was much more minus than the Tony Freeman example. Now, given the fact that we just said that Samson was way, way off, I think, and I know you think, but I want to hear your opinion. I'd say Andrew Jack beats him. Andrew Jack beats Hottie. You think Andrew Jack beats Hottie? Tell me why. Beats him on the front double. Beats him on the front last spread. Beats him standing relaxed. He's way bigger. He dwarfs when they put him next to Samson. His back is better than Hottie's. His legs. Abs are better than Hottie's. His legs are a lot more strided than anyone on the stage. It doesn't mean that they're the best legs on the stage. But he's got a lot of detail. He's got a lot of bells and whistles. And, you know, I'm not even going to start the conversation because it doesn't deserve it. Dave, hold on. Between him and Samson. Right. It's between him and Hottie, and I barely begin that conversation. And as the pre-judgment went on, I thought Andrew, like, blew up. And looked very worthy of second place. And I know since you've been on stage, I'll take that. What do you think about Andrew Jack? I just think he's phenomenal. I always thought he was a great bodybuilder. But this show, he really shined. Right. And I think he's going to get second in the show. You think you got him second? I got him second. I mean, I was questioning it. But now looking at it, I think, like I said, it's Derek. And then it's Andrew Jack. Yeah. And then it's Hottie. You know, that's how I see it. And then I see Samson fourth to give him that place. And then even Andrew Fitzwater, Martin Fitzwater looks phenomenal. Really got a great physique. I would have liked a Derek, Andrew Jack callout. Well, I mean, they're two totally different physiques. That's why I want to see them. But I will say this. They're two totally different. That's why it's nice to see them. Because I don't want to. I'm going to beat a dead horse. I don't want to see Samson and Andrew. Because that's what we wanted to see in the past when they were both big and not super hard. Here, Andrew's super hard. Samson's small. That's not a callout that I think is entertaining. It would be Andrew, who's got bells and whistles. And, of course, Derek, who's like complete left and right, top to bottom. And I think it's something that people want to see. And I'm not impressed with Hottie. I don't know where. You're up with someone who was on stage recently. Yeah, I mean, I wouldn't be upset if Andrew was second. I mean, I think the condition. You'd like to see the callout, though, right? I'd like to see it for sure. I mean, you know, I was really, really impressed with Andrew. I think he's got crazy shape. I mean, even like you were saying against Hottie, Hottie, some of his best parts are like his midsection and things like that. And Andrew's got even better midsection. Plus, he's bigger. He's taller. You know, obviously, he definitely gets beat in the side shots by Hottie. I mean, his side chest and side try. Side chest especially aren't super, super great. But like the front double, front lat, ab and thigh, he's like mutilating guys on some of those shots. So I wouldn't be upset about it. I mean, I think right now how they probably have it is Derek Hottie. But, I mean, if Andrew was to sneak up there, I would have no problem with it at all. When he hears the word mutilate out of you, he's going to be upset about it. He slid by. Do you think we'll see that callout at the finals tomorrow? It could very well happen, and it should. Because, I mean, Andrew Jack is right there on that cusp of second and third. And I would like to see that callout between Derek and him. It only makes sense that you would see it. Now, Nick Walker, guaranteed victory Saturday night here. It looks like he's fighting it out with Martin Fitzwater for fifth and sixth place. I have Martin Fitzwater. I mean, I think he's just shrink-wrapped inside out. What do you got? To me, he's just a pleasant powerhouse physique. You know, he's a mix of, like, density and sharpness. And when you try to pick him apart, and that's what this show, a big show, is, it's hard to pick him apart. So, he's really good. I mean, honestly, to me, what is the big difference between him and Hardy? What's the big difference between him and Hardy? Sorry? What's the big difference between Hardy and Martin? I mean, the only real big difference between them is probably that width, and then the bit of, like, hardness and density are getting through the midsection, the chest. You know, like, obviously, Hardy's got that crazy chest ratio. The good word, Martin's, you know, his chest has definitely improved, but it's not, like, crazy stripped out. But I think Martin, all around, is extremely complete. He's really round. He was peeled out of his mind. Yeah, as of now, I do have him ahead of Nick, yeah. Rich, I want your insight. What happened to Nick Walker here? I mean, he's big. He's hard. Why is he going to have to settle probably for a fifth or sixth place? It's just, altogether, he just doesn't look right on stage. You know, just, I don't know what it is. Yeah. Because he does look hard. Alone, he looked good when he was there. Alone, when I saw the pictures of him, he looked phenomenal. Right. Some of the poses, like his back double bicep looks really good, but the rest just, I don't know, he doesn't look right. So, how do you see this finishing up tomorrow? Are they going to re-judge this harshly tomorrow? Yeah. And aggressively? They will absolutely re-judge it because, by definition, this is two shows in one. Yeah. You know, it's, if, you know, someone could get, I'll tell you, two people could look radically different tomorrow. That's what I was going to ask you. The only two people can look radically different is, there's three, Martin, Andrew, because they could both eat pizza and either get better or get worse. That's a fact. And we don't know, right? I agree. Or, good veto. What happened to good veto? I really, I really liked him a lot on that stage. Why do you think the judges kind of, kind of didn't really give him a good look? I thought they gave him a good look at the beginning, just on the outside. Is he too small? I don't know. What do you think? I don't think he was too small. I mean, I think he still, like, has a couple shots that are kind of weak. I think his side chest isn't super great. You know, the back double is, like, great from the waist down, not great from the waist up. His back lat is really good. So, yeah, I think it's just, like, there's some good shimmers of hope there. So, like, you want to move him, but then there's some that you're like, eh, you kind of bring him back down. Honestly, who wowed me the most there was Tonio. Tonio, look, I thought Tonio was wildly impressive. He's definitely improved in size. He is so balanced. He has no weak shots. Obviously, yeah, conditioning was good. I mean, he just needs to be bigger, obviously. He's just a smaller guy. He's like a Dexter Jackson size. But, I mean, I thought he was wildly impressive, yeah. Is Andrew here? Pull him over here. Pull him over here. Oh, he's going to get him? Let me ask you a question about Good Vito, Tonio Burden, Akeem Williams. What do these guys have to do to move up? I mean, the... Is it a size issue? Well, with, uh... Good Vito? Yeah, he looks phenomenal. I mean, I think he's going to be up there soon. He kind of reminds me a little bit of a rich disparity. Yeah, he has a nice... Straight into the bone. The bone. I think he's got a great physique. The other guy you mentioned... Tonio Burden. Tonio Burden has a great... Like he said, he's no weakness. He's just got to get bigger. And, um... The other guy you mentioned... Oh, Akeem Williams. Akeem Williams. He needs a bit of back. He needs a bit of back. He has no back. Great legs. But that's about it. Akeem's really so powerful everywhere except the back double bicep. John, who do you think was the most overlooked guy in the show? Probably Fitzwater, I think. But, you know, here's the problem. This is probably the deepest field we've ever had. Ever. Ever. You've got four Mr. Olympias on the stage. Everybody's crying. I'm talking about Brandon Curry. He looked good. Right. And you've got... Amazing. You want, what, third call out? So, you're talking about... Anybody who's crying about the 90s now can go home. That's over. So, now we're splitting atoms. So, what do you know? We're talking about a striation. A striation here. A bump there. You know? It's really a deep, deep field. And it's causing us to overanalyze everything. You know? So, it's not a question of who's this and who's that. It's a question of what part of this guy is, like, this perfect. I think where we left off is Derek Lunsford really dominated pre-judging here at the Mr. Olympia competition. Andrew Jack coming on strong. Hottie, you know, not his best. But, obviously, still dominant. And Samson now really, really kind of letting down the fans, in a sense. And the question is, can Samson fill out for tomorrow? No. Why? Because he's... It's not... Did he lose muscle? Is it a muscle issue? He lost muscle. He lost muscle. In the beginning of this broadcast, I said, that is not... This is why it's painful to see what I don't believe is a legitimate call, Andrew versus... You tell me, is that too aggressive? What? I don't think it's a legitimate comparison. Andrew versus... Samson. Samson. I don't think that... Samson looked... Andrew has weaknesses. And there's poses he may look small in. Samson looked small in several parts of the pre-judging. If you're going to put Samson ahead of Andrew, we've got to have a comparison. I want to see the two of them next to each other. I mean, I'm... You're the biggest guy. No, I'm like Milos. I'm totally biased. You know, you're rooting for your guy. But it's different than, you know, the Samson at the Arnold and the Samson at the Olympia cheating the night before on a piece of hot pizza. No, I didn't say he did. I'm saying he might have been... He could have been deaf. And we would have been saying, what do you think? I don't know. He's so round. Is his condition... He should have had a piece of last night. It might have helped. Well, we've always talked about people saying, you know, he needs to come down. And I've always said that if he comes down, a lot of people, they come down. I've done it with people prepping them. Come down and they're like terrible. Right, right. You said it. Gain 2%. Vegas, we also have to take into account, Chris, in Vegas, it's very easy to dehydrate here. I feel dehydrated right here. It is. And he might have overdone it, too. You know what? That is an unbelievable small snippet comment. Because I know somebody while I was prepping here, and just their weight was crashing all week long. And I never do like, tell me how much water you're drinking and all that. No, you dehydrate here. You can't even control it. That's what I said. No, it's a good question. Do you guys think Samson even looked any better than the guest posing he did six weeks ago? Worse. No. Worse. I agree. I think he actually looked in slightly better condition and still looked a bit downsized, about the same downsized, but he actually, to me, looked a little crisper in the guest posing. Sometimes when judges give you feedback and you hear the feedback of everyone else, it's better to ignore it because you know what looks best for your physique. And I think Samson made a big mistake and a miscalculation. Will Derek win the Olympia? I don't know. But we got Andrew Jack coming over here. Come on over here, Andrew. The biggest door course of the show right here. Probably the biggest guy on stage as well. No, I'm not. I'm not the biggest guy. Yes, you are. Who's bigger than you? Me. I said you're the biggest, I said. Yeah, me. Me is bigger than me. You shocked a lot of people here tonight. A lot of people think you're as high as second place here. How did you feel coming off stage? The job is not yet done. We've got tomorrow. And I, for me, this show is still on. Were you happy? It's still an open book. It's still on. Yeah, I don't think anyone there is top of the order. You want to be, but do you want to be put in that middle tomorrow and get paired with these guys? No, I want us to go on rounds, bro. Because the more I go on rounds, the more I get better and tighter. All right. Yeah. I'm a diesel engine, but I don't know if it will happen, though. We only did three rounds, and I'm like a warm-up. I need more. You need more. You like to pose out there. Yeah. So if we go on rounds and rounds and rounds, then the better man would definitely win. Great job out there tonight. Congratulations. Good luck tomorrow. All right, guys. That's going to do it. Martin, come over here for a second. Martin, just come here for one second. Martin Fitzwater brought the conditioning we all wanted from you. You look awesome out there. People are really talking a lot about what we saw from you. I told you at the pre-judge. When you showed me that leg, I knew you were in shame. Hey, I said I was going to bring classic conditioning to the open. I guess I don't have enough size to stand with those top five guys. I think you might find yourself in a better position tomorrow night. I'm going to be back tomorrow. You know I'm Mr. Saturday Night. Yeah, that's right. Good job, man. Yes, sir. Thank you. All right. That's going to do it for tonight. I'm here with Rich Gasparri, Chris Ticito. We got Ian Valliere, John Romano wrapping up. The Mr. Olympia pre-judging will be back tomorrow night with the final wrap-up. Check out rxmuscle.com and the RxMuscle YouTube channel for all the latest updates.