Heat. Congratulations for Dexter Jackson. Chris Aceto with rxmuscle.com 2 hours after Dexter Jackson's big win at the Fibo Fibo Pro bodybuilding show. Dexter, this was a a big win for you because uh it was by all accounts the fastest prejudging that we've seen in and in IFBB history. They just went through the show so quick and after the show people were talking about you JJ Johnny Jackson and hometown favorite with the audience on his side uh Ronnie Raquel and uh and and it was up up in the air. I I thought personally I thought it could have been you, Ronnie or Johnny. And when you came out at the night show tonight, I put on my blog that you you were putting it away and uh I thought you looked much uh sharper and fuller and denser at the night show than you did the uh the prejudge and and I thought it was what you know put you over the top. How do you feel about the big win and uh how do you feel how the prejudge went? Did you ever think that you were behind? No, I never thought that I was behind. Um, there you go, Dex. Thank you. Well, as you know, um, I didn't do that well in the Flex Pro and the in the Arnold Classic, but what a lot of people don't know that, you know, I got real sick for the um for the for the Flex Pro. I didn't want to use that excuse, but, you know, so I did what I had to do and try and make it through both those shows. And um turned out that um I lost um Flex Pro and then turned around and looked the worst I ever look at my life, you know, for the Arnold Classic. And you know, everybody's writing me off here and there. You know, I still wasn't at my best here cuz I'm still going through through some things with my body, but I need you know, I need some rest. It's bottom line. Um I did a lot of shows this year and um you know, but now it's time to rest and um so I should be by far, you know, the best I ever been coming to the Olympia this year hopefully. Um, I started working with George, uh, probably a week ago. Um, so, um, as you can see, we we put together a great package, and I'm really looking forward to, um, cuz I did some things with him that I've never done before, you know. Um, as you all know, Joe's my, you know, Joe retired again. Joe McNeel, he's my great friend and great trainer, but he retired again. So, you know, um I needed a good eye, so I I you know, I sought after George and and we worked it out, man. And and and the stuff that George had me doing, I I would, you know, I've never done before. You know, Joe would have probably threw me out the window if he saw me doing the stuff that George helped me do tonight, but it worked. And um as you see, I look 10 times better than I did at at both shows, the Arnold, I mean, the Arnold Classic and the Flex Pro. So looking forward to working with George man for the next, you know, 5 months and um I think we going to put together something really special. Okay, there you have it. Right from Dexter Jackson himself, congratulations once again, uh Chris Aceto with rxmuscle.com. Yeah. Um Germany has always been good to me, man. As you see, I mean, the applause that I got, you know, when they first called me out and when I'm here at Fibo, man, is unbelievable. the fans here. I love Europe. This that, you know, this is where most of my fans are. Um, that really really, you know, like take for instance, I get 20 DV DVD sales a week from Europe and maybe get one from the US. So, all my fans are from out this way. And um, I just want to give thanks to everybody in Europe, man, for supporting me. And um, for me to win the first FIBO power um, competition is is a blessing, bro. Thank you. area.