Dave Palumbo with another RX Muscle rant brought to you by Redcon 1. Visit redcon1.com. Today's topic, Dexter Jackson, the blade, the ageless wonder, the guy with the most victories in the IFBB ProLeague. The guy who's won five Arnold Classics, and the 2008 Mr. Olympia, he might go down as the greatest bodybuilder of all time, especially if we classify longevity as well as wins into the uh factor. Look, Dexter just came off a tremendous Arnold Classic, second place, right behind William Bonak by only a couple of points. I mean, here's a guy at 48 years old, he'll be 49 in November this year, who is still doing it as good today as he did it 10, 15, 20 years ago, which is incredible. in the sport of bodybuilding because the body just doesn't last. The elasticity of the skin disintegrates, you're get injuries, muscle atrophy. Dexter doesn't seem to be vulnerable to that. Father time seems to have forgotten about Dexter Jackson and they just don't care and they uh and he just keeps getting better. I don't know if Dexter's gotten better. He certainly hasn't gotten worse. And his best was is still, you know, maybe ahead of him. I don't know. It's crazy when you think about what this guy's done. He started as a bantamweight bodybuilder at 145 pounds on stage. I mean, he was a small guy. Yeah. He got good shape and he had and he always was diff, you know, really ripped, but who would have thought, you know, that this guy would have become this guy? Uh, I mean, that's probably the the greatest success story of all time because, you know, when you see a guy 145 pounds and you say and he says to people, "Hey, I'm going to meet Mr. Olympia one day." You got to think he's a nutcase, you know. Uh, but Dexter is one of these guys who just always finds a way to win. I remember back at the I think it was 1994, he won the Southern States, which was a big regional show here in Florida, and he won as a middleweight, but he won the overall. This is back in the day when ESPN used to cover bodybuilding and I remember watching at home because you know I was an upcoming bodybuilder and I was always scoping out who the potential competition would be in the future. And you know I see this guy I'm like this freaking guy looks dangerous. He's 176 pounds but holy mackerel I hope this guy doesn't get any bigger. You know I really saw him as a threat. You know even back then I remember just seeing that detail that he had in his physique when he hit shots. He just didn't look like a middleweight. A year later at the USA he in 95 he place he wins the light heavyweight class. He probably weighed 182 pounds and remember the cuto off for the light heavyweight is 198. So he was giving up 17 pounds of muscle to some of these guys even more probably. He came back to the 95 nationals. I remember I was there in New Orleans and the guy didn't make the top 15. He didn't even get the pose. He did a quarter turns and walked up the stage. I think the judges just missed him because he was a small, you know, he looked small just standing there in the lineup and he was so dejected. I saw him in the lobby. I went up to him and I said, you know, man, I I I didn't I don't know if I even remembered his name at the time, but I did. I knew who he was. I said, "You got shafted worse than I've seen anyone get shafted because he really he probably should have won the class in '95." And he didn't even get top, you know, he didn't even get top 15. He didn't back then if you weren't in the top 15, you didn't even pose at the pre-judging. They walked you right off stage. So, I said, "Look, don't don't be dejected." I said, "These guys are out of their minds. You will be a pro in probably a couple years." Sure enough, I believe it was the I believe it was the 98 North Americans. He won the light heavyweight class. I think he was 188 pounds. He still was giving up 10 pounds to these other guys and he won the overall and he got his pro card and the rest is history. you know, he competed uh, you know, through the 90s, 2000s and 20, you know, tens, you know, with the best of the best, with the Levon, with the Wheelers, with the Nassers, with the Cormier, with the Dorian, with the Ronnie Coleman's he he's faced everyone, this guy. And, you know, at first in his career, he had you had tough run in the pro ranks because he was a lot smaller than everyone, but little by little by little, he put on the size and he started winning shows. And I think that here's a guy that that people realize was very very dangerous in any lineup. He's the guy who's always waiting in the wings ready to to beat anyone who's a little bit off. He's like a wolf just waiting to to jump on the prey. And that's why what makes him so dangerous. I mean, in '08, you know, Jay Cutler was was knocking off Olympias like nothing. I don't think anyone saw Dexter Jackson ever as a threat to win the Olympia. He was a guy who was always like a top six guy because he was just shredded and he had great, you know, cartoonish looking muscle bellies. And sure enough, Jay Cutler comes in comes into the show off that year and boom, Dexter Jackson is standing right there. He wins the Olympia and he wins the three Grand Pris right after that in Europe and and and you know that's a legacy right there. How many Mr. Olympias really are there? Now, Dexter did lose the Olympia the following year when Jay made that comeback, but I remember, you know, talking to friends of mine from the Bronx who who knew Dexter Jackson when he was competing and they said that Dexter was going around, this is before Dexter won anything. This guy Dexter Jackson telling everyone he's going to be Mr. Olympia one day, he's going to be a pro bodybuilder. And you know, people thinking this is a guy who's 5 foot7. He's he's not going to be Mr. Olympia. He's not going to be a pro. And he proved everyone wrong. So, you know, when you evaluate the history of a bodybuilder and that this is probably when he turned pro or right before it, you know, this is even a little further back. This is 92, but you can tell you could see he's just got the structure right there like like man, I'll kill for that body, right? I mean, the big look at the size of his arms like almost as big as his head. And that's back in, you know, long time before he even turned pro. But when you evaluate what makes a bodybuilder great, yeah, you look at the Olympia victories, obviously you look at like a guy like Dorian, six victories. You see Arnold has seven victories. You see Ronnie has eight victories. But then you got to look at how long are they doing it? How consistently are they doing it? How many different shows have they won? Most Olympia guys like Dorian only won the Olympia. They never did the Arnold Classic. Dexter's won five Arnold Classic USA's, nine total Arnold Classics. He won the United the New York Pro, which used to be United Champions. He might have even won night champions. He won the Mr. Olympia Europe, which I think was only one year. The guy's won everything, you know. He's he's pretty much done every show, and he's got the Olympia title in '08. So, here's a guy who's gone all over the world, competed. He's probably made more prize money than everyone out there as well. He has the record for the most wins of any pro bodybuilder, and he's still adding to that that record. You know, I don't think he's he's hardly done. H how could he not be considered one of the greatest of all time? You know, we consider, you know, I consider Ronnie Coleman the greatest physique of all time, but I don't know if he's the best greatest bodybuilder because, you know, he did it for a while, but he didn't, you know, he wasn't he hasn't won as many shows as Dexter. You know, he also got started a little later. So, you know, Dexter is certainly one of the top five of all time. You have to you have to put him in that elite category. And the funny thing is that he's going to be 50 in two years. And you know what? He might be competing still and winning shows at 50 years old. And there's not many guys that have done that. Maybe Robbie Robinson did that, El Beckles, but there there's not many of them who have achieved the level of success that he has. And and you know, the funny thing is if Dexter decided he wanted to do more shows, he would have even more wins. You know, he right now he kind of sticks to the the top tier shows, but he can do the New York Pro again, easily win that probably. He can do a Tampa Pro and get another victory there. That that's something if he wants to go collecting, you know, wins, he can more than easily accomplish that. So to me, Dexter Jackson's legacy is complete. If he never did another show, never won another show. At this point though, you have to look at the scenario. How does Dexter Jackson can he win the Olympia again? Because I think that's really what he wants. One more Olympia victory. That would really cement his his his place in what he's accomplished. And I think that would make him probably the greatest of all time. How does he do that? Well, look at George Foreman later in his career when he knocked out Michael Moore. He said it in interviews. He's like, I knew I had that knockout punch still in me. I just had to position these guys and get them in front of me so that I can land that punch. And he did that with Michael Moira. People thought Foreman was a big joke coming back. He knocked him out. He won regained the World Heavyweight Championship in in in in a in a way that no one ever felt possible. And Dexter can do the same thing. Imagine he shows up. Big Ramy's off like he normally is. Rhoden's a little off. He's been he hasn't met his best the last couple years. He's had been dealing with some some health issues. Uh Dexter's right there in the best shape of his life. And Phil Heath comes in off maybe a little flat. It becomes a Dexter Bone battle. Okay. And Dexter has got that sharpness. And you never know, Dexter can come out on top. You know, maybe Bonak's off a little bit. So, there is a scenario where Dexter certainly has the ability to win the Olympia again. Will it happen? We don't know, obviously. But as long as he keeps staying there and being in the mix, he's always a danger to win that show. And if I were Dexter, if I were to win the show in the next couple years, again, that would be it. I'd call it quits and say that's a career. Even if he doesn't, Dexter, in my book, you're still maybe the greatest of all time. And I certainly give you a top two or three title up there with Ronnie Coleman and Arnold Schwarzenegger. For now though, I'm Dave Palumbo with another Redcon 1 RX Muscle Rant. Heat. Heat. Don't you hate when your protein powder doesn't mix properly. Redcon 1's 100% whey isolate isotope tastes great, is the absolute highest quality, and of course mixes well. No shaking required.