Hey, it's Robert Tamagio of Iron Mag Labs. I just want to say congratulations to Dave and everyone at RX Muscle on 1,000 episodes of Muscle in the Morning. Good job, guys. Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Wednesday, December 28th, 2016. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Greatness is one of those things that's hard to come by in sports. But the ability to sustain greatness, well, that's something you might only come across once in a generation. And right now, I don't know if there's any bodybuilder from this era that's been able to sustain greatness longer than Dexter Jackson. New arm training footage shows the winningest bodybuilder of all time looking every bit as dangerous as he's ever been. And even though we won't see him on stage at this year's Arnold, the Blade always seems to find a way to make his presence felt early and often. And whenever he does come out to play, you can be absolutely certain that he's coming to win. Speaking of sustained greatness, you'd be hardressed to name anyone who's been more consistently awesome in the history of the figure division than Nicole Wilkins. Earlier this week, new photos surfaced of the four-time Olympia champion looking like she could step out on stage right now and give just about anyone in the world a run for their money. Last year's Olympia performance aside when she puts her mind to it, a 100% Nicole Wilkins is still one of the most strikingly beautiful physiques we have in the sport today. And I hope we see her back on the Olympia stage again next season because fans love a good comeback. One where we get to see her reach down into the tank and pull out one last epic performance. Is there any division out there that looks to be more wide open than men's physique right now? Well, with the Arnold right around the corner, outside of returning champ Brandon Hendrickson, I don't think there's any real clear-cut idea about who's going to fill out the rest of the top five. But I'd venture to guess that three-time top five finisher Zavas Gaden is making a strong case right about now. New progress photos show Gayen looking arguably better than we've ever seen him this far out, which doesn't bode well for the rest of the competition. Now that he's finally able to focus more of his energy on training, Gaden looks like he's on pace to put a career best performance up on the table. And if he winds up scoring a top three finish, his men's physique stock will skyrocket. I don't know what Santa's been stuffing in those stockings over there in Europe, but will someone please send me some of whatever the hell it is that Lucas Wiler's got? Earlier this week, a gigantic looking Wiler leaked a handful of off-season update photos, showing off some flatout impressive looking new muscle. The former Arnold amateur champ had one heck of a rookie season, scoring top five finishes at both the Arnold Classic and Arnold South Africa. And if he's brought up his chest and back to match the world class lower half, this guy is going to create some major problems for the competition before the end of next season. Knocking out 365 for reps on an incline is no easy feat, but then again, not everyone is Peter Clancier, now are they? In his latest offseason training footage, we see the secondyear pro looking absolutely monstrous as he barrels ahead for what I believe will be a standout 2017 season. This year, Clancier really made his presence felt during the European Tour, where he locked five straight top 10 finishes against the lineups that were jam-packed full of Olympians at the top of their game. And with a little bit of seasoning this offseason to give his physique that extra detail, this guy has a real chance to come out next year and really set the world on fire. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo! Move.