 DHA, what is it? Do we need it? Will it help us? Stay tuned. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work, I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Energy pouches are the wave of the future and underrated muscles locked in is first to bring it to you. With between 50 and 100 milligrams of caffeine per pouch, you can dial in the quick clean energy and focus you need on the go. Simple, easy to use. Pop one between your cheek and gum to get you through your day, to get you through your workout. Code rx20underratedmuscle.com. Get locked in today. All right, television rxmuscle.com. This is As Dave, your weekly question and answer show with Dave Palumbo, bodybuilding, non-bodybuilding, diet training, supplementation. This is your forum to As Dave, whatever is on your mind. I'm your host, Adique Varoucchi, thanking you for joining us on this New Year's Eve edition of As Dave, a reminder tonight at midnight. I'm not going to tell you exactly what it is, but we have a sale launching at SpeciesNutrition.com. You're not going to want to miss it. It's only going to be a one day sale, so you're only going to have one day to take advantage of this first opportunity of 2026. Before we go to the questions, Dave, we received word at some point last night that a truly iconic photographer, Bill Dobbins, had passed away. I know you've known him for the better part of four decades now. So if you wanted to reflect on the passing of the iconic photographer, Bill Dobbins. Not four decades, three decades, but I'll tell you this. Bill was one of the first guys I ran into at the first national show I did. Bill's been photographing people since Arnold's day. And in that effect, a lot of people don't realize that Bill Dobbins wasn't just a photographer. He actually is the guy who wrote and put together Arnold's encyclopedia. So I think a lot of bodybuilders probably had that Arnold's encyclopedia in the bookshelf. Bill Dobbins did that book. Not Arnold. I mean, Arnold obviously contributed to the content of it. Bill wrote it, put all the photography together for that thing. And that's like I said, a very, very well known like first book for a lot of people who get into bodybuilding, especially when people did read books. But I think a lot of guys even today have that book. So Dobbins did that. And he was kind of really more known toward the end of his life, second half of his life as a female bodybuilding photographer, because he liked to photograph all those women. And he had a few books he put together of pictures of them. And he had a really popular website at one point as well. And when Muscle and Fitness and Flex Magazine were around, Bill did all the women's bodybuilding photography for that. Because a lot of people don't realize because they only know the last six months of our industry. But at one point for many, many years, it was just women's and men's bodybuilding. That's all it was. The women's bodybuilders looked like the bikini girls up today. That's all there really was back then. And Bill was an instrumental guy in that. He actually did photograph a lot of men too. People don't realize that because they know him as a woman's bodybuilding photographer, but he did some really good photos. He actually shot me for, when I worked for Metrex, they wanted to get 8x10s for us to sign at all the events. And he did a lot of the PR stuff for that. And I know he shot some decent pictures of me for that when I was at my biggest. And they used a lot of those pictures for marketing for Metrex. It's a shame. A lot of people realize Bill actually had cancer like four times he beat it. I think he had Hodgkin's lymphoma. And he, I mean, he was on his deathbed at least three times during his life that I knew it. Because I would see him and I'd be like, what's going on, Bill? And he'd be like, I got cancer again. I'm like, why? And he was like really like positive. He goes, yeah, I'm going to beat it. You know, I got chemotherapy and his hair was falling out. And sure enough, a year later, the guy was back and shooting things again. And so I, he was very resilient. I don't know how he had such a positive mindset about that. And if you knew any women who ever shot with him, he would make it a whole day event. Like he would, the women would get there and he'd be playing his guitar and he'd have to play music to get himself in the mood. And then he'd have to like start, you know, the shooting would begin. It would be like 12 hours of shooting. Like, and that was just what he was known for. And it was, it was torturously long, but he always got really good content from these women. So he was a unique guy. He's definitely going to be missed, I know, by our industry. And it's a shame that, you know, he had to go. But he was not a young guy. And like I said, he'd been around a long time. He had a lot of health issues. And I know he'll be missed. And I used to enjoy talking to him at all the shows because he had so many stories because like I said, he was around since Arnold's day when he was competing. And he bridged four or five decades of bodybuilding. And that's pretty amazing to have that level of insight into how the industry came about, the evolution of it and where it was going. And he had some very strong opinions and he wasn't afraid to put those forward. But and that might have gotten him in trouble a few times. But like I said, I'll miss his friendship and I'll miss seeing him at the shows. And he's probably in a better place right now playing that guitar. So Bill, we miss you. Of course, we passed along our deepest condolences to Bill's family, friends and obviously all the bodybuilding, the lives that he's touched over the last 30, 35 years in this sport. Let's go to the questions, the first two questions on the show from the DePillumbo Experience app. Do you feel that there's any truth in the study that shows muscle protein synthesis elevated 48 hours after training, thus more frequent training in low volume would yield better hypertrophy compared to training muscle once a week? I don't really know what, first of all, I haven't read the study, but I don't really know what having a boost in protein synthesis 48 hours after training would have to do with training more often. It doesn't really, I'm not understanding the logic behind that. You know, if you break down a muscle, you have to give it time to recover. Okay, and everyone's recovery process is different. Like Ronnie Coleman used to train each body part twice a week, and he seemed to recover fine from the workouts. I know that my body needed a full week for sure to recover. And, you know, when I first, when we all first start training, we want to train each body part like three times a week if we can, because we're so excited and we think that the more we work out, the faster we'll grow. And I think that's, you know, when you get into bodybuilding, you get bit by that bodybuilding bug, you want to grow as fast as possible. And it's sometimes hard to understand the concept that less is better bodybuilding. In other words, stimulate that muscle and then go home and eat and train and sleep and rest. That's what's building muscle. It's not going in the gym. People always, and I made this, Roni's assumption too. I thought that the actual training was building the muscle. It's the recovery that's building the muscle. So if you don't recover enough, you don't, you don't get big enough. And it's a, it's a hard pill to swallow because we think that we have to work out to get big. But the workout just breaks down the muscle. It's the repair process. That's important. It's like the same reason why people think, oh, on my off day, I'll eat less food because I'm not working out. Well, on your off day, you're repairing muscle, just like you're repairing it every other day of the week, because you're constantly breaking down muscle. So you don't, you want to continue the same amount of protein, the same amount of fats, the same amount of, you know, carbs to fuel the process of repair. Right. So these are just ideas that people don't understand. Now, when the muscle actually peaks, its recovery process is, you know, you can study it all you want in the lab. But like I said, it's, it's, it's individual from person to person because some people just recover faster if you're taking anabolic steroids and growth hormone, you're going to recover faster. So there's really no perfect, you know, workout for everyone. You have to kind of figure out what works for you. But what I find is that most people who train multiple times a week, one body part, they don't tend to recover as well and they don't grow as well. They might psychologically feel good about it, but, but they don't tend to grow as well. In my experience over the last, you know, 25, 30 years, it seems as though one body part per week. Okay. Seems to work the most effectively. And that's just the way I see it. Second question again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. I'm wondering what your thoughts are on DHA. I'm from Canada and it's not sold here and it's pretty expensive to get through shipping costs, et cetera. I've read that it helps with mood and depression, especially as we age your thoughts on DHA. DHA is dihydroepiandrosterone, not to be confused with the DHT, dihydrotestosterone, which is what the body can convert testosterone into in men and women. And a lot of times we talk about high DHT levels causing prostate issues, acne, hair loss. This is not what we're talking about. We're talking about DHA, which is actually a hormone produced by the adrenal glands. It's an adrenal androgen and it's produced in men and women. And in men, it has somewhat of a metabolism modulating effect and maybe immune system modulating effect, but testosterone kind of supersedes that in men. And in women, because women don't have testicles and that they can't produce testosterone directly from the testicles, they make their testosterone from DHA. So DHA can convert to different hormones in a person's body, can convert to testosterone in small amounts, can convert to estrogen in small amounts. And in women, it's more important because that's their muscle building hormone. So I noticed that as we age, men don't produce as much testosterone. The testicles, a lot of men go on TRT, right? Women don't have that. And so I think the knee jerk lately has been to put women on testosterone. And I think that's a problem because I think in every woman's body, there's a certain ideal amount of testosterone that's going to give women a good effect, but not cause side effects. And it's hard to determine what that number is for each individual woman. So I think a lot of women take testosterone, they feel really good, but then they just get side effects wrong because they take it too much. Whereas if you take DHA, you can actually, and the funny thing about DHA is it's not a leak. It's not a control substance. You can buy it from Life Extension, makes a nice brand of DHA. You can buy it on Amazon, on their Life Extension website. And not that I'm plugging that one particular brand, but I know they have good products. And you could take that as your replacement. And then as a woman, if you take 25, 50 milligrams per day, your body will convert what it needs, not what you want it to have, what it needs into testosterone. And so when women tell me, or husbands call me and they say, my wife's sex drive is low, or she's just, she's not recovering as well, or she doesn't feel, you know, she may just get sick more often. I tell them add 50 milligrams a day of DHA, see how she feels. And a lot of times that helps. Now this person lives in Canada. So I don't know what the availability, he seems to say there's a lack of availability there. For a man, I don't think you're going to notice that much difference. I gave my father some DHA when he was in his 60s and he said it felt, he felt a little better. I was given 100 milligrams a day of it. And then at some point, like when he hit, like after maybe five years of doing it, he wasn't really noticing it. And then we put him on testosterone a little bit, 100 milligrams a week, and he felt good on that. So I think in today's day and age, you better off just taking testosterone as a man. As a woman, the DHA is a better option because once again, you're not going to get the side effects you would get from taking testosterone. So that's just the way I go about it. For a man, the immune system effects or the the Metables and boosting effects of DHA are very small compared to what a testosterone replacement those will be. Now, a lot of people don't want to take testosterone or they don't have access to it or whatever, or they don't want to be bothered with it. They don't want to spend the money on it. So I guess you can call DHA the cheat man's testosterone replacement. But if you're in Canada, it's a pain in the ass. I know Canada is weird with supplements and stuff like that. If it's not made there, they think it's like a drug. And so it might be hard to get it there. You better off just getting testosterone replacement from your doctor. Now, these two questions are from the day Paloma experience happened. I want to thank everyone. It is the last day of the year. And you guys have supported that app for the last three years. Every month we get more and more members for it. And it's because we're providing basically a lot of information on a monthly basis. It's $29 a month. You download it from your iTunes store, your Android store. You get an easier coach in your back pocket. You have access to all my writings, all my videos I've done in an organized fashion, all my protocols, my drug protocols, my keto diet, my cyclical keto diet, my offseason diets, men, women detoxification. I answer everyone's questions for the app in an open forum. So you see everyone's questions and answers. It's a really good learning experience. And I do a Q&A video just like this. It's like another ask date every single week for the app members. So you get an extra video of that. And we're constantly updating with new information. So as new stuff comes out, you're getting new information. And it's a good way to keep up on the industry of what's new and out there and how to use it. So thanks for all the support over the years. Let's go to the rest of our questions from our Instagram. Actually, no, before that, hold on, my mistake. We have a special of the week from our friends at Titan Medical Center. So we have literally was everything. I think everything. Okay. Yeah, some of this short form on text messaging. So blood peptides, everything. So they're running a whole panel special right now. So if you want to tell the fans more about what type Medical Center has in this 2026 year beginning special. I think they're doing everything. Is that what I said over to you? Yeah. I think they're doing blood work is still being discounted. So I got them to extend the blood work an extra week because I told them a lot of people were on vacation in a way. So we're doing blood work. All every peptide is on sale, but you have to call or text to get the information. That's the key. So you got to go to Titan Medical Center dot com. The phone numbers on the website call them up tell them day Paloma or X muscle sent you you want the blood work panel discount you want any any of the peptides you want there. So that I mean that includes BPC-157 TB-500 the copper peptide, the combination of the glow which is glow is which all for those peptides those healing peptides. You can do the growth hormone releasing peptide therapies there the GLP one agonist therapies. They're all on sale. Okay, it's a very brief cell last you know day of the year type of thing this I think the rest of the week. Call them up mention it get set up now because what's going to happen is January is going to come around here like oh you know what I got I got to get blood work done I got to do this and then you don't want to pay more for it. So they're doing a nice sale at the end of the year here until you know next week call up ask for it and I'm telling you guys get set up get your blood work done if you don't have insurance and you need to get it done get it done now. If you want to buy your your therapies now's the time to do it. I just restocked on my glutathione I take every single day. My my they now I'm using the glow combination because I figure if I'm going to use the same as we get the TV 500 the copper peptide in there as well. It's all in one it's an easy shot and I do my NAD plus there with them as well which is increases the the ability of the mitochondria to work more effectively and gives you better mental focus and energy. Those are my favorite therapies but you guys might want to try some of the GLP ones because you're dieting for competitions. Get it now it's on sale at tight medical center. So we go to the rest of our questions from our YouTube community page from our Instagram page and from our Facebook page. We do get a lot of questions and it's not just us this is seemingly the fascination across the board bodybuilding and anyone looking for ways to increase their longevity and that is peptides. Your most recommended peptides for men 50 and over when the goal is fat loss and building muscle which seems to be the case for all of us. This is like a perfect segue I just talked about. So yeah the for me weight loss wise I think a lot of people have trouble sticking to a diet. Okay and you know what I'm the kind of the mindset I never cheated on my diet you know unless I had a prescribed cheat meal set up. So for me like it was never an option to snack and eat extra food but I know a lot of people have trouble with that if that's something that you have trouble with sticking to the diet because you know you're not going to be able to eat. So if you're eating between meals or snacking the GLP one agonists are tremendously effective the red true tide or the one to use the Montrero version which is to his appetite even have a new one coming out now you know it has a fourth. I just one component to it I don't know if I'm so in favor of that but there's a lot of these GLP you know one agonists okay out there which is really you know a lot of these new ones that the red true tide that was appetite they have added components but the original GLP one agonist you know which was in those empty is really what's the most effective at eliminating appetite for body builds. We need the appetite control or not me but but other people get the diet need the appetite control so what happens is that you know. By taking that it allows people to stick to their diet better if you're offseason however you don't want to use these appetite you know reducing agents because number one you have to be able to eat all your food and number two. It slows the transit of food through your intestine track which is going to limit your body's ability to recover so you're going to recover slower on these so I don't recommend you that but on a diet for contest great those are the best I think the best that burn some of these other ones that supposedly burn fat. AOD and it's loop and all these other ones I'm not I haven't seen anyone who's losing massive amounts of body fat on these these these peptides so I would stick with the with the ones that we know work the GLP one agonists as far as fat loss goes you know you could take the growth home and releasing peptides. Increase GH release but but they're not going to release GH and at a level where you're going to notice a tremendous amount of fat loss you might recover you might recover better from your workouts. You know you might get a little better pump but you're not it's not going to be it's not like taking a shot of growth hormone revert that like that to me still and these are not peptides the most effective fat loss agents that we that we can use that directly stimulate fat loss would be. Clemuterol and T3 which are not peptides but you know that though for bodybuilders and people who compete physique competitors those are still the two most effective fat loss agents. The reason why the GLP one agonists work well is because a lot of people just cheaters on the diet and if you can stop the cheating because you don't feel as hungry you're going to get better results but by and far as far as direct fat burning effects. Clemuterol T3 is still the best. Question about health phase how long duration why should a health phase last after a cycle. You know I hate the word health phase I don't know who coined that you know it's really kind of stupid because bodybuilding is a health anyone who's the bodybuilder is in the health phase now you can say well you're when you're on steroids that's not healthy but you know what it's really not unhealthy either unless you're doing math. You know ridiculous amounts of them so. Really I call it like an off period or detoxification period because that's really what it is I mean when you go off a cycle you just cleaning out the cycle I mean you're just going off that it's not really. You know more healthy than when you were when you were following bodybuilding that his bodybuilders and people who compete well all year round I mean it's just a matter of going off a cycle and I think that in order to clean out properly and detoxify your system and and reset your engine receptors. There we go again he's talking about those answers I like this to be off at least 8 to 10 weeks. I think that's ideal obviously longer is only better right because I mean you're off a woman per time it's only going to help reset those receptors and make you feel better and you know detoxify you more but there's a certain diminishing returns in other words if you're off too long. You might start going backwards you know so if your goal is to compete every year and try to improve yourself and get better usually 8 to 10 weeks is adequate because if you do longer than that then now you're cutting into your games your offseason games that you're going to make. And then you might not have enough time to put on the muscle you need for the following year to compete and be better than you whether you're before that so I always say 8 to 10 weeks is ideal. Question about. So we just had a question about peptides and about building muscle losing weight. So we had a one on one oh my God you know I was taking that one later. There's another one about GLP one drugs that lately have been removed from peptide sites so now again if there are bands being put in place or lack of availability there seem to be a whole range of GLP ones that have magically vanished from the peptide sites. I don't really you know regularly you know check out those or audit those you know illegal you know the gray market websites so I don't know if it's a lack of availability and that's why they're taking I would have to imagine that's what it is. If you're selling peptides you know illegally which is 90% of the ones out there these peptide sites are not legitimate sites you can you can go on there it's like an Amazon website you can buy whatever you want I want I'll take one of these and one of those and you know that's how it works you need prescriptions usually for that even you know when you go to like a tight medical you know any of these rejuvenation companies you got to get a doctor's right subscription to these things for you you know they're not just handed them out so on these great market sites you know they're the availability would be probably what limits you know whether they have it or not so maybe you know China or wherever they're buying it from doesn't have a particular GLP one and they're using a different GLP one. When you go to like a tight medical center you're there compounding they're making the stuff at a compounding pharmacy and then the pharmacies dispensing according to the prescription that the doctor is writing for you so the availability is better now sometimes you can go to a pharmacy and get a doctor's prescription and they're actually out of it because so many people want to be on these these new drugs that that this is not enough availability because everyone you know doesn't want to stop eating they want to just you know take something to. The help them stop eating as far as I know there's no particular ban out there on like redditruetide or trisepetide because I know that the compounding pharmacy still have and it's available so. And that's one of the great things about tight medical they have a really good relationship with their compounding pharmacy so they don't run out of it whereas regular pharmacists pharmacy seem to be out of it. I like I said I don't know about these great market you know peptide sites why they may have one peptide but not another but I would have to imagine it's availability. Your thoughts on post contest rebound can you get similar effects without getting completely stage lean what is and I guess the second part of that your craziest growth you've ever experienced during the rebound and most of creative rebound you've ever seen. Yeah. The funny thing is I always went off after every show because I figured as soon as the show though I want to get off because I want to start recovering and it the rebound off the show never seem to be affected by the fact that whether I went off or I stayed on one year I told you there was one year and 97 I never went off because I have a lot of guest poses and I didn't notice a better rebound matter I think my rebound was worse. So the the super compensation that happens when you go from being 0% body fat just starting to eat again and train after a show seems to be unrelated to the drugs and it's more related to the fact that you've deprived your body for so long that it wants to store after after the show is over and what it stores is dependent on what you subject your body to. So if you're a guy who's like alright the show's over I'm taking two months off from the gym because I know people who do that Ronnie Coleman was doing that toward the end of his career and Sean Ray would do that. Those people didn't get a rebound they didn't they didn't they didn't grow because of that. But if you're one of these people like me saying me you know Monday morning I was back in the gym training not like a maniac initially you know but I started training so when you create a deficit or a stimulus for your body to want to build muscle because you're breaking down muscle in the gym and your body is in the super compensation mode of wanting to store it's going to store the protein and fat and carcinoma. So the carbs you're eating as muscle it's going to build muscle in other words whether you're on a ton of hormones and that now let's face it also you come off the show the drugs in your system don't leave you know on day one it probably takes three or four weeks for them to come out of your system so you're still theoretically on a cycle even though you're not taking any more shots. So this but this super compensation happens over the next you know four to eight weeks is is unbelievable and it seems to continue on so here it is you go off for eight weeks after show your building muscle the first four to six weeks at a very high rate because your body is super compensating and then just when you hit that six to eight week mark where you maybe start to taper off you're starting your cycle again and now you get a second phase of that super compensation of building muscle because now your body has all these hormones available that it didn't have for the last eight weeks and you're still eating really good because your appetite's great because you cleaned out and you're and you're not toxic and and you get another burst of growth and I think that's another reason why it's important to clean out because you're going to grow. Regardless of whether you stay on people think I gotta stay on testosterone so I can have that great rebound know you're gonna rebound anyway and build muscle as long as you're going to the gym and training part and that's the key and so my best year was from 94. This is probably because I was injury free from 94 to 95 so I competed in eight or April or maybe March or April I think it was March because it was Easter of 94 or junior USA at 228 pounds I came in third place in the heavyweight class and then the following year I competed in June at the junior nationals so it's like a year and a couple months later at 258 pounds so I gained 30 pounds of muscle in that one year. So I was injury free I had a great year of training I had a little extra time so it was a little bit more than a year and I had all my nutrition down pat the drug cycles down I had everything perfect you know for that year that was a perfect year I have to say it was the first year I had went over 300 pounds and I just had a really really good training year and I was it was AI made a huge difference when I showed up at the junior nationals at 258 and there were no amateurs at that time competing at the junior nationals. I remember Kevin Lovroni was like a guy I really looked up to was that that show because it was in Washington DC and he came up to me backstage like I've never seen anyone as lean as you and he goes and then that's when he wound up we got started our relationship and I started helping him the following year for the online classic but it's it's you know it was all based on learning how to rebound properly off these shows and the key.  e-component was it didn't matter, you have to clean out after a show. And matter of fact, it doesn't matter if you're on drugs or not because the drugs in your system are enough. And the fact that you're just training and eating is key. Now the question in the question is how lean do you have to get to get that supercompensation going on? The leaner the better. The leaner the better. So if you get to like, you know, 10% body fat, you're probably not going to rebound as well as if you got yourself down to nothing. Because what happens is when your body is suffering and it thinks it's starving, even though you're eating six times a day, but your body fat goes so low, your body doesn't know that. It thinks it's starving, you get a better supercompensation effect afterwards. So the leaner the better. That's the answer to your question. Take a couple more questions. A question about test-sip. What is the main cause of test-propionate that causes flu-like symptoms compared to test-sip? I know test-propionate is cheaper, but I've noticed it causes more injection soreness in 48 hours from flu-like symptoms. That is a regulator current. But for whatever reason, I find guys prefer test-propionate over test-sipionate. It's the propionate ester. In other words, testosterone is testosterone, right? And they have to link it to something so that your body can absorb it. Like testosterone suspension, for instance, which is just testosterone powder and water has no ester. So it only lasts like a few hours in your system and then it's out. Test-ophtopropionate is a fast-acting ester that only lasts about maybe 24 hours in your system. So for some reason, guys think it's a better option pre-contest because we all thought this was, we were brainwashed into this because it doesn't really stick around that long. So it doesn't have as much time to aromatize or convert to estrogen. That may or may not be true. It might convert quicker. We don't really know. And you know what the truth is? For some reason, the propionate ester irritates the area it's injected into. And in irritating it, number one, it causes injection site soreness. That's not the worst part. It elicits an immune system response. And the immune system, a lot of times, at least like me, and people are very sensitive to it, the immune system thinks it's like some kind of like a foreign body and it attacks it. And you get these flu-like symptoms because your body's releasing prostaglandins, which if you were to have the flu and it released the prostaglandins, you get the fever, the aches, the chills sometimes. And that's why if you ever take a shot of test-opionate and get that, all you have to do is take two Tylenol and it goes away. At least while the Tylenol is working. So if you ever have an issue with propionate and you didn't know it, take two Tylenol, it's going to take it away, the problem away temporarily until it works its way out of your system. I just said, you know what, it's not worth dealing with that propionate sensitivity. I just stopped using it and I'll take a longer-acting ester like acipinate or anathate ester. It's still testosterone. It doesn't matter. It might take a week or two longer to build up in your system, but once it's in your system and you're regularly taking it, it's irrelevant. It doesn't matter. And they both aromatize as far as I'm concerned at the same level. Prop aromatize is faster, sipping it because it releases slowly. Aromatize, but it aromatizes at a slower rate. So it all works out the same. And most of us who are competing, we're taking, are taking or we're taking, in my case, aromatase inhibitors. So we're preventing that from happening anyway. So I don't think there's any difference. The second half of my career, I never used propionate. I refuse to deal with the pain. I always used sipping it or anathate and I never, I looked just as good, probably better, and I never had any, any issues. And so my suggestion is if propionate doesn't sit well with you, just don't use it. There's no reason for it. It's the testosterone is testosterone. And that's going to do for this episode of As-State Reminder tonight at midnight. We're going to have a sale at speciesnutrition.com. We'll send out a teaser later this evening, revealing a little bit more of the details, but it's going to be your first chance for 2026 to stock up and really get your year started up on the right path at speciesnutrition.com. One year, new year's day sale. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss any of our segments, any of these shows, any of the programming that we have scheduled for this upcoming year as well. As really over the course of the next couple of weeks, we're going to begin our Arnold Classic coverage, Arnold Classic in March, beginning of March. So we are literally now 10 weeks out from that contest. And that's beginning up the IBV pro league calendar. If you like what you're watching, hit the like button, comment below. And as always, we appreciate all of your support. On behalf of Dave Palombar, our entire team, I'm Sadeek Farouk. You wishing you a happy, happy 2026. We'll see you next week. Happy new year, guys.