This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the 2010 NPC Eastern USA Championships. Here with our bikini overall champion, Diana Graham. Congratulations. Thank you very much. Is it true? I know you're on team bombshell and I know you work with Shannon and Rob. Is it true that you flew in all the way from Seattle? Yes, it is 4 and a half hours. What made you come four and a half hours for the Eastern USA Championships in New York City? Shannon and Rob said so, so I did it. All right. So, you're part of the team. You go where the team goes. That's right. And the plan, I hear, is to go to nationals next week and hopefully get your pro card. Yes, that's that's the intention. Now, I'm almost afraid to ask this question, but how many shows have you done up until this point? I think five. Okay. So, you you've hit a few this year? Yes, I have. And all of them this year? No, one the first year of bikini. Okay. And how did you do at your other competitions this uh past uh year? Uh it's been very mixed. I won overall a couple weeks ago. I got second place last week. So, got sixth place back before I was working with Shannon and Rob. So, so you've improved since you've been working with team Bob show. Now, what do you think that in your mind at least is the perfect formula? Because obviously you've done a lot of shows on purpose so you can find out what works and what doesn't work. What works for your body? I follow my plan exactly to the tea. I don't have to think about anything. So do you think that this is the best you've ever looked? Oh, by far. By far. So it's a conditioning issues. Do you think this is your best condition? Yeah, my best condition, my best diet, works for my body, makes me feel good, look good, everything. Aside from team Bombshell there. Anyone else you want to thank? My husband and my kids for being supportive. Hold on. You have kids? How old? I have a 5-year-old and then my husband's kids are seven and 11. So, we have You You bore one kid out of these hips. You born one kid? Yes. Amazing. Isn't this amazing? Diana Graham, our women's bikini overall champion here at the Eastern USA Championships. For now, I'm Dave Palumbo, rxmuscle.com.