Dave Palumbo here with an exclusive RX Muscle update. It is 12 midnight. The show let out. Andrew Jack has just won and I heard some gossip that I think is very, very important to relay. At this point, I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition Products. If you want to be your absolute [music] best, join the evolution. I'm hearing that Hottie Schopen has retired. Uh, I talked to some people inside his camp. I talked to some PE IFBB pros who are friends with him. From what I understand, and once again, this is just speculation and this is allegedly. I'm not saying this is confirmed at this point. Hottie after the Olympia said that he was going to do one more show. He wanted to win the Arnold Classic and then call it quits. I heard after today's date events and the placings that were announced, Hottie told these same people that he is done. This is it. Um I don't know what the reason would be. Hottie's at the height of his career. As far as I'm concerned, he still looks absolutely incredible. He could win the Olympia this year. He easily could have won this Arnold had he not had the stress of what he's been going through these past couple of months. I don't know what would be the motivation behind him, you know, retiring at this point. Does he want to spend more time with his family? Is he looking to preserve his health? That's unknown at this point. All we know is that there are people who know him and are inside his camp and have talked to him that said he did confirm that he would be retiring. Uh we are reaching out to people that are closer to him. Remember we did a exclusive interview with Hottie on Thursday. If you haven't seen that, it's up at the RX Muscle YouTube channel where he tells us what he's been going through over the last couple months. Sometimes stress could also be a reason people, you know, don't want to do this thing that they're doing anymore. You know, this is a very stressful time for Hottie's family and him. And maybe he wants to just take a break. Maybe it's not a retirement. Maybe he's going to take a year or two off and just let things cool down. I don't know. But I am hearing that this is it and he's done. We will keep you updated as we hear more. Once again, these sources that are telling me this are pretty reliable. I haven't gotten confirmation from Hottie directly. So this is still allegedly, but I am hearing that Hotti Shupin is done competing for now. We will keep you updated as more news comes in. Dave Palumbo with an exclusive RX Muscle news update.