Dave, let's get this Dave, let's get the damn show on the road. >> I created species nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Energy pouches are the wave of the future, and underrated muscles, Locked In is first to bring it to you. With between 50 and 100 milligrams of caffeine per pouch, you can dial in the quick, clean energy and focus you need on the go. Simple, easy to use. Pop one between your cheek and gum to get you through your day, to get you through your workout. Code RX20 underrated muscle.com. Get locked in today. And we're back for another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio. We are coming to the end of the 2025 calendar of the year. I can't believe it already. Thanksgiving's next week, but I got the tech technician here, Chris Aceto. And Chris, I am only maybe hours away from getting on a plane all the way to India. I'm going back to India. Mumbai. Can you believe it? >> Yeah. It's it's the uh the the home of the the I think they have the most votes uh at the Olympia for the people's choice award. >> You know, you know, now they they say that, you know, um all most of the anabolics now are not coming out of China anymore. A lot of them are starting to come out of India. So, India now might now be the new home of the uh of the anabolic steroids. >> Well, maybe we'll we'll we'll see the next perm. Do you remember Perm Chang? >> No, it was it was a very good pearl from from India. >> I'm talking in the 80s. >> I know Sheru. I'm gonna be at Sheru show this this coming weekend. Sheru. >> Oh, go to Sheru show. >> It's the Sheru class again. My distributor Alpha Elite is who carries the species nutrition line of products exclusively. Uh we will be at their booth. I I think I have to make a speech at the expo. They they told me something about like can you talk for three minutes? I'm like I could talk for 20 minutes. I don't know about three minutes. >> No, you can't. The anecdotes has got to be three minutes long. [laughter] >> It's gonna take you 30 minutes to talk about the disaster of a trip you had from Florida to India. >> That's right. >> What goes wrong? That's right. That's right. So hopefully nothing goes wrong. So I'm actually I'm actually I've made a calculated choice. I'm going I'm flying into New York. I'm staying with my sister for the night and then I'm going tomorrow morning actually to to India. This way if God forbid the flight is delayed getting to New York, I'm not going to miss my connecting flight like I did last time, which I'm not gonna go through that again. >> It's not worth it. It's just not worth it. So we'll be doing that. that look the the Sheru Classic is is the biggest show in as far as I know in India. So it's it's gonna be a lot of great competitors. You know who's your buddy Hani Rambat's gonna be there. So >> what's he gonna >> I don't know what I think he's looking for new talent maybe. Sure. It'll be there and um guess for Zagen line of products and I will uh what's it going to be at the Lee Priest was supposed to come. Do you know that Lee Priest is actually making another appearance on the same weekend in India of all places? Isn't that kind of weird that we have a conflict of interest and that we're in the same country? So, he won't be at the booth, but I'll be there. So, any of our Indian fans who are going to be in the Mumbai area for >> I was told that I was told that your buddy Lee Priest had Dark Luns for uh ninth place at the Olympia. So, >> yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I noticed that. I saw that you >> I want you to take down the the 32nd after the prejudging wrap-up between me, you and second place in the Olympia three times Rich Kaspari and [laughter] Ann Valier of the a nemesis of Derek who all had him first. But >> you know I I know but least you know number one thing was that Lee was at the Olympia but he didn't go watch the show. That's the >> of course because he doesn't need to see it. He can opine on the perfect places one through eight with Derek being eighth if not 10th from his uh Blackberry. >> No, you know, and I you make a very good point. I'm glad you bring this up. Even though we love Lee, a lot of people like to handicap and give their opinion on these shows, especially the Olympia, from their telephone, from their their iPhone. If you look at the the size of the iPhone screen, how you think you can get enough resolution on that screen to have any idea what a person really looks like in person is is ludicrous. And that's why when we do these wrapups of shows that we're not at, we always defer to the fact that you know what, we weren't there because sometimes stuff is missed. If you were sitting in the front row at that Olympia, there was no doubt in anyone's mind in that front row that Derek won that show. um including the judges. So I don't >> saying that. What a kiss ass because I'm on the show with you. You were such a weasel. >> Well, you helped. You helped Andrew, too. We could have made a case for Andrew. I mean, that's who Lee thought one, right? >> You That's why I said 30 seconds after the prejudge went over was over, that's when we did it. Meaning, >> yeah, >> it was my guttural reaction when you said, "Who just wanting?" I said, "Derek went in." >> Right. Right. Right. >> You You agreed. You went to You went to uh Gaspari. You went to Ian Velier. And then Lee Priest came running down the hall with his phone up. He just watched it on the phone and said be a >> He I don't even think he paid for the live stream. I think he watched it on like someone's Instagram where they probably put like you filters over the pictures and everything like that. you you just can't you got to go to these shows in person to really get it especially at the highest level because at the highest level it's very close between people and graininess and you know roundness and structure really is is much more impressive when you see these guys in person and uh it's just it's a shame when people you know fufu you know look Derek won three shows this past year for a reason not because he got lucky okay but because he he the best bodybuilder on the planet right now. That could all change next year. We know that, Chris. We've seen this happen a million times, right? Um, but in 2025, Derek was the best bodybuilder on the planet. There's no doubt about it. He won the three biggest shows. He won the most prize money. He set 10,000 records probably, you know, for 2025. 2026 could be a whole new ball game. But the question is that I have for you at least, uh, I know Derek was away on vacation for a while. Is Derek gonna do this Arnold Classic? A lot of people are speculating on this. >> No, I just I actually texted him this morning about something outside of bodybuilding and um I kind of sort of would assume if he had planned to do it that even though we weren't talking body that he would say, you know, we are I don't know how many weeks or how many days or hours away from uh the Arnold. So he has not mentioned it to me. I mean, a person who he really looks up to, Jay Cutler texted me after hearing us talk about this on the show about the fact that there's $750,000 up for first price. Jay himself said that he would have done the show if he was Derek. So, I I would have to believe that Derek is very, you know, strongly influenced by Jay. And I would have to believe that that that that the fact that Jay said that would would at least in the back of Derek's mind be ringing a bell. What do you think? >> I mean, I've said it before. It's it's is it it's technically it's it's hard, you know, money to turn down or, you know, hard opportunity to turn down. Same time, you know, people have private lives and people have, you know, things that that, you know, that they need to focus on. And by private that could mean as something simple as like I set out to what I wanted to accomplish 25 which Derek you know was quite audible on [clears throat] >> uh what he wanted to win the Arnold the Pittsburgh at the Olympia people thought he was crazy including Lee Priest who had him seventh at the Pittsburgh. Um, but you know what? When you when you when you accomplish something like that, everything mentally down after that could be like downhill. You know what I mean? Like, okay, I just I just watched the Rocky movie. You don't come out with Rocky 2 like six weeks later. You know what I mean? It takes time to be able to uh to reassess what you've accomplished and to get straight in your mind what you want to accomplish going forward. And I think that's probably a part of the decision- making. >> Yeah, I agree. Now, not to be one that's controversial, Chris, but I noticed that that the a lot of these Instagram sites like to grab your quotes and I saw that you had made a statement. Let's pull this up about I guess Fouad had a radio show on his TV show was saying that he felt that if Nick Walker looked like he did at the Pittsburgh show that he would win the Arnold Classic beating Andrew who's committed uh and beating Martin Fitzard who seems to be committed to the show and your response was come to the Arnold. Now, I think they inter this this beyond the stage con interpreted that you were saying that to to Nick Walker, but you really weren't, right? >> No, Senator Fu, come witness it, you know, with your own eyeball. Come come come to the Ohio and see how it goes down because the fact is in bodybuilding, like the stock market, the past has nothing to do with the future. It's not a predictor of what's going to happen in the future. So I do not think that Andrew Jack or Derek Farnsworth are shoe wins for anything. >> Derek Wsworth Farnsworth >> Andrew I don't think Derek Lunsford and Andrew Jack are shoe wins. >> Yeah. >> Don't believe in shoe wins and I don't believe in idea. Well, you know, if Jay brought his 2001 waist from the Olympia along with the 2002 Arnold size and he brought that, I mean, you know what? It's all hyperbole and it doesn't mean anything. Alls what alls what means anything is 11:00 a.m. or whatever 1:00 p.m. on the day of the Arnold prejudging who walks out on stage and how do they look at that time >> it doesn't whatever they accomplish in the past it's a clean slate you know >> right >> I haven't heard any from Nick Walker either >> the the judges are going to judge what is in front of them of course they're going to have an idea you know who the top two, three or four in their mind would be. They'd be idiots if they didn't have a preconceived idea, preconceived idea of what the top at the end of the day, the top call out is what is in front of you. And the proof of that is Ramon won the classic this year and he was fourth the year before. He was the overwhelming favorite to be compared with Bumstead last year because prejudgment had come down to two years in a row, only Chris and only Raone. And that morning of the prejudging last year, you know, when when all was said and done, Ramon was bumped out to the end of the first call out, you know. So, yes, judges obviously had an idea of uh what Ramon could accomplish, but he didn't. And so, the same thing is here. You know, you can talk up talk up talk up an athlete, the whatifs. if he had this condition from this show, that home is from this show, 2021, blah blah blah. Doesn't matter. So, that's why I said just go to the show. >> No, you're you're you're 100% right. You're 100% right. >> 101. >> No, because that because we don't know who's going to win. Now, I don't think that Nick Walker has made any any commitments to the Arnold. I haven't heard anything. Have you? >> No. The only ones that I know who are doing the show that I've heard they are in the show is uh is Martin >> and Andrew Jack. >> Yeah. Yeah, for sure. >> I think we're gonna see a lot of guys jump in at the I I I would be shocked if Samson doesn't do it to be honest with you. I don't think he can. I don't Look, it's not just the win that gives you a lot of money. You top three places is a lot of money. So I mean I wouldn't say these guys respect to rest too. People do this. I need the rest. I need the rest. I need the rest. I need the rest. And they like get fiddling around their house for like three weeks and like I'm fully rested. >> And the danger is you could be here mentally but from the neck down your body's still not rested. That is a >> no there there is a there is a thing. But you know what? I think at this point with the amount of money that's out there, I think these athletes almost have to force themselves to compete twice a year now. Whether it be the Arnold and the Olympia or the Pittsburgh and the Olympia or the, you know, Dubai and Olympia, you'd be silly not to try to hit two shows that have over $100,000 for first place. Um, if I'm a top three guy in the world, I'm doing the Arnold and the Olympia every year because those are the big the big paydays. And I can't I don't see Samson skipping that. Samson likes money. I know he does. You know, we talked him about it. I don't I I just don't see him missing it. I also don't see, you know, I don't I don't think we're going to see Hottie at that show. I don't think we're gonna he's going to be there. That's going to take another guy out of the contention. Obviously, Martin is on a hot streak now. Hey, what do by the way, I wanted to ask you, what do you think about the whole silly thing with Martin calling out um Guiles Thomas? I I Dave I will defend every athlete to the end of day because you know what >> it just like I'm sorry I default for the athlete Martin has every right to say off to anyone and everyone because you know what you know this is the way you know bodybuilding has hot and cold fans it's as simple as that and that means this all the people not all but Nick Walker was supposed to win the Olympia and he had all the fans around him and they loved him and they loved him and they loved him and they loved him and they, you know, went on every Instagram post and, you know, tagged him and you're number one and you should have won the Pittsburgh and the minute he doesn't win the show, they say you're trash, you know, go live in your mother's basement. >> You're right. Five bed. >> So, you know what? It's not up to the athlete to filter out, you know, which of his 1 million fans when he meets him in person is the guy who was just on his team one day and then the next day, you know, throwing them under the bus. Because the fact of the matter is half the people who throw people like Martin or uh Nick under the bus. Um if they saw them at the banquet and they were getting their food and Nick was getting their food, they'd probably tell them, "Oh, you were screwed, bro. You were you were the best." >> So fairweathered nonsensess. >> Yeah. And you know >> what whatever what whatever whatever he whatever he said >> what whatever Martin said you know what I support the athlete because you know what it's far harder to be the athlete than to be a coach or a podcast guy or uh or a fan. This sport is ridiculously demanding for the bodybuilder. It is so overwhelming and everyone wants to weigh in with, well, all Nick has to do is this or all Martin has to do is this or all Derek has to do is this and, you know, he'll win. Um, it's a lot more goes into it than that. And, you know, I I understand completely the athletes frustrations, you know, straight across the board. And, you know, I would never do I even if I'm in the wrong, I'm supporting the athlete. Too bad I'm supporting the athlete >> right across the board. >> Back in the day, if you remember, Mike Mike Quinn would knock guys out, you know, backstage, you know, and and and no one no one complained. You heard Mike Quinn knocked out soand so and no so and so never called the police, nothing. Nowadays, I mean, literally Martin what? poked, knocked Guile's cell phone out of his hand or pushed his cell phone. And Guiles is claiming that he h he has a heart condition and that he he he was in like he's ready to sue Martin over like causing him to have a cardiac episode from the from the fact that Martin got in his face. You I mean that's look I like but that's a real [\h__\h] move is what you're asking me. you know, >> you know, if if you're going to be, you know what, if you're going to walk into the to the ring, you be better be ready to fight. You know, >> you know, we're not fighting in the ring, but your words have meaning. >> And one of the things I try not to do, though I have in the past, is be critical of people's physiques, you know, or critical of their mainly their physiques. And I won't do that anymore because I know that No, you're critical. You're critical. You're I'm We do it. You don't do it in a condescending way, though. Neither do I. I've never had anyone come up to me and call me out person for for for criticizing that physique. They might not like what I say, but they're not they're not calling me out, you know. >> You know, I I don't say this guy got eighth, you know, when he cheats on his wife or this [snorts] guy got eighth when he cheats on his wife. This guy got eighth and, you know, obviously from behind or from the front he's >> analyze it. Yeah. that's not, you know, because what he brought to the stage is, you know, do I think he look way better? Yes. Would you would I even say he looks terrible? Yes. But it's not a critique of the person. Um, and you know, I just uh I will back. Like I said, I it's repetitive, but it's worth repeating. I I support the athlete straight across the board. If Martin would have done the Will Smith smack Giles in the face, different story. >> Yeah. >> He didn't assault He didn't assault him. >> He pointed, you know, he he was he was he was he was emotionally, you know, aggressive. He wasn't physically aggressive towards him at all. If if that guy if Guile thought he was physically aggressive, I saw the video. He's out of his freaking mind. He's overexaggerating it to try to make a big deal about it. >> It's okay to be emotionally aggressive. It's it's okay to be emotional because when you wake up in the morning as as a bodybuilding is different than when Ronnie and Jay were winning. Uh they could go to the gym, >> you know, go do their photo shoots for Weer. Weer would, you know, cover Jay and Ronnie the way they wanted to be covered. You or Joe wanted to cover them in a positive light. And we are with sponsorships and YouTube and hits and all this at a point where unfortunately athletes at this level need to parade around so much of their lives that they probably shouldn't even be sharing with others. And on top of that, you know, preparing for shows and they post update photos and people [\h__\h] on them for the the way they look at 3 weeks out, nine weeks out, 12 weeks out, or they say they look great at 3 weeks out, 9 weeks out, 12 weeks out. And it's all one big giant emotional scutmissle on >> the person. So, you know, expect people to have composure at all times of the competitive year, >> right? >> You know, I don't think that's reality. And to be so offended when someone is emotional and, you know, yells at you, you know, grow a backbone. >> I agree. I I think that it was an overreaction on Guile's part. Martin was just very emotional. He won Prague. He was excited. He uh called He wanted to say, "Look, Giles. Yeah, now now what? Now talk about me." That's fine. That's, you know, I don't I don't take that as an I remember I went into a McDonald's once. So I was in a McDonald's parking lot. Some guy said something. I had just had hernia surgery, like an umbilical hernia repair, Chris. And of course, that's when some idiot My whole life I never got into a fight. some guy just is is did said something rude to me and I went I poked him in the chest with my finger, you know, like really hard and he's like, "You assaulted me." I said, "You haven't seen assault yet." I said, "You better you better start running." I said, "Because this the assault hasn't started yet." So people will will overexaggerate, you know, any physical contact sometimes. And you know what? We're all in the same industry. It's not like Guiles is some stranger. You know, he he should have just said, "You know what? I made a comment. You know, he got a little emotional. It's fine. If anything, I would have made a joke out of it. I would have been like, I got assaulted by Martin. He's so he was so happy he won the show that he wanted to prove me wrong. I would have I would have I would have played it off like that. >> Pretended like like he got he he had a heart attack from >> the for the click. Dave, you would have had the and it would have been a good interview. If he had said that to you, you would have had the microphone right there and followed him right back up on stage interview. And it would have been the interview. >> That's right. >> That's right. That's right. and we would had a good but you know what I but you know what I think because some people take themselves too seriously and uh it's not when you're at work nothing is serious okay different story when you talk about people's family life then then you're getting into offlimit areas where I can see people getting a little upset um which would be a good segue because >> what was said so so that we're talking about it what was that upset Martin >> no I think that that guiles you know, saying the year before that he didn't deserve to beat Bumstead, which we all said, so I don't know if it was the way he said it. Um, but obviously it rubbed Martin the wrong way. >> Yeah. >> Well, that's that that's people like to go back to like, you know, you shouldn't have won this in three years ago, but it's like, you know what, for God's sakes, the show's been judged. I I love I I look I completely defend Martin's uh enthusiasm and and his emotional outburst. It was it was it was at the right time. It wasn't like he was plotting and planning this for like for two weeks and then he saw Guiles at a in a bathroom and just assaulted him, you know. He just got up stage. He was all excited. He won the show. He wanted to say, "Ah, I told you so." You know, that and that's really what it was about. >> So, spiking the ball except they had no ball to spike, >> right? He spiked the ball into Guile's head. That's what he did. [laughter] So, it looks [\h__\h] lighten up a little bit. You know, the guy the guy doesn't dislike you. He just he obviously wanted to just say, "Hey, you got what you I I proved you wrong and that's all it was." But talk about, you know, personal stuff. He's I don't know why this guy Matt from Muscle Discord just likes to rub people. He's he's very irritating. You know, I you know, I interviewed him and we we had a little debate on RX Muscle a couple weeks ago, but he he about about chat GPT judging these shows. He he's he's a very irritating individual. Um and you know, I I understand why he he definitely rubs people the wrong way. And you know what? Thank God for him that he doesn't really leave his mother's basement, you know, uh because if he did, I think there would be a lot of people who' beat the crap out of him. Not me because I don't care. I don't take anything personal, but there are a lot of people who don't dislike him. His latest thing is now he's trying to say that Tyler Manion is like corrupt. He shouldn't be judging. He can't he shouldn't be dating people who are in the industry. It's not appropriate, you know. But the thing that he's he's doing is that he's just this girl that Tyler's dating, I guess, used to compete. She hasn't competed for like over two years from what I what I gather. And he's like this he's 31 years old. What? What? What is he not supposed to He's not supposed to have any relationships with anyone. The guy can't go on a date. It It's It's unbelievable what the the scrutiny. What? Who does this guy Matt think he is? >> You can only date >> like the moral police of of the world. >> You can only date people from your high school and who you went to college with. But after you get out of high school and college, >> if if they go to the gym, Tyler can't date. That's the the rule evidently. You know, I if I were Tyler, I'd want to smack the crap out of this guy because you know what? Look, I I I've known Tyler since he's a little kid. Okay? Obviously, he's JM's son, Jim Manion's grandson. This kid has been working really hard since he got out of, you know, college to to learn, you know, the ropes and bodybuilding to take over, you know, for, you know, his grandfather at some point. He he's been judging shows for, you know, 10 years now, you know, if not more, going to these shows. It's not like it's like and he's been learning the right way to do things. I mean, the guy's allowed to have a social life. And granted, he can't compete. He can't date someone who's, you know, competing at the Olympia. There's a conflict of interest there. But if he wants to date someone who used to compete or someone who's no longer competing, I mean, or or someone who chooses, you know what, I love this guy. I'll stop competing just because I know it's comfy. That's fine. But who the [\h__\h] is this guy Matt to say that this kid can't go on a freaking date or can't have a girlfriend? I I I I've never seen anything like it. Everything that that these guys do that that run the organization, this guy has a problem with. I think this the problem is that he's got a mental problem. This guy because Steve Weinberger can't take a can't look at his cell phone on on on a judging panel. Tyler's not allowed to date anyone. That the judges suck. They should use chat GPT to judge the Olympia. I I I don't know if this if he's doing this on purpose or or if he's or if there's something a little there's a screw loose in there. I'm not really sure what's going on with this guy. >> And I don't mind when he brings up vi real topics like I mean when the guys did he brought up the topic that the guys never got paid for the Masters Olympia. I thought that that's fine. That that's a a legitimate gripe that a lot of people didn't know about and you know what the guys got paid because of it. But what's with these personal attacks? You don't you don't go personal ever. If you want to critique bodybuilding, that's fine, but stay out of people's personal lives. Sorry. That's the way I feel. >> I think it's just You saw me laughing, Dave. It's just funny because I don't even I don't know how to weigh in on it other than to say like maybe he should judge like the the the the Is it okay? Would it be okay if he was judging like the usher at the Olympia? like the girl that tells you where to sit in your seats or >> Right. Right. I mean, is is was Chad Nichols should he have disqualified himself uh from uh coaching people because he he coached his wife who was Miss Olympia? I mean, it's just stupid, you know. And he was the district chairperson in in uh in his state at the time. It's it's ridiculous. There's if you're a judge, you're gonna have a girlfriend at some point if you're a guy, you know, or a boyfriend, whatever you're into. And there might be a conflict there. It, you know, when Steve I I always use this example when Steve Weinberger would judge the Olympia when Kevin English was competing and winning. You know, Steve was, you know, he Kevin worked for Steve at his gym. He's still there. He's been there for 25 years. Uh Steve would just excuse himself from the judging pound. I can't judge here because I there's a bias there and that's the right way to do it. So I don't I don't I don't see what the problem is. I I mean people are allowed to have personal lives. It's just nuts. >> Can can I am I am I off limits from ever say speaking with because I do speak to I speak to Tyler. I speak to Jim Manion. I speak to Steve Weinberger. >> Right. >> Speak to Bill. You know, sometimes it's not, you know, sometimes it's most of the time it's just to la for laughs, but I ask after a show, what do you think of so and so? I mean, is that off limits? You don't think you don't think I asked every single >> You don't You don't think I asked >> Stephen Tyler after the Olympia about Andrew or Ramon or Goodtoid or uh uh Derek? I mean most >> That's how you find out. Yeah, that's how you find out if if guys are going to get better. I mean, what to improve, right? I >> mean, is is there a line that I that you know that includes, frankly, before the show? I mean, weeks before the show. >> Yeah. Well, you're you're obviously uh you know, you're crossing the line, Chris. You're crossing the line. >> I bet. How many How many people >> have asked myself included? Ask Steve, ask Tyler, like I don't know, but >> you know, even though I know the answer, I want to hear it. And I want to hear to what extent, you know, like what's Andrew have to do blah blah blah for the Olympia? Tyler, Steve has to be sharp as hell and still keep his phoneless, >> right? >> You know, >> or you know what does, you know, uh, Derek have to look like? Got to keep the quads. That's from both of them. Got to keep the quads. I mean, is that like, am I not allowed to ask? Well, I I think it's a different, you know, it's it's different than what they're in. >> It's a connected thing. Is someone not allowed to date who they want to date? Am I not allowed to ask somebody >> even a month out? I don't care if it's three days out. I would still ask, you know, if I feel like, you know, I I run into someone I want to ask, I'm gonna ask anyone what I want. It's not like >> No, but I that's not the same thing. I I know what this guy asking. It's not destroying the integrity of the show. >> No, but I I understand what this guy Matt Matt's insinuating that Tyler shouldn't date these girls because they're because they're competitors. But this girl doesn't hasn't competed in two years. And you know what? If he decides to start dating a girl who does compete, he'd have to explain to her that you can't compete while I'm dating you because it's a conflict of interest. And I and I know and I know he would. >> So he's not dating people. So I don't but there but this guy's insinuating that he is dating active competitors which is not the case. So >> maybe it would be okay if he was dating her and she was very unattractive. >> Yeah, it would be if she if she was last call out, no one would care. Yeah, that would be fine. So Tyler, if you decide to date like a a top Olympia competitor, just put her in the last call out and then you you're cleared. This guy Matt will will exonerate you from any kind of wrongdoing. So >> we need question. We need curtains between the curtains. Dave, between the >> between the judges so nobody can see each other. Take this out. >> We I have a very good mutual friend, Chris, who who has a very good idea for a a top level show, possibly even the Olympia in the future. um his his feeling and belief and I wanted to ask what your opinion was on this. What do you think about them posting the uh the scores after the prejudging? [snorts] Like because you know it's a two-day show. So wouldn't you what would be wrong with posting what the scores are after prejudging so that everyone knows what they have to do for the next day to either improve or etc. >> I have no problem with that. >> I think that would be a good idea actually. You know, I have no problem with that. >> I mean, why would put it this way, why wouldn't they do it? I think that would be more exciting, right? Hey, so and so is losing my two points. He's got to come back. I mean, the talk, think about the debate after the show if we knew what the scores actually were after prejudging, you know, and it doesn't have to be immediately after. They could they could take some time to do the math and, you know, put it up an hour or two later, but it would be great if guys knew what the scoreer was going. It would I think it would make the the the finals that much more exciting to be honest with you. >> Yeah. You know what's so funny Dave [clears throat] is I mean I love prejudging and I love finals and I I and I like it be there's you know there's a lot of reasons to it but how about just one show? What is the point of prejudging in finals? >> I understand that but but I'll tell you it's by convention they've been doing it for so long. No, I I will tell you why. Because I have been to shows where and you have >> Yeah. >> big shows where people look completely different two days one day later, >> right? >> And if you go back to uh to Fibo, Andrew was actually behind SAS and I was coaching both of them after prejudging and it was a it was a mega slam dunk. for the finals which was like seven hours later, >> So obviously the body can change between a Friday night and a Saturday night and it can change between a in the case in Fibo 11:00 a.m. and 900 p.m. 10 hours later. >> I like the the the same day prejudging night child. And I'll tell you why I like it. Because the evening show gives the judges a second look. It's almost like an instant replay. Okay, you know what? Let me go back and let me evaluate how this guy looked because, you know, I wasn't really sure after prejudging. We kind of made a decision. I I would like to take another look so that I make sure we get it right. And I think that finals does that. A lot of times the judging doesn't change between prejudging and finals. It's just a confirmation round. But sometimes they they they really judged them very hard at the finals because they realized that it is that close and that maybe prejudging wasn't a foregone conclusion and uh and and and things can change at night. So I like the fact that they get a second look because sometimes like I said it's so close that you really can't decide and you know then you're mulling it over your head later that day. and these judges like maybe I should have gone the other way and then they get a second look at night and they could say okay you know what I was right or you know what I wasn't right this guy is better and he improved even more tonight so I'm going to give it to him so I think that's a good idea but I would like to see the the scores after prejudging I think that that would be great they can post them online whatever they want to do and this way everyone knows including the fans what these guys have to do that either the next day or later that that night for the finals to obviously you win the show. So, I it might be something we might want to ask for and maybe they'll give us, you know, a lot of times if enough people ask for it, the judges, you know, and the people who run the organization, obviously the powers that be will change the rules and there's nothing wrong with that. You know, I I think it's it's a good idea, but we'll see. I'm sure I'm sure Bob Chickell take the credit for it. No, Bob, just kidding. I'm just breaking your balls. >> Yeah. Would Sean Ray like that or would Shawn Ray be against that? >> Oh, if you brought it up, he'd hate it. >> Why would he hate it? >> Because he hates it. >> More transparency. More transparency. Come on. >> Yeah. Well, in this case, since you said it, he needs less transparency. >> Yeah. Yeah, that's true. All right. Did Have you seen the guest posting of Quint Eastwood or Quint Eastwood, I should say. >> Let me pull this up. This guy's a freak. I think I think next year's We've been saying this for a couple years. I think next year is his is his year. I'm telling you, his leg, look at his calves, some pretty freaky calves. His legs improved a lot. I mean, he's just This is off This is off seasonason for him. He's like uh you know, it's looking enormous here. >> You you you think there's good genetics in Nigeria, Dave? >> Yeah, I think I think that I think they the genetics there are they're handing them out like [\h__\h] pizza pies over there. Amazing guy's got this guy doesn't win. He can be an Olympic guy. He's like a Ronnie Coleman. Like he started late. He never took drugs, Chris, you know, for a lot of years. And then he did started light and you know, I could see him constantly improving every year and every year and then all of a sudden he's he's beating everyone because that's what Ronnie did. People don't realize Ronnie turns pro after competing for like like one year in 91. And you know, it takes him like five, six years before he's actually built the physique, you know, gone on the drugs, taken enough drugs, you know, and built the muscle to actually compete with the top guys. And then he just passes everyone. And I've seen this guy Quint Quinton, you know, improve every single year. I mean, I and I know he had some very very hard losses this year. There was a lot of second places in there. I don't think we're going to see a lot of second places next year, Chris, if this guy keeps improving the way he's been doing. I think he's going to win a lot of shows. That that's my prediction. Mark my words. >> I'll mark that one. >> Yeah, he's he's he's terrific. Really? He really is terrific. >> I'll mark that. >> What else is going on? What other gossip you got for me? >> And if I see him when he's in the audience and the pose down, he can he can scream at me. He might poke He might poke you in the eye with his finger. So, you never know. All right. What else here? What else we got going on? >> I don't know. The big trip is you you the big news of the week is you're going to India. >> I know. I know. I can't believe, you know, it's funny. I went in in two 2012 and I I tore the quad. I only really was there for a day and a half and uh I hadn't gone back since then and then I went back over the summer. I had a really good good experience there and I went to Delhi and I went to uh Hyderabad and now I'm going to Mumbai and I I might go back in in January. I think they have another big show there. So, you know, as long as there's a reason to go, I like India. It was a shame that I had a bad experience there, but it did change my it kind of changed the tra trajectory of my life really that that quad tear and uh I guess it was I I guess everything happens for the the right reasons for the better. But you know, I always believe that our life is one big movie script and we have to kind of just play out the movie. >> Yeah. >> So it must have been it must have been necessary. That's the way I would see it. And uh once again, any chance you guys get as bodybuilders, you know, I know we have a lot of competitors competing. If you get a chance to travel overseas, never turn it down. Always go because the overse you have no idea what it's like in other countries. Like I get treated completely different in in different countries. When I go to India, I feel like I'm like, you know, a celebrity on the red carpet there at these. I I don't have to go to India because I've seen it on the internet and I don't have to be in the first 10 rows to judge the Olympia because I saw it on the internet. [laughter] >> An expert on both. >> Go ahead. >> My my point is that you can go to these countries and you might think you're not a big deal in the United States and then you go there and you're treated so well. You make relationships with people there. exchange numbers and then you might have a the next 20 years you might have a relationship with these promoters, these people who own stores. You never know what business is going to become because of that. And and it's important to nurture these relationships because everyone knows everyone in the bodybuilding world. Even though the world is a big place, it's really not anymore. Especially with the with with, you know, the fact that you can social media, it's so easy to contact people. Don't turn down opportunities, guys, to go overseas. And if you get an opportunity to go overseas and compete, you know, go compete there because you'll make even if you don't win the show, it doesn't matter. You'll make relationships with people. And, you know, it's it's I can't tell you how many good good friends I have and good people that I have in my life that I've met overseas and I still talk to, you know, years and years and later. It doesn't mean I talk to them every day, but they can pick up the phone or they could they could send me a WhatsApp and and they're like, "Hey, I I got AI got a gig for you. You want to come out here and do this or you want to I have someone who wants to sell your product or you know, I have a guy I want you to coach or it you just never know. So, it's important that you go to these things. Um, like I said, I I every country I've ever been to, and I've been to a lot with you, Chris, we always get treated very very well, you know, uh, by the the people out there and it makes it you you want to go back. I mean, so that that's the best advice I can give to you. And and I wish, you know, I did get good advice from people. You know, who told me about that? Mike Lions always told me, you know, never miss a commercial audition. Never miss going to the Arnold or the Olympia. You know, never miss an opportunity if a promoter hires you to do something like a guest posing or an appearance because it could be that one that one gig that you turn down that could turn into something that could have changed the course of your life. And he's right. He was right. >> So, I want to pass that wisdom on to you guys. I know that it sounds it sounds very simple, but it's it's know a lot of guys are lazy and they don't want to go. And you know who the laziest person is? Lee Priest. Lee hates leaving his house, but the guy gets on a plane no matter what. If someone hires him, he goes and and believe me, he doesn't travel well. He doesn't like to leave his his home. Matter of fact, when he travels, he usually he usually sits in his hotel room doing laundry and and ordering room service, which is why he didn't see the Olympia. live. But the point is that he doesn't travel well, but he still goes because he knows that that's how he makes his living. And I see a lot of bodybuilders sitting home and they, you know, they're always asking me, "How do I make money? You know, I I don't how do I build up a social media presence?" I said, "Well, if you don't if you don't post every day on Instagram, then you're not you're not doing anything to build your social media. If you don't post YouTube videos every day, then how does anyone know you have a YouTube channel? And why would anyone watch your YouTube channel if you don't go on these appearances or go to places that you have opportunities to make money? Then how the heck are you going to make money? No one's just going to call you up and say, "By the way, I want to pay you a million dollars a year. Here it is." It doesn't happen like that. And especially in today's world, there's very few supplement companies paying made big contracts. You have to make your own money by making your own your by controlling your own destiny. And you can do that now because you have your own platform to advertise yourself. Something that Chris and I and all the guys from the 90s and early 2000s didn't have. We had to have magazine exposure. We had to have the supplement company sponsoring us because if we didn't, we didn't make any money. You guys have it wonderful today. You control your own destiny. But a lot of people are lazy, Chris. They don't want to do that. They want to just have someone hand them a check every every week. So that's my rant for today, Chris. Well, >> my India my India rant. >> It's it's uh it's a reality of where we are now. >> But it it it's it's wonderful. Yeah. It's a little scarier because you have to you have to kind of make your own way essentially. But it's it's wonderful too because you control that destiny, you know. >> Yeah. >> And uh I don't know why people wouldn't want to control their own destiny. Oh, by the way, on a on a sad note, Kim King died. I don't know if you know Kim King. Kim was a bodybuilder in Pittsburgh. >> Yeah. >> She judged judged for a while, too. Yeah. She had a pulmonary embism. What a lot of clots and embisms we're hearing about lately. Very very sad. We also had I think we had AI didn't know this guy, but did you know uh Faraz Azi? >> No. >> Hold on. Do I have the wrong Let me pull this up. Sid posted this. Asked him to post this. He died. He's the Rainian bodybuilder. I don't I don't know what his what the cause of death was, but um very sad. I Yeah, there's been too many people dying in our industry lately. It's it's really crazy. I every time I think I I'm afraid to say, "Oh, we had a week no one died." And then the next the following week we have like five people that died. It's scary almost. Now, Chris, this this next story might be relevant to you because how many hours a night do you think you get average sleep? >> Well, I used to get six and a half, but I saw Jay's podcast with Dana White and I got jealous that Dana White said he survives on five. So, I'm kid you not, Dave. Uh, >> you're down to five. >> Yeah, I'm five. >> I had five last night, but I usually don't. I I need a lot of sleep. This research says that people who can function on five hours of sleep are superheroes with a rare gene mutation. Did you know that? >> No. I am I am uh I don't have the gene mutation, but if I should show showed you fridge, it's filled with energy drinks from the dollar store. [laughter] >> You don't even get the good ones. >> No, from the dollar store. >> I got I'm gonna You got to remind me. I got to send you the new stabiliz. You want to know how competitive the energy drink niche is? Go to the dollar store and they have 10 million brands that you've never heard of. They're probably all manufactured at the same place somewhere. >> They're the they're the discards that no one wants to buy you're buying. Yeah. >> The drinks that they sell there probably they're probably selling them for less than what the drink cost to make. I'm sure >> I just threw the can out, I think. No, I can't. >> I'll send you some stimulize, Max. Remind me. You'll you'll you'll you'll get rid of all those energy drinks. It's the best. You'll you'll think you're on an anti-depressant. >> Yeah. >> By the way, we're selling it so fast. I think we're going to run out of it. So, if you guys are looking to try the new Species Nutrition pre-workout, our stimulize Max, we have two flavors, Berry Blast, and I can't remember the other one. [laughter] >> Oh my god. Cotton candy. Yeah, that's the other one. They're amazing. >> I didn't have one today. >> Name your three kids before you travel to India. See if how busy you are. >> Chris, you you want to know how I I I know how our brains work. If I asked you right now your kids teachers, you probably couldn't name all all the teachers, right? >> Name who? >> What's your youngest teacher's name? You know >> my youngest teachers? >> Your youngest son's teacher? What's his name? Oh, I know what it is. Because he gets only because he gets in trouble and I have to get a text message like three days a week. >> What about the other one? >> Comp. >> Oh, wow. Look at you. You're good. >> I gave you the reason why, Dave. >> I know. You get phone calls. If you get the phone calls, you know, >> I get text message. Dear Mr. Hope today is all good. >> Do they do major and minor infractions in in his school, too? Not not in his grade. >> No. No. Because you know they have this new thing now like at least down here in Florida where they get it's like it's like the uh it's like China, you know, like where they have like merits and demerits like if you get if you do things that are not you're not supposed to do they they take points away from you, but if you do things that you're supposed to, they give you points and then with the points you can buy stuff with the points. It's like a credit system almost like they have in China. In China, if you do things that are not good, they they they'll they'll cut your bank account off on you. you don't even have access to your bank account. You know, you can't they'll lock the doors of your house from from central station, you know, locking mechanism. >> I would have graduated from high school with like a Ferrari, but I didn't know they existed. Probably the Mercedes [laughter] that I still have. >> So, you were well, you were saying you were well behaved in school. >> No, I would just, you know, if you can cash in your good points for >> I got you. >> Unlike Martin who's lost blown his top. He did. He got a He got a major infraction from Giles Thomas. Did you um Did you have like perfect attendance? Were you one of those kids? >> I had perfect attend Dave. I had perfect perfect grades. Straight A's. Straight straight straight. >> Sure. >> And they didn't unfs the lows. >> No. >> Was that Now, was that because was that self-motivated or was that because your parents wouldn't let you stay home for if you you know because you pretended you were sick or something like that? >> No. My father asked me one request in his entire life. >> Okay. >> Only one. Get good grades. He didn't ask me do anything other than >> get good grades, >> right? >> And I you know I I that's what I internalized. Like my father's never asked me to do nothing. You know what the funny thing about the whole thing is that you spent your whole, you know, career, high school, college, getting great grades and you don't even do anything with the college degree that you have. That's that's the funny thing. And and neither well I guess I indirectly do something with it. But but we don't have jobs related to what we went to school for. You're a real estate guy, you know, who does >> I rushing from the show. I came from which I never do. Two evictions. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> They didn't. >> It's just It's just funny. They because you didn't learn how to be a real estate guy in school. That's for sure. I know that. >> No, they can't they they can't teach they you they they won't even you know you can't even learn it in school. How's that? You can't >> you can't learn anything practical in school which is kind of >> it's too practical, >> Too unbelievable. All right, I have India is calling me. I have to wrap up because I have to get to the airport. Uh guys, I hope you enjoyed today's show. Thanks for joining us as always. Chris Aceto, we'll see you in Ohio along with Andrew, along with uh Martin and maybe Fourett will show up with Nick Walker. You don't know. So, I predicted Samson will be there, too. And I think Derek is going to show up there. That's that's my prediction. But for now, we're out of time. As we say every week here at Heavy Muscle Radio, >> the truth hurts. >> See you next week.