 S your absolute best. Join the evolution. I'm hearing that Hadi Shoupin has retired. I talked to some people inside his camp. I talked to some IFBB pros who are friends with him. From what I understand, and once again, this is just speculation and this is allegedly. I'm not saying this is confirmed at this point. Hadi, after the Olympia, said that he was going to do one more show. He wanted to win the Arnold Classic and then call it quits. I heard after today's events and the placings that were announced, Hadi told these same people that he's done this is it. I don't know what the reason would be. Hadi's at the height of his career as far as I'm concerned. He still looks absolutely incredible. He could win the Olympia this year. He easily could have won this Arnold had he not had the stress of what he's been going through these past couple of months. I don't know what would be the motivation behind him retiring at this point. Does he want to spend more time with his family? Is he looking to preserve his health? That's unknown at this point. All we know is that there are people who know him and are inside his camp and have talked to him that said he did confirm that he would be retiring. We are reaching out to people that are closer to him. Remember, we did an exclusive interview with Hadi on Thursday. If you haven't seen that, it's up at the RxMuscle YouTube channel where he tells us what he's been going through over the last couple of months. Sometimes stress can also be a reason people don't want to do this thing that they're doing anymore. This is a very stressful time for Hadi's family and him. And maybe he wants to just take a break. Maybe it's not a retirement. Maybe he's going to take a year or two off and just let things cool down. I don't know. But I am hearing that this is it and he's done. We will keep you updated as we hear more. Once again, these sources that are telling me this are pretty reliable. I haven't gotten confirmation from Hadi directly. So this is still allegedly. But I am hearing that Hadi Shupin is done competing for now. We will keep you updated as more news comes in. Dave Palumbo with an exclusive RxMuscle news update.