Dave Palumbo here with rxmuscle.com and we have a special rxmuscle news update. Sitting here with Sheru and Sunny, the co-promoters of the Sharu Classic 2016 back in the studios here and we got some special announcements. We're going to tell you guys what's going on in this very special event that will be taking place in Mumbai on October 14 to 16th 2016. A three-day show. The first day being open to the VIPs, I guess, and the uh the business people. The second two days will be the show and the expo. And you got a lot going on. Sheru, tell us what's going on this year. We haven't seen a Shiru Classic for a couple years, but you're back and bigger than ever. Yeah, thank you so much Dave for having me to uh you know Dave Palumbo show and is always honored to be in RX Muscle Studios. Yeah, this year we are back uh in Mumbai from where we started uh in 2011. Uh again the host hotel will be Taj Land. Uh we'll have three-day expo. One day will be B2B. Other two days will be open for consumers. In the expo we'll have features you know lot of features will which will give you update every week. On top of that, we're going to have uh men's physique, bikini, and pro men's physique, pro bikini, and then you have your amateur divisions as well. Amateur division. And on the on on top of that, we we're looking for uh you know uh special guest posers. On top of that, we uh we got some special names. We're not going to announce them yet, but you do have some very big names for guest posers. 100%. And uh we have tie up with Olympic wrestler from India who's a legendary, you know, two-time Olympic champion, Shashil Kumar. one of the very prominent sports figures in India. Big one. Um then we also having feature of sports awards and uh you know a lot of things coming up and I promise all the audiences back home in India although we were absent for 2 years this year we'll be sure like never before. India I'll be back too even though I tore my quadricep muscle and I still am I'm I'm still dealing with it right now. I just had another surgery on it but I'm going to come back as Sheru says I need to go back to India to heal myself permanently. I didn't stay long enough. I'm gonna go back there and I'm gonna have closure. Now, Sunny, tell us what your role is. First of all, welcome to the Sunny is my number one fan. He knows everything that I talk about. He knows all my all my rhetoric, all my nutrition advice, all my diet advice. Uh I'm flattered that you that you follow me and you follow all the shows here at RX Muscle. Thank you so much, Dave. Um it's, you know, it's been a great learning experience just by watching your show. I've seen I guess each and every episode at least three times along with three times at least three times and along with the daily updates that come on uh you know muscle in the morning and you know that's the biggest you know the the only way you know you can keep a track of exactly what all is happening in the world of bodybuilding. So it's a you know it's a complete uh like on like one-stop shop for all your uh bodybuilding you know be it your uh you want to improve your knowledge or be it you want to learn or see what's happening in the world of bodybuilding original TV programming we call it here original TV programming so Sunny what's your role in the Sher Classic so I'm the COO of Sheru Classic uh been with the company for past 3 years and Um I joined this company when uh the Pune show was u uh there. So I was a part of it and uh yeah this year uh we are planning to do it do a show like the tagline is a show like never before and and we are focusing on things that has never been done in India. So yeah on what has never been done in India that you guys are both doing. uh say uh the biggest way would be like we are getting the guys who've been to India only through Sheru Classic um and not through any other you know expose a show that are going on in India as of now are there Shiru there are any other shows there like expose big expos in India no I mean everybody has witnessed you know uh back in 2011 before that uh there wasn't any health and fitness expo or even a pro bodybuilding show in the entire region of Asia So we kind of set up a trend. Now we see lot of other shows coming up in the Asian region. The reason because you know all these Asian fraternity is very passionate about health, fitness, wellness and there is a need. So we kind of open doors from for western countries to enter the east you know and yeah when we say show like never before I'll keep the audiences in little bit of suspense. I put a name like Susil Kumar. when I'm putting a name like Sushil Kumar they can expect some sort of wrestling inside the expo we also having feature of arm wrestling so every you know I'll keep you posted or keep the audiences posted like so you don't want to you don't want to talk about the special event that I'm really excited about or I mean I mean we'll uh we'll leave it to you when you think is the right time to we shouldn't announce it yet then yeah I mean we'll keep you guys in suspense but I'm telling you there's going to be an event there that's never been done before at a show it's going to knock your socks off. It might be the I'm excited for it. I'm really excited. And when Dave Palumbo gets excited, you know it's going to be good. So guys, stay tuned to all these weekly Sheruk Classic updates here exclusively at rxmuscle.com. I'm Dave Palumbo with Shirun and Sunny. We'll see you next week.