Will bodybuilding ever progress to a point where there's a Las Vegas line and people will bet on the outcome of the Mr. Olympia? Stay tuned. I'll let you know my opinion. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RX rxmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly 30-minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Bodybuilding, nonbodybuilding. This is your forum to ask Dave whatever is on your mind. We're going to go right into the questions. The first two questions on the show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. First question, um, calorie dense snacks. How do you get calories in between meals? Are there any calorie dense snacks that were your go-tos or that you recommend your clients? >> Anything I put into my mouth back in the day when I was trying to grow always had protein in it. So, there was never like I'm just going to eat like potato chips or pretzels or something like that. that there was it was never ever contemplated that that's what I would do. I would always if I was going to have ice cream, I would get find like a high protein ice cream and I eat, you know, I eat a ton of it. You know, if I was going to have pizza, I made sure there was a lot of chicken on that pizza. Like it would be like a, you know, grilled chicken pizza or or, you know, margarita pizza with chicken. I always thought whatever my snack food between meals is going to be, it has to have protein in it because the more protein I can get down my throat, the better I'm going to grow. Uh, never was there ever like, well, to be honest with you, I was eating so much and so frequently that really there was very little snack time anyway because it was like an hour and a half to two hours between meals and I was lucky to even be hungry after two hours. So, I I try not to eat between meals, but if I did and if I felt, like I said, if I felt like I was like driving in the car and I wanted to have a snack, it would always be something protein geared towards. And I'm trying to think back then, I guess it would be like Metrex bars or something like that or they didn't have as as many options as they have these days, but there's so many protein snacks out there you can have nowadays. I drive around. I have Power Crunch bars in my car all the time. Those are my favorites. I have every flavor. They're they're in my glove compartment. If I get hungry when I'm driving, I eat one of those. There's no sense in just eating, you know, pure sugar, you know, and stuff like that. It's just it doesn't even in the offseason, it doesn't provide any advantage for your muscle growth. Second question, again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo experience app. Um, interesting one here because you know there are the quote unquote I say traditional, which they're not really traditional. that we've been around for 10 years like the FanDuels, the DraftKings, but now there are, you know, these apps like Poly Market, Koshi, where it allows you to bet on just about anything. I mean, if there's a world event going on, if there's an election coming up or if there just any any prop bet of any background, you can now bet on it. So, the question is, will this ever apply to bodybuilding? Do you think there will ever be betting in bodybuilding? Do you think it's something that could ever be viable in the sport? You know, if I was a betting house where I took bets on things, the last sport I would ever bring in would be bodybuilding because I I just don't I just don't think I think you'll lose your shirt because people on the inside know who looks good and people on the outside have no idea. So, I don't I don't think people are going to be betting who don't know anything about bodybuilding. It's going to be the guys who do know things about bodybuilding. And I think that the, you know, obviously you can't always predict every show, but you kind of have a good inside, you know, idea of who's gonna, you know, take home the the the prize. Will it beat in these betting houses? I mean, I guess it could, you know, if if if it warranted. I think, like I said, I think it would be crazy because it's more of a beauty pageant than it is like a performance type thing. It's too subjective. Anytime you have judges judging something subjective, it's hard to bet on that because it, you know, and then then of course the corruption angle can come in, you know, if if people are trying to like pay off judges or, you know, stuff like that. It it it I I don't think we'll see it. I I don't think it would be good for the sport to be honest with you. And I certainly would never bet on it. Even though I know everything about the sport, I would never bet on bodybuilding ever because first of all, I don't like to lose. Secondly, you just never know what can happen on any given day. And that's really the the the the size of it. Now, these two questions are from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. If you guys haven't joined it yet, you should really download it on your iTunes store, Android store. You get me as a coach in your back pocket. Basically, you get all my writings I have ever done, all my videos in an organized fashion. You can get access to all my cycles, offseason, pre-contest, my diet, my keto diet, my offseason diet, my cyclical keto diet. All my workouts are on there. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum, so you see everyone's questions and answers, which are a really good learning experience. And I do a specific Ask Dave Q&A video every single week for the app members. So, not only do you get these Ask Daves for free on YouTube, but then you get an extra one on the app every single week. It's a tremendous amount of information. It really helps you to constantly stay up on what the latest and greatest out there is. Have access to all this information. And if you are a coach and you want to pull diets of mind and cycles of mine, it's it's a for $29 a month, it's it's a steal. And a lot of guys maybe can't afford coaching, this is a great alternative. Uh we have a tremendous amount of people on the app right now. I appreciate all the support. That's why I keep doing it. Tell your friends about it and uh I'll continue to do it as long as people support it. Thank you. >> Let's go to the rest of our questions. Actually, before we go to the questions, uh shout out to Titan Medical. First off, before we get into their weekly special, Dave, yesterday it was your birthday, so happy belated birthday. Um, and Titan Medical certainly hooked you up yesterday, sent you some really, really thoughtful gifts. >> Yeah, I you know, I was very surprised. I I came home and someone was knocking on the front door and I and I answered I think my kids answered the door and they brought this humongous balloon arrangement, edible arrangements, which if any of you have gotten edible arrangements, it's like fruit. It's like the most amazing fruit. And they have, you know, strawberries dipped in chocolate in there. But they have like, you know, watermelon and cantaloupe and melon and strawberries and blueberries. It was absolutely delicious. And they included a a birthday cake with candles on it. So, John, Charice, you guys shocked me, surprised me, and and and put a big smile on my face and thank you for those that wonderful birthday gift. A few other people sent me some gifts, too. So, I want to thank them as well. all the birthday wishes I received online, text and emails. Um, thank you all so much. I I a lot of times I just put a heart or I said thank you because I just I I had so many people to answer that I I just I didn't want anyone to think I was blowing you up, but it was it was just that much of a of a of a reach out by people. So, thank you so much. So, speaking of Titan Medical, this week they have the Titan Trifecta, which combines uh it's a it combines it's a combination of Hercules potion, Titan Complete, and ECA's thermogenic capsules. >> Yeah, you know, the I love those stacks. You know, the Hercules is is the uh it's like a pre-workout stack, only it's injectable. It's all the injectable pre pre-workout stuff that you would normally, you know, drink down. Works. I've used it a few times. You get a crazy pump from that stuff. But the um the ECA stack, you know, I'm not a big stimulant guy, but I know a lot of people are. You know, a lot of people think ephedra, you can't get it anymore, but you can by prescription from Titan Medical. It's that Fedra caffeine aspirin stack that really, you know, uh was something that Bill Phillips and Muscle Media 2000 made a big deal about back in the day. It was kind of like a clenbuterol alternative. It works really, really closely to that, but you also get the stimulant effect of the of the ephedra. A lot of people love that. Um they are offering it. It's it is legally available by prescription from Titan Medical Center. So those three modalities are and they're calling the trifecta stack are available. If you call up titanmedicalcenter.com and you tell them Dave Palumbo, RX Muscle sent you, you're going to get a great discount. And these are on sale right now. So check it out. >> So again, if you go to titanmedicalcentercenter.com and mention Dave Palumbo or RX Muscle, you will get the Royal Hookup. Let's go to the rest of our questions. these from our YouTube community page. Uh, when do you know when to implement clen into a diet and or T3 or T4? What are the benefits of the T3 and then T4 at each stage? >> Well, T4 is is is useless because T4 is inactive thyroid. So, if you take T4 and you don't have any deficiency, which most people don't, your body's not going to convert any more of that T4 into T3. you're really not going to get any fat burning out of it because T4 is inactive thyroid. The active thyroid is T3. So T4 converts to T3, but it only converts as much as your body needs. So if you're, you know, if your body's kind of performing normally, taking T4 will do nothing. So you don't need it. Now, some people say, well, I take growth hormone, and we know growth hormone makes more T4 convert to T3, which means you have more active thyroid hormone present. So you have to supplement with the T4. I'm like, for what reason? You're converting more T4 to T3, but the T4 doesn't do anything. So, if you take more T4, it's not going to convert any more to T3. It's going to continue doing what it's doing. So, T4 is useless. T3, excellent um little kick in the butt. If you need a little extra boost in your metabolism, I like to start with cluterol first. Usually 20 micrograms twice a day. I usually can start at anywhere from like 14 to 16 weeks out if someone has, you know, a big diet ahead of them and increasing by like 20 micrograms every two to three weeks. Always spreading them out 20 micrograms per dose. So 20 times two or 20 times three times a day. And at some point like if if the person starts to stagnate a little bit then we a lot of times I'll kick in some T3 some extra T3 starting with 25 micrograms per day usually at around 12 weeks out and then increasing by 12.5 micrograms per day every two to three weeks. Uh usually going no higher than 75 to 100 micrograms per day but but ramping up very slowly. Not just going oh 75 is the limit. Let's go from 25 tomorrow yesterday to 75 tomorrow. No we don't do that. we go very slowly, small increments, and and that seems to really really be a very efficient uh very potent fat loss stack. To me, it's the most potent that you can actually get anywhere, legal or illegal. So, if you're looking for, you know, for a boost in in fat loss, you know, especially with women, I use it because there's no androgenic side effects because none of those compounds are steroidal in nature. They're, you know, they're protein. Well, clutter is an asthma medication and T3 is a is a protein hormone. So, you're not going to have any negative side effects from that. So, if you do it the way I said it and you don't overdo it and you don't ramp it up too fast, you should have very very few side effects, too. >> Question about HGH timing. Uh, so most pro coaches, all athletes I found these days all say they do uh to do the bulk of your HGH pre-bed. I notice I get serious carpal tunnel and pain painful, tingly, sleepy hands to the pit. I can't sleep at only four IUs. Would splitting dose 2 IU AM after cardio premeal and 2 IU post-workout with postshake and insulin shot approximately six hours later help reduce water retention and pain in the hands when sleeping. Uh it kind of goes on to say also morning blood sugar is usually higher but then throughout the day fasted under 90. Is that okay? I use 600 mg bourberine midday and night with a meal already. >> Yeah. you know, um I've talked about this before and you know, while some people don't agree with me and I would be more than happy to debate the people who don't agree with me, I my philosophy with growth hormone, taking exogenous growth hormone is to take it when your body naturally doesn't produce it. Because why would you want to take it when your body naturally does it releases it? At night is the biggest surge of GH your body releases. So why would I take exogenous GH then? Might as well let your body just release it then. Same thing post-workout. Your body naturally releases it around that time. So there's no reason to take exogenous GH. In the morning is when you're the most catabolic. That's when catabolic hormones are the highest in the body and you're much more likely to lose muscle early in the morning. And so when you get up in the morning, if you take a shot of GH, which we know is very anabolic, it's going to it's going to counteract a lot of that, you know, catabolic nature. So I think the the majority should be taken in the morning. And if you're taking more than four IUs a day, then then then and you want to split the dose like maybe two and two or three and two, then you do, you know, most of it in the morning and you take a second dose five to six hours later. If it just happens to fall around training time, well then that's fine, but uh I really wouldn't worry about it. I don't I personally would not take it at night. It does have a blood sugar lowering effect right after it's taken because your body releases IGF-1 in response to the growth hormone which has an insulin-like effect that drives blood sugars down long-term over the course of 24 hours. The GH can cause obviously higher blood sugars because it works antagonistically to insulin. So, if you're running high blood sugars uh in the morning and your hemoglobin A1c is high, then you probably should be taking a long acting insulin to counteract that in an offseason scenario. Um I know that most people say, "Well, but my post my postmeal blood sugars are really good and they're normal." That's great, but you know what? Go for a hemoglobin A1c. If it's if you're under 5.5, then you're good. If you're over five, if you're 5.6 and you're over, then you're then you're running high. And the way you know that is that you don't have to measure your blood sugar all day. That's your average blood sugar over three months. So if your average blood sugar over three months is high, then that means on the majority of the the day you you are running high, even though you might two hours postmeal be okay. So you know, like I said, I I judge it by by the A1c more than the fasting blood sugars alone. You got to kind of put all the data together. And that's why a lot of people hire me for, you know, phone consults and coaching because I go over all this with them. We look at their blood work. We look at their daily fasting blood sugars and then we make a we make a decision. Do you need to take a a long acting insulin? And a lot of times in the offseason the answer is yes. Do we need to use one pre-contest? Probably not. And that's how we go about that. >> Uh question. We had a question about methylene blue a couple of weeks ago, but your opinion on methylene blue for mitochondrial support. >> Yeah, in theory on paper it should it should help the mitochondria. I have a bottle of methylene blue in my cabinet. I've probably used it maybe four or five times. So that means when I remember and I'm not worried about my mouth turning blue, I take I take a dropper and I drop I try to get it as far down my throat as possible so that my tongue doesn't turn blue and I chase it down with some water. Doesn't taste that great, but I can swallow pretty much anything. It's only it's only like a dropper full. And do I don't know. I probably don't use it regularly enough to to really see if I'm getting, you know, the results that they say I should be getting. But then again, I don't really feel low energy anyway. So, I don't know. So, I, you know, I figured once in a while it can't hurt. Uh, do I do it every day? No. But, uh, like I said, I don't necessarily know if you need to do it every day. But, if you're feeling low energy and you feel down and you you not really you notice a change as you've been getting older, you might want to try it on a regular basis to see how it works. But uh I haven't gotten any reports where people said, "Oh my god, since I started Methylene Blue, my life has changed. I haven't heard any of those." So I have to imagine has a more of a subtle effect. You know, >> question about shutting down natural uh production. Um does anastriol and mainly Clomid fully protect you from shutting down your own test and if so, at what dosage? you know, it's it's very hard to stop, you know, the shutdown of testicular function when you're on exogenous testosterone. So, when you take, you know, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600 milligrams of testosterone a week, I know that the theoretically everything gets shut down according to the pituitary hypothalamic, you know, testicular axis. Meaning that the hypothalamus produces gonadotropic releasing hormone in the brain which stimulates the pituitary in the bl brain to produce LH and FSH which then in turn stimulates the testicles to produce sperm and testosterone. Right? Now if you take you know exogenous hormones and you take arimidex which theoretically inhibits the conversion of testosterone to estrogen and then you take an estrogen receptor blocker like Clomid or Nulvidex and you block those estrogen receptors theoretically you shouldn't shut down your your testicular function yet it still does get shut down. You can't stop it for some reason and I don't really even know the reason why because I'm assuming that you're not getting rid of all the estrogen. Now here's the problem. If you got rid of all the estrogen in your body, you would feel terrible. You'd lose your sex drive and you wouldn't grow because androgen receptors require estrogen to sensitize them. Likewise, your libido or your sex drive is dependent on estrogen to a certain degree. When it's too low, you lose your sex drive. So, you know, to think that you're going to completely keep your testicles on while you're on cycle is is is idiotic. It's not going to happen. You do one thing or it's like trying to diet and get big at the same time. I'm gonna get huge, but I'm gonna get ripped, too. At the same If you try to do two things, you accomplish nothing. So, just assume, all right, when I take my cycle, I'm gonna pretty much be suppressed. And then when I'm done with my cycle, if I need to get my girl pregnant, I can do Dave's pregnancy protocol. If I want to do an off cycle to turn my body naturally back on, I can do that as well with HCG and Clomid. Um, and and just leave it at that. Don't try to do two things at the same time. Not sure if you've ever been asked this before, but as far as energy drinks, is there any negative effect that energy drinks have on muscle mass growth? Have you ever heard any sort of correlation between energy drinks and decreasing muscle mass, >> right? I I think the problem lies in how much you do and every Isn't that everything in life? It's about balance. If you do one energy drink a day, okay, you're probably not going to have any problems with building muscle and and it's not going to affect anything. If you start doing two and three, what all those stimulants do is they they decrease your appetite a lot. They kind of blunt your appetite. That's why a lot of people like to drink coffee when they're dieting. Okay? So, that's that's going to definitely hurt your gains. Also, the more stimulants you do after a while, you get used to them, right? So, you don't feel revved up. You don't your heart doesn't beat as quite as fast. you don't feel like like you're gonna, you know, go crazy in your mind because you're used to it. You can almost drink it and take a nap right after. The problem is that it's raising the stress levels in your hormone. So, the more stimulant you put into your body, even though you don't feel it, your cortisol levels are going up. So, too many stimulants raise cortisol levels tremendously, which is a very catabolic hormone, which is something we don't want as bodybuilders. So, use the energy drinks sparingly when you need them. Okay? Obviously, when you're dieting, you might need one a day. that's fine. Figure out what portion of the day you needed it. It's probably going to be around your training time, that's fine. You know, if you're going to use it once a day like that, but if you're going to start using them all day long, it's not a cup of coffee. It's like five cups of coffee in those energy drinks. So, that's a lot of caffeine that you'd be consuming. If you if you like to drink a little bit of stimulant all day, you might opt for either a pre-workout like Stimulize Max and just sip it throughout the day. Or you might opt to do coffee because even because it's something to drink, it tastes good while you're dieting, yet you're not getting quite as much caffeine. Matter of fact, you're getting significantly less caffeine than you would get in one of those energy drinks. >> We do have this as a discussion point and it's been one over the last few years. What is the obsession with past bodybuilders? Uh like it is a right of passage once they retire to bash current athletes and say how good their time was. Almost every single one of them does it from every generation. No other sport in no other sport has athletes that use every single opportunity at Nauseium to bash current athletes and promote themselves and the perception of how good their time was. It would be one thing if it happens sometimes, but every single interview and every single show they have to do it. they could just pull a string talking doll at this point. Is it because bodybuilders tend to be so self-absorbed that they can't stop thinking to themselves that they don't even realize how terrible they come off? The topic could be about the weather and they'll find a way to make it about how great their time was and how bad today is. It's like the Al Bundy effect. >> Well, you know, I think it it goes back to I mean, let's face it. I mean, in basketball, it's just as bad. I mean, right, who's the greatest of all time? Is it LeBron James? Is it Michael Jordan? Okay, we've been hearing that for, you know, adnauseium. It's probably the most watched reels on on Instagram come on about who's the goat of basketball. But the bottom line is that for bodybuilding, uh, it's it's an aesthetic thing. It's like what you find visually appealing. And, you know, guys from the 90s, you know, a lot of times like that aesthetic better. Okay? Whereas guys today are not quite as aesthetic. you know, not there are guys out there that are there's a lot but guys are a lot bigger today. Okay, as much as you have the mass monsters like Irani and Nasser, you by and far, you know, there weren't a there weren't 25 guys over 260 like there are today on the pro the pro circuit. So, the guys are bigger today. And I think what what these former athletes are commenting on is the fact that the bigger doesn't necessarily translate to better uh quality-wise. But you have guys now that are so big that, you know, if they were smaller, you might have liked the way their aesthetic looked better, but they wouldn't be placing as high. So, the muscle mass and conditioning gets rewarded. It always has. Guys weren't able to get as big back in the 90s. Maybe they didn't have as much technology or maybe they didn't have as much information training, you know, knowledge. Uh, also it's a mental thing. I always said once Dorian hit 300, I knew that I can do it and that's why I got the 300. Maybe I would have had never even gone there had Dorian not done that. So, same thing with the guys today. Once they see guys like Dave Palumbo and and and other guys get the 300, Ronnie Coleman competing at 300 lb, people like, "Well, I can do it, too." you know, and now you got Samson Doubter and you got Andrew Jack and you got these guys that are routinely over 300 pounds on the Olympia stage. So, you know, that that's just called, you know, progress. And there are guys that competed then like the Shawn Rays who think that, you know, their looks were better and, you know, more aesthetic and more pleasing. And that's what bodybuilding should be about. And I guess that's why we started classic physique to have guys that that that don't need to be the biggest guys on stage, but need to have the nicest shape and structure and flow. So we have the best of both worlds. But you know, let's face it, the open bodybuilding is still the most popular. And we're giving away $750,000 to the winner at the Arnold Classic for a reason. Size, mass, conditioning, you know, the whole package. We're seeing guys that we've never seen like this before. And it's exciting. you know, Andrew Jack could be the new Ronnie Coleman of this era. Now, granted, there'll probably never be another Ronnie Coleman, but but, you know, if we can get guys that are, you know, bringing aesthetics with the size, with the width, with the conditioning, that's exciting for the sport. And it goes in generations. You know, like I said, just because the 90s were like a million guys were like were incredible, and today it doesn't seem like there's that many. I I think I'm seeing an improvement from 10 years ago. And I think in 10 years from now, we're gonna we could potentially have another heyday of of of guys like we did in the 90s with the greatest genetics we've ever seen. The the reason why people quote the 90s as being the best because the the genetic gene pool was amazing from the Paul Dletes to the Dorian to the Ronnies to the Flex Cormier you know Shawn Ray Kevin Levon's Nasser I mean there was just a lot of guys with with real Marcus Rule Dennis Wolf you know the guys were amazing you know and so it's hard to compete with an era where you had a lot of talent like that but it'll happen again. And you know what? When it happens again in the in the in the modern day, the guys are going to be 30 pounds bigger than they were back in the 90s. And people are going to say, "Oh, the 2030s were the best bodybuilding era of all time." You know, that's just the way it goes. It's cyclical. You know, every sport is like that. >> So, another uh I guess quote unquote blast from the past and as this user says, a tragic blast from the past. Uh Andreas Monzer. Every time this great bodybuilder is mentioned, it's always negatively thrown at him because of his tragic death. Never anything positive about the fact that what he did. Um, but just like all bodybuilders of the world, he brought massive applause every contest he did in posing. But just awful negativity every time. And it was years ago. He died tragically because of all the drugs apparently in system. But what bodybuilder doesn't push it to his extremes? You think this was supposed to be um, and I guess he kind of takes a detour here. You think all this supposed stack he took really was true? >> You know, I don't think the the drug building stack that he was using was what killed him. It was the, you know, the diuretic protocols that these guys were using. Remember, they were competing like eight times in like 10 days like for that European tour. And that's where guys had problems. You know, Munzer uh was was notorious for going on those tours. Ben Aziza who died was on those tours and a lot of guys had some problems because they were taking diuretics every single day. Diuretics kill you. You know, we know that electrolyte imbalance can kill you. Especially these guys don't understand how diuretics work. They don't know what electrolytes they're replaced with when they're when they're cramping because they don't know even know what the diuretic they're taking is. They're just taking some pills some guy gave them. So that's that that was the danger. I don't think Monzer would have died just from the steroid stack he was doing. I mean, he might have had some problems later in life, you know, that that, you know, from using all the the drugs he used, but really what he was taking back then doesn't even seem like that much compared to what guys take today. I will say this though, some of those European guys and the Middle Eastern guys were taking a lot of orals back then, which probably wasn't great for their liver. And uh, you know, it was a shame that that that Monunzer died because he he loved the sport. You know, he was he was bodybuilding came first in his life. You know, he was making a good living for his for his family. He was he was moving up the ranks and he was he was a very gifted bodybuilder. He didn't even need to do the extreme stuff that he did and he was always the most ripped guy on stage and I think he achieved the level of conditioning that I don't think anyone else in our sport ever achieved. I mean he had peck striations. He had striations in parts of the muscles you shouldn't even have striations on. That's how lean he was. Uh, and I don't think it, like I said, I don't think I think he actually sabotaged his physique by doing too many diuretics and for too long a period of time. He thought he needed to be that dry dry look. I think it actually hurt him because it ruined his aesthetics because it made him too flat. But, you know, for pictures, I mean, it was it was just it was like a freak show. Uh, once again, you know, sometimes if you think you're you know, know too much, you get yourself in trouble. I think Munzer was one of these chemist guys that thought he had the whole thing figured out. And uh unfortunately, you know, diuretics, you you don't really figure out if you don't know how they work properly and you do the wrong combination and you don't supplement with the right minerals or the right amount of sodium. If you do start cramping, you you can really screw yourself up. And I I think a lot of guys learned a lesson from that back in the day. And knock on wood, thank God we really haven't seen any other any other issues or deaths from bodybuilding, you know, backstage at these shows anymore because I think guys are smarter these days. Take a couple of more. We'll lighten the mood with a training related question. Uh Samir Bonoot says that presses are not necessary to big to build big shoulders. He believes it can be accomplished by focusing on just raises and upright rows. Do you agree with them? My doctor friend, Dr. Mike May, rest in peace. He he couldn't shoulder press. I he had some bad shoulders and I for years couldn't really shoulder press, but I built my delts with with really heavy, you know, behind the neck presses and and dumbbell presses. So, I I should use myself as an example, but Dr. Mike, this guy, he loved that side l he taught me this, the side lateral machine that where you have put your elbows on the pad and you lift up one arm at a time. He had one in he had AI I've told a story before. He had a side lateral machine in his living room. And you know, back in the day, there was no cell phones. So people would have phones attached to the wall. He had the side lateral machine under the telephone. So that when he would talk on the phone, he would be he'd have one he'd be holding on the phone with this hand and he'd be doing this arm and then he'd switch phones with this. And he would do it he would train his delt every day. And they were huge. He had these huge massive delt. And I never saw him do a single press. It was only from that side lateral machine. And uh because you can't cheat when the pad sits on your elbow here and you lift up, the only thing lifting is is your is side delt can lift that weight. And so even when I was going through many years with just, you know, with bad shoulders, I needed a shoulder replacement. My delt stayed big when I competed because I just did heavy heavy side laterals like that. So yeah, I think you could maintain muscle. You could probably even build a lot of muscle if you really really use good form and focus on that machine with it because you can't cheat. Uh, obviously if I had the ideal setup, I would say it's a nice blend of presses combined with the side lateral machine. Um, I don't think you should you need to absolutely eliminate one of them. I think it's good to do both, but I think you're the the person asking the question is right in the sense that you can build big delts without doing heavy heavy presses. But if you can do the heavy heavy presses and the side delt machine, you're going to get even better results. We'll take one more on this one relating to presentation. Uh what is the quote correct bicep pose on stage? Is it when your hand is pointing towards you or out in front of you? No. You whenever you hit a double bicep, first of all, you should always have the thumb inside the fist. So you should never have a like like this is like the what I call the punching fist. You always want a thumb in the fist because this flexes the this this flex this forearm flexor here. So thumb inside the fist, the wrist goes down. A lot I see a lot of guys like this and you turn the wrist back. Okay? You don't turn it forward. I see guys hitting it like this. That's not going to peak your bicep. You want to bring it back this way. That peaks your bicep. You can see the difference. See how it flattens it out. Now you see the peak. So thumb inside the fist, turn the wrist back and down. And that's that. You don't want to do this either. Like the little guys, they hide away. You want to be up here, you know, and open up. So that that's Arnold. That's the proper way to hit a a bicep pose. And I see a lot of people doing it wrong. And I've I always correct people when I see them doing wrong. Some people listen, some people don't. But that's the correct way. That's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. Right now on the channel, all new episode of After Hours featuring Dr. Tony Huge. It was a great episode. Hilarious episode. Uh go check that out. Dave's birthday episode of after hours featuring Dr. Tony Huge. And then of course Dave Palumbo and Chris Tacito on Heavy Muscle Radio. A early I guess if you want to call it early preview of the upcoming Arnold Classic. A lot of different angles, breakdowns. Speaking of the Arnold Classic, it is only now 16 days away. So between now and then we will have preview segments. We'll try to get some interviews lined up as well. Uh uh Iron Debate uh preview segments to preview the upcoming Arnold Classic. And then of course in three weeks Dave, myself, Chris Aceto will be live on the scene in Columbus, Ohio, bringing you coverage of the 2026 Arnold Classic. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell if you like what you're watching, hit the like button, comment below, and as always, we appreciate you for all of your support for Dave Palumbo. I'm Sadique Farooqi. We'll see you next time.