a label, a food label that you say to yourself, all right, how many grams of carbs is the total carbs? It's 20. Okay, well, how many grams of fiber? Oh, it contains nine grams of fiber. So, you got to subtract that off the total carbs, and that will give you the net carbs, which is 11 g, and that's the carbs you're eating. So, you never count fiber carbs because they're not absorbable. Now, the question is, how many grams of carbs do we need? I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Now, what about carbs? Well, obviously we this there's really three categories of carbs, too. If you think about it, there's simple sugars, right? You know, glucose, sucrose, dextrose, you know, fruit sugar is what's in fruit, which is fructose. We don't want a lot of sugar in our diet. We kind of know that as bodybuilds, especially when you're dieting, you want to stay away from sugars. Second category is your complex carbs, right? That's like your rice, potatoes, um, uh, pastas, and and stuff like that. Quinoa, those are the carbs most of us eat on a regular basis. Cream of rice, grits, all that kind of stuff. And then the third category is fiber. So fiber is a carb. It's just an unabsorbable carb. So when you take in fiber, if you take 9 g a scoop of my fiber lies every day or twice a day, it's 9 g of carbs, but they're unabsorbable because fiber carbs are not absorbable. So it's important to know when you read a a label, a food label, that you say to yourself, all right, how many grams of carbs is the total carbs? It's 20. Okay, well, how many grams of fiber? Oh, it contains nine grams of fiber. So you got to subtract that off the total carbs, and that will give you the net carbs, which is 11 grams. And that's the carbs you're eating. So you never count fiber or carbs because they're not absorbable. Now the question is how many grams of carbs do we need? Well, what does carbs do? Well, carbs are only a fuel source. It's like gasoline in your car, but the human body is like a hybrid car. It can burn gas or it can be it can use electric. You know, the electric is the the the fats that we have in our body. So you don't necessarily have to eat carbs. If you ate never ate another carbohydrate ever again, you'd be very healthy and fine. Um, but carbs definitely help, especially in the offseason when you're trying to put muscle on because you don't want your body turning the protein that you're eating into carbs to use as fuel. So, in the offseason, we we eat carbs, okay? Because we want to what we call spare the protein, right? So, if you eat a certain amount of carbs, you figure out you need your daily basis of carbs, all the protein you're eating is going to stay as protein. If you only eat pro, let's say you just do a diet, you say, "You know what? I'm going to do just a protein only diet, okay, to lose weight, half that protein is going to convert to carbs because you're not giving yourself a fuel source, okay? And we don't want that either. So, you know, I've developed I'm not going to go through my whole ketogenic diet, but about 20 years ago, I developed this ketogenic diet. High protein, moderate fat, okay, about half a gram of fat per pound that you weigh. If you're 200 lb, you want to get 100 grams of fat divided over, you know, five or six meals. For men, they can even go a little higher than that. Women, that's usually a good estimate. And if you didn't eat any carbs of that, you'd be in what's called you'd be in a state of ketosis, meaning your brain would have no fuel to burn because it likes to burn carbs and it will switch its metabolism and start burning fats as fuel. Fats it burns is called ketones, and that's why you're said to be in ketosis. A lot I most of the diets I do for women are ketogenic diets, meaning no carbs, all protein and fat. They love it because their brain always has a fuel source. They don't feel hungry. They don't get cravings. And then once a week, I give them like a cheat meal where they can have some carbs just to stimulate their metabolism because if you're on no carbs too long, your thyroid function starts to shut down a little bit. And that we don't want that. What's basically happening is your body realizes that you're dieting and it starts to slow the metabolism. And you don't want to slow metabolism while we're dying. We want to keep the metabolism stoked. So, we do a cheat meal once a week. But you don't necessarily need to go zero carbs to burn fat. You just need to lower your carbs. The question is, the question is, how low do you have to go before you start burning fat? If I'm a competitor and I have to go down to 80 grams of carbs a day to burn fat at an adequate rate, you're better off taking them all out because 80 grams of carbs is going to drive you crazy when you're eating your meals, you'll feel good and then between meals, you'll be going nuts, right? It's you if you're eating 80 or 60 gram I know some women that are eating 60 grams of carbs a day and they're miserable. you're better off going zero carbs and putting yourself into a state of ketosis because once you take all the carbs out, the starchy carbs that is, you can still have fiber. Your brain says, "hm, something ain't working here. We we need some fuel." And it switches its metabolism and it starts using ketones, fats for fuel, and then all of a sudden you feel good again. But if you're a guy, a big guy, and you can get away with eating 180 grams of carbs a day and still lose body fat, then there's no reason to to to take those carbs out. So, you don't have to do it one way or another. You have to figure out the person you're working with or if it's regarding you, you have to figure out what your metabolism is like. In my experience, most women don't have fast enough metabolisms to give them a lot of carbs. So, I'm better off just taking them all out, and I'm going to get better success that way. And I think that that just works better. Uh but you know, the key is giving the body what it needs. High protein throughout the day, enough essential fats, okay? And then whatever else is is is what I call like luxury on top of that. A lot of information to process, but there's a science behind what I just said. And if you think about it, when you start hearing other people giving you all this cockamame, you know, old wives tales and little internet secrets, most people don't have an explanation why they're telling you to do what you do. You should always question everything. If someone is giving you advice and you ask them why and they can't give you the answer in scientific terms the way I just did, then I wouldn't listen to them. I would run for the hills. As a matter of fact, a lot of people are good coaches just because they have good athletes. So, in other words, you see these top athletes they work with you, they like you, they must be they must know what they're doing. A lot of those people don't know what they're doing. I have but and then I have guys that have taken my course, my I have a course online called the secrets to becoming a diet guru. It's a nine-hour class dealing with how to become a coach. And I have guys every single year they retake that class because they want to enhance their education and they want to make sure they know what they're doing so that they are an expert and they can troubleshoot the the tough cases. I would rather personally say I've helped, you know, a thousand people who were overweight and couldn't lose weight and got in the best shape of their life that didn't even compete rather than saying I have the Mr. Olympia and I helped him because you know what, Mr. Olympia is genetically blessed. Do you think Ronnie Coleman's hard to get in shape for a bodybuilding show? He was eating Masterpiece barbecue sauce a whole bottle a day and he and he won the Olympia eight times. So once again, you got to know the science of what you're