nutrition and that's my favorite product right here. Isolize protein. I'm telling you when your body's feeling hurt, you need a reboost, Icelize the product to go. I love cinnamon donut and I'm telling you right now, the best thing I love about this product is easy to mix on the go. Iceland is the way to go. It's your boy Big Baby Miller. I'm the baddest mother in America. What species are you? Welcome in the RX Muscle Studios here in New York for another episode of Ask Dave, better known as Ask Dave, brought to you by, as always, by species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. $35 off 57 serve isolyze this month only. Limited edition 57 serve isol only available at speciesnutrition.com. 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. We do this every week. You get to watch us on YouTube. We have our live stream audience as well. Um, questions on supplementation, training, IFBB pros, competition, anything you have in your mind, Dave here is here to answer your questions. Dave, we are nine days away from Christmas. And right now on speciesnutrition.com, we have stocking stuffers, samples, shirts, apparel, things that you can have instead of the typical items that you would have as a stocking stuffer. Yeah. Well, you know, um I always have people, you know, contacting me and ask me what what could I do for stocking stuffers? Why don't you offer something? So, I said, you know what, Sid, this year we're going to have a a nice stocking stuffer. Uh you guys go on there, check it out. I think you're going to like it. It's something a nice little gift you can buy, add to your Christmas gifts and holiday gifts that you're giving to all your loved ones and family members. And you know, anyone you know who's a who works out and is into that would love this. Believe me, I know I love to get stuff that relates to working out to supplementation. I all the other stuff is annoying to me. I I hate when I get gifts that I can't use. But if you know someone is obsessed with working out like I am and like you know all of us who watch this show are, get them the stocking stuffers on species nutrition. They'll love you for it. I promise you. Another thing I want to bring up, Sid, is if I get one more person who emails me, and this is a good email, but people are asking me, a lot of people got hemorrhoids lately, and I don't know if it's because for the holidays, they're starting to eat, you know, heavier foods, not, you know, as bodybuilders, you know, we don't eat foods that are that rich in fiber. The reason is because we try to get the calorie dense foods, high protein, you know, high in good fats, you know, dense carbohydrates. We don't eat enough fiber in our diet. And it's it to be honest with you, it's very hard to eat enough fiber. If you don't want to get hemorrhoids, get fiberized. I'm telling you, two servings a day, they'll never get hemorrhoids. I promise you, hemorrhoids are gotten because you're straining. Straining to get the waste out of your body. Because the longer waist sits in your colon, the more water and fluid is extracted from it. That's what the colon does. And when you're not taking in fiber, stuff sits in the colon too long. And then when you try to push it out, it's dehydrated. It's hard. And it rips the tissues down there and it causes hemorrhoids. Fiber will make the stuff slide out of your body like like you lubed it up with like Vaseline. I'm telling you. I know it sounds a little gross, but you guys know what I'm talking about. If you don't want hemorrhoid and you don't want to ever get them, or if you have them and you don't want them to get worse where you have to go get them lasered off, take a fiber supplement twice a day. I promise you if you use fiber twice a day, they'll go away and you'll never get them again. That's my rant. So once again, visit speciesnutrition.com, the sponsor of this show, Ask Dave. Simple enough. You can join us on the Muscle Central forum on rxmuscle.com. If you're not already a member, it is free to register. Or on our social media platforms, on our Instagram page, our official Facebook page, you can tweet your questions using # askdave, or if you're watching us live on YouTube, you can chime in on the comment section on the right hand side of the video screen. But as always, we are going to start in the Muscle Central forum on rxmuscle.com and check in with the EMRBSU. Dave, what are your thoughts about popcorn as a snack? Not the pre-bagged microwave popcorn, but the plain kernels that you pop on stove and only add salt to. I'll tell you something. I uh did a video, it's probably somewhere in the RX Muscle YouTube archives, where I showed you how to make healthy popcorn. I was a popcorn junkie when I was a runner back in the 80s. Um, I used to eat it all night until it made me sick to my stomach because I figured it was healthy. And I would put a little parmesan cheese on it sometimes, mostly just salt. But you can go get the plain kernels in the supermarket, those big bags, plastic bags. You put them in, get a get a like a walk. I use a walk and I put some macadamia nut oil in there and I throw the kernel I throw like one or two kernels in there and I and I start heating it up and I put once I hear those pop, those first two pop, I know the oil's hot enough. I throw in half a cup in there. I put a cover on the top and I crack it just so that the, you know, the steam can come out and I pop it. They pop perfectly every time. The MAC oil is healthy. You don't have to worry about the bad oil. It has a nice taste. I put a little salt on it and that is a great snack at night. Except of course if you're dieting on a low carb diet, then you don't want to do it. But it if you're not and you're offseason, you want to have a healthy snack. You can't do better than that. Let's go to Sir. Hi Dave. your opinions on the metabolic doc Thomas Okconor. He thinks everyone ever taking steroids will have an enlargement of the heart and that even TRT are bad and you risk never being able to get your girl pregnant. Well, uh, guys, I'd like to tell you after 13 years of using anabolic steroids and 10 years on hormone replacement, uh, my wife is having a baby in January. So, if I can get someone pregnant, anyone can. Look, it's all comes down to science. um you know taking anabolic steroids do have risks um putting on you know 80 pounds of muscle have risks you could enlarge your heart and I think most of us bodybuilders out there do have a slightly enlarged left ventricle myself included um you know how long it takes to be on anabolics before that occurs how much weight you need to gain before that happens is is anyone's guess I bet you there's bodybuilders out there that have taken tons of steroids and weighed 300 plus pounds and don't have enlarged hearts so it's very genetic you know your genetics kind of dictate what's going to happen to you. Does that mean that you know everyone is going to get it? No. Does it mean that that that taking anabolic steroids and and being very big muscularly speaking will increase your likelihood of having an enlarged heart? Absolutely. Does it mean that your enlarged heart will make you die earlier? Probably not. But some people might. So, you know, the best thing to do is if you if you're going to use anabolic steroids, if you're going to become a bodybuilder and put on a lot of muscle, get your checkups, get your echo cardiograms where they can measure the thickness of your heart, do your blood work so you can take your blood pressure to make sure your blood pressure is not too high and be safe about it. And I think that that's the most responsible way to go about it. Let's go to uh what do we got here? I had a question on bikini girls. So the question is, how exactly are IFBB bikini pros even judged? And who do you think is the hottest right now? My favorites are Janet Lug and Justine Monroe. And he even threw in a hubba hubba, which is something I have not heard since family matters in 1992. Go on, Dave. Um, you know, it's hard. You know, glutes obviously very important. You want a nice round butt, but you don't want a fat butt. So that could be a problem, you know. So once again, you have to, you know, you have to really make sure that when you judge a bikini girl, there's multiple factors involved. It's it's the physique. It's the face, too. A lot of people don't realize face is super important. You know, you can't have an, you know, an ugly bikini girl who's going to do well. It doesn't it doesn't really mesh well with the with the sport. That's a part of the division that's judged. So, you can't be mad if you don't do well because you're not that good-looking or someone who's better looking than you does well. There's that's a component of of how Bikini is judged. I personally like Janet like I like her physique a lot. I like um Tony Eubanks from Texas. I think she's a great uh I like I think India Paulina is a little on the smaller side, but I do like her too. I I I think she's got a cute look even though she doesn't have a lot of muscle. And I and I like um uh Sarah Leblanc's look, you know, even though she's no longer with the IPB. I liked her look even though she was a little bit more muscular. So once again, you can have the the spectrum of someone like a Sarah Leblanc. Then you can go down to the to the India Palino. They have two different types of physiques, but yet to me they both work for the division. So it's got to be the judges have to say, you know what, I like the way this looks, even if it's intangible and you can't necessarily define it. That's what Bikini is. You're watching Ask Dave on rxmuscle.com brought to you by Species Nutrition. The best overall question as well as the best I hate the show gets nitralized preworkout by species Nutrition. We continue on the muscle central forum and go to your pal S and then he does throw in some caps here. So follow along. Since I am in a passive aggressive mode, I won't even bother telling you why I hate this show. Now the passive aggressive part of course a reference to an episode that we had last week. He has two questions. The first one, how can you how can you keep an optimal input of proteins in your diet if your kidneys are slightly inefficient? ies, can you compensate with EAAs and BCA supplementation? Uh, you know, you'd be surprised. Um, you know, you don't need as much protein as you think you might need. Now, having said that, let me preface it. To put muscle on, to get big, you definitely need to eat a lot of protein. Once you've gotten the muscle, which is usually when the kidney issues occur later in life, you don't really need to eat as much to maintain that muscle mass. I have guys that I'm helping who have high creatinine levels that I've put them on my detox program, which by the way I give away for free if you email me at huge285ell.com. I've sent out a lot of those. You do those for three weeks. I've helped people, you know, bring their creatinine down and then I I've put them on maintenance diets of lower protein, maybe 120 grams a day, and guess what? They haven't lost any muscle. They've maintained it because their bodies are efficient. And that muscle will not go away unless you starve off. I I purposely went on a on a quest to lose muscle, okay? I wanted to get down into around 210 because I felt that that my blood pressure would be the best at that and I felt I could be able to cycle good at that. And you know what? I had to starve the freaking muscle off my body. I had to eat twice a day, very very low protein because it would not leave. So, having said that, if you have some kidney issues, you're older, you got a lot of muscle in your body, you don't need to be pounding three, 400 grams of protein a day anymore. You can probably eat 150, 120 grams of protein a day, giving your kidneys a little bit of a break. Another great thing to do is something that I also do and that I I recommend that other people do just for health purposes is only eat 12 hours out of the day. Intermittent fasting some people call it. So, I eat from the hours of uh 11:00 p.m. or I don't eat from the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 11:00 a.m. At 11:00 a.m. I have my first meal and then I stop eating at 11:00 p.m. So, for 12 hours out of every day, most of the time, unless I'm traveling, I only eat that's when I eat my food. And that gives your kidneys and your liver and your internal organs a chance to detox during that 12-h hour fast. So, if you implement a few of these things, I think you'll be fine. Your palis also wanted to know the ingredients and science behind your kidney stuff product. Um, kidney stuff is is an interesting product and I don't make it. I I market it. You know, I don't always sell my own products. Sometimes when I see a product that's awesome like Quest protein bars, I'm not going to try to duplicate Quest because I can't. But but, you know, Kidney Stuff came out, I did some research on it. I talked to the, you know, the guy the guys who made it and I said, "Look, I want to market this stuff for you because I really believe in it. I tried it out on a few guys and I saw their creatinine went down. It's got a lot of anti-inflammatory type essential fatty acids in there uh because once you reduce the inflammation around the kidney tubules, they can filter better. It also has some ingredients that help dilate the kidney tubules so that you get a better filtration rate. And when you take this long term, it gives the kidneys a break and it reduces the the internal pressures on the kidney tubules and it allows those apparatus to start regenerating because the kidneys will regenerate. Not as efficiently as the liver, but they will regenerate. You just have to be patient. You're not going to improve your creatinine in two weeks. But in six months or to a year, you can completely reverse a lot of the damage that's been done. Let's go to our Facebook page. Again, if you are on Facebook, you can like us at facebook.comrxmuscle.com. All one word. We go to Devin Hicks. Dave, a few short questions for we'll go with the first one. Why macadamia nut oil? Okay, before I answer that question, I just want to someone had brought up something. The kidney stuff is available at Dave Palumbo.com, not a species nutrition. That's a Dave Palumbo product. Um, why macadamia nut? Macadam nut oil is is something that I was introduced to by my good friend Ron Norman. I certainly give him credit where credit's due. And I actually had the Dr. Pescatori, who's the guy who originally marketed macadamia nut oil to the world on Heavy Muscle Radio a number of years back. And you know what I found out when I started investigating it uh was that number one it's higher in monounsaturated fat the good hard healthy fats than olive oil which we all think is the gold standard and the greatest thing you know uh for your heart. So actually Mack oil is higher in in monounsaturated fats. Also we got to remember all oils have multiple different fats in them. They don't just have monos they have the polyunsaturates or the essential fatty acids the sixes and threes. Olive oil has mostly sixes almost no threes. Mac oil has an exact one to one ratio of threes to sixes making it a very balanced oil. It's also very high in vitamin E which makes it very uh prevents it from being oxidized real easy. So MAC oil can be exposed to light to air. It doesn't oxidize. It doesn't go bad. It doesn't get rancid. Uh maybe one of the best uh aspects of macadamia oil is you can cook with it. It has a very high smoke point. Olive oil burns really easy which once you burn it, you change the health ramifications and you make it not healthy. Uh, mackerel doesn't burn. You can you can almost deep fry with the thing at a very high high level. It's AI think 420 degrees. It's safe, too. I sauté foods with it. So, you got that going for you. But probably the best thing about MAC oil is that it tastes amazing. It's like butter. So, I mean, everyone knows, you know, olive oil has a bitter taste. It might taste all right on salads, you know, but um, let's face it, you on eggs, it's not really that good. So, MAC oil to me is is the allpurpose greatest oil. And that's why I I I went on a quest trying to find it. And I had to go all the way to South Africa to find the best macadamut oil because it comes from the best soil. And that's what I marketed for Species Nutrition, the best macadamia oil you can find. And I know it's available pretty much all over the place, but if you can't find it, you could always go to um speciesnutrition.com. His second question was about supplements. He goes, "What other supplements are tried and true like creatine?" And he wants you to name two or three. I think creatine has stood the test of time. So I think it's meaning that it came out in the 90s and it's still around today and guys are still using it and getting good results from it. It works. It volumizes the muscle cells which makes it it gives you better pumps and it makes you more anabolic and it also buffers you know uh it buffers the uh loss of ATP in the muscle cell uh via creatine phosphate. So creatine phosphate regenerates ATP inside the muscle cell so you never run out of energy which means you can train longer and harder without fatigue. And I think that that's important. So creatine definitely works at five grams per day. I think that's more than enough. A lot of guys throw it in their post-workout shake. Some guys throw it in their pre-workout shake. Um we're coming out with a creatine a super micronized creatine monohydrate which should be out probably in another month or two at speciesnutrition.com. But I I really like creatine. And I think that the other tried and tested, you know, supplement would have to be whey isolate, you know, um that's the gold standard. I mean, no one can eat enough protein via food. Um very hard. If you're going to supplement with protein, though, you want to use a whey isolate. That's a whey protein that has all the lactose removed. Remember, lactose is milk sugar. Milk sugar is not easily digested by adults. And invariably the bacteria in the colon will ferment it producing the methane gas causing malabsorption of the protein. So here you are, you buy a cheap protein, you think you're getting a great deal, and you don't even absorb half of it, and you wind up getting diarrhea and gas from it. Not pretty sight. Uh not smart. Once again, you want to put the best quality ingredients into your body if you want to get the best results. Let's go to Dion Ilv still on our official Facebook page. Hey Dave, I hate hating the show. My hatred reserves are depleted, so I'm burning only love for fuel. Very sweet. I took Halo my last prep, though I was really low on carbs. I had more strength than usual. I plan to start my offseason with it from my weak parts, like 40 milligrams before leg days and back days. My logic is that if it's so good for strength, it must be activating more muscle fibers, hence more hypertrophy. Is this correct? No, because helestin has very low almost zero anabolic properties. It's all androgen. And what do androgens do? They make you aggressive. And why would you be stronger in the gym when you're more aggressive? Go figure it out. Come on. More aggression means you're going to be you're going to push heavier weights. Now, the pushing of the heavier weights might be an impetus to build more muscle. Okay? But the drug itself has no anabolic properties. Uh plus it's very liver toxic. So to me, hallow testing, other than the last two weeks before a show just to harden up, is a complete waste of of time and it it un it exposes you to unnecessary toxicity. We're going to take two more quick questions from our Instagram page. This one from Juicebox 91. This show sucks so bad I would rather go on a ride along with George Farah as he investigates Annie Ramod for stealing The Rock from him. your thoughts on tapering down T3 as a competitor carbs up for a show providing they are peeled and ready. Yeah, I don't usually cut out or cut back T3 depending on what it's at. Let's assume it's at 75 micrograms per day. Uh when I carb my guys up, I I kind of take into account that that's their the person's metabolism and I don't lower it unless the person's just disappearing, unless they're they're losing weight too fast, then I might cut it back maybe to 25 micrograms a day. But usually most competitors don't go, you know, their metabolisms don't take off in them. They don't start losing massive amounts of weight the last week. So I just leave it in there and and I I just I feed them accordingly. Whether I got to feed them a little extra or burger and fries maybe the night before, whatever I got to do, I do that. I don't like to take out stuff because once the body's used to a certain level of hormone, I don't want to take it out because I don't know what the ramifications could be. The person could start holding water. They could rebound. It's not smart to do anything the last week. Don't do kooky things the last week. This last one from Barbarian B23. Hello Dave. I hate this show so much. I'd rather listen to Kai Green. Spend two hours answering a simple question such as what's your favorite chest exercise? My question is are there any ways to reduce the lower back pumps from orals? Mine are killing me. Well, you know, not all orals cause excessive fluid retention. If you're getting lower back pain, it could be kidney pain, you know. uh so could be liver issue you know soreness and swelling so to me if you're taking heavy orals like anadrol or dianabol and you're getting pains in those lower backs I just wouldn't take them I I'm not a big huge orals fan everyone knows that I don't expose people to them for long periods of time and matter of fact I believe that the best way to to to really try to grow would be without orals you know that the injectables are so powerful nowadays that I don't even know why anyone would even use an oral you know except maybe at the start of a cycle to kind of kick everything in a little quicker sometimes I'll use a little dianabol, but but to be honest with you, if you're going to use if you're going to do a long extended cycle, you know, to try to put masks on, uh you really don't want to be intercolating uh orals in the toxicity issue is just going to make it such that you're going to have to come off and clean out. So, if you're getting pains in those lower back flank area, that's kidney pain. Uh a lot of times it could be from swelling, but a lot of times it could be the kidneys are being overtaxed, could be high blood pressure, I would lay off the orals. That's going to do it for this episode of As Day. We'll email the winners uh rather we'll contact them via their social media channels. This episode is going to be available in its entirety in high definition on our YouTube channel. That is where we have all our episodes from live with with Ask Dave, Heavy Muscle TV, Fitness View, all our programming, muscle in the morning. It is all available, all categorized on our YouTube channel and of course on rxmuscle.com. for Dave Palumbo and our producer Johnny Styles. I'm Sadik Farukqi. Have a good evening.