People just might assume he's right. If I take insulin, I'm going to die 10 years earlier because look at that statistic he quoted. It's just not the case. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here with an RX Muscle rant. I just watched an Instagram reel which I guess was based on a video interview that Dorian Yates did in which he was discussing his use of insulin and talking about what he felt about insulin usage in bodybuilding. And I wanted to, you know, make a couple of comments on it because I felt it was a little inaccurate and misleading. And as you know, I'm a big Dorian Yates bodybuilding fan. I really admired his physique. Uh, I always I matter of fact he was the guy I kind of looked up to as I was coming up the ranks as the guy I wanted to look like, the guy I wanted to emulate. I mean, he was, you know, everything that was bodybuilding back in the 90s. Big, freaky, hard. His training was impeccable. His, you know, diet was impeccable. His, you know, he didn't really talk about drug cycles back then, but we can only imagine what he was using back then, which he's talked about since that time. And everyone was like trying to be the next Dorian Yates back then. And uh the training was was really where I admired him. The the highintensity, heavyduty, you know, full range of motion, you know, balls to the wall, blood and guts, as he called it, training was was Dorian Yates to the tea. And he exemplified that in his physique. If you saw the grainy hard conditioning that he had, the gnarly muscle, he probably had one of the the greatest backs of all time. Uh, I mean, it was almost superhuman when you would see him walking around in in a sweatshirt. I mean, the lats were just would hang like slabs of meat. It was it was truly truly inspirational as a bodybuilder using, you know, seeing him at shows and guest posing and stuff like that. Uh, you know, and Dorian lately, you know, since his retirement has really been very forthright in a lot of the training techniques and drugs he's used and everything. You know, he's very, very honest about, you know, what his beliefs are in terms of what he thinks you need to do for bodybuilding. And I agree with 90% of what he says, especially regarding training and giving your all in the gym. But this was a topic that was brought up and I guess they asked him about if he ever used insulin. I tell you the truth, yes, I used insulin. Was it a positive? In my mind, no, it wasn't. And he said, "Yeah, he did." He goes, you know, I'm not going to lie. You know, I did use insulin. He goes, I really didn't think it helped my physique. Matter of fact, it might have hurt my physique. Then he went on to express that, you know, he felt like, you know, bodybuilds that used insulin were like ticking time bombs, as he called them. And he quoted some study that you know that it's out there that something like uh statistically showed that diabetics who used insulin had 10 years of shorter life than the average person. First off, we have to say to ourselves, well, bodybuilders are not diabetics most of the time, right? I mean there are a couple of type 1 diabetics out there or even type two diabetics in the bodybuilding world but that statistic that he quoted is for diabetics who take insulin. So diabetics by definition are very unhealthy people usually right because they don't have poor blood sugar control. So let's assume it's not type 1 diabet let's assume it's type two diabetics for because type 1 diabetics don't produce any insulin so they have to take insulin right they don't have a choice. Type two diabetics have poor insulin sensitivity or and or they might not produce enough insulin. And those people tend to have shorter lives. Number one, why? Because they have poor blood sugar control. And poor blood sugar control we know leads to a million different side effects, right? from uh loss of vision, okay, kidney failure, mental decline because of the gunking up of the capillary beds in in the brain because of the high sugar. I've talked about this. It's called type three diabetes or type three dementia diabetes. loss of limbs, extremities, fingers, toes because of poor circulation because of the the higher blood sugars in the blood tend to gunk up once again the capillary beds of the extremities. All these side effects lead to a shortened life. Okay, we know that. Okay, if these people with the high blood sugars didn't take insulin, okay, they would be even worse off, right? Because if you don't take the insulin and you run these super super high blood sugars uh and don't bring your blood sugars down at all, of course you're going to have a even a shorter life. Now, so it's not really a fair statistic. The statistic is that diabetics in general tend to die earlier. Okay? And diabetics who don't take insulin will die way earlier than diabetics who do take insulin. Okay? That has nothing to do with bodybuilders. Okay? Once again, it's like comparing ompic use in celebrities who who who go all day long and starve themselves and then wonder why they lose muscle with bodybuilders who eat five or six times a day and who take OPIC and lose weight and look great. Okay, it's the same it's the same it's the same analogy essentially a bodybuilder who takes insulin. It's number one there's two reasons you would take it. Number one, you're running high fasting blood sugars, right? And we've talked about this before. uh eating an enormous amount of food, taking growth hormone, which we know is makes you insulin resistant. All these things can lead to higher blood sugars. Okay? And if you run high blood sugars over a long period of time, you're going to have side effects that are going to cause a decline in your health long term, and we don't want that. Taking a long acting insulin, as I've advocated in the past, will lower those those fasting blood sugars, keep your blood sugars in in general in the normal range and will make you healthier. So, we know that diabetes in that situation would make you healthier. So, we know that taking insulin in those situations would make you healthier. Couldn't make you unhealthy. It can only make you healthier because you're lowering your blood sugars into the normal range. If they run higher in the higher range because you're on a lot of growth hormone, you're eating an enormous amount of food and you do that long term, you're going to have side effects and and it's going to lead to a shorter life. So, a bodybuilder who takes a long acting insulin to bring their blood sugars into normal range, okay, will live a healthier, longer life. That is that's a given. We don't need any statistics for that. and comparing that situation to a diabetic who is uncontrolled because they either are obese or they're a type 1 diabetic who produces no insulin and has to try to regulate themselves is is is a terrible analogy that that he made and it's not accurate. Now the other situation of bodybuilders there are bodybuilders out there who take fast acting insulins right in an effort to accelerate muscle growth. people like the Milos insulin protocol, right? Would that cause people to to, you know, diet sooner? Well, let's look at what that does. Okay, you're taking insulin to lower blood sugar from the carbs that you're eating. Okay, so let's say you eat 200 gram of carbs. You take 20 units of insulin and you lower that that 20 units of insulin lowers that blood sugar from the 200 grams of carbs down to a normal range. Doesn't seem like there's any side effects occurring from that. Okay. Will you get kind of watery and bloated? Yeah, you might. Will you store extra body fat? You might. You might. If you're if you're very prone to putting body fat on and you're eating extra carbs and you're taking insulin, you could store extra body fat on your body. And it happens to some people. They do get fat on insulin. Is the high blood sugars. Are there high blood sugars occurring when you're taking insulin? No. Your blood sugars are lower, right? Because insulin lowers blood sugar. What are the side effects that occur from from insulin usage? Side effects are not from the insulin. It's from are you controlling your blood sugars. So in these instances where people are taking, you know, high amounts of insulin, fast acting, and eating carbs with that to try to drive those carbs into the muscle, okay, there's really no negative side effects to that aside from the fact that if you don't calculate how much insulin you should take for the carbs that you're eating, you might, you know, you might get a low blood sugar, you might run a slightly little high. More than likely, you're going to go too low. So that shouldn't cause any long-term issues either. So insulin in and of itself is not a hormone that causes early death. Poor insulin control or poor blood sugar control in the body is what leads people to have a shorter life expectancy when they're on insulin or not on insulin. So it's not the insulin that's causing the the shortened life. It's the poor blood sugar control. And who has poor blood sugar control? people who are obese, people who don't, you know, take care of themselves and or potentially type 1 diabetics who don't keep good blood sugar control of their bodies because they they're lazy. They don't test their blood sugars enough and they let their blood sugars run super high, you know, when they're eating like a meal out and then they have to try to catch up and so their hemoglobin A1c's, which is their three their average blood sugar over three months, tend to go super high. Uncontrolled diabetics are very unhealthy by nature. That's the nature of the beast, right? Most people who get like that, especially the type twos, is because they don't take care of themselves. They don't eat right and andor they have a genetic predisposition. Bodybuilders by definition are people who are super neurotic about controlling everything in their diet, right? from blood sugars to how much protein they're eating to, you know, measuring every little morsel of food, you know, that they take. And if you're going to take insulin, they're going to be testing their blood sugars as well. So, I think once again, insulin might not be the drug that every bodybuilder needs to take because some people obviously can get fat from it and some people don't need it, but there are bodybuilders that do need it. And a lot of them need these long acting insulins because they're running high fasting blood sugars and they don't want to have long-term side effects. Likewise, if someone's eating very high amounts of carbs, you know, pre-workout, post-workout, whatever the case may be, and their bodies are not bringing down their blood sugars naturally because it's just too much food, taking a short fast acting insulin is definitely warranted and is going to actually be something that's going to improve their health, not hurt their health. So, you have to kind of assess, you know, why you're using insulin and how you're using insulin rather than just say taking insulin can cause early death. bad message on Dorian's part. However, once again, most of his knowledge is so incredibly accurate and so potent that, you know, this is a small little misstep on his part, but I like to correct things because sometimes when you're listening to someone who gives good information on a regular basis and then they put something out that is maybe not actually correct, it's important to correct it because once again, people just might assume he's right. If I take insulin, I'm gonna die 10 years earlier because look at that statistic he quoted. It's just not the case. Dave Palumbo with an RX Muscle Rant. Mike Maserata that competed against me had a triple bypass at 38 and died at 48. So it, you know, it's there, but it's getting more and more frequent now, I think. Yeah. I wrote down a few names that I I wanted to bring up cuz it it feels like especially I got a list of 50 when I I did a podcast last week with this medical expert and there's 50 pros that I know about. That's just pros that have died. What about amateurs? What about guys that never compete? Well, yeah. Like, um, I said, "Look, I'm always honest. I tell you the truth. Yes, I used insulin. Was it