Standing here with Dorian Adams, new IFBB Pro, winning the heavyweight class in the 35 plus category. Losing narrowly losing that overall to John Meadows. Talk to me a little bit. I saw you here last year. You were ninth place. What did I say to you? Uh, you said come back stronger, man. You said I had a good foundation, something to work with. I should have beat some of the guys that I would went up against, but it just wasn't my time and I had to kick back on what you said and came back a lot better and a lot tighter. Unbelievable upper body, you know. Uh, a lot of people were like freaking out when you first came out, which is always a good sign that you did something right. Good deal. Did you think you were going to go home with a pro card here today? Uh, I just put it in God's hands. I did the training and everything like that and just let him walk me through whatever was going to take place. You're from Oakland, California. You're living in Georgia now. Uh, how did you make the trek from the west coast out here to the east coast? Uh, just life happens, man. And I ended up dealing with a big real estate situation and I landed in Georgia. So, after my passion Yeah. Yeah. I love Georgia, but my my passion for bodybuilding just was kindled there and I made it home and went to work. How old are you now? I'm 45. You're 45 years old. You're in the best shape of your life. You know, you're obviously a late springer. As I say, I'm falling apart at 47, but you're just getting hit in your stride right now. What do you think you're capable of? Where would you like to see yourself in say 2, three years from now size-wise, you know, body shapewise? Man, I'm I'mma bring it. I'mma bring it. What'd you weigh here tonight? I weigh I weighed in at 246. Uh, like I said, the sky's is the limit. I mean, with a couple more years, I probably just I probably go crazy, y'all. You never know what's going to take place. I'm going to stay injuryfree. That's the thing. First thing to stay injuryfree, you know what I mean, and stress free and start getting some work done. Why did you get such a late start in bodybuilding? Uh, it just landed on me like that. You really weren't into it younger. I started seeing results from going to the gym too much and I said, I like this. Did you start lifting later in your life? Been lifting. I've been exercise freak all my life. It's just bodybuilding came to me at the right time where where I had time to settle down. younger days, I wouldn't have time for it. Will we see you on a pro stage this year or maybe next year? Uh, coming soon. Really? So, you're not releasing any uh anything? Yeah, it's going to be like the new Jurassic Park. Oh, boy. Now, Don Don Long is is working with you. I know. But man, Don Long, one love. That man know his stuff. What does Don think about that? Did you text him that you won the show? Well, I haven't seen him since I got off stage, but I'm pretty sure he's stoked. So, he's here. Yeah, he's I didn't see him the whole day. That's why I'm asking. Yeah, he he walked me through everything from from start to finish. When I signed on with him, he didn't give me enough room to breathe. That's the way it's got to be. Good luck, man. Congratulations. Thank you, sir. I appreciate that. Dorian Adams, new IFBB pro here in Tene, New Jersey. All day, baby.