I'm here at doc Dr. Blau's office here in White Plains, New York, back for more. We're going to be talking to former model Michelle Bosco, who's a patient of Dr. Blau who got some lipos suction, abdominal plasty, and breast augmentation and lift after having four children. She's only 33 years of age. Uh she's an amazing case. Wait till you see her. She looks fantastic. Uh, she was very happy with her work. Let's hear her story and hear how Dr. Blau worked on her and made her into the perfect being she is now. Hi, my name is Michelle Bosow. Um, I met Dr. Blau many years ago with my first son. He busted his eye open and I came to him for help to get his eye uh fixed with no scar. He did a wonderful job. And then ever since then, I had um three more kids after that. And I was very uncomfortable with my body image after I had my children. You know, I didn't feel very confident with myself. I very was very self, you know, just everything bothered me. I didn't like to be, you know, in a bathing suit. I was just uncomfortable in front of my husband. I just wasn't feeling confident and I wanted to go back to feeling good about myself again. So, I went to um I remember how Dr. Blood did such a wonderful job with my son. I figured let me meet with him again and he just he made me feel so comfortable. He told me everything that I can have done that everything is going to look wonderful once I have my stomach done and then I came back after couple years after having my stomach done. I loved his work. I had a breast augmentation done and his it's just wonderful. Michelle was a very successful model and uh with the time she was pregnant at that time three times and uh she wanted to do as a result of the pregnancy she had excess skin and she wanted to do something about her excess skin in the abdomen. Uh so she came to the office and we had a consultation and we discussed all the options including liposuction, abdominal plastic. H since she was not she was not a fat person, she was not overweight. She just had excess skin. H we decided to go ahead with the abdominal plasty and this is to repair the excess skin. Now it's different in Michelle and people that are overweight because they need also liposuction excision of fat and Michelle needed just adjustment of the skin and the muscle. So abdominal plast Michelle was really tightening the rectus recti muscles and excision of the excess skin relocation of the umbilycus. Uh and it took about 2 hours of surgery. After the surgery, I saw Michelle a few time and not long after it, she was very happy with the result. And I had some concerns when I uh met with Dr. Blau about my tummy tuck. I didn't know what the downtime was, what the scarring was going to be. Um actually when I had the downtime, it was only like 3 weeks. It wasn't really bad at all. You know, some people, you know, are more dramatic than others, but for me it was it went really quick. My scar is very thin. It's like hairline and it's right below like your where your bikini is so you don't even see it. And after a while the line fades anyway. Um he just told me he was going to tighten my muscles up, you know, I'll have like somewhat of a six-pack back again and you know I just didn't like how the my skin I wasn't really overweight or anything. It was just you know I did some exercising. I had the kids but just having so many kids my skin wasn't going anywhere. So it was just hanging. It was just it was ugly. Anyway, but he says once he got all the skin taken off, you'll be smooth again. I didn't have any of my scars. I didn't have any stretch marks. Everything looked perfect and my gave me a whole new belly button and I looked like I never had kids anymore. It was great. And then I was very happy with my tummy tuck that I thought about it a few years later that I wanted to have my breast done. But I was kind of like contemplating to see if, you know, if it would look really, you know, they look natural or, you know, I just didn't want to be like walking in there and looking like a porn star, anything crazy. I just wanted to, you know, to have my breast lifted fuller and I was breastfeeding, you know, so everything just kind of like went south. So, I asked Dr. Blau, I said, "What do you think about, you know, helping my breast out a little bit more than what they are?" And since I trusted him so much with my stomach, I said, "You know what? You do what you think is best. Match my body proportion. I don't want to look humongous. I just want to, you know, be full again." Um, so I just let him do what he does best. And I was very pleased with my breast. Um, I'd have to say they're they they look very natural. Nobody knows about it. Um, you would never know that had it done. If you see me naked, they look don't look circular. They look they hang perfectly. I mean, they feel real. I mean, I love them. I am very happy that I decided to get that done as well. God knows in the future what else I'll have done, but as of now, I'm very happy with um my two procedures that I had done with Dr. Blau. Very happy. Now Michelle is a mother of four and after being a mother of four she had she had also problem with her breast. She breastfed four children and therefore her breast was uh saggy and uh and was also uh on the medium side. I wouldn't say small but medium and saggy. So Michelle needed breast lift and augmentation mean she needed a an implant and to lift the skin so it wouldn't be siy most of the cases that do breast augmentation you just need an implant and you make a little incision you put the implant this Michelle's case was more challenging she's a young person in her 30s but she still needed more than breast augmentation we did the surgery that was longer than the typical breast augmentation surgery and in the end we lifted the breast, we put an implant and and Michelle was very happy with the results. I'm sitting here with Dr. Blau in his office here and you know this was an interesting day. You asked me to come up and talk to your patient Michelle Bosow because um you know we really haven't done anything about breast implants and I know you do a lot of those on a regular basis. You do a lot of abdominal plasties, a lot of tummy tucks, a lot of lipos suction. And here's a regular person who's a mom, young woman, beautiful looking woman, a former model. And and I wanted to know what the difference was between, you know, how you treat someone like her as opposed to the bodybuilder or the fitness competitor who comes in here. Is is it more challenging? Uh actually in her case since her fat content is very low uh it was a little bit similar to to bodybuilders or or fitness or fitness models h because she didn't have really any fat to go to to reduce and or to do a lot of liposuction. So she really needed minimal minimal excision of fat and I mainly worked on the muscle and the skin. And what do you do for the muscle? Because I a lot of people don't realize that you're not just giving her a tummy tuck and what isn't an abdominal plasty exactly? What do you do to the musculature of the abdominals? Many time after pregnancy like in Michelle case, the muscle become really very loose and you just have to tighten the muscle. So and you actually sew them together. You sew them together. You tighten actually not the muscle the envelope which is the muscle fascia. and you take it and you tie it together and like this h instead of the the fold that they have in this uh the result is that the muscle are it's a clean straight look of that. Does it keep the stomach flatter? Yeah. Keep the stomach flat because I know some bodybuilders I think we get from eating and getting so big sometimes our stomachs billow out and and and we lose that elasticity too. Is this something that can be done for a bodybuilder as well? Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. It happens that Michelle in spite of fact she's not a bodybuilder. The surgery is very similar to Michelle. Well, the same things happen because the pregnant woman her stomach stretches out because of the baby. The bodybuilder we just get so big or we gain too much weight or fluctuation of weight. You get big and after it you lose and then there's some looseness of the skin and the muscle. H and uh I think if if the patient is not overweight, the overall result will be superior. or they're going to be better. What's the recovery on on the abdominal plasty versus just the lipos suction say? Yeah, I would say the recovery I tell them if they go to work to take about two weeks off. Sometime one week is enough, sometime two and some some people need more but the average will be about two weeks. Okay. H yeah. And they need actually those two weeks they still can do a lot of things but they should really shouldn't exert themselves. They shouldn't lift anything heavy if they have little children shouldn't lift them. So just should should take it easy. Is there any uh I guess you could say chance of that of it opening up again or is once you suture that abdominal abdominals it's fine. I mean chance there is but it's very little. Usually it doesn't happen. I don't remember when when it happened. So usually it's a pretty a pretty solid surgery and solid results and uh just a patient has to be willing to have an incision in the lower abdomen and around the belly button and then the healing of this incision is I mean different and no no not always and you tell you tell people that they're going to have a incision there and usually the scar is minimal but not always And it's because it's below the bikini line. It's below the bikini. M. So yeah. When you wear a bathing suit, you don't see it. Yeah. Let's I have a question about the uh the breast augmentation because once again, a lot of women come in who work out have like no breast tissue. Um she had breast tissue. It was sagging like you said. Uh obviously just putting an implant in there would not have solved the problem because then they would have sagged as well. Correct. So how do you do it? What kind of a minimal lift do you do on on on a case of curves? I call it the way I do it's like superior pedical h it's one of the technique that you you lift the breast and uh the scarring is slightly around the nipple and and you go down with a vertical incision down. So it's really the scarring is minimal. It's not as much as breast uh reduction in her case. You don't need to move the nipple or anything like that. Yeah. Yeah. You move you move the nipple you move the nipple up and then you take some um in her case small amount of skin also from below the nipple and then you suture it and then if you put the implant the implant gives it the fullness and it's a nice look after it but the scarring unfortunately you can't predict it everyone's different everyone is different but in this case of women I mean when they were Oh, a bathing suit. I mean, you don't see the scarring and and many time it is very well. Well, another great success case, Dr. BL. Congratulations and uh we'll be looking forward to more of these videos and see a couple more of your successful patients. Okay. Thanks a lot, babe. Okay. Bye. I'm standing over here with Michelle Bosow. We just heard her story and I wanted to ask you a couple personal questions because I know Dr. Blau for 25 years now. He's worked on me, you know, he's worked on all my friends and and people that I know. Okay. Uh, I want to know, were you happy with the with the work? Absolutely. I would definitely come back again. Would you recommend him to other people? I always do. I've been recommending to everybody that I know. He does great work. Would you would you actually do more stuff in the future? See, I I tell him, you better not retire because I'm afraid that I'm scared. That's what I always say to my mom. Please, he's got to stay around cuz God knows what I'm going to have done next. But yes, I will definitely have something else done. What was the What was of the whole process? What would you say was the the the part that made you the most at ease with with Dr. Blau? Um that he just listened to what I wanted and he was very understanding into everything that I wanted. And and I know Dr. Blau likes to not make promises, but he always overdelivers, it seems, doesn't it? I think he does great. He can overd deliver all he wants cuz my results I'm very happy with.