Dave Palumbo here with an RX Muscle quick hit. I'm here with 5% nutrition athlete Drew Bordon. And uh I I want to just talk to you a little bit about what went on with Rich Piana uh over these last two weeks. Obviously, this the tape was released um where Rich was using the N-word. He was, you know, berating the girl he was dating at the time. And you're a black bodybuilding athlete who works for Rich. Uh, you've known him a long time now. Um, what what is your opinion, Rich? I mean, you you volunteered to to sit here with me because I I thought it was important. I know you work for Rich. Do you think that Rich is a racist? No, I wouldn't be with 5%. I wouldn't be friends with Rich. I wouldn't be have any type of association if I thought he was 1% racist. Um, when I heard the video, it didn't really, believe it or not, didn't bother me too much because I know him as a person. If I didn't know who he was, like the audience out there, people that just see his videos, then maybe I'd feel a certain way. But I know him as a person. I've seen no signs of him being racist. Uh he's done more for me with 5% than the other companies have done in all the years. Um he's got black athletes. He's got people in the warehouse that's working that are black. I mean, I just look at it like he just got mad and said stuff he didn't mean. A lot of a lot of black people have contacted me, bodybuilders in our sport, and they feel that that word should never be used by anyone, especially of the of the white race, with white skin. They think that that's an offlimits word. Matter of fact, I saw a video Ice Cube was telling off Bill Maher on TV and he said, "Look, Bill, you guys don't own that word. We own that word now and and it should never be uttered by a white person because it it hurts. It it stabs us deep. It's a very hurtful word." I mean, do you feel the same way about that? I feel it's a hurtful word if I don't know the person personally, if it's used out of context. I mean, it's used so loosely in the hip-hop community or in the black community um that I don't really look at it um as being as bad as what everyone says it is. It doesn't affect you as like It doesn't affect me as much because um if I say I wish you were dead, to me that'd be a lot worse than calling you a racist uh a racial slur, right? So, I mean, at first from the outside looking in, it looks bad. When I first heard it, I was kind of, wow, you know, but I know him as a person, so I know he's not really like that. So, I mean, unless I have reason to believe otherwise. I mean, I'm just going to be honest with you. I'm going to keep my eyes open a little more now. Sure. When I wasn't before, but I mean, I don't think he's racist at all. I don't think he would do stuff for me and everybody else and be friends with everybody. And I mean, it just wouldn't make sense to me that he would be that way. Why did he bring you on board as an athlete? Um, I met Rich a few years back at Europa uh in Orlando. We talked a little bit, exchanged phone numbers I believe. And then once he moved to Tampa, where I'm from, I saw my powerhouse. We kind of like, "Hey, how you doing this and that? Let's get a video together." He didn't realize how much weight I could push and stuff. He kind of liked that. He looked at some of my videos, put a video together, and then next thing you know, we had a written contract. I looked it over, made some modifications, and it was a done deal. And ever since then, it's been it's been great. So, I mean, doesn't it's been good. It's been good. What could you say as a black American, you know, to maybe the people out there who are watching, you know, why they should forgive Rich? Why do you think that they should forgive Rich? Um, well, I don't whether they forgive him or not, that's their decision. But um the easiest way I can put it to the black community being a black male um a lot of times in the black community when it's only black people around if they get cut off by on the road by a white guy they may use a whole bunch of racial slurs and you know this white this this white guy that we don't in the black community we don't look at it as he's racist. We look at it he's mad at that guy and he so happens to be black. I see. But when it's changed around, when a white person uses the n-word, they could just say it one time and they could be mad and then all of a sudden they're racist. There's no going back or anything like that. So if I feel like if in the black community we could take that same approach and look at, okay, he's just mad at that guy. Let's look at his history. Let's look at his track record and figure out what exactly, you know, is he really like this or is he just mad? You're saying if he was a racist, he wouldn't have black people working for him then. Not only that, but I mean it's not just about him having black people work for him, him having black friends, him having black, you know, business partners or anything. I mean, if he was a racist, he would have a black guy working for him. Um, you know, taking out the trash that no one sees, you know, that no one, not, you know, guys that are on the team, athletes that are guys that are at the booth where everyone could see, right? Um, I feel that I know a few racist people, whether they're black or white, and I could there's a clear difference between someone that just says something. Um, I would take actions over their words a lot more than, you know, just the typical, oh, he said the n word, oh, he's racist. There's no going back. It's kind of, you know, honestly though, if someone on the street, I've never been called that. I don't know if it's because of my size. We have, you know, it might be something to do. Yeah, it might have something to do with it. But if someone calls me that, I mean, to be honest, those are kind of fighting words for me. Sure. But I mean, if I knew who the person was and I knew he wasn't like that or she wasn't like that and they said it to me, I would kind of overlook it and just know that they're mad. People don't know Rich personally, so now they're automatically looking for a reason to cut them off, you know? So, I mean, you have a much more enlightened view of the world. A lot of people are, you know, are not like that. A lot of people, especially black Americans, are very very touchy about that word. It it it those like you said, those are fighting words. You know, you use those words, I'm I'm I'm taking you down. Yeah. I mean, if I'm on the street, if I leave here today and I'm at the store or whatever, and someone calls me that. Yeah. Yeah. It's pretty bad. But I don't know who the guy is. So, what you're saying is the context is important. You can't just say if you use this word, that's it. We're throwing you in the you know, that's it. You're done. Yeah, you have you're saying that there has to be and look that's the that's the truth about everything in life. There's context behind it. Um if the person is not a racist, they're not a racist. If they use a word, it doesn't make them a racist necessarily less. It's part of their daily, you know, mindset. I mean, if there's a consistent pattern of them doing certain things or using racial terms or segregating themselves from certain, you know, ethnicities or whatever, then I could see it. But if it's just like, you know, I know people that have known have been, you know, 5% followers, whether they're fans of me or Rich or whoever, they have been there for years and years and years. They love Rich. They love him. He's a great guy. You know, he even comments on my pictures, this and that. And then he uses the word one time. Now it's like, oh, he's never again. So, it's like, if he never would have said that word, everyone would be fine with it. So why not go off of the stuff that he's doing for his athletes, the friends and stuff that he has as opposed to, you know, if I wish death upon you, to me that's fighting where it's way more than a racial slur. Yeah, you're right. I could be alive and be a racial term, but if I'm dead, I'm nothing. So it's kind of I don't know, goes both ways. If a black bodybuilder contacted you and said, "Hey, um, you know, I'm thinking about, you know, do you think I should work for Rich?" You know, what would you say? You know, would you recommend it? I mean, would you say he's a great guy? I mean, would you go to bat for rich if a guy asked you, you know, like let's say Phil Heath came up and said, "I want, you know, Rich offered me a contract. What do you think, you know, as a black man? Should should I do this after what was, you know, put out there?" I would, yeah, I would recommend. I wouldn't I wouldn't do it myself if I wouldn't recommend it for somebody else. So, I mean, I definitely would recommend it. I mean, I'm sure they've asked questions. I've gotten hundreds or more than emails and direct messages on social media or instant messages. Uh, why are you staying with 5%? How could you support a racist? This and that. And the thing is is I don't support a racist. I never have or never will. But rich isn't racist. So, I mean, he got mad and said stuff he didn't mean. If the guy was short and he said he with that short, you know that with that short no one would say, "Oh, he's, you know, well, look, it's kind of short people were enslaved, you know, in this country, you know, and to pick cotton and whipped with with whips." I mean, so there's a there's a history there with that word. But what I mean by that is not so much the history. He was just going off of what that person was. He was mad at that person. That's what they were. So that's what he used. I I I get it. Like I said, I'm I'm not judging anyone whether who's right or wrong. I'm just showing all sides. And I think it's important as a black. Yeah. As a black man that I mean, you're you're you're giving us your honest opinion and I respect that. And I know that you are going to be competing at the North American Championships in another month or so. So, uh are we going to see a pro card come from you this year? Hopefully. Um I just got with my coach. Uh I've been prepping for about two weeks now. My metabolism is pretty fast, so I don't really need to do that much. No cardio or anything like that, but um right now I'm about 295. I'm trying to tighten up a little bit. So, how tall are you? 63. All right. Well, hopefully we'll uh we'll get you back here under different terms and we'll talk about the pro card victory. That's the goal and celebration afterwards. Thanks for stopping by. All right. Thanks, Dave. Thanks for having me.