Be ru Tobani wins two years in a row in Dubai. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Beus Tabati, $140,000 richer, qualifies for the Olympia again. But the question is, will he make it to Las Vegas? I'm here with the technician Chris Aceto on this Sunday evening. I don't have my kids today, so we're knocking out the show today live. I know you guys love that. What do you think, Chris? Will Be Roose make it to the Olympia? And then after that we'll we'll analyze the show. Uh I don't think he'll make it to the Olympia. I would be very shocked if he did. I you know what what's Let's play this little clip from Sid Farooqi, our very own who was out there in Dubai doing a phenomenal job this weekend. There we go. What's going on here? I don't know. Hold on a second. having technical difficulties here. 25 Dubai Pro Champion Beeruse Tabani winning and winning in grand fashion. Peruse, what kind of a statement do you think you sent with this win tonight? Okay, I am so happy because I am as champion for second time in do show and this stage many Mr. Olympia and very hard and many Olympia qualified defeat William Bonak Mora Olympia last year Nathan Dasha the list goes on and Antonio Burton who's Olympia qualified so now the question is this should you get that visa and you're going to go to the Olympia what kind of a message do you feel as if this victory this physique sent to the top class of a Samson Sandouta of a Hadti Chupon of a Derek Lunsford and now what you proved you can do here tonight that you can do in October he wished to compete in Metro Olympia with top three for sure Hadi Dre and Samson but as a friendly he says that it will be big danger for everybody on the stage for sure. I love it. 2025 Dubai Pro Champion Beeruse Tabani winning and winning in grand fashion. What heard it there from our very own Sid. Why did he use a translator when he was speaking English to Sid? And I I don't maybe they were worried that he wasn't saying the right thing. I don't know. But I I thought he was he did very well actually. It's amazing that he's he you know it's funny because Beirus can speak English but Hottie Chopen can't and Hottie comes here a lot to the United States here to compete. Well when you win the Olympia I mean do you really that's his you know I would like I mean I think that hottie would be very popular here. People like him a lot. I don't know why he's not throwing it. Well yeah you're right but he's popular anyway. But you're right, if he spoke English, of course, it'd be more popular. Bay Ruse did a very smart thing to, you know, learning English like he did. Um, I just think with the the current state of the way it is, and I agree with you, Chris, I think it's going to be very difficult for for us to get him here uh for the October Olympia, unless something drastically changes, you know, between now and then. I guess the question becomes, does Hardy get his visa? Well, yeah. What do you think? You're you're a good predict. You're like the new Swami. What do you think? It will be harder this time than previous times. Yeah. You don't think the fact that he's already been here is going to kind of like grandfather him? No. You might be right. It would be a shame if we can't get the best athletes in the world here. I mean, Be Ruse, I don't think he's ever made it here, right? He has he has never been at the Olympia. No, it's it's I mean, of course, Hottie's unbelievable bodybuilder, you know, one of the in the last eight years, unequivocally, the most consistent in the last eight years or 10 years or whatever, but Beirus, you know, I mean, he's an unbelievable bodybuilder and, you know, he does he has not got a chance to I think the only reason why people don't talk about him more is simply because he's not been in the Olympia. So he hasn't had a chance to lay prejudge it and me ask you, "Well, what are you going to, you know, what place you have Beirus in?" Right. Right. You can't prove your medal 100% until you get a chance to stand next to Olympians because that is the, you know, cream of the crop. And there's always this weird asterric like, well, he's not really that good, but he is that good. Yeah. He's so good he won $140,000. No, he did it fairly. I mean, he did it if he did it in convincing fashion because if you look it's this is how good of a physique he has. If you look at him coming out and do his mandatories, he looks good. And when I saw a clip of him doing his mandatories, I said, "Yeah, he looks good." And I thought, you know, I I thought he was better than that. And then so by himself it didn't look nearly as impressive as when they compared him because when they compared him then you can see okay he he's really dangerous in a lot of poses for anyone. Yeah. Let's let's take a look at the top three here. That's William Bonak to his left Burton to his right. And we'll talk about the biggest freak in the show in a little bit. But let's go over this top three here. What wins it for Tamani in your in your estimation from this video? Width, back, double bicep width, front double bicep width, front lat spread, vtaper, no gut whatsoever. Yeah. Um hamstrings, glutes, back is balanced, traps, midback, lower back. Um he had a little bit of a tan problem at the prejud which he fixed at night. zone. Yeah. Really, you know, he's got big arms, crazy hamstrings from the side, everything that you need to be highly competitive at the Mr. Olympia, right? How how do how do you fit him into that whole Olympia lineup? If you have to, you know, you know, the guys competing, where would you say he fits? Is he Is he a top five guy? He's a top He's a first call out for sure. And it's just you you have to be able to evaluate him based on who he's standing next to. I mean, he's standing next to two great bodybuilders here. And I mean, these guys are not top five guys, you know. No, but Bonak was at one point, but probably not anymore. But if he, you know, to me, he handled wins. I mean, he was winning here. It's close though. I think Bonak looks really good here. Great. They both look great. Second and third were great. I'm just saying it was a good show. What's that? It was a very good show. They had a It was a very They were deep lineups in all the classes. The 212, the Men's Open, Classic, Men's Physique, everyone was It was packed. And I guess the prize money was the was one of the reasons why, right, Chris? Like we said, 140K. Yeah. For first place. It's bad. It's a great It's a great um It's a great way to uh qualify for the Olympia with $140,000 win. Yeah. 40% increase over last year's first place prize. Big jump. Before we break down the whole show, I want to just show all the winners. What do you think about um this can this new kid? He's amazing, right? Hold on. I don't know why I'm having problems with this. Is it Is it showing on your end? I don't know. I don't see the I think I may have to reboot my crowd. Uh let's see. You're talking about the kid that won the 212. He uh he looks uh everything you have you need to know about him is that um at first I forgot and I thought, "Wow, he looks really big and because I thought I was looking at a classic physique because he has classic lines. He has Dennis Newman shoulders and Yeah, Dennis Newman. Exactly. Shoulders and arms. He's got great legs. He's How does a 21-year-old kid get that m level of muscle maturity, Chris? He's he's he's uh he's going to be really really really dangerous at the Olympia because he does not have weaknesses and he has super clean lines, great flow. Um you won you won $40,000, too. Not too bad for a 21-year-old kid, right? You and I were starving college kids into when we were 21, you know. Well, he's he's taking it back to Turkey, which is probably like 140 US probably, right? Isn't it funny? Turkey does all the hair transplants, but none of the Turkish men even need hair transfers. They all have the best hair. The former bodybuilders from from from the US. Well, congratulations to him. He did was a big big win for him. I think he's gonna be a big star in the U. I think I think I think he he he deserved the win for sure. He looked I can't say enough good things about him, but uh Angel, it's hard to do two shows in a row. Reagan proved it. Uh Angel just proved it because Angel was blazing Peeled. Yeah. Week before at the Toronto or two weeks before, whatever. Hard to do backto-back shows. Yeah. And here he was in good shape, but not the condition that he brought to uh the Emperor show. You know, this this kid the hot has like some really really nice fresh looking muscle too that it's, you know, it really sticks out, right? Fresh muscle. Clean clean looking. Clean lines, you know, looks a lot bigger when he gets into the shot. Front double, back double. You think he I think he's going to be an open guy at some point, don't you? Yeah, he could do open. He'll do open at some He could do open at some point. Yeah, he'll definitely I mean he's he's only 21. He can grow into that division for sure. So assuming he doesn't get hurt, you know, you never know. Sometimes guys have problems like can they have injuries. Let's talk about see what's next. I have a few things on the agenda before I get to the whole breakdown of the show. Uh, I was in um Alabama this past weekend where they had the u body v1 classic and uh just throw up that picture. Find it. You trying to call up Michael Deull in the classic having problem. Well, I'll get to him in a second. This is uh Mahmud El Dra. You guys know him as El Dra. He is one of the more popular Arabic bodybuilders. He's got a crazy YouTube channel in Arabic. He's got over almost two million followers. He uh decided to come back. He had a very very bad back injury. I would say two years ago to the point where he had spondylosis. He his whole spine was shattered. And they told him, of course, he couldn't even walk. He couldn't feel his legs. And they told him he'll never bodybuild again. And his, you know, he started slowly building up again. And his kids, you know, son, 13-year-old son said, "I really want to see you compete." and he said, "Ah, let me see what I can do." You know, and he he was he was an open guy. He went down to the classic division and he's going to the Olympia. The guy won the classic division here. And he was really good. He was really good. Uh very impressive. And he'll be on that classic physique Olympia stage. Another another great guy. Congratulations to him. You will also um had a client who won a show in China. China. China, right? China. Yeah. China. Uh, China. China. You call him Branch. That's his nickname on Instagram. Let's pull him up here. Jen Kang. Jen Kang. He won uh what? He went Toronto. Was Toronto last week or two weeks ago? I don't even remember. Two weeks. It was the Yeah, it was the first weekend in the year. I see Keon is chiming in saying he shut that down. So he was giving him some good compliments. What did Cormier say? Look, Cormier is always like commenting on train. Looks good for a guy who says they don't know how to train. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Corm works for them. Yeah, I know. He was being sarcastic. He's got good He's got really good lines, you know. Yeah. Also good lines. Yeah. I mean, talking the the 212 winner from the Dubai this branch, they both got great lines. This This guy looks really young, too, is he? Dave, when I first met him, I thought he was like 16. He looks like Yeah, he looks like a kid to me. Yeah, he looks very young. I don't really know how old he is. He's got to be in his his 20s. There's no way he's any There's no way he's 30, this guy. So he wins again. What did he win at this show? How much money? I don't know what what they won over there. You know, isn't there some someone who know? Maybe somebody knows. I don't know what's anyone in the comments in the Phoenix Gallery now. I I know it wasn't 70,000 that Michael Deol won for one in the classic in Dubai. Who coaches Beirus? Milos. He he does his diet diet. Yeah. Milos. Milos. He's right on RX Muscle saying I love you, Milos. No, no, no. I know. I know Milos had some involvement with I didn't know if he was doing his diet and his training and everything. Oh, I don't I don't know the I don't know the I don't know the scope. All right. Um, let's go back to the Dubai show because that's where all the cash was this past weekend. And let's take a look at a the biggest freak on stage because I think a lot of people want to know what we think about him, Chris. And after all, he is Neckzilla, Rubil Mascara. He looks like he gained about 30 pounds last time we saw him. And it's mostly in his legs. Yeah, he he's the he has to be considered he is a freak of freaks. When I saw this video posted up on Instagram on on RX Muscle, I without seeing anyone else, I said this absolutely is the winner or fifth place. Yeah. And he was sixth by a point. So, he only missed the fifth placing by uh one point. And my my thought in that is that you either reward just absolutely zany body parts or you judge them against who I hadn't seen yet, the rest of the crew in the lineup where you're measuring everything outside of just body parts, you know, flow, condition, and he's just a he's so freaky here. It's it's it's unreal. You know, I said what I said to Chris was early and Chris agre, you know, agreed with me is that he looks like we wanted Ramy to look. When Ramy first hit the scene, Ramy was the biggest thing we said if man if he can get hard and get, you know, just get separated. He looks like like Ramy like sizewise and conditioning wise, but he doesn't have Ramy shape. Like Ramy was super wide and had had a better taper. Rubil's kind of a little narrow on top and and and it's like there's just like a conglomerate of body parts that doesn't necessarily flow as well as Ramy and I think that's where his his problem is. I don't know what he can do with this. I don't where do you see him going? I mean he can he I I think this guy can get bigger, Chris, which is scary. I wonder what he weighed to the show. Look at the ab shot, Dave. Just for a good ab shot. I know the ab shot was astounding. You see how his shoulders are a little, as Chris Cormier likes to say, he's a little pitched, you know, a little a little tight. You know, he doesn't have the greatest flow, but he's got flow to me. I mean, he's freaky. He'd win. He Dave, he could win so many pro shows. Oh, I know. I know. This is If if he pulled a sass and did six shows in six weeks, he'd probably win, you know, five of them. If he won this show, would anyone complain? No, because that we would just say like we love the freak. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like that's why I said fifth or first because he is a freak. I don't know if Lee Haney would like the physique, but you know, I mean, if you appreciate freaks, he is so crazy looking. I mean, the quads, the legs, the side tricep, the arm, the shoulder, he's nuts. We lost Dave. Hurricane is coming in. Come back. Come back. Now I'm trying. For some reason, my camera is just It's got a weird It's not resetting properly. I don't know what the problem is. It looks kind When you post something up and then you come back to your It's just I don't know. I just don't feel like I'm like looking where I'm supposed to look. Yeah. Yeah, I'd like to see an interview with him and sit and see see how he felt because that's uh it's a tough placing to get and you know he was in his best shape by miles and I and he even got bigger than he was previously. Yeah. You know, his leg his legs are outrageous. The Olympia crowd would just love to see him. That's for darn sure. They go nuts. I think he'll be a popular guy if he I hope I hope he continues to do a few more shows Chris to qualify for the Olympia because he can definitely do that for sure. Yeah. I don't you know it's weird because I think that what the problem is if you don't have him winning then you can't have him beat those top three guys, you know, but because it's like because what if you put him second? I mean then what what's the criteria you're judging him on? I I'd have to like talk to Steve Weinberger or someone and see what what don't you guys like about him, you know, other than the fact I'd love to know the answer because I didn't watch I wasn't there but I I saw the you know the pictures and you know like I said first or fifth I mean of course I would have Tobani once I saw Tobani he's not beaten Tobani's just got too much wow yeah the wow factor that the vtaper is impressive and you you know, and same thing goes with Bone Act. He's got some his own freakiness going on. So, and then of course, Antonio Burton looked blazing and phenomenal, just uh a better bodybuilder, you know, put together better than Nexilla. So, I mean, I I see the quote low placing. I I think that Rubio is probably very disappointed because let's face it, he I mean, he did a lot. He looked good. I mean, he was he put on size. He made improvements. He brought better conditioning. His posing was really good. He defin I don't know. Did Cormier help him? I know Chris was trying to help him, but so was ever helped him with his posing. His posing was very smooth. I thought it he looked very professional to me. I think he was I have AI have to believe that he was disappointed with sixth place. Yeah, because I think his all his handlers around him were probably telling him, "You got the show. This is yours. You're the biggest guy. You're the hard you're hard. You know, I don't know if it's the hardest guy, but he was hard." And uh you know, your presentation's good. No one's going to be bigger than you. You're going to go in there and dominate the show. You're going to win 140 grand. I'm sure in his mind, that's what he was thinking. And then to come out with sixth place, I I think it's got to be a huge disappointment to him. I I I really do. And I hope he doesn't take it too seriously because bodybuilding is bodybuilding and not everyone likes your physique and you know and you can do a show next week and you can win. So don't give up. Don't get discouraged. Rubil, I'm telling you, your day will come. The guy has got insane size. He should be in a freaking movie the way he looks. He looks like a monster from another planet. Well, the the Portugal shows in like a couple weeks, July 6th or 8th. So, right. I mean, he can go there. You're not going to have Bear Ruse. You you you're probably not going to have Antonio. You're probably not because he's qualified. You You may have the Sass of England. Well, Sass is from England. But yeah, seems like how how many shows has um Bonak done this year? Bonak may do that. Oh my god. Yeah, he's he's got he must have made a fortune this year in prize money. But if the if it's the interesting thing though, Dave, is if you minus out all those guys and let's just say it's a twoperson show, then you have Bonax standing directly next to Nexilla, right? And it changes the the, you know, the way you judge it a little bit, you know, because clearly one's they're both freaky in their own right, but one's even one's just like double the size. Well, the fle the flex weekend in the Italy is next weekend. Oh, that's the schedule. He can do that. But I got news for you. If I were Beirus Tobati, I would hit all these European shows because you might he might never get to compete again this year, I would do the the Italy show, I do the Mr. Big Evolution in Portugal the week after that. Dave, every week you say if I was then you say you would do every show. The truth is if you were pro bodybuilder you would you would have done you would have broken records. Milo no but I'm saying the reason I say this about Beirus is because Bay Roose is is is most likely not going to make it to the Olympian. You said conversation. Here's a conversation. If I was coaching you in a pro bodybuilder, you you do every show and I'd say, "Dave, maybe not the flex pro. You you your body's just hanging by a thread." You know, you tell me, "No, I can make pick up some prize money. If I don't, I can make connections for business." So, you do every single show. You're right. You're right. And you're right. You're right. What are you gonna say? It's a shame that uh that these Iranian body balls are going to have trouble getting to the Olympia and I just uh I don't have AI don't have a good feeling like you do, especially with what's going on in the world right now. Yeah, it's going to be very difficult for them to get in here. What about uh so second was uh let's talk about second third because I think they Well, you have Bodak and then you have Tonio Burton. So I mean I it was very close. I looked at the scorecards and Bonak wins by one point prejudging and uh won by two points after at the night show. So it was it was very close. It was like a three-point decision between those two guys. They looked they matched up really well actually to be honest. I think I think Bonak has a little more wow to his body. That's why he just I think he's got still more genuine thickness than Antonio. Although Antonio, you know, can create the Wellbox Well, he just he looks great. I mean, there's nothing out of all the physiques up there, there's nothing negative you can really say about his physique. No, about any of the poses. He's strong on all the poses, exceptional condition. just, you know, he is without a doubt the most polished guy in in that lineup. Burton, Tony Burton, most polished guy head to toe. He may not be the biggest guy in the lineup, but in terms of finish, not being flat, not holding water, the right tie-ins at the right places, the right separation, he's got Paul in spades. He's just not the biggest guy up there. That's all exactly. Um, some this I don't know if this guy knows what he's talking about, but you know, I hope he's right. He said, "I think Beirus is being sponsored by Panata. Panata is going to pay some lawyers to make it happen. I think Trump is an entertainer. Trump would like to invite Be Ruse and Hottie to the USA." I hope I hope that's true. I hope that's true. Uh, I mean there's a way, right? You know, there's a way because Hottie, you know, Hottie's got the exception and Hottie got the exception. He was not Mr. Olympia. No, no, not at all. But, but the things weren't going as bad as they are were going, you know, now. I mean, we just literally bombed the [\h__\h] out of them. So, I mean, there's going to be some bad blood there. And I don't think the Trump administration is going to trust too many people coming out of Iran, you know, coming. You may have to Dave interceded and and talk to uh who's a guy who you've had on the show. Which one? Roger Roger Stone. Oh, Roger Stone. Yeah, maybe Roger Stone can get him in here. Maybe Roger Stone, Rick Collins, and and King Kamali can No, Roger handle it all on his own. You think Roger can pull it off? You're probably right. You're probably right. Let's all Let's take a look at William Bonac. By the way, the all this video is compliments of our very own Sid Fruity who was there doing the live stream. We want to know from Sid, was the hotel he stayed at in uh Dubai? in Dubai nicer than the hotel you stayed at in Qatar? No, definitely not. I can guarantee that. I can guarantee that. I I want to see a guitar. Look, I think the Qar should get the Olympia, but if they don't, we should definitely see a Qar pro show. We got to talk to our friend over there and see if we can make that happen. It would be uh it would be in like a palace probably they would hold at the show. Let's see. What shows is Bone Act on? He did this show. I can't even remember. I don't even know all them. did New York. He did He was in the Arnold, wasn't he? He did. He did the Arnold. He's been just going, man. I think he realizes he doesn't have that many years left to be his best. And he figures, well, screw it. Let me let me do as many as I can now. I, you know, I'm I'm looking good. I feel good. I'm strong. My physique is is is is responding well. I think it's a very smart move on his part. Bingo Palumbo, we call it. do every show. He's pulling Milos is what he's pulling. Yeah. Right. Didn't Milos have like a like a streak for a while? Like he did every show for like three years or something like that? Every show. He has over a hundred shows done. You know how hard it is to do over a hundred shows? Yeah. That's insane. Bodybuilding is not like It's like It's not like you're playing a basketball game or something like that. It's it's it's a lot of it's a lot of stress on on the body. Darren Charles did a shitload. I think Darren Charles has probably got he's got to be up there pretty high with some of the most wins, too. And he's he did a lot of shows and he won a lot of shows, you know. Well, when you compete a lot and you got a good physique, you're bound to win a few. Yeah. I bump into Dan Darren Charles trains at the Dan Solins the Dan Borton Boka. Yeah. called Wolf Fitness. It was busy by I always run into every time I go to that place I run into Darren Charles. So he's like a like a top trainer there. He makes probably a fortune train all the all the all all the ladies there. He look and he still look he still looks like he's about 25. He's got that very young face. I was actually gonna say what's he still I'm sure he still looks young. How's it Oh, he's he's crazy. So, I was in uh Alabama with the Wack Pack. We had a very, very good weekend. I want to thank personally thank Michelle Prader who brought us in there. We had Jimmy the Bull, Greg Valentino, of course, Greg had to bring his girlfriend because he he can't travel alone. Romano drove there. Mr. G came. Larry Pollock was there. And who priest? No, Lee didn't come. Lee Lee, I think, is was is very upset that he didn't go, but hopefully if we can do it again next year, I'd love to get you there. You'll never be allowed to go. Lee Lee didn't want to hear didn't want to have to listen about Valentino's spleen. It's his gallbladder. Gallbladder. Don't give him any more problems than he has already. Actually, Gray was eating carbs. He was he was actually he he seemed like he was on like some kind of like like someone had put him on ader roll or something like that because he was very had a lot of energy this whole weekend. Well, he's probably just the Wack Pack in person. You know, it's funny that the show itself, the NPC show didn't have that many as many competitors as I would have liked to have seen. It was like only like 95 or something like that with cross office. But the pro show was topnotch. They had the men's physique was great. The the guy who won Ruben Glass, I I met him in another show. He's actually somehow related to Charles Glass. They're not really sure exactly how they're related. They know they're related. And he Chris this guy did. He competed in Kentucky on Friday night and won the pro show there. And then he drove to Montgomery, Alabama, and he won the pro show on on on Saturday night there. How How crazy is that? That's got to be some record winning two pro shows in the same weekend. That is crazy. That's so impressive. I said, 'The only thing that could eclipse that, Ruben, would be if you could win two pro shows on the same day. In other words, you know, do one of these shows where they do the whole show in the morning and then drive to the next show and and knock out the the next show. You can do that. There's a clause with the IRS. If you win two two pro shows on a weekend, you don't have to pay the taxes on Oh, there you go. There there was another guy there, Chris. The the irony of the whole story is that there was another guy who did the same thing, did both shows, except he came in second in both shows. I said, he probably thought he was going to get a chance to win a show and then you showed up at the at this show, too. I said, "Yeah, he he should have he should have cut the tires on the kid." So, yeah, that was that was great. And then I told you El Dra won the um he won the uh the classic physique and then there were two women's divisions. But it was it was a great weekend. I I I highly encourage people I I did a really good seminar on Friday night. Um I talked about longevity supplements and then I had the Wack Pack panel that we did. So and Michelle gives away a ton of free stuff to all the competitors. If you guys put it on your calendar for next year, the BodyB1 Classic, you can go to bodyblass.com and uh make sure you do that show next year. I'm telling you, you could have got a nice pro or I should say like USA or national qualification knocked out of the park right there. It's a great pro show to watch. Everyone interacts. It's a very intimate environment. You get to meet all me and all the crew. It's uh it's a lot of fun. I I had a lot of fun this weekend. And you know what? Uh there's not that many shows I can say where I I have a lot of fun. I have fun obviously when we go to the Arnold and the and the Olympia, but to be able to go someplace and hang out with all my friends and have a good time and actually talk bodybuilding and actually help all the competitors and you know once again all these people were able to talk and interact with us because we were just backstage hanging out and it was a small event and so it really went really well. So, and we had, by the way, we had a phenomenal dinner at Rella, which is a top matter of fact, Rella is an Italian restaurant, Chris, last year. I don't know, you probably don't remember the story, but we I was walking around with Lee Priest and Michelle, the promoter, and we were trying to figure out where to eat, and some guy comes running out of this this building, which was drostanolone, Rell, and he said, "Oh my god." He goes, "You look just like Lee Priest." Oh, yeah. Go ahead. I don't. I said to him, I said, "Well, if he is lead priest, you he get us a table because we're looking for some place to eat." He goes, "If he's lead priest, you're going to get a VIP table." And sure enough, he gave us the VIP upstairs table, which we didn't have last night, but but we had it when Lee was there. And we had a great dinner there. So, we had another great dinner Saturday night thanks compliments of Michelle. And uh, you know, I we had a little we had some Veno Viagra. We had some some wine. you know, get the Blackman bottle of wine and everyone had a good time. So, thank you, Michelle. And, uh, like I said, if you're in the area next year or you want to come do a good show, plan your your contest season, try to get to the uh to the Body V1 Classic in Montgomery, Alabama next year. That's my little back next year, Dave, for the third time. She says she is. Yeah, she's a glutton for punishment. She She wants to bring the whack back. It's the She's the only person I know who can get Greg Valentino and Jimmy the Bull to get on an airplane and actually go someplace. I'll play this little clip. This is classic Greg. Yeah. Here we go. See it? And I got a May Burger. We are in the only vegan restaurant in all of Montgomery, Alabama. What do you got there, Greg? It looks like meat. You're a meat eater, but that's not real meat. What is I'm a [\h__\h] diaper. The flee priest here be breaking my balls cuz now I'm going to have to eat this cuz that's [\h__\h] mushrooms and I don't eat mushrooms. I'll take your mushrooms. You want them? Yeah, I will. What is that? Is that Is that supposed to be a Philly cheese steak thing? That's what it's supposed to be. But it's not real meat. How's it taste though? Um, no. You like it? How's How's that? That's Greg's girl. So, so we also reenacted remember the scene in Bigger, Stronger, Faster where where Greg's eating that big piece of steak. Oh, yeah. It's like running down his face and he's talking about how Arnold is nowhere to be seen and Arnold, you know, is how come Arnold's not standing up for all the Well, he we reenacted the scene. We got him a huge t-bone steak and he was eating with his hands and he was talking about how Arnold did a great job on the view, you know, versus the the the Sunny Holston and Joy Behar and you know how he was they were talking about um immigrants and they were trying to get him to like side with the illegal immigrants and he said listen I'm an immigrant. I love the fact that I have all these responsibilities here, but it has to be done legally and immigrants have a onus of responsibility to give back to the country that gave them this opportunities and they shouldn't be doing negative things. And he really stood up for the, you know, he for the for the legalized uh immigration, you know, type of the people coming legally here and he uh he shocked the [\h__\h] out of those women. That's for sure. Whoopy gold blow a gasket. Yeah. Well, Sunny Holston was like putting her hand on his like shoulder like to try to like tell him stop, stop. And you know, Arnold doesn't you can't stop. Arnold's at an age where he doesn't give a [\h__\h] what he says. He's like he's like our fathers now. He just says whatever's on his mind. And uh you know, I think he he got a lot of new fans on this day. I look I never really was a ne I mean a lot of people thought when he said screw your freedoms, everyone got all down on him. He was taken I think he was taken out of context and be honestly I never really held that against him. I thought people really were kind of trying to cancel him. Well, he was he was if you look back in the frenzy of frenzies Yeah. making a statement based on the information that he was told and if you at the time it was essentially told to people if I got within six feet of Dave Palumbo and he had CO I'd definitely be dead him up you know. Yeah. Yeah. you know, so he had bad data. That's exactly what he had. You're 100% right. If you put it in that context, I understand his point. What he should have done is I I and I and I say this what I mean. He should have just gotten on social media and said, "You know what? I know you guys don't believe it, but I was first of all, I have bad information. I was just trying to help out, you know, the situation, and I I don't obviously I'm an immigrant. I I I freedom is the most important thing. Freedom of speech, freedom of this, freedom of that. Uh what I was saying is, you know, if you got to put a mask on, put a mask on. Stop [\h__\h] complaining, you know. But and you know what? Maybe I misspoke and maybe I I came off too. He should have just apologized and no, every everyone loves Arnold. I mean, well, if if if if you had like people dropping like flies, like it was implied people going to drop like flies, total numbers, then he would have been like right in that context, you know? Yeah. Yeah. But a lot of people were wrong because they But you know what? He should say I got bad information. And you know what? And I and I'm I'm embarrassed by the fact that I said that and if he did that, people would respect that. But I think a lot of celebrities have like this this they're afraid to admit they're wrong about anything. And and I think that when you admit you're wrong, because I do it a lot, you know, I' I've been wrong about things. And when you admit you're wrong and you go on the record and do it, people respect that because they see that you're a human being. We all make mistakes. We all say things we shouldn't say at one time or another. No one's perfect. And um I think that that would have made him seem much more personable to the average person because he does stand up for for rights and he does say stuff like where what he did on the view the other day and most of the time he does say the things that we're all thinking in our brains and and are afraid to say maybe. So you know what if you make a mistake once or in a while there's nothing wrong with saying you know what I screwed up. That's all. shoot me. You know what are you gonna do? All right. Um, someone says your uh your room looks like Hannibal Lecter's jail cell with all the drawings on the wall. All right. All right. Here. I don't know. I should You know what I did? I should have rebooted my computer before we started the show and it's I'm paying the price. Can you see me still? I can see you. You look like Go ahead. Yeah, I'm distorted. It's distorted, you know. No, I think I don't think you're that distorted. Are you? Yeah, I am. I am. The camera's You look like Now, give me give me your Give me your impression now. We're getting closer. We have a really good Everyone's pretty much qualified for the Olympia that who's going to be doing it, right? Everyone's got Olympia qualification. We have the Olympia coming in in in October, which is just around the corner now. And you know, the summer's going to fly. We're July, August, September. We got we got I mean guys are on there have started their contest diet, right? I mean are your guys all start dieting for the Olympia already? There's there's 12 people I'm coaching for the Olympia. Yeah. Are they all have they all started their diet dieting? I don't even dare because I'm just going to be so like well not overwhelmed but it's just it's AI can juggle three balls pretty good but I don't know about 12. Well you'll just have to get there two weeks before. We'll have to get permission from Monday. What? I'm going on Monday. Oh, you Chris is gonna have to get a visa from his wife though to go. That's the only problem. Which might be more difficult than getting one from Donald Trump. Yeah. My visa was rejected. And I say say how much the hotel bill for that Olympia. Oh, that that year I left like four months early. It was like $62,000. Oh my god. We should just I should just send a camera crew there and just film you for the Chris is going to be there the whole month of October. I told my son, you know, my my I told my son I said, "You have to go to help me. Can you get out of school like for a week?" What do you mean help you? And I said like believe just like can you be in charge of like Ubers and lifts just Chris doesn't know how to work the app. That's my idea. No, but it's it's too much for me like having to wait. Oh, so you needed you needed an assistant now is what you're saying to me. Yeah, I need an AI assistant. Yeah, you need one of those Optimus Prime robots that Elon Musk is, you know, I heard from somebody the other day and uh he's friends with Saserati and he when me and Sean Rhoden and Eduardo Carrera at the beginning of that tour, Jose was with us too, but it was extended with us three. Jose I mean uh Eduardo, me and Sean. was grueling back to back to backto back shows and we met someone in England. We were just so beat and tired. He was like our AI before they had had AI assistant like get us to the gym. We didn't have to think about anything, you know. Okay, food. Okay, we'll get the food here. You know, just ask him, we need to get to the gym, come pick us up, bring us to the gym. We need to go here. We need to go there. We need this. We need that tanning. And it just was made everything incredibly easy period of time when we were in England and I I still keep in touch with him. This is uh 13 years later which seems like yesterday. You need manager man is what you need. We don't manager man but I can't afford him because by the look well Jay would never let manager man go anyway. He's got him locked up I think and the commissions that he takes. I don't I can afford can't can't afford the commissions. I guess Oh my god. So, going into the Olympia this year, I mean, obviously you got a lot of horses in the race, but um what do you think we're going to see from Samson? We saw there's some footage of Samson at 330 pounds or something like that on the internet floating around now. Is that a good thing for him to be at at this point or is that is that a dangerous thing for him to be at? You know, in terms of like is he too heavy? Is he gonna have to diet too much? Is he going to be able to do diet that much given that he competed earlier this year? You know, you know, it seems like logical. You know, it seems like it would be like a logical starting spot. Um, you know, with the body, you just never know how it's going to react. So, I mean, you know, you could he could be, oh, he's, you know, five pounds over and not look as good as he's looked or he could be like 60 pounds over and people say he's too fat and look the best. So, I mean, you never, right? No, I don't know if you're 100% right. You know, and and if he stayed on over stage weight and everyone was critical of it and came in at his all-time best look like a fool, you know, 330 pounds right here, Chrisbs and came in at his all-time best. So, you never know. Yeah. I mean, you don't. He looks big there, though. You look like a monster. Yeah. Big arms. First thing I notice is the arm. Second thing is the chest. You know what the funny thing is? He doesn't look that much. He looks pretty hard here, too, doesn't he? He's got abs and everything like that. He does. It's funny. When he gets ready for a show, he doesn't get that much harder than he is in the offseason. I mean, some of the fattest bodies get peeled out of their minds and some of the people who don't get fat struggle to get really hard. If that is very he's got hamstrings curious and everything, you know, very illogical. It must be I I He must be frustrated because he's got so much muscle in the offseason and he's so big and he's and he's and and he's relatively lean too and then he he starts his contest diet and he's dropping all this weight and he's not really getting that much harder, you know. Well, I I think if you put it into perspective, you know, he's had to go up like at the Arnold against the all-time hardest and best Derek's ever been and then lost the Arnold the year before to the all-time hardest. So, if those guys were not in the show, we'd say this is his all-time best condition and the winner, right? No, you're right. 100%. So, I mean, it's like me seeing next and say, "This guy's got to win." And then I thought, "Well, maybe he'll be fifth." Without seeing anyone else. So, it's it's standing next to. If Samson can get even remotely close to what Rubio looked like in terms of conditioning, it would be lights out for everyone, I think. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, he's Well, can you imagine if he got hottie's condition? Well, that it's never gonna happen. That's never gonna happen. But I mean, Rubio wasn't like is is not Rubio doesn't have an unattainable level. Dave, if you listen to the internet, it can happen. It's just all he needs to do is like like follow high diet, fish and cardio, the Kevin Leon diet, fish and vegetables for for 12 weeks. Ke Kevin would add 20 pounds of muscle while I was doing that diet, too. Dave, you took the words right out of my mouth. We're really not kidding. That's the funny thing. I was just gonna say he'd grow on that. I like Kevin telling me he said he would he would not hallucinate, but his blood sugar level would drop so low from being on like nothing. It had to. Yeah. Had to that you like it didn't bother him. He probably because if your blood sugar level gets really low then you don't think of hunger anyway. No, you get you get almost a little high. You know, sometimes I get a little low in the morning like before I wake up, you know, um because I I'll take a long acting insulin at night and before bed and I wake up a little low and I test my blood sugar. I'm like 60 and I'm like holy mackerel. But you almost get a little high. I don't I don't get that hungry anymore. Valentino's when you when you walk around with very high blood sugars and then you go a little low like to 80 which is not really low. It's really kind of normal. You'll feel like you're at 40. You know what I mean? Yeah. When your blood sugars run normal, okay, and then you go a little low. Yeah. You might not feel it. You know, I can get away with 60 65 and I'm like, "Yeah, I'm a little hungry. I'm a little I'm a little shaky maybe, but not nothing where I'm like passing out." If you put someone who's got high blood sugars and then you put you get put them down to 80 75, they're gonna think that they're at at zero. They're they're gonna be like because their body is not used to being that low blood sugar. So you you basically get used to high blood sugars, which is not good because it's almost like that's the only thing that makes you feel normal. Yeah. And unfortunately that's when you're getting all the side effects with it. So you really don't want to do that. You know, it's uh it's not uh it's not conducive to being very healthy. put it that way. And you know the problem with high blood sugars is also it's not just the high blood sugar that causes the problems but that's people with high blood sugars have a higher incidence of coronary artery disease. They have a higher incidence of chronic inflammatory diseases autoimmune diseases like anything that if you have too much sugar in your blood all the time it can and it can be 10 points high it predisposes you to other illnesses and that's that's the problem really. Cindro max you know I don't have a problem with high blood sugar level I just have probably high because you fast that's why you're a faster Chris eats like maybe one meal a day so the most of the days fasting so you you'll probably live to 130 with that methodology going I'll be 130 David I'll say you know the body bill is back in 2023 the shape was better than what's Yeah. Yeah. But um no, I'm I'm excited. The season's getting good. I mean, Dubai was a success. I'm sure Bader will even get more money now from the Dubai uh tourism board there, and he'll I bet they'll raise the prize money to 200 grand next year. The question, Chris, is and I know we've talked about this before, but I'm going to put you on the spot again. What will Jake Wood raise the prize money to at the Olympia this year? Do you have a number you want to put on the record? 50. Arnold 750 for 2026. Will he go higher than that? Well, I'm sure he's talked about a million that I will tell you. You think they've had that discussion? Yeah. Okay. Entered the discussion that they're guaranteed. They're trying to the numbers out how that works. Uh they would like to do 100. Guaranteed. Guaranteed. The problem with the Olympia is that you mentioned the guy did two shows, right? He won a show on Friday, drove to another show on Saturday. Jake should be happy about that because now he's got to fly one guy. There's one less guy he's got to fly out there, right? He'd have to fly the other guy to the Olympia. So, what I'm getting at is that the costs, the outgoing costs to run the Olympia is kind of like a a weight that keeps it from, you know, having the announcement we're doing 1 million. Well, they got to see how much money they make. I'm Look, they've already, I think, sold out all the tickets. So, no, I know that they've sold out. Someone asked me today, can you get tickets? And I'm like, no. And they were like surprised, you can't get tickets. No one can get tickets. It's sold out. Um, which there may be some places where you can write some website or something. I'm not sure, but I'm sure you can get them bootleg. I'm sure you can buy like scalpers are selling those tickets. The two limiting factors on the 1 million, which I'm Jake wants to give, is that the theater is limiting because it can only hold so many. And I think that's a mistake to have it in a smaller theater. I think they should have it. Uh I think if they had it at the Orleans and sold 10,000 tickets, 10,000 people would come. Um even though the seats aren't quote as good. And then the outlay of course is astronomical with the number of people who qualify for the show you know which is very very different than you know Dubai you know how many athletes do you have which you know is different from Pittsburgh which was an incredible lineup but they had like I don't know how many open guys 10 not you know you know and in classic they might have had like 17. I don't know. But at the Olympia, you're you're paying for God, how many people in for the classic Olympia? 60 maybe. I don't know. It's it's an insane amount of people. Yeah. Funny, Dave, the growth of the sport is in terms of total number of compet competitions, pro shows is straight up. But it kind of puts a lid on the prize money for the Super Bowl of Body Olympia simply because you know you have this how many different ways to qualify in bikini and men's physique in open bodybuilding in 212 bodybuilding in wellness you know all the classes have to be you know with the winners have to be flown in. Yeah, you're right. You're right. I think they should um look I've said it before I think that Jake should say you know what I can't finance everyone top 10 get reimbursed for their hotel and flight the anyone out of the top 10 pays their own way that's that will recoup so much money to be able to put towards prize money that's got to be right there ridicial I think I think fair is you know I think that's a little brutal right off. But I think like top 15 in the classic, top 15 in bikini, top, you know, just take top 15, start with that. We we'll pay all your expenses, you know, your your flight, your food, whatever, you know, pdeium plus the hotel and then see where that go. I mean, you're still qualified for the Olympia just because you you could have got 17th one year and one approach and 17th and you go again and then all of a sudden you make a big leap and you're in the top 15 and this time you get your your expenses paid. Yeah. Whatever. There's got to be some there's got to be an elimination. long as so long as the caveat is though I think that'd be a good idea if it's put back into the prize money for not only the people winning the show but maybe spread that out to you know it's great that the guy who wins a show at at the Arnold 500 this year but what about 10th place you know they give away they give away nice prize packages for the for the top yeah I mean it down you classic. And look, it's the Super Bowl. Not every not everyone should get paid. All right. The fact that you made it there is great, but if you want, they should. I personally, this is what I would do if I were Jake because I want to make this thing. This is We're talking about it's a business, right? Yes, it's a passion project, too, but it's a business. Top three get prize money. Okay. Top 10 get like some kind of medals or something like that or whatever you want to give them. or maybe get some get some companies to put up some some free free stuff. I don't know if what you want to give them, but top three first. It should be like the Olympics, gold, silver, bronze. You can give away a shitload of money to those top three guys. It is the Super Bowl. It's not the little league world, you know, uh, no way. World championships, regional championships this way. And you can pay for the top 10's hotel, airfare, and food. Wait, that's [\h__\h] prize money. I don't care. It's the Olympian. Why does everyone have to get prize money? I don't understand it. Why? So, because it's professional bodybuilding. Yeah. Well, good. You won money in the Everyone who made it to Olympia won a pro show and they won money to to get to the pro show to get to the Olympia. You didn't actually, let's be honest. You could win. You could be at you could you could be ninth at the Classic Olympia. You could have won a pro show, won $2,000, and to get to that pro show, your expenses to get there that weekend were $4,000. So, you're down. They picked the wrong pro show. What do you want me to tell you? I thought you know what? If you if you did such a shitty little pro show and you had to spend all that money, you're probably not going to place top three at the Olympia anyway. May maybe it's not a professional sport after all. If you're going to the biggest bodybuilding show on the planet and you get fifth place, no prize. Are you saying no prize money for fifth? I'm giving top three only. That's what I would do. There's too many divisions. I want to give away a lot of money. I'm going to give a million. I'm going to give a million to first place. I'm going to give 250 or 300 for second and I'm going to give 125 for third. And I'm going to do that for, you know, the classic physique division as well. And zero fourth. What? And zero for fourth. Zero for fourth. This way I don't have to I can take all that money and I can give it to the other division. So I can I can bring classic 212. I could bring all those guys up to par with the other divisions. If you were fifth place at the Olympia, fifth on the planet in any division and you didn't get paid, I think you feel different. Sorry. Sorry. Use that use that placing to to to make your own money. This is not We don't Everyone doesn't get a medal here, Chris. I That's just my my belief. Now, if there was only one division of bodybuilding and one division of women's bodybuilding, I'm all for giving more prize money. But we have like all these divisions. We can't give it. It's Look, you know what? If it wasn't for Jake Wood, there would be no Olivia. No one in their right mind would [\h__\h] up all that money for for that much show. Jake, this is a passion project for Jake. And you know what? He's trying to keep alive. There's no business model for this. You can't I'm not I'm not sucking up to Jake and saying if there was no Jakewood, there'd be no Mr. Olympia. Thousand% guaranteed there'd be Mr. Olympia. No, it would. Things would change a lot though. It would not be doing it the way they're doing it now. It's not a viable business right now. It's not. That's that why do you know the numbers? I know that there's no way he's making money and he's got to be losing a lot of money on this. Well, you can you and I can sit down and figure the money the numbers out. You know how expensive that hotel is? No, the sponsorship. I mean, the hotel alone is is a fortune. Any b any business doesn't have killer numbers unless you're selling drugs or you know gambling business, drug business. Maybe if you're selling cigarettes, you have Philip Morris at the margins. Any business I remember talking to Wayne D'Amelia and he was giving me the numbers when he used to run the Olympia. They only had you know so many divisions back then. Now they have doubled double or triple the amount of divisions and everything's more expensive now from hotels to airfare to food. Saddam had weapons of mass destruction before I trusted the numbers from and they're giving out more prize money. How could he make money on this? It's impossible. It's impossible. Well, it's it's it's not a hobby. So, he is making money. But I will not say that bodybuilders who are fourth, fifth, and sixth at the Mr. Olympia should not be paid well. Well, then then don't expect the prize money to go up too much because otherwise he where's the money coming from? I'm saying if you I'm just saying if if if the goal is to raise the prize money to give a million away to the first place guy, maybe 750 to the classic guy, and 500,000 to the men's physique guy. The only way to do that is to take is is to just give top three money. That's all. Can can you imagine the guy who got fourth and after prejudging Steven Tyler had him second, then he drops to fifth and they say, "You know what? You look like crap on the second night we gave. He blew it then. You blew it. That's all. It's the Olympia. It's a Super Bowl. If If you don't if the quarterback for the Super Bowl team, one of the two bowl teams has an off day and he throws for 10 interceptions. Okay. Then they don't win and they don't make any money. Only the team that wins gets paid. Yeah. You it it's um I'm not comparing it to the Super Bowl, but funny. It is. It's our Super Bowl. So why why does it why do we have to give everyone the [\h__\h] participation check? I don't understand it. It's they earned they they earned it. And you know what? Without guys 1 through 10 in the Olympia, Jake wouldn't have a show. I I agree with that. But you know what? You want to you want to give away big money. That's how you do it. You you give it to only three people like the Olympics do. Well, you silver farms. they, you know, frankly, the the Olympia, while I'm on the topic of money, the Olympia live cast is just I mean, does that add a lot of value? It it it could it could add a lot of value, but I think the production value of it or or the the level of interest in it other getting to see when you're sitting at your house in in uh Michigan or France and you get to watch the prejudging, right, there's a lot to be there's a lot left on the table in terms of uh the experience. Let's just say that. So, there's revenue that could be created from that. Sure. I just I just will always put the athletes first and I'm I'm not worried about I just look I look I'm I'm want to see these guys make money, but I'm just I'm being realistic. I want to see big big prize money. And I'm thinking it's the Olympia. Why do we have to Why do we have to give everyone a check? I don't I don't get it. I'm I'm just not understanding why why everyone is entitled to a check. Jake. And why does Jake have to give them the check? I don't understand why the guy who wrote who's who's the promoter of the Olympia has to pay these guys. It doesn't make sense to me. They should have deals with their own sponsors that say, "Hey, if I make it to the Olympia, I get a bonus check. That's all." Jake has to give them the money because Jake's the one who sells the tickets and Jake's the one who collects the checks from the sponsors. Right. But the but the the people are coming to the show for for the best guys. Jake wants to give up the Olympia. Somebody else will step in. Guaranteed. I'm sure someone will, but you're not gonna no one's going to give away money and and lose their shirt on a show because I don't think there's a lot of people out there that have enough money that that would be willing to do that. Now, if if someone can come up with a big-time sponsor like Ford Mustang or something like that or like, you know, BMW and they can step up and they're going to put a million a couple million bucks into the kitty, that's a different story. So, there's really two options. You got to get a major sponsor to underwrite this whole thing or or you're going to have to you're gonna have to cut back some of the prize money on some of the other places. That I mean that's my solution. It might not be the right solution. I'm just throwing it out there. That's what I think is the solution. I I look I love the I want the athletes to make as much money as possible, but I also want the show to be a viable show that's going to continue on and on and on because it has a it has a legs of its own. But if at some point it keeps draining bank accounts, people are not gonna want to hold it anymore. The other option we talked about is is to go to another country and bid it out. Let let someone else run it. Jake does not want to hold it, that's his choice. And if some if you know, if Jake does not want to hold it, you're not looking for 90 different people to to bid on it or to take it over. You only need one. It's like selling a house for $30 million. It's not marketed to 300,000 people. The $50 million house is only marketed to a select few who can afford to buy it. So, if Jake was not doing the show, I will guarantee you that somebody will step up and buy that show and take that show and be forced to increase the prize money because his competitor Arnold, even though he only has 10 people in the show, 10, 10, and 10 or whatever it is, 30 total people, they will step up and they will have to offer prize money that's comparable, if not better. Actually, not comparable, but better than the Arnold. That's why I said they're contemplating. I'm sure $1 million been bantered around. Can they do it? I don't know because I don't know their numbers. But you know what? If they don't match the Arnold prize money, then it is not the most pre prestigious show of the year. The most prestigious show. And the athletes will show you that. They will go by voting. If Beta had $900,000 at this show, you would see every single guy. Hottie would do it. Derek would do it. Yes, would do it. Martin Fitzwwater, Andrew Jack. Uh, every single person would do it if Beta was handing out 900 grand this year. And and if he does do that in the future at some point, it would make sense to for them to bring the Olympia over to the Middle East because obviously that would imply that there is money there to put up for the prize money for all these placings. You know, if you notice didn't hold any women's divisions there. They were all men's divisions. I'm saying is the the athletes will decide what the most prestigious show is and they will decide by showing up, right? But it's going to be based on prize money. You said it right from the beginning. You were 100% right. I I with with the opposing trunks, meaning they will show up at the show and make that the most prestigious show simply based on the prize money. You can have the Olympia, you can have the Arnold. They really ultimately they have a strong meaning there's because there's a history behind them and there's people behind them and there's I mean there's previous champions behind them but to the athletes it does not matter. They will chase the prize money and you will see that look at look at 100 140 here. Um, I'm stunned a lot of people didn't go classic guys go to Dubai for the 70 grand that Michael Dubul won. Congrat Michael. Smart move. But, uh, yeah, money talks. That's the end. That's that's at the end of the day. Uh, money talks. And so we'll we'll we'll we will be revisiting this conversation when Jake makes the announcement because they will not be keeping the the Olympia prize money where it is now. They can't. There's Michael Dubul, by the way, but I don't want to not I don't want to stiff him on his uh he put a lot of size on when I saw him. I ran into him at the in the in the Arnold Classic and he was in that show and I ran into him. We were talking in the lobby and uh he say put a ton of size on. So yeah, he looked great here. He looked fantastic. Uh I I think this is the best he has ever looked. And that's not because uh other people, you know, when I say like, well, sometimes you got to you don't know you stand next to other people. I think this look he didn't really need to stand next to other people. No. No. He's very polished. Great. Talk about tan presentation. He's got it all. And I think that uh he definitely deserved this victory. So, good job. that. But going back to what I'm saying is I I think that the only viable solution long term for the Olympia is to bid it out like Joe used to do, Joe Weider used to do to different countries that are willing to put up and and put it say, "Listen, if you want to hold this show, you got to give this minimum of prize money out and make it a million dollars for first place." And I'm telling you, these Middle Eastern countries will do it. Saudi Arabia, the Dubai, Qatar. There's plenty of these countries that love love love bodybuilding and they're good destination places now. They're they're tourism cities. Dubai is awesome. Qatar is awesome. I've never been to Saudi Arabia. I imagine it's probably beautiful, too. There's plenty of places you can go and and make it a destination Olympia. And you know what? It can go from losing money one year, now all of a sudden the athletes getting paid and and Jake's, you know, making some cash on that show. So, that's what I would do. But, you know, I don't own the Olympia, so it doesn't really matter what I think, right? All I know is that we're going to have a spectacular lineup this year with all the guys that have qualified. Hopefully, Rubio Mascara will do the show next week in Italy, and I'd love to see him qualify because uh we need to see that big freakazoid on an Olympia stage for sure. They're gonna love it in Italy, you know. Oh, yeah. They'll go crazy for him there. Yeah. Crazy. If he doesn't win in Italy, he can go to Portugal and Right. Yeah. He's got a few He's got a few chances still left, so there's there's no reason to say, right? You know, write this season off, but this was I guess this was his debut, right? This was his pro debut this I mean his um his debut this year. And uh I'm sure he's got a lot left in the tank. I would hit the next couple shows. What? Win, lose, or draw. If you win, I would Rubial, I would still go do another show. You need stage experience. I think that's going to be good for you. So, congratulations on the sixth place. I know you're not happy with it, but I think we're going to see Rubio move up that ladder pretty quickly. But for now, we are out of time. I want to thank you guys for joining us live as always. And as we say every week with Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. We'll see you again next week.