The question is, can you mix Masteron and Equipoise in the same cycle? Will they counteract each other? Is it is it contraindicated? A lot of people seem to think that you can't do it together. Find out what I think now. Heat. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RX Television, RXMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Whatever's on your mind, be it in bodybuilding or nonbodybuilding diet, training, supplementation, this is your forum to ask Dave whatever is on your mind. We go right into the questions. The first two questions on this show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. I don't understand how I'm supposed to do eight sets of bench press and a power phase workout that's in your app. Which sets are to failure? >> Good question. And uh this does come from the Day Plum Experience app. It's an app that you can download for your Android or your iTunes or Apple, you know, iPhone. It's $29 a month. get everything I've ever written, everything I've ever done in video in a nice coherent like library. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum where you can get everyone's see everyone's questions and everyone's answers, which is a really great learning experience. I used to love that back in the day when I would read Muscle Media 2000. I'd read the Q&As's. I thought that was amazing because sometimes you don't even think of the questions you want. I also put all my workouts and uh offseason pre-contest. I put all the cycles we do, beginners, advanced, men, women, offseason, pre everything's there. My keto diet's there. But one of the the workouts I put up there is my call my power phase. So during your offseason for about six to eight weeks, you can do this power phase. It's a it's a very it's it's basically all free weight movements, the basic movements, and it's a lot of sets of them because you're not doing all the little in the little accutrants, as I say, that go along with it. So you go to the gym and you do eight sets of squats. That's right. So, you start, let's say, let's say you're a 405 bench squatter. I would start with, you know, 135, work up to, you know, 185, you know, 225, 265, 315, you know, uh, 365, 405, you know, that would be a seven set. And then maybe do as a last set a drop down to 315, you know. So, your your second to last set, which would be the heavy set, would be to complete failure, obviously. And then you'd want to like just nail a last set that's a little lighter to failure as well. So the last two sets are really the failure. The other two sets are building up to, but you're still getting obviously something out of it. Um it's it's just a way to really focus down on what you need to do. The lighter sets, obviously you want to make sure you're doing full range of motion, controlling the eccentric or the negative portion of the movement to really develop those leg muscles that that are maybe lacking in in your in your program. And we do that with everything with bench incline bench pressing. We have a lot of sense of that on that on that power phase workout. Same thing for back bent rows, deadlifts. You want to focus on building mass and there are certain movements, free weight movements that that do that. And there's no reason to do all the little exercises with the with the uh with the with the machines because that's not really going to help you out. Now, obviously, they they assist, but I like to for about six to eight weeks really focus down on the free weight movements. I I find that people make some really good gains like that. Second question, again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. What do you think of training Monday through Friday with Saturday and Sunday off? You know, I used to do that all the time because uh I, you know, I had, you know, it was just too busy on the weekends with the kids and everything like that. And and I f I found it worked fine off when I was competing. I liked to do no more than three days in a row. So, I would do three days on, one day off, two days on, one day off. That was a and that's pretty much what I do now. But if I'm traveling, I might sometimes work out six days in a row and then take four days off because I I'm gonna be like I'm gonna be in India. I haven't worked out. I was in Hershey PA. I haven't worked out in a whole week. This is my like I'm taking a break. I usually Dave Plumb doesn't take a break, but I I hurt my shoulder a little bit anyway the other day. So, I'm taking a force break. But normally I I do like to break it up. But like I said, if you have a busy schedule and it's the only way you can do it, you do five days in a row and you take your two days off. That's it works fine. I mean, like, as long as you're getting two days of rest per week, I think you're fine. >> Dave, you want to tell the fans a little bit more about the Dave Palumbo Experience app, those who have not yet installed it. >> Well, yeah. I I said mentioned it earlier. I said if you want to if you want to download it, you go to your iTunes store or Android store. You download that app. It's $29 a month. It's like you got me as a coach in your back pocket. The good thing is I'm always putting new content up there. Matter of fact, I do a Q&A video just like we're doing now exclusively for the app members every single week. So even if I miss a week, I'll you'll get two the next week. We do it every it's a learning experience and I wish I had coming up someone who I looked up to like a Scott Connelly or Bill Phillips that would have had an app like this. I would have I would have subscribed. I would have been ravenous on this because you can never learn too much and we're always adding new stuff to this. So, it's like a and it's a even if it's stuff that you've already heard repetitively, it reinforces those concepts into your head and it's a way to constantly keep yourself sharp and knowing this information, especially if you're a coach. It's great if you're a coach. Before we go to the rest of our questions, our friends at Titan Medical Center, we don't have a sale specifically this week, but a reminder again, they're big supporters of the channel. They have all their custom IV therapies. They have a whole new online blood work therap blood work panel rather available now. Uh go them go to the website titanmedicalcenter.com or give them a call mention RX Muscle Dave Palumbo and they will hook you up. We go to the rest of our questions from our social media platforms more specifically from our uh YouTube community page. Again that's a tab where we're really trying to engage with our audience more. Obviously, we have our weekly shows after hours, Heavy Muscle Radio. Um, we're trying to do more on the post end, on the tab end, just as far as directly communicating with our audience. And of course, with the Olympia coming up, we'll do a lot more content there, a lot more polls, a lot more interactive features. Uh, I've asked this before, so this is a fairly recent question, but I don't think it came across the way that I wanted to. What is the benefit of using a peed combo of test base EQ and mastron? Isn't the usage of EQ and mass in the same sack a bit contradictory? EQ for size, fullness, but mast is more for hardening. What ratio dosages would you recommend? >> You know, I I've said this a lot and I think it's important to to to reiterate. There are no drugs that do certain things. Anabolic steroids all build muscle, okay? And they all had do it with varying side effects. Okay, the most potent anabolic steroid, which is testosterone, builds muscle the greatest. It's the most anabolic of all them, but also has the most side effects, the most androgenic side effects that go along with it. It can aromatize to tes to estrogen. It can it can, you know, convert via the five alpha reductase enzyme to DHT, dihydrotestosterone. So there there are side effects, but it's also the most potent. So we always try to stack when we stack two drugs or more, we always use testosterone obviously and then we try to figure out what else do we want to use. Well, all these other anabolics have different qualities about them. EQ happens to be a really good muscle builder. It seems to stack well with testosterone. It builds muscle real good. Um Nasseron, you know, is is less anabolic than EQ, okay? In the sense that you're going to build less muscle from it, but it has less side effects, too. And it also has an estrogen receptor blocking effect. So it kind of keeps you a little drier. So a lot of people like to use Masteron around contest time because they feel drier on it. Whereas in the offseason they don't necessarily need that dryness and sometimes you know not blocking estrogen and having more estrogen available is is is a more potent anabolic you know effect because we know that estrogen sensitizes androgen receptors. So you don't want to annihilate estrogen in the offseason because that will inhibit your ability to grow. So a lot of times people don't use mastron with in the offseason but I don't see any problem with it because they all drugs build muscle. So, you want to stack testosterone with something else. The something else is really not the important thing. It's the testosterone. But when you put two drugs together, they synergize each other, meaning they work together to create a greater effect than if you just had one drug and you increase the dosage of it. So, I like to switch them. So, I might do testosterone and EQ for eight weeks, six, eight weeks. I might do then testosterone and treninate. I might switch to to testosterone and mastron or testosterone and deca. And I keep mixing it up. So the body the the androgen receptors are getting a different look every single every six to eight weeks because if you do the same thing over and over and over again your body kind of gets used to it. It'll still grow but it but it gets used to it. So I like to switch them up. There's no drug that you can't mix together. In other words, there's no nothing where you take these two drugs and and you don't get any muscle growth from it and it stops the muscle growth. Uh so when people say hardening versus leaning versus bulking, these drugs don't do that. They just build and repair muscle. And some of them have other properties that might, like I said, they might block estrogen receptors. They might be they might increase red blood cells more. Uh, Deca has the anti-inflammatory effect on the joints. So, but they all build and repair muscle. That's all they do. They don't get you leaner. Okay? And you know, GH, clutterol, T3, those get you leaner, but anabolics repair and rebuild muscle. >> Uh, again, we mentioned the fact last week that you're going to be in India. You're actually leaving tomorrow. So, a few of our friends have been asking uh as far as what your itinerary is, what cities you're going to go to, and when you're going to be there. So, you're flying out tomorrow if you want to give the audience for our fans in India a taste of what they can expect over the next four or five days. I >> I don't even know to be honest with you. I'm going to be in New Delhi on uh I guess I get there Friday and I'll be doing an appearance on the 2nd of August. Then I fly to Hyereabad which I'll be in for two days as well. On the fourth I'll be doing an appearance there. Uh I'll be there with Alpha Elite which is my exclusive distributor in India. They only carry the best of the best. That's why they came to species nutrition. They said look we are the highest brand or the highest you know quality brand in America. That's what you know we want to put into India. And I said hey this is a match made in heaven. This is exactly what I wanted. I want someone who appreciates the fact that we have the best quality products and uh we that's so we've been working on this arrangement for two years. India is very hard to get into legally. A lot of people are illegally in there but we did all the paperwork. We tested everything you know with the with the Indian government and everything's been approved. We're good. And if you if you ever have any concern of whether what I say is in there is in there, talk to the Indian government. They tested five five items of every single product that I make of every skew to for to make sure the potency is up to snuff and actually we're above you're above you know we're above the the potency. So we underestimate because I want to make sure that when I take my products they're the best of the best and I want to make sure that when you take them they're the best of the best. So yes we will be in India. I don't know what we'll be filming there. I I know a lot of the Indian fans are going to come and meet us at the two locations, but I'm sure I think we have a videographer who's in India who's going to film us a little bit and uh and kind of document what I'm going to be doing over there. >> Yeah, we're working on finalizing a videographer. So, from what we've been told as far as Dave's tenative schedule is going to include when he goes to New Delhi, he is going to be giving a keynote speech as far as species launching in India. But then also later in the day, he's going to be giving a seminar. So be it nutrition advice, training advice, diet advice like he does every week right here on this show but uh in person and for his fans in India. So what we'll do is when we have the final itinerary we'll post it both on RX Muscles Instagram as well as species and you'll have it all laid out for you. It's going to be in New Delhi as well as Hyderabad. Question about collagen protein. I mean the question is specific to lifters. I mean I'll extrapolate that out to bodybuilders. your thoughts on collagen protein adding that to their diet. >> Look, you know, I I I hate when I have to do these videos because I don't want to foo, you know, all these collagen products out there. You know, they do what they I guess they they do what they say in the sense that they're providing protein in the form of collagen amino acids to help repair, you know, tissue. But collagen protein is basically just crappy powdered protein. The best quality protein is whey isolate. Okay. What does your body do with the whey isolate? What does your body do with the whey isolate? You know, once you ingest it, it breaks it down. It digests it into into individual amino acids, tri and tripeptides. And when it does that, it uses those those those diet tripeptides and amino acids to reynthesize protein, connective tissue, everything that uses amino acids. So taking a collagen protein, which is kind of an inferior source of protein and a cheap protein, is really not as good as just taking a good whey isolate. So I'm not a big fan of of collagen proteins, although I know it's gimmicky because a lot of people want something for their hair, nails, skin, and oh, I I got to take this collagen protein and and that's what the collagen that's what the protein in in the hair, nails, and skin are made of. But at the same time, just if you notice, if you increase your protein intake in your diet, your hair, nails, and skin grow more. Why? because you're giving your body more amino acids and more protein to do that. >> Uh question about we do get a lot of these questions as far as dieting and training, more specifically training heading into a show. Um is there a possibility for gaining quote unquote new muscle or at a minimum? Uh could training impact the way the muscles look over the span of your diet or is the training primarily for muscle preservation? I'm assuming what they're talking about is that period of time two, three, four weeks out from a show. >> You know, it's interesting. I I noticed that when younger guys diet for competitions, they seem to be able to add muscle while they're dieting. And I don't know if it's because they're young or it's because they really haven't used anabolic steroids very much and so their bodies are still, you know, hyper respponding to the stuff. I think it's because they're young and they're still in their growth stage. Uh, I I definitely increased some size, you know, in some of my contest preps. You know, I when I competed in 94, I competed at 228 pounds. A year and a half later, when I did the Junior Nationals, it wasn't even a year and a half, it was like a year and a few months later, um, I competed at 30 30 pounds of muscle more. 30, not not three, 30. So, I was 258 at the Junior Nationals the following year, which was about 14 months later. And I dieted about 20 weeks for that show. I have to believe that, you know, I was still growing while I was getting ready for that show, but I was still I had only used anabolics for about two years at that point and I was still in like that like growth stage and it could be done in that sense. Likewise, if guys haven't worked out for a while and or andor used anabolics for a while and all of a sudden they kick in a cycle and they start dieting for sure, a lot of times they'll put muscle on too. But on a regular basis, if you're kind of at an elite level already, you're probably not going to grow in a scenario where you're have limited, you know, raw materials available to you. The raw materials being protein, carbs, and fat. So, it's just not I don't I tell people don't try to grow while you're getting ready for a show because then you'll never get lean. If it happens, great. It's a bonus play. >> Uh, good question here and it's about genetics and genetics in general. a lot of emphasis that has been put on the importance of genetics in bodybuilding, especially if one wants to be successful at the highest level in the sport. What exactly are these physical attributes that certain people possess that separate them from the rest of the pack >> in terms of genetics? >> Yeah, I I think the most I mean there's two there's I I say there's there's like two or three variables. Number one is structure, right? Some guys just have this humongous bone structure where they're super wide shoulders. They have a small waist, you know, and and and that I mean bone structure is is everything because everything is built on that that frame, right? So look at Jay Cutler. He doesn't have the smallest waist, but he has an enormous bone structure which makes him have a good taper and which made him very successful in bodybuilding. Um, you know, Ronnie had a good a really, you know, wide shoulders too. Joel Stugs, all the guys who have the big huge backs, they have these wide wide shoulders and the taper on stage is is very important as as we say, you know, Victor Martinez also had that. The Vtaper is is just something we look for. Victor was super wide too with a very small waist. And so that's that's one thing. If you don't have that and and unfortunately I had big shoulders, but I didn't have the width I needed. If I had the width, I probably would have been a successful pro. But that's important. Number one. Number two, the ability to build muscle. Like how you respond. You know, when you go to the gym or you take anabolics, we call them the hyperresponders. I'm a hyperresponder. I didn't realize I was a hyper but I'm a hyperresponder. Like anyone who can grow 30 pounds in one year is a hyper responder, right, to drugs. So I hyper resppond and that's why I was able to get so big. And there are other like Kevin Levrone, you you know all the hyper respponders out there that they they take a cycle and they just they explode. And so that's another genetic variable. And then of course what your metabolism is, but you can overcome the metabolism thing. Like in other words, I might get lean easier than the next guy who's a fatty, but the fatty can get lean too if he just diets hard enough, right? So that really isn't a genetic variable. The two genetic variables are bone structure and how you respond to training and drugs. And I think that that those are the two most important because you can do every you can fix everything else. You can diet real hard and get lean even if you're if you have genetically fat genes and you know presentation and all that stuff is all you know practice. So you know that's why like Bob Brushkin back in the day who was a very well-known guru would see these guys like at 130 pounds on stage when they were teenagers. He'd be like that guy's going to be a a great pro one day because he was looking at their structure. He wasn't you know he he he didn't have a crystal ball. He just knew structurally those guys would be good if they added enough muscle to their body. you know, could they do it? He didn't know, but but that he knew structurally they'd be great. Likewise, if you see someone who, you know, does their first cycle, you see some of these kid these teenagers that already look like adults and they haven't even done a psych, you're like, "This guy's going to be really good. He's already hyper responding. He hasn't even taken a cycle yet." And so, I think that these those two variables doesn't mean that you shouldn't try to bodybuild if you love the sport. It just means that if you have those two attributes, you're going to probably go a lot further than most people. One of the more popular formats on this show are the versus scenarios between two peeds. This one is between Echopo and Priabol and the best for quote unquote lean gains. All right, we're going to go full circle again. Remember lean gains. Okay, remember steroids don't burn fat. Okay, they build muscle and they help repair they build and repair muscle. That's what they do. Equipoise is way stronger than primobone. Primobone is toward the bottom of the barrel. It's like in the animar Winstrol category, okay? But people like to use it because Primabolin doesn't really cause a lot of fluid retention. So on a lean body, you see you see improvements really well. If you were to take Primabolan in the offseason, you get you'd be like, "This stuff sucks. It doesn't do anything. I I can't even I haven't gained anything on this stuff because it's not that strong." For a woman, it's strong, but not for a man. And so equip all the way on which is stronger. Uh question about EPO. Um I know EPO can be potentially a potentially dangerous drug, but have you ever heard of anyone using it successfully in a bodybuilding context? >> Well, I mean, first of all, EPO ariththropoatin, which is a hormone that the kidney produces, they have a synthetic version of it. Now, for people who are anemic, uh why anyone would want to take it as a body, I don't know. It doesn't build muscle. It doesn't burn fat. It just increases red blood cell count. And the problem is that steroids already do that, right? They do it so well in fact that we have to go and donate blood every so often, right? To drop the amount of red blood cells in our blood because we have too much. So why you would want to take EPO on top of that and produce even more red blood cells, which would even thicken your blood more and make you more prone to to clots is almost like suicidal for a bodybuild. It's the worst drug. The reason why the endurance athletes use it is because number one, they can't take steroids because they get tested. Okay? So they'll take EPO because they can stop it and start it and it doesn't it's very hard to detect the stuff if you take if you if you're on the right timetable and it it raises red blood cell count. When you're running or doing anything in an endurance sense you're you you break down and damage a lot of red blood cells from the pounding on the pavement. And so a lot of these runners get real good benefits out of taking EPO. Likewise the cyclists do as well. So not a drug for bodybuilders. Great drug for endurance athletes though. >> Let's take uh one or two more questions. I know Dave, you're really pressed for time right now. Of a 58-y old friend who's never taken tests and his test levels are at 909 SHBG is elevated. He's lean has zero energy. Could this possibly be a hyperactive thyroid? >> I mean, I don't know. I mean, has he had his thyroid checked? I mean, you know, you're giving me limited information. What I always tell people do is if you feel a certain way, get a complete panel done, blood panel done. If you don't have health insurance, go to Titan Medical. You can sign up right on their website and do it. titanicalcenter.com. Get the complete thing. All your hormones done, you know, thyroid, testosterone, estrogen, DHT, all your metabolic panel done, kidneys, liver, you know, let's take a complete look and see if anything's out of whack. you know, um, a lot of times people just don't sleep enough or they get a bad night's sleep because they have sleep apnnea. U, once again, I'm speculating here because you're not really giving me a lot of information. He's giving me the guy has a higher testosterone 903, which seems to be high normal. Shouldn't be from low testosterone, what the way he's feeling, but I don't know. I don't know what his sleep is like, you know? I don't know what his training schedule's like. Is he taking days off? Is he resting? There's a lot of variables to consider and to do my due diligence as I like to say and and be a good detective I need to know all all the information. >> Your thoughts on canola oil as far as bodybuilding applications and is it safe during a keto diet? >> I mean it oil is oil for as far as the ketogenic diet goes in the sense that as long as you're not eating carbs, you know, you're going to be in ketosis. Um is canola oil a healthy good fat? No, it sucks. Um, if you guys want to use a healthy oil, and I'm not just saying this because I make it. The reason I make it is because it wasn't available and I love it and I think it's the best oil on the market, which is macadamia nut oil. It's better than olive and I'm Italian, so I'm Sicilian Italian, which means that we love our olive oil. But you can't cook with the stuff. The stuff doesn't taste that great. Okay. Mac, excuse me, macadamia oil tastes like butter. I matter of fact, I just made toast for my kids before. I don't even put butter. I put macadam matter of fact if I don't put the macadamia nut oil in there and I use real butter they're like this tastes like crap we want put the mac oil on there they like the mac oil better it tastes better it's got more monounsaturated fats which are the heart healthy fats than olive oil does it you can cook with it doesn't burn it doesn't oxidize you can expose it to light it doesn't matter olive oil falls apart if it gets heated if it gets exposed to light if once you open the bottle it goes rancid after a month there's No comparison. Canola oil is like is like poverty oil I like to call it. You do not want to use that. The only other oil that I I think is good is avocado oil. But the problem is avocado oil has no taste to it. So um I think Mac Oil is a better a better option. And uh like I said we have it at specnutrition.com. >> That is going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. Reminder, if you haven't already done so, subscribe to the channel. We have all new episodes of the after hours podcast of Heavy Muscle Radio as well as we're segmented. Dave did a talk at the NPC North Coast about a month ago. We've been releasing in a segment very very informational. There's a whole video on protein intake, one on carb intake, one on macronutrients. Uh and then we're going to release maybe two or three more segments depending on length of time. But nonetheless, all done in the channel. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. not going to miss anything that we have coming up on the channel for Dave Palumbo. I'm Sad Farooqi. We'll see you next time.