Welcome to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Monday, November 23rd, 2015. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Throughout history, names like Nostradamus and Edgar Casey have stretched the limits of the imagination by predicting the future with startling accuracy. And last week, we here at Muscle in the Morning reached into our own clairvoyant bag of tricks and accurately predicted that Sergio Oliva Jr. would be the man to beat heading into the NPC nationals. And we were right on the money. The son of the myth carved out the first chapter of his own bodybuilding legacy by dominating the super heavyweight class on his way to claiming the overall title and his IFBB pro card. In case you missed any of our exclusive coverage from all the action went down over the weekend, be sure to check out the contest photos, official wrap-ups, and winner interviews exclusively at rxmuscle.com. For the second straight year, some of the best athletes in the sport hit the stage to honor one of the Iron Games true legends, Lou Farerriigno, at the IFBB Ferraro Legacy Classic. And for the second straight week, Australian powerhouse Josh Lonardoitz showed up and cleaned house on his way to collecting yet another easy win. In the men's physique division, the always dangerous James Hurst claimed his third win of the year, while California native Erica Kikuchi took care of business in women's physique. And in Bikini, the sensational sophomore campaign of Brina Martinez continued as she locked up her second win of the season. Offseason grind mode is in full effect for women's physique pro Karina Nasimento. This week, the Brazilian bombshell released some footage from a recent training session where we see one of the most dangerous women in the sport crushing some early offseason workouts. Over the last few years, Nasamento has routinely been a top finisher at most of the smaller shows throughout the season, but has yet to really put together her best package on the sports biggest stages. But with a long off seasonason ahead and a super motivated work ethic coming off this year's Olympia next season she just might be poised for a breakout year. Coming off a year that was relatively quiet from a competitive standpoint. It looks like former men's physique Olympia champ Mark Anthony is gearing up to make a serious comeback as we head into next season. Over the weekend, the division's first physique Olympia champ released some new photos, showing off a much bigger and fuller look than we've seen from him in quite some time. As he proves so many times in the past when he's fully committed and on his game, Anthony is one of the best we've ever seen. And if the rumors are true, we might just see Mark Anthony getting back into his bodybuilding roots and switching over to the new classic physique division. And if all goes well, that might be another first that he'll be adding to his super impressive resume. Fresh off a spectacular 2015 campaign that included her first career win and a top five Olympia finish, women's physique dynamo Danny Rearen is still looking sharp. This was really a breakout season for the 2012 NPC national champ, who came into her own as one of the true upand cominging superstars in the women's physique division. When she's on her game, Rearon's combination of sleek muscle, standout shape, and spot-on conditioning make her a force to be reckoned with. And now that she's got a win under her belt and a little bit of momentum at her back to carry her through her offseason, the self-proclaimed little monster is going to be back and better than ever come 2016. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com today. I'm your host Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be true to your passion. And make sure to follow us on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo! Move.