Heat up from Quest Nutrition and Ron and I love to talk science shop because you are the guy who's like innovating a lot of the stuff here at Quest Nutrition. Um, one of the things I thought was really interesting and we've had this conversation several times before is the fiber content of your bars. A lot of people think that Quest is lying on the bars by saying they're only two net carbs and then it's all fiber. And it's interesting because there are a lot of companies out there that are using deceptive fiber sources that really are lying to people. you guys are not. Talk to me a little bit about some of the testing that's been done to your bars and and and also about that latest uh protein bar ranking that you know. Yeah, sure. So, um Lab Door, they just did a test of all the protein bars in the space. I think it was like top 34 bars. Okay. We got number one for label accuracy. So, that had to do with protein, etc. What we say is in there is either what's in there or slightly above that. That's good. Uh the one thing they didn't test for was fiber. And had they tested for fiber, we would have been in a class of our own because why is that? Explain to our viewers. Yeah. So fiber is something we've learned a lot about. And there's something called the Association of Analytic Chemists, AOAC. Okay. You can buy a bar, Quest Bar, or any bar, and you can run a test called 2011.25. It's what the FDA recommends is the highest level test. Okay? Quest bars will will will meet uh what it says on the label for sure. Okay. The thing about fiber is that there are certain ones that people are using. Not only are they not fibers, they're fully digestible carbohydrates. Well, explain. Give me an instance. Isla olosaccharide, also known as a product we used to use. I remember when you first came out. Yeah. And we used to use chory root before that. The problem with chory root is that even at room temperature, chory root converts to fructose. Oh, I didn't know that. So, we would actually test it and just sitting there in 30 or 60 days, you see fructose. You would see it turn into fructose. So, we got away from that. We went to IMO. The science on IMO wasn't clear. Uh last about two years ago, 18 months ago, there was a fiber conference in Paris where the information came out, we changed within like a week. So, you found out that something was wrong with the bar. And rather than try to sell your bars, you said, you know what? Let's just change the formula. I mean, no one does that. It was uh financially painful to say. Uh and we pissed a lot of people off. Right. Here's the thing. We're super focused on the bar being real. This is like this is our space. So, um you know, you you can buy a Quest Bar. You don't have to believe me. You can ask for AOAC test 2011.25. What kind of fiber do you use in the bar? We use something it's called either resistant dextrin or soluble corn fiber. Uh it can be made from lots of different sources, but here's what I can tell you. If you take your blood sugar and then you eat a bar, so here's the best is uh type 1 diabetics, they really know what they're doing. And that's that's why I always ask. I got so many emails in the in the uh 6 months after we changed people saying, "Oh my god, this is like a totally different car." So it won't it won't budge your blood sugar. So it will not raise, which means that you're not absorbing it. You're not That's the key. You're right. Fiber is something you don't absorb. You ferment it in a short chain fat, but you're not getting fiber. And a lot of people don't realize the fermentation into the short chain fats is actually good because it tells the liver, don't produce glucose, which keeps your insulin levels lower, which helps with fat burning. I thought you were models. I know a few things, right? Yeah. Apparently. Yeah. You've been talking about this for I've been reading about it from you for Yeah. Long time. But these are these are little nuances of of of nutrition products that make a big difference when you add everything together. And at the end of the day, the the goal is fat loss and weight loss here. That's for at least for 80% of the population out there. And one of the things people think of fiber is filling you up, but more importantly than that, those fibers get fermented into short fats. They get an appetite suppression effect or fat oxidation effect. So, you're actually burning fat as a result. That's why high fiber diets are so big in body fat. Well, here's a question I have for you. This new hero bar that you guys snuck me on the on this on the down low. Uh, I love it. It looks to me it's like a Twix bar. Johnny Styles, our cameraman, is doing a ketogenic diet now. I got him on my ketogenic diet. Is this something that if he ate this, would this affect his blood sugar at all? Would it put him out of ketosis? No. So, that bar has like 17 grams of protein, right? So, really, it's a protein issue on the fiber and carb. That actually is lower carb than a Quest bar. Really? I think it's three net carbs for Yeah, that's what it is. So, you should test your blood sugar. You don't have to believe me. You'll see it. Uh, and then it's just a question of how much protein you want to have. If you eat a ton of protein, whatever else you're doing, that can knock you out of ketosis. But the net carbs in that won't So, the carbs won't do it. No. Oh, and that's going to have the bar, Sean. There you go. Now, talk to me a little bit about the the cancer with the dog. You move that that facility. Yeah. So, we're moving Keto Sanctuary, which is our we're basically taking dogs, put them on ketogenic diets. We use PT scans to validate it. Curing of cancer. Um, you say curing of cancer. We have several cases that have completely uh disappeared. Really? Um, but ketogenic diets in and of themselves, I wouldn't say cure cancer. What they do is they remove that metabolic stress, right? And we have a lot of dogs that had like angio saroma, the number one killer of dogs, and they they don't have it on gone. We're moving that to LA because that has been really successful. We're in Austin right now. Okay. But we're moving it to How big is that facility? It's 53 acres right now. We We won't be across that's expensive, even for you guys. But that's really cool cuz I don't know. It's something about seeing animals that shouldn't be alive. Do they run around in the property? Yeah, they're they're all over the place. They have tunnels and they've got, you know, a water park and all that. Oh, so you actually make like fancy, you know, entertainment things for them. You can go to ketos.com and you can you can That is awesome. Keto sanctuary.com. What What I mean, we we've talked about so many exciting things for the future, but what what's your vision 5 years from now? Where would you like to be? 5 years from now, the goal would be to give your athletes a hell of a lot more choices that you feel not comfortable with, but you're like, "This is amazing." So, I think we're all chasing whole foods, and we know what you can do with Whole Foods. Ultimately, what we want to be is a food company. But if you want to eat a pizza, you should be able to eat a pizza and keep your ketones and your blood sugar where they want to go. We have a Quest pizza. If you came to LA, I' i'd like to put out six pizzas. And if you can pick out the Quest pizza, we'll buy you a Big Mac. Really? We'll do something better than that. But yeah, we I think they that good, huh? When do you think we'll see that? Um, that's really a distribution issue cuz it's a frozen product, so there's a lot to work out. But I mean, I I'm always hopeful. I'd like to say this year, but we'll have to see. See, I think pizzas are something that people would order and they would pay the shipping on it because they'll like I would load my freezer up with them. You know what I mean? It's something that I can pop in if my kid loves pizza. It's something I can feel good about giving him like because it's going to have low carbs. It's going to be much healthier. It'll be lower carbs in pizza than a Quest bar. So much for 250 calories, it would have four net carbs. Oh my god. So it'll, you know, it's just a little less than a Quest bar. Unbeliev what you guys are doing here, Ron, is is is monumental. Thank you so much for all your support of RX Muscle and all you're doing for our industry. Okay.