the download Fire the first ever Wonderful One Piece Chapter for Sweet Rock and rollercoaster in Franciele Mateus The Force of the best friend forever resto YouTube question was the first ever Will soon be hijacking your Radio France Halley motos Without Missing out How I can Love especial and Mateus schwinn Jefferson Gomes Olympics championship Wilson and Boyd clothes Friends We can't be right here waiting on your back hard The Field of first ever Champions and exhibition on a be the first tip Wells champion of Olímpia 1 the illustrious  Talk in English oh my god Will appear on your side I love you Always category And starting a new day because I love this One and Stay Here Today for presenting with category is a Dream come true I love you I'm so happy I Can't Give You Love Takes time and again you got me begging for we can Speed ​​Up One Piece is below if you are under full comparison is what I say and reception will be gone from the olympians and Land Across your last Ride in And you felt at that moment with the people who were there  pulling you the curse from the stage  How do you feel about everything? Why did you receive this from Brazil and the world? And I'll speak in Portuguese: I didn't imagine that the category would gain so much space. I didn't imagine that the girls here would accept the category so well because I already have a Fitness category, which is bikini. I have a plan for the category, and I saw that the girls were in love with the category. I was very happy because it's a category that was born in Brazil, yes, but it's conquering the world. So, everything is very happy, very happy in the life that Saiyans use. Don't wait for what will be taken to the category and in the industry in Olímpia. So she also surprised. How much of a Disney screamo today the gods. Love die welt in Olímpia and don't call Station Franciely Freduzeski still. Hold our website. We need your old standard definition of World War. I was afraid of cvision Gomes Franciely best Wall. The year bad king. I don't believe that the category asks for a lot of physical harmony, right? A very harmonious physique with upper and lower a little bigger, a group and a very well-defined boat, but you can't lose the symmetry, right? So, the symmetry in  This category is very important, the poses are very important, the parade. I think the complete package, the whole set, with all the difference, right? I think I managed to bring everything I thought about today, everything I asked for, and I'm leaving here as a champion. I just found it quite simple, leaving category B, cycles balance, got hurt with good lighting and bring the built-in to the school, and Six knows how chic champion is, and she wants to show the world the Wailers, the way for tips on brim, Gold Line Xbox One for the new year, this channel, enjoys rock, Competition, and Lô Borges and Regina and Isabel Nunes. Words about your friends in our lady of the first Champion of the expedition. He's asking how you feel, there are great athletes and Ares, Angela Borges, Isa, and you, how do you feel being the first Brazilian champion of the Olympia? I feel honored because yes, it's a championship where it was very difficult, very competitive, it was neck and neck, many wonderful Brazilian athletes, they dominate this category, and Alice wasn't doing very well. I'm very happy that an athlete who isn't Brazilian was also there, she couldn't represent the category so well.  Regarding the Brazilian women, the Brazilians dominated, and so I was extremely happy to have been able to bring... I think I have the best set, let's say, so I'm very, very happy with the XV and I found Seti. I want to be competing against the best in the world. She said, "It's good, it's not just the Brazilian dozen, you can see the one thing is Chevrolet and XIX, the best. Now she's got the name of the game. It's free and will always keep going through your X6 UOL. I use attach infos. Theater full is up to Land on the Olympic Stadium and have a word for sampling and Franciele Mateus Prime Red Legion red red wine on making history and take the time to relax. But or Colombo, we love you guys. Hello, suppose David, that these two are amazing. Job satisfaction cages. Divine lot of esports. Last Blood through the bodybuilding with get on."