Back by popular demand, it's me and Palumbo. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Heat. Heat. And we're back for another installment of the Palumbo podcast. I'm here with John Romano and it's just John and I today. And so yes, we have some important topics to discuss. I'll start by um saying, John, that I um I got a cat. I'm actually getting a couple cats. I decided I used to always have cats. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Cats. Cats. I've always had cats. You know that. I used to breed cats back. Yeah. Yeah. You had What was that one's name was really cool? Jedi was my last Jedi. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The white coyotes, I think. So Oh, really? Yeah. I don't know. While I was, you know, out of the house during this going through this whole divorce thing that somehow he got out and somehow he's then never came home. So, I that's the story at least I heard. But now that I'm back in my house, um I decided I was going to get some cats. I did some research and our good friend Michelle over uh in Alabama there, she has severe allergies to cats and she told me she's got these Siberian cats. And Siberian cats have very low uh Feld D1, which is the protein in their saliva. So when cats lick their fur, that saliva gets on the fur and that's what people are allergic to. It's not the furels. And for some reason, these these Siberian cats, which are w naturally occurring wild cats in in Siberia, Russia, they don't have this uh or very low levels of this feld one protein. So people are not allergic. So she's not allergic. And she sent me and you know, I like long-haired cats. I used to breed Persian cats back in the 90s. And you know, these are long-haired cats in there, but they're stocky. They're not as big as main [\h__\h] cats, but they're pretty big. And I I I decided to get some, too. So, how many? Well, I'm getting four. But what? Yeah. Yeah. I think I'm going to breed them. I'm going to try. People start accusing you of being a liberal. These are cool. These are cool tough cats. These are like These are like Trump cats. These are not like liberal cats or anything. You know, actually a friend of mine in Long Island growing up used to have an ocelot. Oh, wow. That's a big cat. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And And it was really It was I was I was afraid of it all the time. It was a wild one, probably. Yeah. Well, yeah. They brought, you know, they got they saved it. They rescued the kitten and then, you know, raised it. And it acted just like a regular cat, only it was five times the size. Yeah. Yeah. They could be scared. They could do some damage, though. I was a little Yeah. was a kid. I remember being deathly afraid of that thing. They got big big teeth. Yeah. You know. Yeah. Yeah. And you know what's funny? This was a friend of my mom's and after a while she you know she developed a real liking for these kind of big cats and she decided she was going to get a jaguar. Oh wow. And she found rescued and from the same place rescued a jaguar kitten and started raising it. Once it got to be like the size of two cats, yeah, it became a little bit aggressive. And she she was standing in the kitchen, the the my mom's friend, not was standing in the kitchen making coffee and the the jaguar walked up to her and went like this and sliced her Achilles tendon with a claw. What? Yeah. Wow. And so that cat went to the zoo. Well, that's why you shouldn't have wild cats in your house. There's a reason. See, now that what they did recently is they created like the Savannah cat. They have another one, I think, the oicat or what they've bred some of the wild cats into domestic cats and they've gotten the personality of domestic cats with the patterning of the of the wild cats and and the you know, they're a little bigger, too. And so those are kind of cool. But you can't just take a wild cat into your house. They have the instincts. Look what happened to Zigg Freed and Roy. They had those those white tigers for years, you know, they had them and one day one of them decided to rip the [\h__\h] Royy's face off, you know. Well, you know, there's a lot more to it than that. I read a really in-depth article on that and the takeaway was that there's big cat trainers and then handlers. So, Zigg Freed and Roy were the handlers. They didn't train the cats. They had trainers to train the cats. And the trainers become very close to the animals. They spend so much time with them. Whereas the handlers, they just had them for the show or the, you know, appearance or getting out of the limo or whatever. And as Zigg Freed and Roy got more and more and more famous, they were spending less and less time with the cats. So, by the time that incident took place, those cats were they they were almost strangers to the to the But I thought they were living in their house, John. Oh, they are. Well, a lot of that was Yeah. just staged that they were living. They they kept them at the house, but they had their own facility. Actually, we went to a party in Vegas at the h at the You and me, you were there. We went to the this house in Vegas. We're having a party with Laura Moore live was living there and that was their old house and they had Do you remember that they had the tiger cages inside and everything? I don't remember. I don't know if I was there. I don't remember. I would have remembered that. I know you were there because it was I used to go to the Mirage Hotel. They had the white tigers there. They their white tigers. That's where their act was originally. Right. Right. Did you ever see the act? I did. It was great. I did too. It was Those white cats are just gorgeous. Unbelievable. They're crazy. They got the blue eyes and everything. So, yeah. But the You can't have those in your house. It's just not Look, as much as I would like it, I don't want to be afraid of my animals in the house. You know what I mean? I don't have to worry about my cats, you know, ripping my [\h__\h] eyes out while I'm sleeping. You know, this that's the reason I don't favor cats over dogs. Dogs are like you can train them. You they're their companion. Cat a cat is totally autonomous. You can win them over. You win them over. You can't train them though. You you Well, supposedly Siberians are are a lot like dogs. They do do you can teach them to sit and and come fetch and stuff like that. So, we'll see. They're big cats. So, I have this one little kitten. I have two more coming on Friday. And um this one was decided that it was been hiding for two days. And I had my kids over the other day. They wanted to see the cat and it wouldn't come out. Couldn't find it anywhere really. That night, for some reason, I have a nocturnal cat. So at night, the thing comes into my bed and is driving me crazy, you know, like rubbing against me, trying to lick my hair and clean my head. It was driving me crazy. I had like one hour of sleep last night. Actually, probably three hours of sleep last night. And then I get up in the mornings. I got to do the show with you and the thing's sleeping now. So it's it's like it kept me up all night. Now it's gonna sleep the whole day and then do it try to do it again tonight. I'm trying to find the the schedule with the dog, the new puppies we got because because they will take a long nap in the morning, but you got to take them out first and clear them out. You know, when they come, they'll sleep for three hours right now. Yeah. But if we go much past now, you're gonna they're going to be making such a racket. It's you can't do so. I think I think we've got a good time slot here. Well, I just I only have the cap for two or three days, so I haven't traded yet. But anyway, so the I fall asleep for like I'm seriously I probably slept three hours last night. And I had this vivid dream that I remembered and I don't know why because I never remember my dreams. And it was I was pulling into this house. It wasn't my house. It was like AI don't know why I would I don't recognize the house where I was. I was pulling in to this driveway and I see all of a sudden it's dark out. Another car pull up. It looked like a Rolls-Royce. And I kind of peer into the like window and I see it's Bobby Kennedy. And I swear this is this is before you sent me the topics this morning that you want to discuss in the show, right? Like what the hell is Bobby Kennedy doing here? And he's like he's like that's my house. I said what do you mean it's your house? I just bought this house. He's like, I know this. Let me come in and explain. So, next thing I know, he's him and this like secret service guy are in the back door of the house and we're sitting at this this table. And I said, "Well," I said, "Yeah, I'm going to lose my house, it looks like." But I said, "I guess at least I got to meet you." Because I I've always wanted to meet you. This I didn't think it would happen like this in the middle of the night in in the back room of my of a house that I thought I bought that you actually own. And and I woke up and I wake up. I get up and I start washing my face and everything and John sends me a text with all these topics he wanted to discuss today and one of them was Bobby Kennedy making America healthy again. So I maybe that's the reason I had it. I don't know. I had a premonition. We are a little psychically linked. Yes. Yes. Well, when I was just watching Megan Kelly when when before I got on here and I go I get on and you're watching Megan Kelly. We have the same glasses in the cabinets to drink out. We have It's uncanny the similarities we have. How about our ex-wives were living in the same same tower in Hollywood? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The last ex-wives, not not the current ex-wives. The exx. Yeah. My two exes ago. Yeah. Two exes ago. Yeah. That was pretty that was pretty wacky that they were they both lived in the same town. We had so many crazy coincidences. Amazing. It's like Lincoln. It's like Lincoln and Kennedy. Remember they they were 100 years apart. All those coincidences. Oh yeah. All the similarities with the funeral and the all of that with Yeah. Yeah. That was they were shot by a guy with three names, same letters and there's a million like coincidences. I don't want to go I I actually wrote a term paper on that. The coincidence I mean John F. Kennedy and uh Abraham Lincoln. It It's uncanny how many if you go online and just Google it, you'll be like, "Holy mackerel, I can't believe it." It's like It's weird. It's almost like like it's too coincidental to be coincidental. But and then Yeah. It was the secret. There were like the names were flipped with the secretary was the one Yeah. Kennedy's secretary was Lincoln and Lincoln secretary was Kennedy. Yes. Yes. That that that and something about the horse in the funeral was Well, one one shot someone in in a theater and ran to a a warehouse. Another one shot someone in a warehouse, ran to a theater. Right. Right. They were caught, you know, until I wrote a whole term paper and the teacher said to me, "Well, I don't know if this is a term paper, but it was very interesting." So, he actually gave me a decent grade. That's always nice. So yeah, the thing with the the the thing with Kennedy that I wanted to start talking about was I had AI had a revelation while I was on my cruise. Okay. And the the the thing was out of the 600 people on the ship, I was the only Valerie and I were the only ones in shape. I mean, literally, I mean, we all that that I mean, there were people that weren't fat, but there weren't anybody there wasn't anybody else that was like us, right? And it got me thinking about why are we such a rarity? I mean, anywhere you go, I mean, you walk my my greatest example of cross-sections of America are walking through the international terminal of any airport and you got a you got a pretty decent cross-section of what people look like, right? Yeah. None of them are fit. None of them. So, I was thinking it's worse than that. It's worse than that. Have you? And you look, you're older than me and I will run into someone like in an airport and and be chatting with them and we're just talking. I don't even know what we're talking about. You know, it could be about anything. And then some, you know, I'll always ask I'm like I'm like, "How old are you?" Because I and they're like 53 and I'm like, "Holy [\h__\h] I'm four years old. This guy looks like he's 70." Yeah. It probably happens to you worse because you know because guys you get guys you probably grew up with that that probably look like they're 90 you know and you're like look like you know you're you're 45 you know so it's it's crazy though because people just don't take care of themselves. No. Well, and this brings me to the topic of the show. Yeah. Bobby Kennedy wants to make America healthy again, right? Yeah. And and and and the litmus test for healthy again pretty much can go back to that aerial shot of the beach in 1972 versus the aerial shot of the same beach in 2022. And you go back to 1972, nobody's fat. Nobody. Not one person. Right. They're not ripped or anything like that. Bodybuilderish, but they're not fat. Yeah. Right. I mean, some are in good shape, you know, but nobody's fat. Nobody. None. zero 2022 all of them. All of them. You got like beached whales on the on the beach. You know, one fatter than the other. It's It's unbel And here in the south it's worse than anywhere I've ever been. I went with my brother. I visit He lives in Virginia. I went to visit him. We went to have lunch at this all you can eat steak place. Right. Now, as soon as you put all you can eat on the on the on the sign, you know what you're going to get. Right. Yeah. This this bodybuilders and fatsos. Yeah. Right. And so this this big suburban parks over by us and the people the family gets out. There's probably eight or nine people in this whole in this group and they're walking across the parking lot in almost like a line like cattle walk. And it reminded me of cattle because they were all looked like cattle. They were huge. I How did they even get in a suburban is what I wanted to know. And a Suburban is not a small truck. No. So yeah, man. They were all freaking obese. Every one of And you and I'm telling you, he I go everywhere I go, I try to find a fit person. Did you see that movie Wall-E? It's like Yeah. That he thought the girl was was hot and then she was a fat pig. No, they don't. They go in that remember that spaceship that that like no one walks. They don't. No one. They just They're just transported around crap. They're all fat and they No one could actually even step take two steps. They don't know how to walk. They forgot how to walk. Forgot. They just have a [\h__\h] computer screen in front of their face and all the time like an iPad and they and they just lay in this lounger that like shuttles them around basically. Yeah. And everything's like virtual reality, right? That's going to be like the future of this country. Yeah. That's the future. A blob with a head and a pair of goggles on. So, so the statistic is as you know 67% 67% of Americans are overweight or obese. That's that's more than two out of three. Yeah, it's pretty bad. Really bad. Okay. Not only is it bad for the health care system, the cost of it all, managing it, the medical, all forget all of that. Put that all aside. The reason, and this brings me back to the the revelation I had on the ship, is that out of that 67% of Americans eat because they're hungry and the food they choose to eat is based on how it tastes. That is completely opposite of us. We eat based on when we should eat and we eat. And anytime you do, you do this, I do this, every one of us does this. We automatically we sit down and you open the menu and you whatever you're looking at fish with blah blah blah. Immediately, what do we do? We start calculating how much protein's in there, how many against how many carbs, what kind of what kind of fat is in there, how much you think is, how many calories you think is. We immediately start doing this because we adjust the rest of our meals, you know, for the rest of the day. So we're always cognizant of what we're eating. They the 67% have no clue. They just order whatever they want. You know what it but it's also it's worse than that, John, because a lot of the foods have stuff in them that are making people get fat and get addicted to the foods and they don't even know they're in there. So you can't even blame the population. And that's what Bobby's saying. Bobby is saying it's not even everyone's fault because a lot of the stuff that's in there that no one even knows like if you remember Connelly wrote this book Body RX right about how to lose weight back in the late 90s and but it was the ingenious part of it was all the way back then he was saying how high fructose corn syrup which was put into the food chain in the 80s because we didn't want to buy sugar cane from the uh from the South Americans because they were charging too much. So, we made this artificial, you know, uh, sugar. It wasn't artificial sweet. It was, it was a sugar, but it was made from corn. It was not something that occurred in nature. We made it. Uh, the problem is that the body doesn't know how to deal with it because it's never seen it. And it just it basically turns off the fat burning machinery and it makes us have every bad thing happen to us, heart disease, cancer, you know, chronic inflammatory disease. It makes people get obese. It creates that fat, you know, the syndrome X where you, you know, you're insulin resistant and everything like that. All because of that one sweetener in the food chain. And we're what are we 30 years later? And finally, Bobby Kennedy's going to try to get rid of this stuff. I mean, it's in everything from soda to to juices to everything is high fructose corn. So, it's unbelievable. You would not believe how it permeates the um the the food chain. And if you just read the ingredient list, you'll be like, everything [\h__\h] has this in it. It's unbelievable. It is a horrible chemical. It's really bad. It basically flips the the switch to fat burning machinery off in the body. Off completely off. You can't burn fat. Even Gatorade has it in there now. Can you believe it? They put high fructose corn. Now, it doesn't have a lot because Gatorade doesn't have a lot of carbs in it. But they use that as the sweetener in there as the that's supposed to be the fuel source because Gatorade is supposed to be right like a low low carb, right? You know, electrolyte drink so that you can restore glycogen. But high fructose corn syrup doesn't even get stored as glycogen. It's the like the weirdest thing that they would put that in there just because it's cheap. Yep. He's got to ban it. I think he's going to ban it. He's going to say no high fructose corn syrup in in the food supply. That would be that would probably solve 80% of the problems. A lot anyway. And I I but beyond I mean that's really people drank regular sugar cane. Remember if you remember Coca-Cola had sugar cane in it when we were kids and and no one had problems. No one was overweight from that. We dragged tons of that stuff. Well, the the aerial shot of the beach in 1972. There you go. Those sports are terrible. Beyond there's but there's more. So like remember Morgan Spurlock did the movie Superersize Me, right? But you know, all right, but let me let you finish. That's the reason why people are getting fat. I'm I'm convinced and why they have heart disease and stuff. I think it's one of other there's other additives that we'll talk about in a minute that we're you know between this the spraying of the crops and all these and the plastics that cause other diseases and and make us unhealthy. But I think metabolically speaking Connelly had it pegged back in the late 90s. That's what [\h__\h] the the the whole food. It's a huge huge contributor. And then on top of that you had inactivity. Inactivity is the new cancer. I mean, it is so pervasive, especially a young among young people. They they just Yep. That's all they do. That's all they do. All they do. And they don't play. They don't run around. They don't They're all fat. They look like that. So, going back to Morgan Spurlock for a second, he he surmised, I don't know if they actually proved this scientifically, but he surmised that during the course of his Superers size me adventure that he believed that there was some additive in McDonald's food that made you crave it. Addictive. Yeah, it made it addictive. So, think about that. You're you're in the business of selling something. How much more of that would you sell if your customers were addicted to it? Right. It's even more it's even worse than that, John, because the the the companies now that make a lot of these fast foods and and these addictive foods are the tobacco companies that bought the food companies because they knew that tobacco was on the way out because all everyone was saying how it caused cancer and all the stuff that. So they they bought the food companies and they put the same addictive qualities that they did into the cigarettes into foods. Philip Morris bought craft food and craft food is [\h__\h] So there you go. And it's and it wasn't [\h__\h] until Philip Morris bought it. Macaroni and cheese now is is addictive. All these crap. Holy crap. So G getting back to Bobby. The the additives are are are one thing and I hope it's not only high fructose corn syrup. I hope it's also the dyes, the chemicals. There's over a thousand, I think. Yeah. Additives that I'm I'm guilty of using those dyes and chemicals because I don't even know. I don't even know which ones I'm not supposed to use. So, I'll I'll drink a drink that's red. I don't What do I know? I mean, it looks tastes good. You know, it's So, I just look for sugar. No sugar, fine. But who who knew that the the coloring in the in the drink is going to kill me now, you know? Well, I think that's part of it. I mean, he doesn't, you know, he doesn't want to take away McDonald's. He just wants to make sure you know what's in it, right? But like the Skittles that you know your kids are eating, they're like the the chem the colorings in there are banned in every other country except every other country. That that thousand additives I just mentioned are banned in every other country except ours. Right. Right. And and there's countries that won't take our food they won't import our stuff because it's so [\h__\h] bad, you know. So, so I but going back to my my original premise, it's education. It we don't our school systems have gotten rid of nutritious lunches, they have gotten rid of physical fitness programs, and they have gotten rid of basic nutritional teaching. And if you go out on the street right now and you ask 10 people, do you know what macronutrients are? Can you name any of them? I promise you no one will know. No one. Well, they just don't know the term. But you know, even if you mention fat, protein, and carbs, they still don't know. Yeah. Ask them what a protein part of the food is the protein, fat, and carbs. They don't know. Right. Right. If you Yeah. Here's a hamburger. Tell me what's the fat health education. How come in health education? They don't talk about this stuff in school. Yeah. It's a good question because how come they got rid of health? Did they even take health education anymore? No. There's no health. There's no health. When Max was in high school, he didn't have a health class. Wow. And that was only five years ago. So, you know, they decided, you know what? We don't want anyone to know anything. This way, the ignorance is bliss. You know, no one they'll just eat the [\h__\h] McDonald's and no one will complain, you know. Well, yeah, that's true. But I think as a community, us, the healthy people, bodybuilders, fitness, etc., We should we should ascribe to help Bobby Kennedy in in this in this regard because what better group of people than us to help educate people on not only fitness but what the [\h__\h] you're eating? Look, if he called me I look I I don't toot my own horn because I don't like to pretend that I don't like to even put myself out there as as being any better than anyone else. The truth of the matter is that on this topic, I feel very confident in my abilities and my knowledge. He would be he should employ me to help him with with the food and stuff like that. Connelly would have been perfect back in his heyday. He's obviously a little older now. I I learned everything from him. So, I mean, I could tell him everything. I I know a lot of stuff about, you know, food and and and what should what I think should be taken out of of the food, you know, pyramid and all that other crap. I mean, they should ditch the food pyramid and create a new dynamic of how to teach kids about eating and what's important because everything is a the driving force of everything is protein. We know that. Bodybuilds have known that for 50 years. And you know carbs are just a fuel source and instead of the way they teach it in school is that carbs are the most important thing that you should consume and everything else is subsidiary to that. And then they villainize fat and we know that fats some fats are good for you and and and eat them first thing in the morning. They're essential. Yeah. Well, we we've always said we've always said there's essential proteins, there's essential fats without which if you go long enough without them, you could get sick and die. Yeah. No such thing as a car as a as a essential carbohydrate. Yeah. None. Zero. But they don't teach you that in school. They could teach you that in one class and and people would be more they would make better food decisions for the rest of their life from one single class if they taught you that in school. That that's absolutely right. But but it it it's it's almost like a deprogramming that you have to I think it's beyond education. And I think the populace has been so programmed to be sedentary and eat crap. Well, if you can teach kids that that they that it's okay to be a boy if you're a girl or a girl if you're a boy, then you you can certainly teach them how to eat properly. You know what I mean? Yeah. If you can do that, right? Teach them how to eat. So, I I I'm I'm I'm excited about his appointment to in his in his position where he's going to, you know, endeavor to make America healthy. But America's got to cooperate, you know, and and and here's the thing. Whatever this crap is tastes really, really good. They make it taste really, really good. And they use all the bad [\h__\h] they can to make it taste really, really good. So, how are you going to go from that to, you know, a grilled chicken breast with some soy sauce? But you know what, John? You could it I'm not against burgers and fries. Like even K Bobby said, let's make the fries without the [\h__\h] vegetable oils, which we know become rancid and and unhealthy when you heat them up like that. Deep fry them in in what does he call it? Lard beef tallow. Beef tallow. You know, you can do that. Used to do. Yeah. Think about it. The burgers. I mean, you ever go to a Wendy's burgers are are are are all beef. I mean, you look, if you're on a diet, you're not gonna eat burgers and fries. But to people who are like us who are lean, if I want to get a burger and fry, I just want to make sure that the burger and fry I'm eating is not going to kill me because there's additives that I don't know about in there. So, I think he has to just make stricter rules as to what you're allowed to put into foods and what you're not, just like they have in Europe. In Europe, you just can't put these things in there. Otherwise, you go to jail. You lose your business. um he knows what these chemicals are. He's that's he's been studying this stuff for years. So all he's got to do is make a list of what you're not allowed to put into the foods now anymore and make the same rules they have in Europe, right? And that'll fix 90% of the problems at least with the poisoning of what we're getting. Now the other is that you know and I didn't even know this because I was always you know GMO crops you know genetically modified right what they would do is they put genes into these into the corn so that they can resist like insects and certain things and um uh certain chemicals and I and I never understood what the what the problem with it was. I'm like well who cares? We're eating the corn. It doesn't matter if we're genetically changing the corn. It's still corn, right? So but what I didn't understand was that they genetically modified the corn. so that it will not so that the it won't die when you expose it to to Roundup, you know, pesticide, right? And so what they do is because these crops are are impervious to the the pesticide, they can saturate them with the pesticide and then nothing grows except the corn. So every weeds die, the insects die, everything, you're completely killing everything except the crop that you're growing that's genetically modified. So you get beautiful big heads of corn that are completely saturated with these these with these pesticides and then we eat the corn, right? And and we're getting the pesticides in us, but it we don't know it because we don't see it and the the farmers love it because the the crops grow and nothing gets nothing kills them. They don't have to deweed anything. It's just so easy for them. But what that genetically modified corn did was enable these people to use more pesticides which is then going into our bodies. And that's the problem. That's the problem. So what what Bobby's obstacle beyond education is going to be something that I think is unique in America. We have we have the chemical companies that make the additives and the that make the additives and the drugs, right? Then we have the growers and the producers that utilize those chemicals to make bad food. And then you have the third leg of the triangle is you have the media which promotes this stuff because the drug companies advertise on TV and they support support the news these news uh programs. They get 100,000 views and they pay the the anchors $25 million a year. Well, that well that that's an insurance policy. Yeah. the the drug companies buy the time on network news so that they create enough income for the for the network so that when a story comes out about this drug company making this poison that's been found in this food that we put in baby formula that no one's going to no one's going to investigate that. They're not going to send an in-depth, you know, a reporter to do an in-depth report on, you know, what what, you know, terrible thing this drug company's doing because the drug company's paying the network all this money, of course. So, so that triangle, that's what Bobby's got to dismantle. He's got to dismantle that triangle. You It's like a fire. Fire, you have you have you have oxygen, fuel, and an ignition. If you eliminate any of those three, the fire goes out. Well, it was like Blackman. Blackman was hiring all these athletes and telling the the the the sub the advertisers ah we got the best we have all these numbers was selling all these magazines they weren't selling anything but but he was able to pay the athletes because the advertisers were giving them money once the advertisers realized that they weren't doing anything and they pulled their ads he went out of business well that if these if Kennedy pulls these uh medical advertising ads because we're the only country us and New Zealand are the only countries that can advertise drugs on TV prescription drugs prescription drugs that's That's a big point. It's prescription drugs that are killing people. It's not the overthec counter stuff. No. Right. But but they're telling you they're telling you to say ask your doctor. Right. Right. If they pull those ads, all these news the NMSNBC, all these they were all out of business because out of business pay for the the cost to stay in business without those advertising. Well, you you we are we are in a state of evolution right now society where we are witnessing the death of network news. Yeah. And it's being replaced by podcasts. You've got you got Rachel Matto in prime time can't get a 100,000 viewers and you got Joe Rogan who's got 22 million. Well, you know what? Listen to Bobby actually made this point. He said when the when when we had network TV, remember there was ABC, CBS, NBC, and what was it like Fox? CBS, NBC, ABC. Yeah. And then and when those networks they were leasing air the airlines the air wave waves. Air waves. Yeah, air waves. And one of the things that the government said is you got to have a news program that presents an unbiased, you know, daily news update. The news up the news programs lost money because no one wanted to advertise on those. But the net, that was the thing. The government said if you want to lease our airways, you have to have a news program. So that's why you got guys like Walter Konite and people who gave unbiased forms of the news. Even though Konite was a liberal, he he always gave a balanced, you know, accounting of what was going on because that's he was a news anchor. He had to present the news. It wasn't about his opinion. It didn't change until all of a sudden now you the news programs because they always lost money. But now you got cable TV coming online competing with these networks. the networks didn't want to have the news anymore because they wanted to make more money because these these HBO and all these companies had no commercials. So people were watching that. So they had to make the news profitable. The only way to make the news profitable is to take advertisers and then influence what they reported on the news. So they skewed the stories in favor of whoever was advertising. And that led obviously eventually to the to the drug companies advertising on TV and then completely altering right you know the news. Now it's completely biased in favor of whatever the drug company promote. Yeah. Well, you know, the the pivot point in this network news issue, it was either 2020 or or or 60 Minutes, I whichever was first. I don't remember. I always confuse the two. It wasn't until that show popped up that the networks realized, holy [\h__\h] instead of losing money on news like we do, what we can make money on news. Once they realized they could make money on news, then it was all downhill after that. Yeah. And we got less and less and less informed and more and more indoctrinated. That's what happened. I think that the these news agencies that are worried about going out of business because uh if they pull the medical ads, I I think that that won't happen. I think a matter of fact if they pull if Kennedy pulls the medical ads these company these news agencies can now go back to actually reporting the news. Yeah. And maybe they'll get more mainstream sponsors to do that and maybe they'll actually rebuild their their uh their listenership. I don't know if it'll happen because I think most young kids listen to podcasts now for their news. But it's a it is a possibility that they could turn the thing around uh if they they were to do it the right way. You can't You're not going to be paying anchors $20 million a year, though. Well, here's what happens. Tucker Carlson leaves Fox, put starts his own podcast, and makes and garners 20 times the audience he got on Fox. Bill O'Reilly leaves, does the same thing. Megan Kelly leaves, does the same thing. Right? All of these people, these big time personalities on these network news are leaving and starting their own podcasts where they're garnering more audience than they were getting on the networks. Right? So, I don't know. I don't know if they're making the same money yet. What I'm saying is if if MSNBC said, "You know what? We can't do medical ads anymore. We're going to make ourselves a new a real news agency. I'm going to hire Tucker Carlson and Megan Kelly and then I'm going to go and I'm going to get some big-time real sponsors, food sponsors and all these other things. It they could rebuild those networks if they wanted to the right way, you know, because let's face it, all these guys would rather get a paycheck from and just show up at work rather than have to run their own network, you know. I don't think people understand the amounts of money that are at stake here. Megan Kelly turned down a hundred million dollars. Really? Yes. From who? Fox to stay at Fox. Really? 100 million bucks. So, you know, turning them down because they're obviously making more money on their own or potentially making more money on their own. But you you you can see this happening all throughout the networks is that the top names leave and they start their own podcast or they join the other podcasters out there that are already garnering a huge on you. If you Joe Rogan rules the country 22 million people watch his podcast versus a hundred,000 that watch take take even a run-of-the-mill bigger number even if it's a couple of million that you're getting you're getting in prime time. It doesn't come close not even close to Rogan or any of the other you know bigname podcasts that are out there. They just can't compete. So eventually I believe that either the news organizations are going to go completely disappear or like you said they're going to they're going to evolve and go back to name people reporting the news that is actually the news and not a lie. That's the other problem is the lying. The lying is so pervasive that you have a you have a you have a sit I think the statistic is 6%. It's an incredibly low number of people who actually believe what's on the news. It's it's incredibly low. I want to just clarify I want to clarify what you said before. So f in in in 2017, Fox offered Megan Kelly 100 million over four years to remain at the network, right? Uh she turned it down and she went to NBC at that time. Oh, she went to NBC then. But then she I think she got fired from NBC, didn't she? Eventually they had they had some kind of Yeah. So this was this was different. This was back in 17. I I don't think that she would be offered that nowadays. But anyway, yeah, I know what you're saying, though. A lot of people would rather do their own thing. But I I think that, you know, you know, F Tucker got fired. She got fired eventually. Uh what's his name also? Who's on NewsNation now? Uh Cuomo's brother. What's his name? Oh, Chris Cuomo. Chris Cuomo. He got fired. He went to News Nation. He got fired over his the whole thing with his brother. Brother. Yeah. Yeah. Defending his brother. I mean, what did they expect? He's not going to defend his brother. I mean, of course, the the the the the major problems from from my perspective are is disinformation and lying. And you can apply that to all of this stuff. Look at how we've been lied to about food. I mean, every time you turn on the TV and look at a commercial, you're being lied to. Completely lied to. All right. So, so what's the solution? The solution is number one, full transparency, I think. Number two, get the crap out of the food supply that that and and ban those ingredients like high fructose corn syrup that we know are not good for you. The the hydrogenated fats, which are the trans fats, just don't allow them to be used. That's it. The red dyes and all the other, you know, stuff that we know is is is damaging people. Get that gone. Stop the the the medical advertising on TV because it's not it's not it's amoralistic because people don't know. People should not be asking their doctor for drugs, the doctor should be prescribing the drugs to the individuals. And you know what, and let the carts fall where they may. If the if the news agencies that are legacy news agencies go out of business because of it, so be it. I think that what'll happen is people will come in and buy them up. Maybe you'll get a Tucker buying up a news agency and restarting it under his own, you know, insignia or something like that. Maybe you'll get Elon Musk buying MSNBC and relaunching it, you know, with with with a unbiased news agency. So, it you got to rip the band-aid off at some some point. You know, you left one thing out and that is you have to ban ban drug companies not only from advertising on TV, but also contributing donating to super PACs and and and election campaigns. You have to get drug companies completely out of politics. They got to get out of politics and out of entertainment. Completely. Look, I bought a gallon of paint yesterday. Okay? I didn't get it. I didn't buy it because I saw an ad on on a freaking news network. It means nothing, right? But you gota you got to realize that when you when you when the majority of a people who tune into the news, they are expecting that talking head to speak the truth. And that's why they believe that's why you have people that believe these ludicrous things that they're being told. The whole Trump hatred, all of this Trump hatred that they manufactured was completely man. If you ask somebody, why do you hate Trump so much? Oh, because they really can't answer the question. But if you ask one of these die in the wool Trump haters, why do you hate Trump? And everything that's going to come out of their mouth is a bold-faced lie that was told to them by network news. Right. Well, look at the rust and collusion thing that that they perpetrated on him. All of that, right? It was all lies. Lie, lie, lie, lie, lie. Roger Stone came on our show a million times and said that that was was BS, you know, and finally it's all BS and they thrive on it because we let him. Well, that's that's but that's why Trump was elected because people are sick of that. And I think that people are sick of getting sick and people are sick of not knowing the truth about the drugs they're putting into their body. And so I I think that we we're on the right path now. You know, I let's see what Kennedy can do. If he wants to stop at my house in the middle of the night because I'm I'm I'm actually I bought his house that he I didn't know he had and that's really what happened in my dream. We could have a little coffee clutch, you know, meeting in the middle of the night. There's nothing wrong with that. But no, I I understand what you're saying. It's got to be done. Uh, it might be uncomfortable at first because we're so used to doing things a certain way, but I guarantee you everyone will adapt fine. And you know what? The people, the kids who like American Froot Loops versus the Froot Loops they get in in Canada that don't have all the dyes and [\h__\h] like that in there, they'll adapt. And within six months, no one will even remember what the old Froot Loops. I I think the FCC needs to make lying illegal. I mean I mean honestly you if you're going to represent information a a a network that provides information the information should be true. Sean it's like going to the super you ever go to the supermarket and look at lactosefree milk right it's got the first ingredient is milk. How do you have lactoseree milk when the first ingredient is cow's milk? Because they if you throw an enzyme in there, lactase enzyme in there, they assume that it digests all the lactose into into you know the glucose and glactose, but it doesn't. It doesn't because if you're lactose intolerant, you drink the milk, you [\h__\h] your brains out. So it same thing lactosefree ice cream. The first ingredient is is whole milk. How the hell can it be lactoseree if there's whole milk in there? Well, because of because of somewhere in they twist the rules around, you know, they all I mean my other my my favorite nine what was it? Uh fat free fat remember those snack well cook that's they're not really lying. They're fat free but they got a ton of sugar in them. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's just that's an old that was an old one that got a lot of people. We all in the 80s were eating these sugar these fat-ree cookies. They were loaded with sugar. shorted that. No one even knew that it was [\h__\h] terrible to you. And and the and the other scam that they that they pull off is 95% fat-ree. You know, the funny thing is whole milk is 3% fat. So when you buy 2% milk, it's essentially whole milk. Skim milk has no fat in it. But but 2% and 1% is almost the same as whole milk, you know. Yeah. And it's it's all of these little things. I think Kennedy has got to take all of this [\h__\h] apart because it's it's not just did not being uneducated is one thing. Being habitually lied to is another thing. Well, sugar-free is another one that just I want to mention because I love when people tell me they're that I'm I'm only using sugar-free ketchup. I'm like, you do know that ketchup contains tomatoes, right? They didn't take the tomatoes out. They took the added sugar out. It still has sugar in it, right? Not only does it have carbs, it still has sugar in it. So, it's not sugar free, it's no sugar added. So, it's crazy. Part B of that is is if you have less than one gram, you're allowed to say zero, right? And the serving size could be like two grains of of sand, you know? Right. Right. So if if that two grains of sand is under one gram of of carbs, then you can say zero. But really, no one uses two grains of sand. They use a a scoop of it. And the scoop actually contains 25 grams of carbs, you know, right? And and and the the the um the butter sprays that this this is another one. You ever see I can't believe it's not butter. So you spray this on and it says zero fat per serving. First ingredient. The whole container is only fat. There's nothing else in it except fat. That's it. There's no protein. There's no carbs. It's only fat. And it says zero fat per serving because because the the spritz, which is Pam is the good is the the spritz is like half a second. Okay. Less than one gram of fat. You can say it's a can of fat. It's a spray can of fat. It's got no fat in it, right? Yeah. Oh, there's no fat in there. You know, because Yeah. I sometimes catch my my client. I'm like, "How are you cooking your food?" They're like, "Oh, I'm just using Pam spray." I'm like, "You do know that." That's how much you putting down. I just, you know, I cover the bottom of the pan. I said, "You know, that's all fat, right?" So, you're adding fat calories to your food. You didn't even know about. No, it says zero fat. I said, "Well, what do you think's in the in the in the can?" "It's oil." I said, "What do you think oil is?" Oh, but it's spray. So, the spray This is body Hold on, John. This is bodybuilders telling me this. These bodybuilders are usually pretty, you know, pretty knowledgeable about this. Imagine the general population. They don't know. They [\h__\h] spray that oil on. It's probably you could probably [\h__\h] go in a suntan bed with all that oil on. You know, they This is another one. Coffee. You use those coffee creamers. Use the one that says fat free or the one that says sugar free. Why can't they make it fat and sugar free? Why can't it be both? Well, they're sugar free, but they're not carb free. That's another one you got to watch out for. Sugar free. Okay. Doesn't mean that it doesn't have carbs in it. Okay. Correct. Correct. Correct. People like, "Can I have that sugar-free jello?" I'm like, "No, it's got carbs in it." They're like, "What do you mean?" I said said, "Forget about that. There's no free meals. Zero. Nothing's free. Nothing's free. No in anywhere in any part of life." But but Kennedy's getting back to him. He's got a long road to hoe because because it it's it's not just like I said before, it's not just the education part of it. He's gota he's got to fight the drug companies. And you're talking about a thousand ingredients that are banned in all other countries that we use. How you going to get American drug companies to quit making a thousand different things that they're making money on? Well, they got to just substitute for the stuff that's not as as deadly. That's all. Is is there are there a thousand are there is there something that's going to replace a thousand different you know additives and you're just not you're not talk you're not just talking there's a solution to every problem John I find that and if you make if you incentivize the fact that they have to do it because there's no other option these companies will come up with it it's like you know no one wants to change the formulas right these companies have a very successful money-making thing going on but if they are told look remember when they started making emissions on cars And they said, "You got to make these cars more fuel efficient, or you and and they said, "It's impossible. We have these high-end sports cars. They they they just dump gas into the into the carburetor." Right now, they got these these they got like, you know, high-end 800 horsepower cars to get 22 miles to the gallon. I don't know. Um Koigseg uh what's his name? I can't remember his first name. Yeah, the guy Yeah. makes those supercars. Yeah. He he invented a motor that's like this big. tiny little motor puts out 300 horsepower. I mean, wow. You you couldn't I you couldn't do that even on a motorcycle that's you know the the highest horsepower motorcycles are like 300. Well, you know, a lot of these cars now like I mean some people don't want electric. Okay. all electric because they don't want to charge it. But there a car like my BMW X7 has a a gas motor in it, but it has electric motors on all the wheels. So it gives it more horsepower, right? But it doesn't cost anything because the gas engine is charging the the the electric engines. So Oh, really? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So they it's like a hybrid. Most people don't even know I didn't even know it was a hybrid until I went in to get the service. The guy said, "You know, this is a hybrid." I said, "What do you mean this hybrid?" I said, "Yeah." I said, because I asked him, I said, you know, the thing doesn't shut itself off at lights. You know how like a lot of these cars shut themselves off at lights to to save fuel? Mine doesn't. He goes, "Yeah, because it's a hybrid. The electric motor kicks on." I'm like, "Can you tell Can you tell when you're driving?" No, it's it's effortless. Yeah. It's it's it's smooth. It's It's It's unbelievable. But there's always ways to fix the problem is what I'm saying, right? You just got to have a little ingenuity. So, there's no incentive to have ingenuity when you're allowed to do it the old way. you know, you have to make these companies do it. And if they if you make them do it, believe me, they got plenty of smart people that can come up with solutions, you know. So, I've always said if imagine if America, everybody in America, just America, woke up tomorrow morning fit, healthy, disease-free, and you know, healthy, right? What would happen? The answer to that is total global financial armageddon. That's what would happen. If you lose these drug companies, you're going to create a an avalanche of of of being broke from the stock market, the bond mark. everything's going to follow because the drug companies have so much money circulating in the economy that if you if you are all of a sudden didn't need them and were healthy and fit and not sick, what were they what are they going to do? How are you gonna how are you going to jud how are you going to manage a a several billion dollar company that making products that nobody needs? Right. No, true. Speaking of which, remember we talked about on after hours earlier this week about the bodybuilder who'd passed away, Jody Vance. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Potentially DMP diuretics. Well, they just uh re I guess they released the uh the 911 audio person who called in and supposedly she was throwing up excessively like Benaziza. She had passed out in the bed. She was throwing up all morning before going unconscious. Don't you think that they probably should have, you know, called the paramedics before that or taken her to an emergency room? I I remember Demelia telling me the story about Benaziza. He was he filled up a garbage bag with puke. He was throwing up so much and they they I don't know why they During the call, the woman told Columbus police Vance had passed out in bed and added that she had been throwing up all morning before going unconscious. "She won't wake up and won't respond to us," the woman told the 911 operator. The woman was told help was on the way, but Vance died of a heart attack brought on by severe dehydration. Her family announced now we talked about this on this happened at the Arnold weekend. This girl was 20 years old, right? And suspected of using DNP and and obviously diuretics for sure. And you know, we talked about how dangerous these these drugs are because they they they you know, there's a very good chance that you could kill yourself if you overdo these these particular drugs. why someone would do this to to go to an expo. Why if someone was in distress like this, her friends wouldn't make her go to the hospital? If you're throwing up excessively like that and I know that you're doing deh, you know, you dehydrated yourself. I mean, I would just be like, "John, get in the [\h__\h] car and we're going to the hospital and you're going to get on the knee bag put in you." I'm and there's I'm not even there's no I'm not I don't care if you don't want to go. You're going, you know? And we would have grabbed you and by the arms and put in the car. You're going. Yeah. I I I don't know. I mean, what the problem was, you know, it's it's it's crazy. I mean, do we know yet what she was taking? No. No, they're never going to say she obviously was, you know, Yeah. I don't think she diuretics are for sure. I'm wonder the coach is a real narcissist. This guy, you know, is posting. I don't even know why he's posting. He should just keep his mouth shut. He's like trying to do some tribute to her and what a great soul. Cover in his tracks is what he's doing. He should just not say anything, that's all. Because you know what? At the end of the day, if she took something that he recommended, no one, it's impossible to know. And number two, she took it. Okay? He didn't he didn't make her take it. So, he should just keep his freaking mouth shut and [\h__\h] hopefully this experience will change, you know, some of his coaching methodologies, but, you know, unlikely it probably won't because I've we've seen this happen before. We've seen a death in the industry from excessive diuretic use at a at a bodybuilding show on a pro level from women. And then the same coach went and did the same thing to someone else. So I think these people can't modify their plans because the extreme nature of their plans is what brings and attracts insane bodybuilders to go to these people to begin with because they think they have some kind of secret. And most bodybuilders who are not like genetically gifted think that they need to get the secret secret stuff, right? Because that even though it's risky because they want to be champions, you know, they think that that's necessary. Well, if you want to be the best, you got to take these ultra risks. No, that's not the truth. That's not the truth. You're not gonna turn yourself into Flex Wheeler by doing extreme drug cycles. Okay? Not happening. He's he's a freak. He could take one anavar a day and he'll look better than you any day of the year. Just how it works. You know what I want to know is if you're you're a coach and you're applying all of this knowledge Yeah. and your client dies, why would anyone else hire this person? Because they think that, oh, they're extremists. They they know how to get people to that ultra elite level. You know, sometimes people die. It ain't me though, right? That isn't that the old George Carlin, remember George Carlin said, he's like, "We got to build a homeless shelter." And everyone's like, "Yes, all these rich people are donating money. We got to build a homeless shelter, but not in my backyard. We'll give you money for it, but don't play don't make it in my backyard. I don't want like all the liberals in Arthur's Vineyard when they started busting the migrants over there. Whoa. Not in our backyard. Not in our backyard. Right. Same thing. I want that coach. I didn't die. Not me. You know, you I think that's really interesting because when I almost killed Paul Dlet Yeah. back back way back, you probably had a million people who wanted the same uh insulin protocol. I I stopped. Well, because you were you had a moral compass. That's why I I said that's it. I'm not doing this again. And and he wasn't even my client. So, I mean, imagine if he was my client. So, um you know, I think that's I I think that's really odd that that that a coach will single-handedly contribute to the death of a competitor and he stays in business because results speak that people don't care about it. If you have a couple casualties along the way, they're like, "Oh, that's the the cost of doing business." You know, ain't me, you know, no one I know. That's how bad people that's how bad people are looking for the magic the magic. People are they're d they're literally dying to win. And that's, you know, Boston Lloyd. I mean, that's that's his the that's his motto of life, right? Right. Die to win. Get big or die trying. I mean, that's it's on his gravestone, his mother, you know, inscribed on there because what? Yeah. What's it say? Get big or die trying. Come on. Yeah. 360 on his gravestone. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. Wow. Wow. And on that note, I think we're going to wrap up today's show. I hope you enjoyed John and I's Palumbo podcast uh pontification and opinions and everything that goes along with that. If you agree with it, you like these shows, you have ideas for topics, put them in the comments below. For now, we're out of time. John, I will hope you have a great weekend and I will see you again next week. Same bat time, same bat station. See you. Bye.