This is IFBBB figure pro Heather D's and I love my Species ISO bag. If you want to be like me, go to speciesnutrition.com and order yours today. I'm standing here with Arena Nomeco, uh our Russian uh circus act, uh performer. Now, uh we originally thought you were a gymnast. Then my girlfriend thought you were a rhythmic gymnast, but you're not. Uh tell us about because you do some amazing stuff, which I'm going to make you demonstrate in a little bit. Tell us about how this all came about. Well, I started when I was almost 12 with the children's circus um back in Russia in my little hometown. So, um was it in your family or how did you get introduced to it? No, it was just like an extracurricular activity after school. So, it started like kids play like you know like like football you played uh circus performing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was kind of fun and like something I've never done before and we've never seen in our little hometown. How old were you? I was uh 12. You started young? Fairly. Yeah. And when you were scared at first to do all these crazy, you know, things. No, because I think at that age, you're not really afraid of trying things and learning, you know. I saw you up, you were about 20 ft in the air before doing all this kind of crazy like stretching, you know, feats of strength. I mean, this is the most incredible thing I've ever seen. I This is might be the highlight of the entire weekend. Uh, Arena is is she's very uh modest about her abilities, but I'm telling you, if she ever entered fitness, she would give Oxana Graina a run for her money. And I got news for you, she's got a great physique, too. This girl doesn't have 1 oz of fat on her body. And and she's so strong. I I've never seen anyone contort themselves. I got I've seen a lot of Cir Sleaks and I bet you she's got to be among the best in the world. Obviously, you're not afraid of heights. No, I'm not. Then I'm trying not to think about it. When you were in the circus, did you have to do things very very very high up in the air? Were you like a swinging trapeze person or anything like that? No, I was always doing uh what I'm doing is a contortion and hand balancing, but sometimes I would have to do it like on um elevated structure or something. And then when you you moved to Canada, is that what it is? Uh well, I was on tour with Cir for 9 years almost 10. And how did you get into Cirlet? Um they found me and asked me to work with them. So, and it was really nice, amazing experience. And then is that harder than the circus? Um, it was different definitely because they make you develop like all sides of like yourself, you know, acting skills and acrobatics and like everything. It's more complex. Did you ever think about like doing fitness competitions because you probably can do an amazing routine? I don't think so. You know what? I'm I I I love like bad food too much and everything. Like I You're in good shape though. I talked to everybody. But yeah, like I'd rather eat something bad, but then like exercise a little longer, you know? Well, you have no fat on you. You would be a great competitor. Oh, you're just Yeah, thank you. Do something to impress me and my RX muscle audience. Let's see. She She doesn't have to try. She's very good. Like, if I could do that, I would be very happy with with myself. That's crazy. She's like a pretzel there. Oh my god. Who would be better than her? She's better than Noxanic Masha. another Russian. Well, it was really nice talking to you. Maybe one day we will see you on a fitness stage. Thank you very much. We never know. For now, you can check her out at Flexicus. Is that the What's the website address? Uh it's a flexicus.com. flexicus.com. All for all your joint repair supplement needs.