This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the Olympia. Meet the Olympians. I'm here with Dexter Jackson, one time Mr. Olympia, three times Mr. Arnold Classic Champion, and you look really lean in the face, which has to tell me that you are in shape. You know how I do. Yes. I've never seen your face this sucked out. Well, you know, I've been drinking my water, man. I've been trying to slow the process up, but my body is just just real happy now. It's just ready to just get on stage, man. But I know the last couple years you tried to come in a little bigger and a little fuller and maybe sacrificing a tiny bit of Dexter Jackson conditioning. Not normal people's conditioning, but Dexter Jackson conditioning. Did you say to yourself this year I'm going to come and shred it to the bone? Uh, exactly. But you know what? I still put on a couple pounds even though I did that. So I'm up about 3 lb, three or four lbs bigger than I was for the Olympia last year. Angelina. Yes. In my trademark conditioning will be there. You might be the shock of the show. A lot of people kind of haven't really mentioned you in the top group there, but you know what? We know you know guys show up out of shape and you're never out of shape and you that's when you seem to rise to the occasion. You know, I I I think I can mix it up with anybody that's in shape with the added size I've put on with with, you know, training with Charles and and with Joe back in my corner. So, you know, I'm ready to do battle with whoever, you know. So, we'll see what happens come tomorrow night. If you are to win the Mr. Olympia again, which would probably surpass and eclipse Jay's comeback that he made last year. It would probably have to be the biggest upset of all time. I mean, would you be laughing in everyone's face? Oh, hell yeah. For the rest of your life, probably. I laugh, man. I don't even know if I ever come down from that high if I if that happened. But, you know, I'm here to to better myself from every show that I've done. You know, you know what I'm saying? So, my motto has always been to be better than the previous show. and and that's that's always been my goal and I will be better. I've achieved that goal and and um you know so we'll see what happens come tomorrow night. You're always a class act Dexter and uh you're good for the sport. You give a lot back with the shows you promote the stuff you give to charity and you you stay here right to the bitter end and talk to all the fans. I mean that that's a Mr. Olympia. Exactly man. You know if I was such a prick I'd have been gone by now. Yeah. People don't understand. You're just shy. Good luck man. Thank you brother. Proud of you. All right David Dexter Jackson. Mr. Olympia