Scitec Nutrition. Premium quality products. State-of-the-art look. Uncompromised ingredient quality. Our products work and taste good. www.sitecnutrition.com. Gorillaawware. I'm here at the Scitec Nutrition booth with Fouad Abiad. Uh you were supposed to be doing this show. Uh it was cancelled at the last minute. I know it's got a hurt inside a little bit. Uh you were putting all your eggs in this in this one basket. I mean, you've made some tremendous improvements over this past year. Talk to me about what what you're thinking. Um you know, I've already I had this conversation with a few guys already. This prep was probably been one of the prep best preps of my entire career. Most people who know me know as I get closer to the show, I kind of get a little bit stressed out. I kind of start really putting a lot of emphasis on all the wrong things. This prep, more than any other prep, I actually just didn't care about anything. Why do you think that was? I don't know. Somebody I was talking to Johnny Jackson. He said to me, "Well, it's cuz the best you ever looked, but I don't even consider that." Like, I'm telling you, like, I don't even get up and pose in front of the mirror in the morning. Like, I just get up, put my clothes on, I go do my cardio, I make my food. I'm not even I wasn't even thinking about the show. I mean, I knew it was there and I want to win, but I wasn't like obsessing over it. It was really really strange. It was like a very easy prep in that sense. And you're one of you're one of the pros out there, one of the few pros out there that have consistently made improvements every single year. Every time I see you on stage, you're always better. How do you keep that that mental fortitude to always constantly improve? I don't want to suck. That's good. Fear of failure, huh? That's actually it, man. I'm telling you, like it just it just it's it's it's kind of a kick in the balls when you get second place at every show, you know, at a number of seconds. I've got second, third, second, third, fifth, fourth. Like, I just I just want to grab that win. I don't even care where it is or who's there. I just want to be able to put that on my record before I retire. And that's that's the goal right now. If that happens in the near future, then I'll worry about other things. But right now, I just want to break through that second place spot and get that first place win. And and that's kind of what keeps driving me, man. I just want to get better so I can get that first place. Now, this show obviously being cancelled has got to be a letown, but there is shows there are shows coming up. Will we see you on a stage soon or will you wait longer? No, you will see me on a stage. The the problem I'm having right now, and a lot of people who don't compete don't understand this, me and Cedric were talking about it. When you get laser focused onto one show like I was, and then they just cancel it a week out, you know, I took a day off and I ate whatever I ate and and relaxed. It's kind of hard to bring your mind back around to that laser focus again. So, right now, I'm I'm in the process of trying to refocus and get myself set for Orlando. But, you know, I've been here for a few days now. I'm still here for a few more few more days. So, if the traveling kind of messes me up, I might wait until Toronto and there's also Culver City. Uh I talked to Tamara about that show as well. Uh so, I know there's Culver City in uh in California I was thinking about as well, but you are going to see me on stage at one of those three shows. I'm just not sure which one yet. Well, you look fantastic. Give us a couple shots. This is going to be your uh your Fibo Power Show right there. Fouad Abby could potentially have been the winner here today. Uh, we'll have to wait to Orlando to find out. Tremendous amount of size. I got to ask you one question. How much weight have you gained since last year? Well, it's going to be it's a little tricky. Last year, I weighed in the morning of the show in Dallas at 242 lbs, but I had been throwing up for like a day and a half, right? You got sick, right? So, so I don't know. I don't know how accurate that is. Uh, the morning last week when I put my last set of progress photos up, I was 263. Wow. What a difference. 20 lb. But even if it was 15, I I I would venture to say if I was healthy last year, I probably put on a and I still think I had a few more pounds to go before I actually get to the stage here. I would say 10 lbs. But 10 lbs of stage weight at this point in my career, I think, is really I was actually really happy with that. Phenomenal. For all you guys out there who can't gain one lb every single year, we'll use this guy as your uh as your model to model yourself after because every single year you improve. Congratulations. That's impressive. Thank you very much, Dave.