You know, my doctor said I have to take more fiber. And I said, "Why?" He said, "Because like the rest of the guys on this show, you're full of [\h__\h] Valentino. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of species nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. a week and a half. They just came out. Look at that. I love And we're back for another installment of After Hours with the Wack Pack. We are live here and you never know what could happen when we're live. But I I gotta tell you guys, you know, um John and I did Heavy Muscle Radio again last yesterday last yesterday and Neckzilla won his second show. Greg, do you know who Neckzilla is? Yeah, that big black dude with them [\h__\h] giant traps and big neck. I'm convinced that he has no mileston. I am genuinely surprised at this moment in time. It's very impressive actually. Right. Because that is that's not a 90s bodybuilder. Now, now he actually knows who next Ziller is. Current bodybuilder, but I have no idea what his name is. So, you know, Rubio Mascara. Yeah, Rubio. Rubio Masc. No, no, no. He looks good there. That's another nice guy. She's a nice Well, now there he is. There he is. Now, is he Natty? Yes, he's 100%. Him and Michael, they're on the same cycle or non. So my question is to you guys because you know you're you're like the Supreme Court of the United States. You know I I value your your opinions very greatly. Who's freakier? Next Zilla or Big Ramy? Nick Zilla. This guy. This guy freakier than Big R. Why do you say he's freakier than Big Ramy? Insane looking. Yeah, that's that. Can he walk? Ramy was pretty freaky at his best, you know. Yeah, Ramy is freaky, but this guy's like different freaky. His body parts looked weird. Ramy looked flat to me. He was broad, broad legs, everything, but his hamstrings to me sucked. I I think his from behind his calves sucked. I felt like his arms didn't match his [\h__\h] wide shoulders. This guy is like [\h__\h] crazy. You know what I mean? Yeah, he's I think Ramy is better than this guy, but just structurally and everything, but this guy just has freaky parts. Yeah, I agree. His legs are just insane looking. Good. Good enough. Speaking of big guys, [\h__\h] Arma, too. How How are we all Sorry I took my internet. All right, we're all We're all here waiting for you, Arma. We were We were debating Neckzilla verse Big Ramy. Who's freakier and why? They're just different freaky. Um I think Ramy's a big better bodybuilder. Um obviously Nezilla's got those crazy I mean that I don't know. I I'm not I was never a big fan of huge necks in bodybuilding. Like I never wanted a big neck when I know a lot of people like one of the big old neck look like that. Like I Blackman was one of the big necks of of his day, right, John? 16 and a half inches. Didn't they call Magn? Yeah, they called him Magnum. Yeah. Yeah. They look I mean they both look amazing. I mean Zilla's he's a freak, but it's just can he ever get his body balanced? I don't know. Here here's the thing about Nexzilla for me. His arms are short. And for me that just blows the whole symmetry for me is that his his arms are too short and and it it just knocks the whole He he does have freaky body parts from the waist down. The guy's like those quads are insane. His calves are from another planet. But his upper body is just made out of chunks. And it just it's cool because it's massive but his his arms are like four inches too short. Look at him coming back. It's like a Fibonacci. Yeah, probably at the Arnold. You think probably I don't know. He says he's making a comeback. He can do whatever. How tall is Nezilla? How tall is Nezilla compared to Ramy? I see him. He's like six something, isn't he? Oh, forget I think they're about the same height. Yeah, the same height. 5'11 probably. I think next might be a little shorter. There's Ramy saying he'll be back. Him and Arnold. I would sure love to see Ramy come back. I know. You think he always supported him, Dave? What? I always supported him. I always support Yeah. You know what the thing with Ramy is? We first of all, we always love a good comeback because when when you're on top, we hate you, right? Because Ramy, we would picking him to death. His lat was too small on one side on both sides. They were shrinking this and that. All pits in his legs had pits in him. Yeah, he had injection sites. Now that he's not here, we miss him. So, like we want him back now. We want We want to see if he can come back to his old splendor and and and you know, shake things up. What do you mean he had pits in his legs? What the hell is that? Like big knot. I don't know what it was. Where have you been, Greg? Um, you know me. I know you. No, Armen, you weren't here. He He knew who Next was. He did know who Next. He did. He legit knew who he was. Yeah. Oh, okay. Cool. Good. Greg, the first time a contemporary bodybuilder. Yeah. Actually, we're making progress. When they took Greg's gallbladder out, I heard they gave it to to to um Nexzilla. He ate it and his neck grew. That's why he's so big. He ate that thing. Who Who do you think has the biggest neck in in in the history of bodybuilding? Was it Jeff King? Probably Jeff, maybe. But he was a smaller guy. Like I think he only weighed like 220. Marian had a pretty big neck too. The biggest neck I've ever seen is Scott Mendelson. 23 in. Yeah, but he was a powerlifter though. So that's King's matter. Do you have Do you see? He just benched, 1200 and something pounds at 52 years old. Who did it? Mendleson. He just put up a video. He benched 1,200 and something pounds at 52. [\h__\h] He's crazy. That's nothing. My mother Jeff. Yeah, I don't like I think it takes away from the symmetry and it's distracting. What about But that's the 80s though that I'm just I'm just I'm just saying who has the biggest neck. I don't care if it's symmetrical. Who's that character from South Park? The teacher proportionally. That guy's neck is huge. Yes. Yeah. Remember Don Ross with the neck machine? He was big on the neck. Oh, he loved it. He saw me on the neck machine one day and he and he was like he had almost had an orgasm. He he made his own neck machine. He had this plank with a with a It looked like the You ever see when you bring when you crank a boat onto a trailer, you know, you got that ratchet with the cable on it, right? He had some kind of spring-loaded flywheel ratchet spring thing mounted to a plank and he had the neck harness, you know, with the cable that came down and he would stand on the plank and hook this thing up to it and he would do this like ext the spring would do this, you know, pull thing with the flywheel go up and down, up and down and he would just like working his neck with this up and down all like for like he would carry this thing to the gym all all right to the gym with him. You showed it to me. Yeah. I I used to use a neck machine. I I had a lot of neck issues from soccer because, you know, we had the we had the balls like that. And so I had herniated disc. I just didn't know about it when I was younger because my neck hurt all the time. I was always doing like this. So I I went into bodybuilding already having injuries from soccer for my neck and then I had like nerve damage in my my traps. That's why I always had trouble building like my back. But I used to use that neck machine where you go sideways front. I did it all the time. the Naut remember the Nautilus neck machine like matter of fact if I didn't use that neck machine I found when I was lifting super heavy and I was big if I didn't use the neck machine once a week I would strain my neck from doing the other exercises like shoulder heavy shoulder presses or back it's like it was you don't want to create a weak link in the chain so if you if you don't train your neck or you don't train your forearms you wind up pulling those muscles because they can't handle the weight that you're using today guys it's like the guys don't train C. You don't really see massive calves today unless they're genetically Zilla's got big calves. That guy's ridiculous. But most of the top guys, they don't have calves anymore. They don't care about cav. They don't evidently they don't judge him. Ramy had calves. I'll tell you what, he's not he's not bigger than [\h__\h] Victor Richard is still the greatest freak of all. Victor Richards. Think about Yeah, but the problem is Victor Riches didn't compete. So if you don't compete, Victor Richards never got ripped. It's it's one thing. Look, you got to when when you diet down to contest shape, all the fat's out of you. It's out of in the muscle. It's out of under the muscle. It's out. Okay? And that's what you really look like. It's really easy to get loaded with water and salt and and you know, blow up and and be a much bigger version of that ripped contest version. You look like really big. You the the the real the real test of how big you are is contest shape. Yeah. Yeah. But Victor Richard Victor did one show the junior cow when he was 20 years old and he was I don't know about Rip, but he was he was conditioned because I was there. I drove him to the show. He was freaky. He won that show. But John, I think a lot of these guys, they start compete anymore. What's that? They start dieting down and they don't realize how much fat and water they have on their body. And then when they start kind of losing all that size, they're like, "Shit, I don't really like this bodybuilding." Uh, that wasn't Victor's problem. He just didn't I'm not talking about Victor. I'm just talking about a lot of guys I've dealt with before. They start dieting and they they don't like it because they're like, I feel small because when you start dropping all that water and all that, you do feel small. Even if it's it's like a steak with marbled fat in it, you know, that's that's your muscle. So, so when you take that when you know when you take the fat out of the steak, what happens? The steak the steak gets smaller. Did you lose any muscle? No, it's just it's just but you are getting smaller because there's less fat in your muscle. So over less fat under your skin. So you get small guys I've had many clients can't handle this when they see themselves getting smaller. They say I'm losing muscle. I'm losing muscle. And I say are you getting weaker? No. My lifts are great. I'm still strong as [\h__\h] And I'm but I'm tired all the time. I don't give a [\h__\h] if you're tired. I care if you're still sitting strong. If if you're still strength, if you still have your strength, you're not losing muscle. You're getting smaller because you're burning the fat that's in the muscle. So, you look smaller, right? Or John fat. They lose I'm like, how much weight did you lose last week? Nothing. Well, then how can you have gotten small if you didn't lose any weight? Yeah. Years ago, I competed in a micron classic. I think I started my diet at like 235 and I competed at 225. Yeah. So, I lost 10 pounds. There was a guy that I know. He was a bouncer and offseason he was like 320 and he was competing against me and he was also like 220 at the show and he still didn't look contest shape. He had like this loose skin hanging all over the place. Yeah. The skin. So he lost 80 pounds and he he looked he just looked stringy and small. He didn't even look in condition. So I he just had 80 pounds of fat and water on him. Yeah. But Victor Richards was not fat. You guys are No, no, no. I'm not talking about That's why no one said he was. Greg, he just never he just never as a he he never maximized his potential. Well, he's from the 80s, bro. Those guys weren't shredded back then either. He was, bro, that kind of muscle was Shawn Ray was at his peak when when Victor was competing and he was shredded. Well, you know what I mean. Fred guys today in 87 had maybe, but I don't see the Haney was shredded. I mean, was jacked and big and in 1981 when I was in goals gym he was [\h__\h] as big as these guys are today. He was Yes, I was his lackey. But can you imagine though the f the the but can you imagine that? I mean that's pretty good condition at 300 something pounds. Greg had to massage Greg had to massage him before he would do his thing. No, he was the guy was a monster. Absolute freaking nature completely. That's like an early 80s though too. bodybuilder. The guy's 81 I saw him. Shame he never competed because he could have he could have been great. I would have loved to have seen him blow out his his max potential. He would I think he would have he if if there was anybody that could have rivaled Ronnie Coleman in his prime. That's the guy right Dorian Yates and he made Dorian look small. Can you imagine know him with the [\h__\h] banana they have today and the condition and the hea he claims he never took GH. So I It wasn't a lot back then. It was expensive. All he took was All he took was Nanderlone. That was it. How do you know? Because I used to drive him to the gym and he showed me. Oh, really? I didn't know that. Yeah, I drove him to the gym for two years. Oh my god. Directions when they're only taking, you know, Nangelo. Larry was just like like slave boy probably, you know. No, I he didn't have a car and he lived in the San Frernando Valley and I was over there. Did he Did he respect you though, Larry? because a lot of times he doesn't respect guys, you know, like that. Honestly, the we had a falling out when I we went to World Gym one day and uh I was training my ass off and he's in there just like [\h__\h] around. He's high. He does like a set of bench press, talks for 10 minutes, then he does squat, talks for 10 minutes. Anyways, I' I've worked out for like two hours and I'm like, "Okay, are you are you ready?" And he's like, "We need to go to Gold's gym." And I'm like, "Why?" He goes, "We we have to go there." So, we go over to Gold. We were at World Gym training. So, we go to Gold's. He He walks into Gold's. He just kind of like walks around in there for a few minutes. And I'm like, "Dude, I got to get back to the valley. I I got to go." And he's like, "We need to go to Venice Beach." I'm like, "Why? Because we need to go there." So, we go over to Venice Beach. And he just takes his shirt off. He's like walking up and down the boardwalk. And I'm like, "Victor, I can't do this. I got to I got to leave. It's I got to get back. I got stuff to do. So he was just looking for girls, Larry. Pretty much. I don't know. He was just wanted attention or something. No, he just liked attention. So anyways, then then he tells me like I told him, "Look, I'm I'm going to leave. If you want to ride back, come right now. Otherwise, you know, you have to figure it out." And he's like, "That's it. I kick your ass now." And he knew that. He starts chasing me around the parking lot. And you know, he's 300 something pounds. He can't run. So, right. I'm like running around the cars and he Larry was smart enough to run away from him. John get him tired so then Larry could pound him. 40 [\h__\h] pounds. I would I would have done the same thing. I would made him chase me around the parking lot three times. These guys gasping for air and I kick his ass real easy. How How old were you? Were you all the same age? No, I was like 18 and he was like Oh, you were young. Yeah, you were young. I was slave then Greg was definitely the slave boy. I was his slave boy. I did everything but blow him on a bench. I I'd be in the middle of I know there's rumors that maybe you did. He pulled Charlie Arms on me. I'd be doing a set and he'd be like, "Okay, put that down. Come on. Come over here. I need a spot." You know, and I would do it because he was so I was natural and he was jacked and I was like, "Holy [\h__\h] look at the size of this guy. He would walk in the gym and his shoulders were like six feet." Frank love the attention. That's what it was, John. Yeah. No, I I was just like aed by him. He was just such a but then he would be so [\h__\h] see he was na like just like Larry said that's exactly the a great portrayal of him. He wanted everything done his way. You had to stop your set just to help him. He was [\h__\h] up man. Larry why'd you have a car and all these other guys didn't have a car? Because I want stupid. I was already I was already making money when I was 18. I was like supplying all of Gold's Venice and everybody else. So what what age did you start selling at? Probably 17. I was also golfing nightclubs. I was golfing nights when I was How would you even get come in come up with that at 17 to be able to do that? Because my my friends were all bodybuilders and uh one guy was like the big dealer in of all of Southern California and he just decided to make me the guy. I don't know why. I started I started up with mentoring everybody else. That's funny. Who would you told me I want you to be the guy for for all of Venice? Were you supplying Venice golds with all all those guys there? I I didn't go like to supply all the guys. I just settled one guy and he supplied Venice. I got he got everything from me and I and me and Lewis Fredes me and Lewis Fredes were like partners for a little bit at one time because I had all the Americans. He got busted, right? Yeah. I was at the gym one day when the FBI came the DEA was looking for him. I remember. Yeah. I had the American stuff and he had the Brazilian stuff. So Oh, he was a good bodybuilder. What? Yeah. Whatever happened to him? He was an insane. He got arrested, John. That's what happened to him. He had now what's he doing now? He became a Orthodox Jew. He married He married a rabbi's uh daughter. Wow. That's the last I heard of him. Much better investment than bodybuilding, John. Yeah. That's funny. A Brazilian joke. That's funny. I heard my mother-in-law. Somebody Somebody's hiding there in the background. But yeah, Vic uh actually Lewis, he was he was freaky, too. He had He was huge legs. Those big He was over 300 lb. Yep. He was definitely AI remember him. Yeah. Like this, too. He had that high weird. He had a very strange shaped body. He was very angular. Well, because his lower body was bigger than his upper body. That's why he was about six feet tall maybe I I think and he was well over 300 pounds you get you would get the same afternoon you would get him Matt Mendenhal um the Barbarians and Gary Stridum I mean there was there was so many big dudes working out there at the same time man it was such a cool place see his upper body he didn't have that shoulder width to me it's his upper body was not that low flats weren't very wide Right. That picture doesn't do it justice. Let me look for I remember Louisis very well. Isn't there a a wellness girl or a bikini girl named Fras from Brazil? Are they related? Yeah. And and Fras. She's freaky crazy, too. She has like these strided quads out of hell. Yeah. Are they related? No. I don't know. Probably it's probably a common name, John, though. like damn that she she looks like a female version of him but more ripped. It's like Romano in Yeah. Yeah. See how big his legs were. His upper body doesn't match. His shoulder width is not there. Yeah. Yeah. So he he was supplying Gold's gym and then he got arrested. Is that what happened? I don't know if he got arrested from Gold's gym, but he got he got arrested. I didn't they take him off the stage or something at one of the show at the Olympia or something? I think something like that, right? Yeah, I think he was I know. I know. came to get him because I was standing there like he would he wouldn't come out and FBI it was either FBI or DEA were at the front counter looking I had some partner named Michael something some skinny dude and uh and that guy got busted and ratted him out. Really? Yeah. This was after like after I stopped dealing with him. That's her. Yeah, that's an she's like crazy looking. She should have done the wellness. Look at that. No, she was bodybuilder. No, I know. She should do wellness. I'm saying now she she actually is a coach for wellness competitors now. Oh, she is? Well, yeah. For a lot of them. She coaches all the Brazilian wellness chicks. She's she's a cool girl. I' I've talked to her before and interviewed her. She's When I saw her at Olympia years ago, she was like crazy looking. Insane shredded. Yeah. And big. Yeah. She got She got really lean. She was good. She's a nice guy. Ahead of her time. Yep. She's a nice guy. You're just jealous. She's got that little butt you like. That can look little to me. He hates that. He hates big butts. I like it like Ariana Grande. Skinny, little like that her glutes and that her quads and glutes and hamstrings in that one back shower. [\h__\h] You don't like You don't like a little muscle on the glutes? Uh, Greg. Just a little. I don't mind if it's muscle, but it's got to be small muscle. You know what I'm saying? Like I get it. I'm not I'm not into these massive huge like people are in today with the BBLs. Speaking of the BBLs, you know, people die constantly of those because the fat transfer and it gets in their bloodstream. I think that's the most dangerous cosmetic surgery there is. Really? I would have I I I see people constantly dying from getting BBLs in Miami or overseas or whatever. Because of the way they do it, they get infections. You're squash. Yeah. Infections. And then this the fat they put in there goes into the bloodstream and just you know like stroke or brain or whatever. So you ever hear shot parties? Yeah. The girls go get their shots. They have parties and you know smart it replaced Tupperware parties. John, that's what I just It did. It totally did. They're injecting themselves with synthol in the out really far. That looked like [\h__\h] But the the Botox parties are at least with an with a licensed person to do it is is is a cool idea. If a lot of women want to get Botox and they're going to get a better deal, it's by getting 10 girls together and having a party. Uh I think it's I think it's it's smart, you know, but you got to make sure Look, anytime you put anything cosmetic into your face, okay, don't shop for for bargains because you know what? You're looking for trouble because this is your face. This is what people see. I've seen some hatchet jobs done and I and I'm like, you know what? I I I don't even feel bad for the person because it's always like, well, I went to this party or, oh, I went to this this guy, this woman who does it in her house. Go to a plastic surgeon. Spend the money and get it done right. It's not even the best. Even the best though, Dave, like I would do I haven't done Botox in over a year. The last time I did it is when I got that droo like Botox. Yeah, but that's a side effect that that could happen. That's not fault. That's that was that's my plastic surgeon friend and I would go see him like once a year. He he said start coming to me at 30 for printed Botox and then the last time I did it my eye like that was awful for three months. It was like it was like that and I was just I mean Arman metabolism is so fast. I got I went to one of my friends clinic and I did a video and and I got a little too much of that. Um yeah, what is the long acting one called again? Um Daxport. Yeah, something like that. And and my eye was I didn't like my eye looked like it was drooping. It lasted a week and and it was gone because my body doesn't bo It's not even worth me getting Botox because metabolized the stuff, you know. He put so much in me because I'm like that too. I I burn. I know. That's what happens when you put two I think they did that to me too. But luckily it only was like that for a week. You know I was like two months. You don't put Botox in your face? I don't know. I'm ugly, bro. I'm too ugly. Forget about it. You don't have one wrinkle on your face. Well, yeah. Look, see my forehead? Yeah, but you don't not if you don't borrow it. You You don't have Well, listen. I mean, I'm just saying I'm an ugly. You got Italian genetics. That's why, you know. Well, thank you. I appreciate it. But I [\h__\h] I look like Uncle Fester on [\h__\h] steroids or something. Yeah. Well, that's uh that's the way it goes. Do you do boat hustling? You ever do it, Larry? Never. I never care. I never cared to do it. It doesn't matter to me. Yeah. I do it every three months. Larry, your head would actually smooth out if they did the Botox in in the the furrows of your head. But I just I just don't I don't care. It's like the person Larry looks younger and he's a good-look guy. My girlfriend, you know what they say? My my girlfriend. People who don't have like furrows in their head. I mean, not if you have Botox, obviously you don't have it, but people who don't have that by nature, um those are usually psychopaths because psychopaths have no facial they don't respond to like stimuli. like they're just like like we if you if you smile a lot, you're going to get more lines in your head and and and around your eyes because that's just normal. If you don't if you don't move your face a lot, then you don't get these lines. And so they say a good way to see if someone's a psychopath is if they have like no lines on their face. And uh because psychopath eyes, too. They all they all have light eyes. Yeah. I I don't know about that, but you guys see all the serial killers had light eyes. Yeah. Not the hillside. The stupid trend now. The stupid trend. Now everybody's tattooing their freaking, you know, eyes like different colors. That's that's insane. Did you see Calli Muscle got his eyes turned blue? Yeah. Cali did it. Yeah. No, they're doing it. There's the there's there's eye surgeons that are doing it and um you know, you're at risk for blindness. And the thing is when they let's say you wear a contact, the contact you could tell like because it doesn't look like a real eye, the sparkle, all that kind of stuff. But when people are doing the the the tattooing also, it doesn't look like a real human color. It looks weird. It makes someone look like a like a a doll or something. It doesn't look weird. Arman, you mean tattooing the white, not the iris, right? No, the iris. Yeah. Wait, you could tattoo the iris of your eye? Yeah. You want blue eyes? No, I don't want no blue eyes. Yeah, you we'll do a GoFundMe for you. Or you get you get born to lose tattooed on your eyeball. It's It's real big with Hispanic. I see a lot of Hispanic girls doing it. They got brown eyes. They got I like brown eyes. I I like brown eyes a lot. I don't like I'm not a fan of like blue eyes and girls, but um and then they get them done like green or blue and it just doesn't look weird. It looks It doesn't look natural at all. I I thought dangerous. Yeah, very dangerous. You don't think that that's contact lenses that he's really putting on? No, he did it. And his eyes don't really look blue. They look like bright turquoise or something. That's what I'm saying, Larry. It doesn't look like a natural You know, I could How do you think they dissolved off the black in his eye to make it blue? I wonder what they did. What the procedure? That's creepy looking though, bro. When you see him look at you, just I see it all over Tik Tok now and the doctor's doing it. Yeah, it's all over Tik Tok and the doctor. Rich Piana used to wear colored contacts and he'd match his outfits. Well, that's that's that's he wore green contacts and he had a green outfit with green shoes. Everything had to match and he had outfits to change the colors all the time. Wait, I want He looked better with brown eyes, too. It looked weird him having green eyes. It just doesn't look right with something. I just want to say something before I forget. I want to challenge Dave Palumbo with something when we're done with this because I think uh Dave's gonna bug out. Dave, do you remember that day the day before at the Olympia backstage? Kai wanted you to help him put in the red contact lenses and you couldn't get them in. They're they're so thick. They wouldn't go in. He was He was like we're like holding them in our hands and hold this one. And Dave's got his eye open like this and we couldn't get it Yeah. Those those contact lenses are tough to put. Look at Callie's eyes right here. Hold on. Can you see that? Yeah. It's creepy. It looks demonic. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think people go through these like midlife crisis and they do just weird [\h__\h] like that. Yeah, he did it for clicks. I don't know about I think he wanted blue eyes. I think he really Yeah, I really wanted it. I can't see. Oh, okay. Oh, wait. Is that good? He's got blue eyes. Doesn't Phil Heath has light eyes, right? Everybody That's his natural eyes. Yeah, natural. Natural. So, it looks good on him because it's natural. Look at his eyes. They're like lighter than mine. But Phil has lighter skin than him. It does look demonic. It looks like some like reptile or something. Looks like one of like one of David's snakes or something. He was copying copying Johnny Bravo. That's what he was doing. They were going back and forth. I don't know, man. That looks terrible. Bravo. Hey, listen. If he wants to have blue eyes, [\h__\h] it. Let him have blue eyes, right? Whatever makes you happy. Yeah. But I mean, it's miraculous that they can do that. It's How much does How much does that cost? I have 5. I would say 5,000. I look it up. Let me see. Why would you do that though? I I Listen, if you want to do it, you do it. But I just think I'd be scared. I want to know the blindness risk. Like what's the risk of I'm sure it's pretty high. The risk is going blind. Yeah. I don't I want to know how high of a risk it is. I mean, cuz even with LASIC surgery, you're at a hu huge risk of going blind. I [\h__\h] that. I'm very happy with my eye color. Not only that, the the light I wanted the light colored eyes are more susceptible to something. This is how they do it. This is how they do it. They remove the brown melanin from the upper layers of the iris using a low intensity laser light. The light can enter the eyes, scatter, and reflect back the shortest wavelengths blues. While you can't swap eye colors just yet, things look mute your mic. 5,000 5,000. That's the landscaper. Yeah, I got I got to mute you. I can't have it. Sorry. It's five $5,000 to $15,000. Uh yeah, it sounds very dangerous, too. Oh [\h__\h] Yeah. Vision loss, glaucoma, corial damage, cataracts are all like a high risk for that. That's [\h__\h] crazy. I wouldn't do it. Never. But if that's what it is, it is it is pretty miraculous though that they can do that. I I have to admit. I mean that's that's like magic. Like if you would have told someone 20 years ago that they could change your eyes from brown to blue, people would have thought you were nuts. They would have been like, "You're out of your freaking mind." And they can do that today. I mean, I don't know if I, you know, I have blue eyes, it doesn't matter, but I don't know if I would put myself through that because it is dangerous. And I I wouldn't want to go blind because that's, you know, but the fact that they can do it is is is insane. It just goes to show you that pretty soon they're going to be able to do anything, you know. So, I think in the future, like it's funny how they could do everything except They could do everything except get you to grow your hair back. I don't know why they can't figure it out. That difficult. Greg, did you know you could get your [\h__\h] bleached? I don't need my He's done it. He's done it already. I don't need my [\h__\h] bleached. It's clean. My My [\h__\h] is so clean you could eat off it. White color. It's all It's all prolapsed and all blown out. That's sure it is. Yeah. He needs He needs a facelift of his ass, right? Getting an anal tuck, right? No. What do they call it when you have the baby and they and they do the epziottomy and they sew it up and they call it the daddy stitch. Wait, what about making the anus a different color? Could you make your anus blue? Like your eyes? That's coming. John, you've never seen girls with uh anal tattoos. It's they tattoo their anus. Imagine that. That's [\h__\h] Imagine a hurt. How that would hurt. Imagine the guy that's got to do it. Imagine you got to bring that home to your mother. Look, she's got an anus tattoo. I got a great job for you. You could be the guy that makes sure the girl's anuses are are clean before they do the anal tattoo. I love eating as well. You Well, you know also how to clean it out with you have your your whole enema methodology there. You better believe it. John John Skadiri sent me that. I got to hook it up. John, if you're watching, I'm sorry. I haven't had a chance. I'm going to do it. He sent me a [\h__\h] um I have it over here somewhere. The uh the the bedet he sent John Scadiri sent me a bedet that you got to, you know, has a remote control so I can sit after I'm done cleaning my ass. I can use it like a water fountain, too. You know what I'm saying? Larry, if you're ever in New York, you got to come over. I'll let you use the bedet. It's [\h__\h] awesome. can stay in that bed that Lee Haney slept in. Larry, thanks. Give it a Lee Haney. Turn off the turn off your microphone, please. Please, George. It's loud. Oh, the guy. It's always pretty loud. Wait, I I got John. The guy's a landscaper. What's the big deal? They're blowing. So what? Big deal. But every big deal. Big deal. It's every time. Every time you come on, every time you come on, it's technical difficulties. It's funny. It's part of your nature. It's funny. Yeah. Yeah. We We expected. Did you see Hey, John, did you see uh Jack Owak? You know, our good friend Jack who who's who who did B, you know, Red Line Bang Energy. He's got a new energy drink out. Uh oh. What does he want to come on the show? I'm gonna bring him on the show, but it looks [\h__\h] He creates some awesome [\h__\h] Ultra Dopa. Oh [\h__\h] What's in it? It's It's like supposed to It's like a no neutropic like energy drink. So, it's got caffeine, but it also has all the neutropics in there supposed to make you increase dopamine levels in your brain and make you feel good. I love the marketing. He's our gym has that [\h__\h] now. Somebody some some company comes out with that [\h__\h] now. Our gym has it in a machine. Jack is back. I The guy is unbelievable because he has like he just doesn't quit. You know, think about it. Pepsi almost put him out of business. He had to sell the company. You know, he was originally going to get like three million three billion dollars for Pep for Bang. He said no. And then Pepsi sued him, lost a lawsuit. He had to sell it to them at a much much much reduced price. Now he's back another energy drink. The guy is is is Dude, his red line was badass, bro. You take that [\h__\h] He's a gen He's a marketing genius. Look, he put his he put his picture on the new one. You guys like those energy drinks? I I can't drink one of those. It makes I don't do energy. I don't do caffeine, but I I I respect what he's doing. Wait, I can I can I bring a different subject up that I want to challenge Dave Blumble with a lot of you guys. I think Armen, you might like this. Hey, last week you had on Nick, right? And in the past you had on your sister who does uh psychic readings, right? Right. And you grew up with Chris Angel who's uh you know very f and Chris Angel said that none of that shit's real and he will give $1 million to anybody who could prove that they could read psych you know that do a psychic reading. I thought Houdini did I thought Houdini said that. I didn't know that. No, but you should ask Chris Angel. We should get him on a show and have them try to because he's the What does Chris Angel believe in then? What does he believe in? He says there's no such thing. He said just like he said there's no such magic. He actually had a fight with a guy on TV where it almost came to a fist fight where they were arguing when he does that show. You know where he sits there and then they they perform and some guy was supposed to talk. No, it was something No, it was something different. It was an actual show. It's almost like uh it's almost like the what's that show with the America's Got Talent or whatever, you know, where they judges sit there and then they meticians perform. Yeah. Anyway, yeah, American Idol like that. And uh he sat there and he had an argument with a guy, asked him about it, Dave, and he said, "There's no such thing. I will pay $1 million to anybody who says that they can read that they can talk to somebody who passed away that there's no such." So, I'm saying because here you have somebody in your family who does that and friends that do that. You know what, Greg? I'll I'll give you the I'll give you my answer. My answer is that it's all what you believe. You don't have to believe in anything and you don't have to like think it's real or not. It's what you believe. It's like religion. You know, you don't debate religion with people, right? Because it's because it's what they believe. So, right, you know, some people don't believe that it's real. Some people do. Some people get it. But does it heal you? Do you get benefits from it? I mean, if religion makes people feel better and and and makes them feel connected and they it resonates with them, then then religion is amazing. And I think it's great. Do I think there's a God? I do. I think everyone prays to the same God, though, and everyone has a different way to reach that god. And I think that there's things in this this universe that we live in that we have no explanation for. Okay? No one will deny that. And so to say something doesn't exist or it does exist or it is real, it's not real, you'd be a [\h__\h] to say that that that that it's it's this is not real and this is real because we just don't know. We could live we could be living in a simulation for all we know, a virtual reality simulation, and we wouldn't know it because we're we're into that. We're in the matrix, as they say. We we only know what we see and what we can perceive. And we know that our five senses don't even give us even a fraction of what's really going on out there. We only it only enables us to to to interact with the environment according to what our senses give us. So I don't have five senses. I don't argue with anyone if anyone's if people tell me hey I had this this this you know interaction this experience I believe it because you know what it's irrelevant whether what I believe or not it's what the person believes. So, I understand what you're saying, but I'm just saying it's Chris Chris lost his dad and it was very very very very traumatic to him and it's something that he talks about all the time and he I'm sure he would love to have a conversation with his dad and you know I guess he just feels like you know that that's not really possible and you know maybe for him it's not possible. I don't know. Chris Crystal but I'm just saying I'm just saying it's ironic because you you know you have somebody in your family that does the readings. Yeah. There's no what I'm saying is there's no reason to prove it. You don't have to prove it though. I'm not saying whether he prove it or not. I'm just saying it. It's ironic because you have both sides of the like extreme on you know because he swears there's no such thing and he will give $1 million to prove that there's you know like to anybody who can prove to him that they I'm just saying it's it's you have both sides of the argument, you know. Well, there's no missing there's no missing link. You can't. I've seen psychics give the greatest reading you'll ever see to a total stranger and the person still doesn't believe that it's real. And so it's what you want to believe and what you're you know what you're open to. Some people just not open to it. That's it. Um I'm not saying I'm not open to any I'm open to anything, man. Anything that you know I don't have five senses. I got four and a half. But um no but they can't all the animals what all the animals on earth they can't they can't go back to where it started like they can't trace us back to apes where's where where did we start from apes where the cockroach start from from some this to that they just exist cockroach came from my mother-in-law's house yeah Dave I I got your aminos So, what I wanted to ask you is that they just came today, right? Okay. All right. So, I got the amino uh watermelon. Right. Right. Now, one says it has sodium nitrate in it and the potassium and the other one doesn't. Are they Are they Is it just because you didn't put them on the label? No, I I I you have two different two different manufacturers, so they they they use different uh preservatives and stuff like that. Okay. Cuz well this one the blue one the blue raspberry has has the sodium and potassium in it. Yeah they've all they all have sodium potassium in it. They're all they do I figured because the label because once you change to change labels they have electrolytes. Yeah. They have added electrolytes to them. So it's electrolyte drink as well. The blue one they all have electrolytes. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm going to use I've been see I've been seeing on I've been seeing on Amazon you know like all the vitamins and stuff. I know they did they test a bunch at Walmart and other places but you know I know they were saying on Amazon order directly from the manufacturer because Amazon you have a lot of counterfeits out there that counterfeit certain vitamins. I bought a lens for a camera lens for this studio and the lens yeah it was the wrong lens in in the right box. So people are scammers. I'm not saying yeah, all things are like that, but make sure that the the if you buy vitamins from from um Amazon, like a lot of people buy species from there. Make sure it's sealed. Make sure it's sealed well. Well, I get the the the razors, electrical razors for like the Nurelco shaver. I got one of those before and they were cutting me every time. And I found out they didn't come from the manufacturer. And then I got the Noxin shampoo and I found out that wasn't from the original manufacturer. It was from someone else just randomly naked on Amazon and sell it. How do you find that out though? You know, I Greg, I stopped selling I stopped selling species to other distributors who sell on Amazon. So, I'm the only Amazon seller of species because I just because of that problem. But how did Arman find out the shampoo was like fake? Like did you how did you know? I'm just asking. I got AI got a hold of the manufacturer and there there's some different stuff on the labels and stuff like that too. And um it it had a different texture and smell and all that too. And then with the vitamins and stuff, they tested like like five creatines out there too uh like on Amazon and it it it showed three of the creatines had no creatine at all and then two of the creatines had like like micro doses of what they were supposed to really have. Let's say it was supposed to have like five milligrams. It had like 100th of that. So it didn't do anything. So, when people are shopping on Amazon for vitamins because I take a different vitamins that Dave don't make or I don't make uh that you know certain uh you know vitamin K2 whatever whatever they may be and uh I just they just they say order directly I know Amazon's easy because you just boom ship to your house the next day but a lot of these because it was weird because I was trying to order from the manufacturer these one supplements I forgot the name brand and they were out of stock but they they were easily readable available on Amazon and I got them in And um I asked the guy that naturopath guy that sent me he's like no no no no don't buy from Amazon. They fake them all the time. Buy them from the direct uh distributor of if you're buying on Amazon, buy from Species Nutrition on Amazon. So in other words, from my store, not from like someone else's store. That's that's what you don't need. Okay? Because because I need to check mine because I got I I get the artilly and fiber eyes everywhere. Well, we we're the only one who sells on the American Amazon. So, you don't have to worry about it. There's no there is no other version of ours. I'm pretty sure on Oh, [\h__\h] I get milk on all You know what? A Amazon a lot of people don't realize Amazon makes you test your products and submit the test from a third-party testing agency to them. And if it doesn't match the label exactly or, you know, you're they take you off of there. It happens all the time. They're always pulling products on me and and the good thing is I don't I don't do anything. You know, my products are better than what they say on the lab. That's a great flavor, Dave. Blue raspberry tastes first time having it. Yeah. Yeah. That's our the original amino. Now, that's great. What a lot of So, now the problem is they can't test everything on Amazon, so they spot test things. Um, you know, I saw that there was some Asian guy who tested um like Muscle Tech protein was supposed to have like 40 grams of protein. It came back at like 12. So, yeah, you got to be very careful about There's no way to put 40 grams, Dave. Anyway, that's a lot. That's a unless it's unless there's no flavor. I mean, 40, George, it was a bigger scoop size. That's why they were able to do that. But still, like the size of a cup. Look, you get what you pay for. Protein is so expensive right now. That if the protein price is too cheap, I can guarantee you you're not getting what they're telling you they're putting in. I can no one is selling protein at a loss. I I promise you that no one's selling it at a loss. The stupid part is most of these rather they don't care if it's cheap or they don't care if it's fake. If it's cheaper, they'll buy fake. But I usually tell people just pretend that they don't they don't know. That's what it is. So, oh, I didn't know that muscle that this brand of muscle tech only had 12 grams of protein and they lied or that this other company is skimping on the protein or they're putting, you know, amino acids in there instead of whey isolate. But listen, look, you know, when you go and buy a car, right? you know the car distributors that are going to have the best quality cars and you know that that they're not discounting because they produce the best quality, you know, German cars and stuff like that. So, you know, if you want to if you want a discount car, you buy, you know, a cheap, you know, Yugo or whatever the whatever the latest the, you know, greatest I don't know latest cheap cars are, you know, but if you want high quality, you go and buy a Mercedes or you buy a BMW or something like that or, you know, if you have more money, you buy a Ferrari, you know, or, you know, Lambo. But, you know, when you spend that money, you're getting high quality, you know, engineering. And it's the same thing with the supplement industry. I talked to Rich Kaspari about this, you know, when we were in Ohio. He's like, you know, you know, it's amazing how how many people get away with selling crap out there. I said, I know. I said, you know, and that's why the education process is so important. You know, I need to explain to people why 28 grams of protein per 33 gram serving size of isolized whey isolate that we sell is far superior to, you know, if you're getting 22 grams of protein for 33 gram serving size because there's a discrepancy there. What, you know, and what what is the other stuff, you know, and so, you know, then people might wonder why the protein gives them gas or diarrhea or it doesn't taste good. It's all what you pay for. you get what you pay for and that's the bottom line and you know place people will go and and shop for price and that's not a good thing especially if you're if you're an elite athlete and you want to look your absolute best why would you buy cheap [\h__\h] your body it just doesn't make sense I mean I hear it all the time people are like yeah I'm buying this big I'm like where are you getting your back from Walmart I'm like they're like yeah it messes my stomach up so bad like I'm like a good protein should not make you fart all day long and make you sick to your stomach that's not a good protein spend the extra money. They're like, "Well, I get this big bag for 20 bucks." I'm like, "Exactly. You get this big bag for 20 bucks. It's not It's not quality protein, you know, a bunch of filler in there. Just eat chicken breasts all day if you don't want to do if you don't want to spend the money on a Goodway isolate, you know, from a reputable company. Then then just eat food all day if you don't want to do it. Don't go buy crap." And and it's like putting low test gas into a Lamborghini. First of all, it says right on the on the fuel tank, do not put anything but 93 or better into this Lamborghini. So, if you go and put 89 or 87, you know, octane in there and then you wonder why the car that the engine's knocking and it's not performing well, and is it a wonder? You don't put low test gas in a in a high quality car. Same thing with your body. You don't put crap into a high highly tuned ultra hyper muscular body. The body needs stuff that it can absorb rapidly and efficiently. So, I mean, it it doesn't take a brain surgeon to figure this out. Meanwhile, they'll spend $8,000 a month on GH, but they won't buy a good quality protein or vitamins for themselves. Well, they the protein may do better than the GH high quality food be better than taking a drug. Spend $7,000 a month on GH and take the other thousand and buy good quality food and supplements. That That's my suggestion to you. When it comes down to the GH, I know Larry probably know the best. Uh when people are like I have clients who like Yeah. I'm like how much are you getting your GH for? They're like $50 a kit. I'm like well I mean you're taking five IUs a day. You're Yeah. Listen listen. I'm like you're taking five IUs a day. There's no way it's growth hormone. It's not showing your physique. And they'll continue to buy it. They're like well I just can't find afford more expensive G. I'm like spend more money. Just take one or two IUs. You don't need five IUs. It's not even GH you're taking. And Larry, like I tell people all the time, you're not getting real GH if you're buying it for like 50 bucks or 80 bucks a kit. Am I right? No way. I get mine right straight from China and it's $250. Yeah. People are buying it for like And those are generic, but they're real. I got them tested. Yeah. I tell people all the time. So in Mexico, what they do is the guys buy juice for the week. So they want single. They all want single, you know, single use ampules. Oh, really? Is that how it works? Yeah. Yeah. Because they don't have any money. So, their cycle is, you know, if they get, you know, 250 pesos this week, they can afford a shot of, you know, whatever. But, yeah. And it's it's usually fake. It's it's never and the and the guys will it'll say on on the label like test 400 or something and it's and it's been proven fake. Everybody knows it's fake, but it's 25 pesos cheaper than everybody else. They'll still buy that knowing it's fake and it's not and it's no good. They'll still buy it because it's cheaper. Wow. the place. I always tell people if you can get like real pharmacy GH, you're better off taking one to two IUs of that a day than using eight IUs of of some fake generic GH that that is probably either has nothing in it or is dosed super super low. At least you know what you're taking is what you're taking, right? And that's just my mentality that if I was, luckily I don't have to compete in this era, but if I was, I would absolutely spend more money getting a pharmaceutical GH and just take a little less of it because I think I don't even think you need a lot anyway. I think people do way too much GH. They do have real Chinese. Most people who say they take 20, I use a GH are using a GH that's probably fake anyway or severely underdosed. I never use that [\h__\h] They do have real Chinese generics though that are real and I had them tested and they're just as good as the as the any of the pharmaceutical ones. They're the same thing. But they're faking genotrope pins serim kits now they're more than the other ones. Yeah. I got some serum kits before I tested them with the with the GH test Davis and uh it came back fake. All these ceram kits were fake. Really? Wow. Yeah. So they're faking those a lot now because that they're giving better HIV meds out. So these these HIV guys, they can't get those Sarah kits like they used to if they can they're only getting like one a month, two a month max. It's not like where used before they used to get like 10 20 kits a month. That doesn't happen. The other scam with that Armen was that that there it was like an 18 IU 18 IU bottle, right? But their their prescription was for like six. So they would the idea was they would throw the rest away. So that's why those guys were selling their kits because they were being prescribed three times less than the than the package contained. So they were able to sell the extra. But now they caught one of my clients, he was taking 18 IUs a day and I and he was having severe distension and he felt bad all the time. I said, "Bro, you don't need 18 IUs a day. Take like three and then sell the rest of me." And he he had this was like five years back, but he had 50 kits in his like uh refrigerator at home or whatever. No, at home or whatever. You know how you test your GH? You get pregnancy test. No, you go that work. You have somebody who's not taking anything and you have take have them take a large dose of GH like 10 units and then they go get a serum growth hormone test like two hours later actual blood test and if their GH is not through the roof you know that it's fake. I thought I got an easier way. I got an easier way. Bill Llewellyn makes a growth hormone testing kit we sell at davepalo.com and it will tell it won't tell you the dosage of your GH but it'll tell you if it's real or not. And so I recommend that everyone does that as at least an initial find out if your GH is real. I mean because if you're spending a couple grand, spend a hundred bucks and test the stuff to see if it's real. If you want the problem with taking a a a shot like Larry's saying and then going three hours later and testing your IGF-1 and GH levels is that everyone responds a little differently to how much IGF release date yet. So you might not be able to quantify how much you're actually No, not not IGF. You serum GH test. It wouldn't be there. It it gets depregated in 20 minutes and currently I've done this like 20 times with people. I've had my ex-girlfriend who's not taking anything. I have her take the shot and then go get a blood test which cost 60 bucks. Yeah. Well, it'll tell you. I've tried that with real Sarah before and my IGF was still low. But going back to John, they the they don't they used to fake a lot of growth hormone HCG. That's why the pregnancy test work. But they don't use hg to fake the only Yeah. The only thing a pregnancy test will tell you is if it's HCG. It won't tell you anything else. Yeah, HCG is expensive now and hard to find for a lot of people. Yeah, because they won't sell generics anymore. That's why. Right. Yeah. Gonadellin. Food or drugs? Both. Which is more important? If you ate all the high quality food, right, and didn't miss a meal and put in exactly what your body needed, right, and didn't take the drugs or if you took the drugs and didn't eat really like which which would be better? I think it would be better if you ate better and and and and didn't take drugs because I think if you don't eat and you take drugs, you're not growing. Doesn't matter. So, well, that's my food is more important. food is 85%. 85% is your diet. You do the food, George. But the problem is a lot of people if their testosterone levels are too low and I mean it's very hard for them to get in shape if they have like really bad testosterone levels. But I agree the food. No, no, I agree with I agree with he's saying which is which variable is more important is what he's saying. Oh yeah, the food. The food way more important cuz back Dave back in the when you would go to clubs like Sound Factory Exit whenever like you know who the gay guys were always the ones that were shredded ripped with no shirts cuz they were all taking their [\h__\h] growth horses and they were shredded. I had a couple guys they were prescribing them test anadrol GH and halotestin at the time and I was getting all of it from Oh really? Well yeah they were prescribing all of that halo test and they stopped pres I forgot what year they stopped prescribing that but they would prescribe them manadrol test deca GH halo they would give them all that yeah those guys back in the 90s I'm tell the mid 90s they worked but that worked it kept them alive those because remember they didn't have the drugs they don't have today that steroids and the GH kept the AIDS patients alive back in the 90s and early 2000s today they have some far superior period of drugs to do that. Right. Right. But that I mean that saved those guys really. I mean they were all jacked. They were all jacked and veiny and had no body fat and all. They weren't they weren't huge but they were [\h__\h] shredded and real built because they were all those guys all walked around without the shirts on. You know [\h__\h] he's gay. He's shredded. You know what I'm saying? Because and you know what Greg no one had any negative health ramifications from it. So you would think that that's their controlled study. they want to go do a retroactive study and see how steroids and GH affect people who use them because they, you know, it's an unethical study to do on bodybuilds, right? But go back and look at all the AIDS patients that use them for the for the last 20 years. Those guys are all still alive. They didn't die, right? They were back before they started this stuff. So, they were taking the Anadrol year round, too. They would stay on an literally year round. It's crazy. See, we hear how toxic andadrol is, but they were staying on it year round. 50 milligrams a day. Right. Right. That's years ago I took it for a long time. And I got like lean from it, but I never gained size. What's that? The serost stem. Oh, okay. I took it for like years and I always got it kept me lean, but I never got size. And then I got gin tropins and it was like a whole different I don't know why it's different. It's supposed to be 191 amino acids, but there's something different because on the gym, I'll tell you what my theory is on that. I think a lot of people with the cirrus stem were 18 I use and I think people took a lot more of that than they use of other GH and because of that it made them almost very insulin resistant and if they didn't take like insulin or or manage their blood sugars, they didn't grow because it was almost like they weren't absorbing the food properly. I noticed this with my body and you need you you needed like something to help you absorb all this food you were eating. It was like otherwise it was just going straight through you and I was just flat from it. It would didn't make me I agree. I agree with Dave too because I get the serum kits. If I took like over four or five like I could not keep any weight on me. I would just be so just lean and not full at all. I fell flat just like Dave said. I never took growth hormone or any of that [\h__\h] I just was androgens like crazy. I love and but but like what Larry said, I always hear people saying too genotrope was way better than Sarah. I did take genotrope a few times and I really didn't know. I could I couldn't tell the I couldn't tell the difference, you know. Well, let me ask you a question. On the gentropens, my feet swell up and my hands get thick. I know, but what's the I like I never understood the science behind and I still don't know anybody that can say, "Hey, this is a science why ginotrope works better than the It doesn't it doesn't. It's 191 amino acids or 191 amino acids." What you want to ask me, Dave? The same. I want to ask you if you if you knew you were short when you were growing up. You're still short. Um, if you had the opportunity to take GH when you were like 16, would you have done it to grow? Yeah. My mother actually took me to a doctor and he told her, "Well, you know, he's built, he's this, he's that. I think he should." And my mother always said that was the biggest mistake because my father was like 5'10". You would have been a freak if you took GH. Oh my god. I know, right? My sister was tall. You know, not tall, but I mean, for a girl, you know, she you know, she's she was like 5'6, you know. I'm just saying like, you know, it's I would, you know, I don't know how what the [\h__\h] happened with me, but whatever. You know, I my father was five 5'10", 5'11, you know, so it wasn't like he was short or anything. Right. Right. But I I think Don't you think steroids when people start taking them before their growth plates are shut, it stunts your growth. Yeah. But I didn't start taking them till 35. So my my But I think GH is okay because that'll make you grow. Yeah, GH will make you grow. I took, you know, we were getting all those pro hormones at at 16 from like Tom Thumb. We would shoplift them all the time. And so I started taking pro hormones at 16. I didn't know what they were really. None of us knew what they really were, but you know, um I shrunk inch from my back stuff, but my brother was 6 foot and I was uh 5'10 and I shrunk an inch. I'm like probably like 5'9 now from my spinal injuries. But I g I guarantee you it it was those pro hormones that stunted their growth because my brother is six foot. I agree. None of that [\h__\h] was around though when I was young. When I was around it was like desiccated liver, [\h__\h] uh B pollen and and remember Lecithin and you know all that [\h__\h] Bob Hoffman sold pro, you know, Blair uh Rio H Blair protein, Hoffman protein, stuff like that. That's all you know that was none. I mean I remember when amino acids first came out that people were like holy [\h__\h] amino acids, you know. What was it? Mousace. What were those? Those those musat what were the remember the it was like a Japanese name they they were really expensive amino acids they had no fl no no flavoring them no the first one was uniro it I'm talking about the tablets that was Mike Zupano no these were this was a powder it was called mousashi or something like that I don't know I don't remember that one that was back in the the late 80s by the way someone said Arnold was 6'2 and he took roids young he was definitely not 6'2. I stood next to him many times. He's maybe 5'11 tops before he shrunk. Larry was I say six foot, six foot and a half. No, you never know. You never know. I've stood next to him since I was a kid. He's not that tall. I've stood I've stood next to him a million times, too. But everybody's tall to me. Well, like Ronnie Coleman was supposed to be 5'11, 5'11 and a half. He always in person he looked much taller than that just because his structure. Like when you saw Ronnie Porch, you're like, "Oh my god, he's so tall." But he was only I think 5'11. We all We all shrink as we get older. Just Yeah. I'm [\h__\h] I'm getting taller cuz the disc because you don't know that you're 65. That's why you think you got to do my workout. I'm not 65. I'm 60 going to be 68. Wow. You guys got do my workouts now. I Now I got my I got my Amino evolved blue raspberry with electrolytes in it. I'm going to be a savage now. Wait, listen. You know who's short? Sylvester Stallone's like 5'7, 5'8. He wasn't a lot taller than me when I seen him. He was He still He still looks great. He's almost 80, the guy. He's 78, dude. He looks phenomenal. You see those pictures of him on the internet? He's unbelievable. 5'8 maybe at the most. I don't know. 5'7. He wears that [\h__\h] in his shoes, I think. But kids are obsessed right now. I get questions all the time like from 14, 15, 16 year olds. They want to get growth hormone because they know it makes you grow taller. And they're like, you know, can you give me grow? I'm like, no, I can't get you growth hormone. But then they're like, "Does it make you taller?" I'm like, "Yeah, if your growth plates aren't shut yet, it it will make you taller." That's what they prescribe it for. My friend, my friend's daughter, she has uh Turners and she's, you know, short nature and they're prescribe her a lot of growth hormone and it's helping her. It's helping her grow, but they're also getting, you know, like, you know, facial stuff where the ears can grow a little more and facial features when they're young, too. So, now they have the new long acting growth hormone that lasts you take like one shot every nine days or something. Oh [\h__\h] Body bowls will never do that. They'll use that and they'll use Oh, there's some body. You know that. True story. All right, hold on. One. I want to do one more story before we uh shut down this podcast. Have you seen this? This this is on TMZ. Even Stephie Con this this powerlifting chick. She was arrested up her boyfriend. Yeah, there's like I don't know what she I was trying to find all the information on it. I really haven't been able to get There's been AI've watched Long Crime. There's been a couple different ones like Good-looking Fit Girls. One decapitated her boyfriend. The other one The other one um Yeah, I don't think she's a killer. This girl, she's just she just maybe got pissed off at him and beat him up or something like that. You know, this is like fourth time she was had a big case two years ago. She got arrested for like destroying something of her ex-boyfriend and threatening him and and I I think she destroyed his car and did a bunch of [\h__\h] And she was she actually was in jail two years ago for domestic violence. Oh, really? Yeah. And then she got a new boyfriend. I guess maybe she's doing it again. I don't know. She when girls are taking all those hormones, it makes them effing crazy. Even a little bit of antib girls off of off of, you know, they don't know how to deal with it because they're not Daryl female. That's why they don't we we we know how to deal with it. We we just This is like like her for being arrested for this kind of [\h__\h] Hold on. According to the New York Post, powerlifter Stephie Conn um hacked into her uh ex-boyfriend's laptop posted nude photos of his new flame. The 33-year-old influencer, real name Stephanie Cohen Maggarichi, she sounds like a Jew, a pizza bagel like me, was arrested in Miami on Wednesday on domestic violence charge. Uh, it was not immediately clear what led to the arrest in the Miami Dade Police Department did not immediately respond to requests early Monday. Uh, however, the Venezuelaborn powerlifting champ, Venezuelan born, excuse me, powerlifting champ's arrest comes more than a year after she faced a felony charge of unauthorized access to a computer, a misdemeanor, sexual cyber harassment, criminal mischief, and resisting arrest without violence. Uh, the lifter turned boxer, who has more than 1 million followers on her Instagram page, where she's known as Dr. Stephie Cohen allegedly accessed her ex-boyfriend's laptop, which he left behind in a house he used to live in with her in March of 22. So, this is case doing charges. That's why she's his exgirlfriend. Yeah. So, this is not a new case. This is the same one from a couple years back. Oh, no. This is a new case, Larry. Yeah, but they're just redoing charges from the case from before. No, I think this is a new one. This is a new one, I think. No, I don't think so. Not what you read. Maybe George, maybe you could fight her. She's got a record of 41 and one. I'm not fighting. Oh, really? I'm just kidding. Hey, Dave, have you ever been to an MMA gym in your life? No, I I'm kidding. I know you. Oh, I know you. I'm just I'm just saying you got to see training. You guys remember Guy Mezner? She's pretty cute. Yeah, I remember Guy Mner. Yeah, I'm taking I'm taking my I'm taking my son to his uh place next week to get started in some lesson. Awesome. He's right down the street from me. She was recently dating Tristan Ham, a fellow influencer with more than 1.9 million followers on Instagram. So, is that who she beat up or did she beat the [\h__\h] out of the guy? What? What's the deal with that? Cohen holds the all-time records for squat total and deadlift with for the 123 pound weight class according to Men's Health. Yeah, but look, she doesn't look like she's too disturbed by her arrest. She's sitting there right in front of the judge kind of laughing and [\h__\h] I guess she figures it's it's more PR more PR she gets I guess it's good for her channel. Yeah, that's probably exactly what happened. Well, people go overboard but they'll tell guys in their future like they'll tell them some different story. The guy will believe it and you know they'll do it again. I I dated this one girl before. Yeah, I d I dated this one girl before and and you know she punched me straight in the nose. She almost kicked in my apartment door one time. This girl's like, this girl's like 51, 5'2, I think. Dave, you met her at one of the shows with me. And u and then her next boyfriend, her next boyfriend was messaging me. He's like, "Hey, bro. What's your problem? Why do you keep messaging me?" I'm like, "Dude, that's not me. That's a fake profile." And then I'm like, "Stay away from that girl." And he believed all her stories. And then then he eventually called me a month later. He called the cops on her because she hit him over the head with a beer bottle and he had to get stitched all up and she got arrested for that. And then if she moved away, what's he going to do? I mean, punch. I mean, the girl does it, right? Like, well, it's like, what do you Well, they could the girl could have a gun and shoot you. So, you gotta, you know, well, or the cops come out and arrest both of y'all. They arrest you. They'll arrest you all the time. The the girls women make stuff up. They lie all the time. Liars caught. I always tell I always I always tell my friends, it saved one of my friends, as soon as y'all get in argument, start recording. And it saved my friend one time because he the girl's like, "I'm going right now down the police station to file charges on you." My friend calls the police station, gets the detective on the phone. He goes, "I have video footage of the whole argument, everything." She broke a glass mirror, like it shattered, and then she got a glass piece of shard and threw it at him and it stuck in his it stuck in his stomach. It missed his liver by that by that much. And so he he went down there and they had to treat him there and all that stuff, EMS, but uh they and then they went back in the room cuz she thought she was going to get him arrested and they arrested her for a assault, deadly weapon. Yeah. Yeah, she got a shard and she's throwing shards at him and one's stuck and is that nice girl. She said she's Bruce Lee. Maybe we should get Maybe we should get her on the show. Stephie Con. Yeah, get her on his show. You know, it's funny. You start fighting. Maybe she's got a different version of what happened. You know, I'm sure she does. It's probably more interesting than his. This wasn't my chick. This was my boy. This isn't my boy's girl. Well, we'll hook her up to a lie detector test. No, let's get Stephie Cohen on the show. Yeah, that's what I mean. Stephie Cohen. Oh, I thought you were talking about Ar. Hey, speaking of lie detectors, did you see on TMZ posted I guess Gary Coleman? You remember Gary Coleman from Different Strokes? Yeah. You know, he he died in some weird like accident. He fell off of something. Supposedly, he was married. They they put this ex-wife on a lie detector and they asked her about the the day of the fall if if she was responsible. She and and she it came up that she was lying. Did you see that? I pull that up. Yeah. But that shit's not legit and lie detector tests. You don't. You got to have a good tester. You have I failed one once and I know I didn't lie, but my friends used to go into Why would you take a lie detector test? I passed one and I knew I was lying. But listen, my friends used to go drug drug like natural shows that just polygraphed you and they would all be on [\h__\h] and stuff and they they passed. It's I don't believe any of that [\h__\h] John, who g who g who gave it to you, John? Was it the authorities or was it something? It was a No, no, it was it was for a AI was going to a doorman job. They they gave you, you know, that always says the lie detector tester is just as good as a tester. So if the tester is not good, you know, somebody told me this was like in the 80s. Somebody told me you put a penny in your shoe attack or penny. Yeah. Keep [\h__\h] with it with your toes, you know, and then while they're answering, it throws them. it some work because asked me point blank if I ever stole anything and I said nope. I think that I think the tests are a little be more advanced now and better than they know people ex-wife right there. Look at that lunatic. Who is that? That's Gary Coleman's ex-wife. Oh, look with the cowboy hat. Yeah, but that poor bastard was parking cars at the end of his life. No, I know. But they they they think that she might have been responsible for his death. Well, because they got to keep making money, you know? I mean, you make money for like five years. What do you do after that? Look at her there sitting there like awesome little girl. Look at her sitting there like, "Oh, I just love my man." Holy man. I just can't wait to get my hands on his insurance money. You ain't kidding. I don't think he I don't think Gary Coleman had any money. So, I don't think she got very much when he died. No, she he didn't. He was parking cars at the end for He was like very His parents stole a lot of that money that he made. A lot of those kidnappers. Yeah, he was a lot a lot of girl a lot of girls though, they can sit there and smile and play like everything's perfect. Girls are great actors. They stay take take step to the grave. They're very good actors. You get some guy like, "Oh, I feel so sorry for you." And you know, people believe them. Look at all these schmucks on [\h__\h] Only Fans that are just tossing the money at these chicks and the girl like text him back and they're like [\h__\h] buying her a car. I knew a guy who was buying this chick a [\h__\h] car and I'm like, you know, she was hitting him for money and she had like a Lamborghini and [\h__\h] I said, "Dude, she's got so Look at the car she drives." And he's like, "Yeah, but she's like, I can't." Cuz he was tell she was telling him, "I need money. I'm going to need a new car." And and and I'm like, "Dude, tell her to sell her a Lamborghini." And she was like, "How dare." She was one of them online chicks, you know? And but Greg, you see all the AI people now like guys can do it do it and that looks like a female and they make money now. They can there's a there was a service uh I was talking about on uh I think John Livia's podcast and he's like what's that leap that you can make money on like so you could be a dude and like hook stuff up and the AI makes you look like a hot female you can get naked and do whatever and a lot of it's a big business it's a big business now you can look it up uh next time or whatever but guys are doing it now just regular people and it the AI looks like a hot girl and doing all this fraud though you can go to jail if you get caught doing that I'm sure you can go to jail you somebody out there. It's fraud. Only fans only fans. They think they really care about that. Yeah, it's fraud. If you get if you get off as a guy watching some some porn on TV, who gives a [\h__\h] if it's real or not, right? I mean, does it really matter? It's a visual. If he thinks he's talking to a If you're faking somebody out and you think you're you think you're talking to a legitimate No, I'm not talking about dating someone. I'm talking about you're watching porn online. What do you care if you what if whatever you see is what you want to see. That's it. Right. Yeah. But what what Arman's saying is that these guys have AI girls do that. Yeah. They're pimping them and the AI girls are making them money and they don't even exist. They're I know that's great for them. Who cares? Whatever that [\h__\h] I think it's brilliant. It's brilliant. I think so, too. It is brilliant. It's [\h__\h] up, though. It's [\h__\h] up. Shame on the guys who watching this got a problem. People like it's not right to be tricked. tricked by what? You're not hooking up with these girls. You're not going home with them. You're not dating them. Stimulus to get off. That's it. Exactly. Larry, the pe the amount of guys the amount of people that are spending money on fans is is crazy. So, we all have to know people that are doing it. I know Larry Wills came out and said he was dropping like 10k a month on it. He was open about it. But why is I would never spend a dollar on that [\h__\h] I would never either, but people people are doing it and we have to know some of these people because Only Dance is a huge business. These girls are making insane amounts of money. Wait till the sex robots come. I know. I wasn't even going to bring that up. But what these guys do is they film the the the the only fans session. They film it and then they post it on those free porn sites. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But uh so I hope that look I just think you got to be a schmuck. So the girl the girl doing this under the assumption that doing only fancies people are making a million dollars a month. What do you mean? No not the only not the chick that doing any I'm saying [\h__\h] guy like oh my god she wants a [\h__\h] car or [\h__\h] Oh yeah. She's so beautiful. Here's money. That's why John's right. The sex robots will take over because if you could spend 100 grand on a sex robot that's it. You spent the 100 grand. You don't have to spend any more money now. You don't even have to feed her. Nothing. Listen to me. I'm in too much trouble. Guys are tired of all the girls. Flowers. You don't have to do [\h__\h] And when you're done, when you're done listening to her, you can flip the standby switch off and put her in the closet. Well, the AI knows what to tell you what you want to hear. So, she just tells you whatever you want to hear. Exactly. Listen, I'm an ugly [\h__\h] and I still I'm telling you, you combine AI with those lifelike robots. The gift of Gab is big. [\h__\h] bro. Let me tell you something. Let me ask you a question, Greg. If if you had to design the ultimate ultimate sex robot for yourself, like you only had I'm the everyone put together a GoFundMe. They're going to buy you the first real life sex robot. They they look you can't tell any difference. What would it look like? You know, give me the measurements and all that stuff. It would look exactly like Kate Beckansale in the movie uh the vampire thing that she did. What the hell is the name of that movie? What is it? Van Helling or something. Whatever the maybe I'm with that movie Kate Beck and she was killing the vampire with the curly hair and the [\h__\h] when she was young and she was she was that 10inch [\h__\h] a 10-in [\h__\h] you guys are so Would it would it have multiple sex organs? Would it be himite or would it be a female? No, it'd be a female. But I, you know, I mean, if it had definition of female, if it had [\h__\h] I turn it around. Dude, [\h__\h] have no gender. Neither do lips, right? Lips and [\h__\h] have no gender. So, I would just flip her upside down. But let me say, Kate Becket, what was that? Is it Van Hel? What was the name of that [\h__\h] movie? That Yeah, she was hot. She was very hot in that. But I like to curly when her hair was curly in the first. I actually did the Conan O'Brien show with Kate Underworld. Yeah, underworld. Underworld. Underworld. Right. I did I did the Conan O'Brien show. I was the Incredible Hulk and I was in the green room and I was they were make putting the makeup on me in the in the makeup room and she came in sat right next to me and she she's very tall first of all and she's beautiful. Absolutely beautiful. And she she looked over at me and I said, "Don't ask." She's like, "How do you know what I'm going to ask you?" I said, "You're going to ask me if it's real, right?" I said, "It's real." So, she laugh with the curl there. I would have married her right there. That's how beautiful. Is what real? Your body or your Yeah. Yeah. Because they they don't know if it's costume or whatever, you know, cuz they're put makeup on me, you know? Dude, let me tell you something. I'm convinced a girl like that doesn't fart and stink, right? Like, I can't picture her farting or taking a bake [\h__\h] that stinks. Like, I picture that smelling like fresh baked bread or [\h__\h] like Jimmy the Bull said. It's smells like chicken salad sandwiches, right? I I'd live in the bathroom a week. One of her farts. I swear to God. I would live in All right. So, we know what to buy. We know we know what to buy you now. We know what to buy you as a gift. When the sex robots come out, we're gonna get a collection together. We're gonna buy you a Kate Beckale sex doll. Sex robot. And And you'll never leave your house again. I won't. Dude, will you kick your girlfriend out or will you keep her? She Well, I keep my I put my girlfriend in the closet and put she remember you don't have to feed this one. The the girlfriend you got to feed and do all the other stuff for her. I know, but I can't get rid of her. I love her. You better do every Hold on. Would your girlfriend be jealous if you had a sex robot in the house? No, we we No, not at all. I could sit there and tell my girlfriend, "Look at that girl's ass. Oh my god, it's hot." You know, like she told She thinks Larry's cute. She thought Arma was cute. You know, there was a there was a really good movie not too long ago. The guy the guy bought a comfortable they had an AI doll, AI girl, and the the husband slept with it and the wife got jeal. I forgot what movie Oh, yeah. I saw that movie. What was that called? I recent I can't remember the name of it, but it was really good. Dude, you know what's funny? I loved the girl in Machine Mia or Machinery. Oh, yeah. That [\h__\h] chick. She could just have that face on that on that [\h__\h] robot body. I would tap that. I would definitely tap it. Listen, she doesn't [\h__\h] She doesn't fart. Her breath don't stink in the morning. She's You like farts though. You said I do. Well, if it came out of Kate Beckansel's ass or like, can you picture Ariana Grande? That cute little thing with that little [\h__\h] Could you picture her going buttons whatever whatever bread you want wanted to smell like the ass that day. It smell like baloney or you know, dude, it would smell like it if [\h__\h] John Scader would like this. It would smell like a meatball parm wedge. Jar you'd be like, "Oh my god, I want to eat that fart." Like I can't picture. There's nobody that's the girl. Oh, from El M. I love her. Not with the green face like that, but I do love that chick. I would. She's another one. I'll take her machine, too. But let me tell you something. You can't picture that farting and stinking or [\h__\h] You can't picture in the morning [\h__\h] with Brett at a [\h__\h] killer. [\h__\h] You know, no way, bro. There's no way that girl [\h__\h] with her [\h__\h] had stink. It smells like [\h__\h] fresh baked chocolate. I got news for you. Give her Give her some Give her some skim milk and and you won't be smelling ice cream. I got to wrap I got to wrap this up, guys. Thanks for joining us live as always. I really enjoyed today's show and check out Jack Ook's new AI energy drink. We're going to try to get him on the show in the next coming weeks. For now, we are out of time. I'm Dave Palumbo with another edition of After Hours with the Wack Pack. We'll see you next week. I'm going to go jerk off the