Welcome to the weekend here at Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Lab. apps. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Friday, February 3rd, 2017. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. For all the talk about what's about to go down in the 212 division at the Arnold Classic, I haven't heard anyone mention much about the sneakily dangerous Chung Wan Kang. If you remember back to last year's Arnold, one of the best versions of Kang that we've ever seen came in and handled his business by delivering a top five finish. And by all accounts, this year, he's on pace to be even better. When he's standing alone, Kang's physique has the sort of balance and symmetry that really comes to life as he poses. But whether or not he'll be able to fight his way up another few spots and compete for a top three finish, well, only time will tell. With the Fitness International set to take place in just over four weeks, it feels like the race to the finish line is really starting to heat up, especially for third-year star Ariel Khadar. After a spectacular 2016 campaign that saw her take a meteoric rise to the division with her top eight Olympia finish and win at the Toronto Pro, one of the fitness division's most dynamic young talents is ready to take flight for another standout season. With a lineup full of veteran competitors on deck, Khad definitely has her work cut out for her. But if she can come in with her usual brilliant combination of shape and conditioning along with a dynamic routine, it isn't hard to imagine her leaving town with a top five finish. Shame on you if you were sleeping on the bikini division last season because that probably means you missed the coming out party for rising star Bianca Berry. The fourth year pro really came into her own in 2016, putting together two huge wins along with her first career top 10 Olympia finish. After another productive offseason, the bikini division's most improved athlete is just four weeks away from bringing her talents to the Arnold Classic stage for the first time to show the world that last year was only a sample of what's to come. From back to front, Barry is as dangerous as any woman in the bikini division. And if she nails it just right, she's the perfect candidate to come in and crash the party in the top three. If you think bikini girls aren't out there busting their ass in the offseason, take one look at what Stacy Alexander's doing and try to convince me that she's not crushing it. Earlier this week, the battle tested veteran was spotted smashing a couple of brutal offseason workouts as she gears up for a strong 2017 campaign. After four straight seasons of locking down top eight Olympia finishes, Alexander has firmly solidified herself as one of the premier talents in the sport. And once the ball gets rolling, I fully expect to see her find a way to make it back to the winner circle before all is said and done. First place trophies might be handed out on stage, but they're won in the offseason. And so this offseason, it looks like Brad Row is well on his way to collecting his fair share of trophies in 2017. This week, Mr. Front Row released his latest series of progress photos showing off a dangerous looking 250 pounds of fury. Over the past year and a half, the amount of new muscle Row has packed onto his frame is nothing short of amazing. And given the crazy shredded conditioning we've seen from him on game day, you have to think that this year could end up being very special. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo!