Welcome to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Monday, November 9th, 2015. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Hurricane Norman stormed through Culver City, Iowa this past weekend, causing untold amounts of damage and crushing hopes and dreams on her way to securing an unprecedented third straight Iowa Pro title. The perennial top 10 Olympia contender notched her first win of the season despite being far from her best to crush the competition at Jack to Tony's IFBB Iowa Pro. The win puts an exclamation point on the best season of Austria's career thus far and should give her some serious momentum heading into the offseason. Stay tuned. This weekend, Sacramento, California played the role of gracious host as some of the best men's physique and bikini competitors in the business took the stage to square off for another edition of the Sacramento Pro. In the bikini division, Ivbeth Karan collected quite a bit of hardware for her trophy case as she marched in to take both the Pro Masters and Open titles in a loaded lineup that featured over 30 combined competitors. In men's physique, Tory Woodward secured a close win over Zavas Gayen, who made his triumphant return to the stage following a very long layoff. And in Masters men's physique, David Thorp reigns supreme once again, locking up another big win on the season. Down the road in sunny San Diego, some of the best the women's physique division has to offer. Locked Torren and went to battle at the Ultimate Warrior Pro Physique, where the spectacular Jessica Gaines defeated a tough lineup on her way to claiming her first career victory. With the win, Gaines keeps her streak of six consecutive top eight finishes alive, along with securing an early ticket to Las Vegas with her first official Olympia qualification. Second place finisher Melissa Pierro didn't go down without a fight, managing to edge out an impressive Jennifer Khan with Esther Paresi and Marshia Simmons rounding out the top five respectively. After a tough 2015 season, 212 powerhouse Kevin Ofurum looks like he's back firing on all cylinders. After welcoming a beautiful new baby girl into the family earlier this year and suffering through a mysterious illness that caused him to be hospitalized, Ofurum is back on his feet once again and barreling ahead toward what he believes will be a resurgent 2016 contest season. Judging by the look of some of his recent progress photos, Ofurum looks to have regained all the muscle he lost during his illness. Along with sporting a pretty decent level of offseason conditioning with a long offseason still ahead of him, he still has plenty of time to regain the momentum and tackle the competition full speed ahead in 2016. It looks like the road to the 2016 USA Championships starts now for NPC Teen National Champ Mohamad Aberaju. The 20-year-old muscle prodigy released some footage from a recent shoulder training session, showing off the sort of focus and intensity of a competitor well beyond his years. From a structural standpoint, Aberaju has the foundation in place to become a competitive athlete on the national level sometime in the very near future. But if he's going to be considered a threat to reach Cody Montgomery status and steal the show in his first outing, he'll need to pack on a whole lot of size before stepping on stage with the big boys come July. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out iron magabs.com. Today I'm your host Dave Palumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo!