So, whatever it is, practice it or get your hair done by somebody who knows what you're doing. Okay. Um, typically brunettes might a little better and show. Why is that? Well, because honestly it looks a little more natural and as as Jerry said, it um with blondes tend to sometimes fade into the background a little bit. Um if that's if you have blonde hair, we're not saying you have to dye it brown, but maybe you know some low lights would help you out a little bit. Um I noticed last May at Jim's contest after doing this for 30 years. Um I have to be in a situation where I didn't have to actually do anything concentration except watch the show. It became apparent immediately that the blondes got lost on stage because there was a transition between hair skin dark suit skin dark suit by the fact and sometimes with the banners super duper white light blonde hair got lost. Um and then I started to keep kind of a a little Now attractive. And if you go to our website and check winners, take a look down at your feet, ladies. Make sure the uh foot with your hand on it is back. That looks pretty good. Close. Keep it shoulder width. Okay. Usually, this doesn't really do much for you anyway. So, keep a shoulder width. Um, for for a lot of girls, I tell them to stick their toes out just a little bit. I'd say like 1:00 and 11:00. So, you're just a little bit out. You're not like this. Just a little bit just to bring up the glutes and hamsters a little bit more. Stick your butt out. Make make sure it's tight. Give a little arch to your back, but don't go too forward. Okay? So, just a little bit of the arch. and make sure everything's stiff, everything's tight like that. That would be the standard pose and that works most for most people. Um, for another one you can throw in there is the cross-legged one. It's a little more risky. You have to have the right build to do it. Um, yeah, just self-explanatory. Cross your feet over one in front of the other. Same kind of idea though. Keep a little bit of an arch. Stick the butt out. Make the the idea with the you don't want butt. All right. Everybody back. Put your hair behind your hair over your back. Cover your back. The key. You don't need to see your back. Um guys, one thing to keep in mind is make sure that your your hands aren't showing through your thighs. It's distracting, okay? And don't don't do hands on hip. It should your your hand should be lightly resting on top of your quads. Okay. No pointy elbows. Make sure you do not crush your shoulder blades together. Your blades are right here. Those struggles right here. Right here. Suddenly I'm in the shadows. I'm getting overcasted which means I'm getting overlooked. And you know in this game you got to you got to stand out. So that's actually help me one bit. Make sure you're on that line. Take advantage of that line. So right here. Okay. And um going back to the walking too, when you walk forward and then they have you turn back around and walk forward, you can walk a little faster, but walk with confidence. Okay. Um victorious. Okay. without too much bobin. While we're looking at her, we're also then looking at you, trying to figure out, trying to figure out where everyone falls in the whole scheme of things, which means you need to be at your best the whole time. You got to be in a great stance the whole time. If you're not, we have no problem. You look like hell. You give us a chance to see. That's not good. You got to be in a great stand. So these work the one that I actually did that want to transition. This can work. The basic front stance can work. The main thing is to make sure the judges can see your number. Keep in mind that we're constantly assessing these constitutions right now. restaurant. There's different ways you can do it. I think there's a standard one this plane. Um you can do like little if you do that you don'tation right in front of you. So Ashley number one come on out. Now she did it facing you. Ladies, if the judges are down here, you want to turn elbows and shoulders. Your shoulders will shroud. Shoulders down. Hands are kind of relaxed. Chin up. Arch. Uh-huh. Arch back is wide. Relax. Open up. So this is a stance that you can use the whole way around. Elbows up, please. Elbow, your biceps should be slightly higher. Okay, relax. Again, please bicep. Tuck your thumbs in. Okay, relax. For the ladies, when you do this, that foot placement completely depends on structure, waistline, hips, and also your so you want to create a smaller release. I think that's more like that. And then when you want to do what you want to finish, all you do is arch. Arch that gives you the elevation. So make sure you don't scrub. Arch. Arch is the key. Try this out, guys. Women. All right, relax. Try that again, please. Either side works. It's up to you. All right. Thank you. Sweep those elbows up, guys. Sweep them up. Sweep them up. Don't close small, close big, please. Open it up. Open it up. You want too hard. That's it. Good. Good. Relax. Good job. Relax. Turn the rear bicep. Squeeze. Torque those shoulders back. I think if you try to just open up from your arms, sometimes your arms are flailing out there and you didn't really open your back. So, we might come around and kind of massage open your shoulder blades a little bit to help you get that really well. I tell you what, this is one of the the main poses that some people don't open up their back. I know my first two shows, I did not open up my back correctly and then all of a sudden they're like, "Oh, where did this girl come from once I figured out how to hit that back shot?" So it definitely makes a big difference here. Shoot your hips back a little bit too. So you have a nice arch there. Wow. You relax. Remember rotation from the shoulders. If you shrug your shoulders, it'll elongate you. So, make sure your shoulders are down. So, like he's saying, you want to make sure that your hands are relatively close like if you slip your wrist as you touch your body. You don't want them way out to the side. standing real tall through through your zipper to pull pull up your zipper. You don't want to be like crunch down and a little more in this direction and your hips are kind of pushed back a little bit. Just stand real tall flaring those lats out there. Now, somebody's ask your neck and shoulders are relaxed. Can they see your lats going into your waist and see your your quads? Okay. And you typically want that quad sweep and lats to have some balance and some matching. Okay? So, you want your heels together. Now, there can be some different tricks as far as for the legs depending on your physique. Um, someone's got a lot of muscle on their legs, they might want them pointing a little bit straighter forward. Sometimes you can have a tiny bit of space in between your toes, but your heels are still together and maybe you're squeezing and turning your quads out a teeny tiny bit. So, it really is going to depend on tweaking those things based on what your physique looks like. Um, again, ladies, keep your neck relaxed. So, you don't want to be crunched up through here. Okay? And like you come around, you come around, too. You want to make sure you separate through your shoulder blades and roll forward so that the judges can see your lats. from the front. Okay. So, your suit, you want to make sure your suit is on you correctly, too, that it's not somehow covering the um you know, or maybe make sure things are all in place up top here. Now you've done this 100 one two turn the front please and do a front stance. You can do the same one you did before or you can do one facing the other side. Doesn't matter 2001 2002 in any way for your vow or son wherever it may be. Please put your body first and second chance is your time to impress the judges and help us pick you. Cover every detail. Look up. Transition from back to front. Should you lead with your head or should you lead with your body? From here or main thing transition is to keep it very simple with your feet. Just keep it simple. commercial. Awesome. Yeah. You don't have to do your left hip facing us. The reason is if your number is on the left side. So my suggestion to you is to do these stances so that the left side is facing us. You got to remember question what you do with your hand. What does that do? You put your hand out to your shoulder or your I couldn't find it. Keep in mind please as you do this the judge's eyes are below your feet changes things do not understand here but you don't see this like this up on the top and square it off. She got a pose. You can't actually just stand up for a second. She be like, you know, higher. She's getting the AR class next week. So, get ready for for a successful defend on the title.