Welcome to another episode of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Monday, October 12th, 2015. Let's get to it. The fun of the post Olympia European tour continued this past weekend when Latti Finland played the role of gracious host for the IFBB Nordic Pro. And it was William Bonak who emerged with a huge victory, edging out Ruly Winkler to lock up his third career win. A less than 100% Cedric McMillan had to settle for third. In fitness, the fabulous Regina Dilva cruised home with top honors while Finnish native Katie Allander put on a show for her home fans in the figure division. And in Bikini, Queen Ashley Cotwash's reign of dominance continued as she secured her IFBB record 14th career victory. For all the results and updates, check out rxmuscle.com. Our good friend and master promoter of the Midwest, Jack Tatoni, was back at it again this past weekend, bringing some of the most talented ladies in the figure division out to Little Rock, Arkansas for his Arkansas Pro. And after a night of furious action in the Razerback State, it was a spectacular Jennifer Strobo who managed to come out on top of a very deep lineup. The magnificent Megan Wyel finished in second and Andrea Calhoun third. Rounding out the top five, we had a strong showing from fourth place finisher Danielle Kyifer. And closing out the top five was a terrific Nadia Wyatt. In the world of strength, they're strong. And then there's Amit Spir strong. The IFBB 212 pro set yet another world record in the squat this past weekend by decimating 783 lbs at an astonishing body weight of 198 pounds. This marks the third time this calendar year that Spir has shattered his own world record. An all-time world record that is far and away the high water mark in the squat in the 198B weight category across any federation. But according to Spir, he's just getting started. Four weeks from now, Shapi is planning to come in and be the first 198 pound athlete to break the 800 pound mark, which would make for an unprecedented squat, more than four times his own body weight. We're not going to continue to beat the dead horse of the Kai Green Olympia controversy, but there does appear to be some interesting news coming out of the Green camp this past weekend. Some unconfirmed early reports are hinting that Green may be planning to bring his talents to Columbus, Ohio next year for the Arnold Classic. During a meeting with Mark Lubliner, Kai mentions in passing that he is seriously considering the possibility of taking the Arnold Classic stage for the first time since 2010. Kai's behavior has been wildly unpredictable these past few years, but if there's any truth to the rumor, it certainly adds an entirely new element to the official kickoff of the bodybuilding season. It's time for members of the bodybuilding community to join together and rise up to support one of our brethren and a truly inspirational figure to millions of people across the world, former Mr. Olympia competitor Chris Dim. Nearly four years ago, Dim was paralyzed from the waist down from a surgical procedure he was undergoing to repair damage to a genetically weak aorta. But instead of wallowing in depression, Dim looked adversity right in the eye and dared to fight. And now he needs your help. Up to this point, Chris has refused donations from friends, family, and fans, choosing to fight the battle on his own. But in light of some recent medical advancements that could quite literally get him back on his feet and on the road to regaining the use of his legs, he's asking for help from the bodybuilding community. On the Muscle and Morning Facebook page, you'll find the link to Dim's GoFundMe page where you can make a donation to help Chris offset some of the $145,000 in medical costs. If you're able to give even a small amount to someone who has given so many people so much, we ask that you head over to our Facebook page, find his link, and please make a small donation. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning, brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. Check out ironmaglabs.com today. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Hey guys, it's Stevie B here. If you like what you're seeing, hit the subscribe button below and never miss another RX Muscle show, segment, or update. RX Muscle is number one. Woo!