Hi, this is Cristian Duque from Organismos o punto com. We're here with the professional Chinese figure wrestler, Lona, and Functional. Well, this is the first time I've been invited to Arnold to work here with this brand of spirits that I'm getting to know. It's amazing, I love it, and their proteins, their thermogenics, fat burners— well, they have a lot of products that I didn't know about in Mexico, and now I'm getting to know them, and well, they've helped me a lot with my preparation. So here, also, interacting with people, seeing the new competitors who are in this great show, and well, I'm already preparing for the Pittsburgh Prop on May 3rd and the Ayer Brawn on May 17th. Speaking a little bit, when I did the introduction, I said that you were a professional figure wrestler. Tell us about the time when you were a novice and how you became a professional. How did that happen? Well, I started training like a normal girl who goes to the gym to get in shape, to look like a bikini, to the beach, just like anyone else, and suddenly, six months later, I was on a stage. Competing in Mexico at the amateur level, novice matches, not visible, and suddenly, year after year, competing, in three years I turned pro. And from there, eight years ago, I started going to the gym, and here we are today. Tell us a little about bodybuilding and weightlifting in Mexico, your country of origin, and also in Mexico City, the capital. Yoani showed a lot of videos from Mexico City, and I was amazed. It makes you think of New York or Los Angeles. It's a very impressive city, an example of that. Yes, it explains why I'm here. It's super big, a huge city. You can find everything, everything. Like the gyms and the atmosphere for lifting weights, well, there's everything, like everywhere else. I mean, there are some that are more hardcore and others for people who are more into fitness and lifestyle. There's a bit of everything, but there are many very good gyms. You can really train wherever you want, wherever you feel comfortable, and there really is everything. If you can tell us a little bit, I think many of the women watching this want to know how you've been able to... Develop your legs, your glutes, all four muscles—hamstrings, calves—I mean, how many times a week do you do leg exercises? What kind of exercises do you do? Well, initially in Mexico, women were trained much similarly to men, lifting very heavy weights. They were only interested in muscle gain, muscle development. So, at the beginning, when I started, my trainers focused a lot on me gaining muscle. That gave me a lot of motivation because now I have to work on muscle gain. I worked very hard the first five years of my career when I started training, and I trained my legs very hard—squats, free weights, extensions, everything super, super heavy. And well, now it's different. Now you just have to shape us, so we do more specific isolation exercises. So, training has changed a lot, the role of the public. And when we started the interview, you talked about Speech supplements, and this company has an isolated whey protein called Ice, which is one of the purest on the market. Have you been able to try it? Well, I consider myself a tremendous... I'm in love with this protein, and besides, the flavor is amazing. This one really is lactose-free, gluten-free, soy-free, and has no fat or carbohydrates. It's just things that some proteins claim to have, but the label says they don't. Of course, then in the mirror, we specialists notice. Well, to summarize and finish the interview, once again, what events or competitions are you going to hold this year? Can you tell us so your fans can follow you through the international web? Well, next May 3rd, the Picture Pro, and on May 17th, the Meyer Prat. Well, thank you very much to Cristian Duque and Gina Lona. [The following appears to be unrelated and possibly spam:] Maximo, his dot com 6, Levein Learning, enter the IBEX, Media Matters, Spears Mate, Bilic, excess, all this matrix of Cinemablend, Xúquer Yang, Earl Calloway, del Deber, Nieminen, desarboló, estar en estado, James not only denies this transmission, it is purely hollow, his car with the Stuttgart malware, don't really care, see, he doesn't manage, he is older, and the voice of the people not only  not knowing about the MP next new times John Adams one also last blitz ex is cool sport that being working man Singh on web nec the busters Fraser source has written Wes Welker go down to YouTube now college arrive of those who really Greenway Metroparks the TV the best equally so that they form William