Yamamoto Nutrition, proud sponsor of RX Muscle. Visit yamamoto nutrition.com. Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Yamamoto Nutrition. Visit yamamoto nutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and tonight's guest is the 2017 California Pro bodybuilding champion, his first pro win going to the Olympia, Gerald Williams, our good friend. Welcome, man. Hey, what's up, Dave? How are you doing? How's everybody doing? It's happened first. You're on top of the world, man. Congratulations. You know, it doesn't quite doesn't quite feel like being on top of the world. It actually feels like being back to work. So, you know, put that one down and focus on what's in front of me right now. Took you two years to win the team nationals overall in 2005. Uh, yeah, you took off almost seven years after that 2008 season. came back and won your pro card at the North American Championships and now you're a pro champion. I don't think anyone ever has predicted you to win anything and you keep surprising and shocking people. Yeah. No, it's crazy. I was like every time like this guy comes out of nowhere and it's like there's only so many times you can come out of nowhere before people just say like you know what he might be actually okay. Um but you know I think that's how it goes. I think you know it's really about you know taking the time off. you know, folks have somebody else in their mind that they're looking to bring or or pick as the winner. Um, and folks associate, you know, with who they know. So, if they if I'm not out in the media and I'm not doing all the other things, then yeah, it does seem like I'm coming out of obscurity, but it's not always the case. Look, you you brought tremendous conditioning into this show this past weekend, and I always say a million times, I've said this, conditioning win shows. You have one of the best structures I think in the IFBBVB right now. Uh with the tiny waist, the big Vtaper. You're not the biggest guy on stage, but you out, I guess you could say, class people on stage in terms of quality of what you brought. Um how long did you you prepare for this competition? How many weeks? Because I know you have a really busy schedule. Yeah. So, interestingly, I um I really had mapped out a plan to do this show after the Sharoo last year. Remember, I got fifth at the Dubai show. Ronnie Winkler won that and I had we had talked after that and I was like, you know, I'm going to do the cow pro. Um, and so I really mapped out a game plan to to pretty much I took some time in December off and then pretty much trained the whole way through. I didn't really ramp up um until about February, but believe it or not, I only did 20 minutes of cardio at most to get ready for the show. Good to have good. So I I don't even know if it's that because there have been times I've done a lot of cardio to get ready for shows. I think it was really the fact that um I was I'd eaten clean really. I'd eaten clean for a whole year. The the the challenge for last year was that I had taken an entire year. I took it like four months and didn't train and ate Chicken Chowain from Berkeley Bowl and you know um I'm not Kevin Leon so I can't just come back in like four months and do a pro show and be like AI'm amazing. Yeah. Um, so it really took me all the way until November to to from April to November to look like, you know, a bodybuilder again to get my body to build my body back up. And then, you know, I didn't have to, you know, start from a deficit. I was actually able to make progress. Um, you know, definitely, you know, I'm I'm super aware of the the body parts that are strong and they're not strong for me. And I feel like I was able to make improvements on the in the body parts that weren't that strong to help balance them out with the ones that are. Um, and I was able to stay lean enough where I wasn't able I didn't have to kill myself to get in shape. I think there was like 5 days of real suffering um towards the end, but for the most part. Um you know, we saved it because we weren't really sure what type of season this was going to be for me. Um so there's a lot left in the tank, which I can really appreciate. And Matt Bersikott, um who does my food, um my coach, he he I could tribute that to him. He's learned my body really really well. You uh your body has definitely matured over the last years, few years that we've seen you competing and obviously you've put on size. Now you're at a point where everyone knows who you are. You're qualified for the Olympia. You'll be competing in two weeks at the muscle mayhem. Chad Nichols first pro men's bodybuilding open show. You know, now people are talking about you as, you know, one of the favorites. Does that put more pressure on your plate? Initially, it hit me as like, oh wow, qualified for Olympia, won a pro show. Um, awesome. And I think, you know, now that I I still have that feeling of like, there's a lot to prove. I think there are a lot of people that don't think that I, you know, belong winning a show or that I may not have been worthy of winning a pro show or I don't I'm not big enough or all those other things. Um, and you know what I what I what I say to that is bodybuilding is about, you know, structure, shape, conditioning, and presentation. Um, and I promise most of these folks that they're not working like I'm working in so many other facets and dimensions. And the same work ethic that I bring to the other areas of my life I bring to this. Um, which I think has allowed me to be successful without being the biggest guy, you know? I mean, imagine, you know, numerical callouts. Hakee and I have the same last name. So, numerical callouts, I'm right next to him. I was like, well, we're just going to put size versus shake together and we're just going to see how this works out straight from jump. Um, and that's that's what ends up happening. So, I think there are a lot of people that, you know, believe the biggest guy is the one that's going to win the show. And like I said, I I like you believe that conditioning, shape, structure, presentation are are the real things about professional bodybuilding and and the difference between first and second is really about presentation and how you're able to present yourself and how you're able to to to display your physique um in the best way. And I like I said, I I pride myself at this point on on learning the art and having had the ability to learn from guys like you, Tony, Chris um about how to be a good pro in that sense and being able to apply those lessons. Gerald, um, what do you think you changed most from the Furrigno Legacy and those shows you hit at the end of last year to this show here in May? Um, what what changes to your physique do you think were the most apparent? Um, you know, I think um I I really focused on my my biceps got better. We all know, you know, it's no secret my arms are not the greatest. Um, I think they made progress. Um, I think my front delts made a lot of progress. I think I was able to, um, bring out a little more outer sweep. I think I need a little more inner sweep going on. Um, you know, I was really mindful of my glute ham tie in. I I know I have good glutes and I know I have a good back. And so, making sure that I kind of kept those things in balance together. Um, and and really the biggest thing that that I changed was training twice a day. Last time I did that when I was it was when I was 19 when I won the Teenage Nationals. Um, and so, you know, 10, 12 years later, I'm going back to saying, you know what, let's train every let's train everything twice a week. Let's train twice a day. Um, which actually probably is what allowed me to to minimalize the amount of cardio because of the intensity of the training um, throughout the amount of time, six days a week. Yeah. Now, how do you do that with your schedule? You work like 40 jobs. You you don't have a minute to spare. I don't know how you wind up getting to the gym that much and getting that much accomplished there because I would be mentally burnt out you if I had to do each body part twice a week like that. Yeah, it's tough. I mean, I have a different segment, you know, like I have a volume the front side of the week. I train everything in three days. Um, and so, you know, I have a volume segment and I have a heavy segment. I think that's allowed me to create um a little bit of neurological balance for me um and and create some ways that my body's been pretty able to do the same things. Um, you know, not really worrying about mixing up exercises. Pick the ones that work well, do those, and worry about increasing weight, paying attention to how I feel. Um, efficiency. Um, not a lot of break times in between the sets and things like that. Uh, you know, I do my cardio after my second workout at night when I have more time. Um, but typically my schedule is, you know, I'll get up, train like, uh, normal. Um, I'll go to work. Uh, I'll go to second work and I'll teach the classes and then, you know, I'll come back, maybe have a little bit of time to to sit down for a second, then head over to San Francisco and train over at Worlds. And then, um, sometimes depending on when because they close at midnight, so I'll have to roll around the corner to 24 to do my cardio. Um, and then I'll shoot back home, do a little bit of work on on the real estate stuff, and then pass out. Um, so yeah, man. It's really just it's a day after day after day after day. And the days I can grab naps, I grab naps. And my Sundays, I usually just try and uh just lay down the whole day. I try and get all my cooking and everything done on Saturdays, all my errands done on Saturdays. Um the time I would be at works, I'm not at works. Um and the other stuff. I think the challenge was when I had some listings on the market, Sundays were open house days. And so I was, you know, working on Sundays, but you know, I've closed all those deals. So it's really, you know, I have a little bit more time now. What did you actually weigh up there on stage this past weekend? I have no idea. Um, I was 236 before we I think it was Sunday. I actually started gaining weight. I was gaining like two or three pounds a week towards the end. It was really crazy. So, I would imagine like 237 is where I ended up. Um, I, you know, I I started seeing Jimmy Bluff, um, who, you know, a lot of guys, I guess, you know, go see and check him out. And really a game changer. I mean, in the sense of, you know, Patrick Horn is the guy I see here as my normal body worker. to go get body work done every Saturday morning um religiously. Um and I I had been going to LA to shoot the this video series uh for Muscle Insider. And so I was down there and I had I had text Brandon Ray who's one of my buddies and I was like look you know I need to see somebody that's down here in LA so I can keep up my schedule. He was like you should go see Jimmy Buff. And I was like all right you know I'll give this guy a chance. Um saw him for an hour and it was like probably one of the most excruciating experiences of my life. Um, but also in the sense created more space like in the sense of one of the biggest things I think there was so much tension on the fascia tension was precluding me from really being able to expand. Like I have one of those bodies like it it like it moves and grows and breathes as I pose and do things. Um, and it it it's allowed to be able to do that because um I think I've been opened up a little bit more and that's just typically how my body's been. But it's gotten better because there's not as much tension over the muscle. And so I think that was another big thing that that really allowed the change in shape. I mean the last really three or four weeks I was gaining weight with less food um and a minimum amount of cardio. I think just because my body had space to grow. Right. Right. Makes sense. Uh you know Jimmy's got does some good work. I've had him work on me for hours and hours and hours at a time. So I can I can relate. I do at a time. Four hours at a time man. I'm like let's just power through this. It's it's ridiculous. I don't know how I you know people say how do you sit there for four hours? I don't know how he does it for four hours. That that's the that that me but you know he loves it though. I mean I think he he you know he's got a lot of really you know high-end clients from all over the world. Um but I think he has a real passion for what what cultivation like bodybuilding is a is a cultivating art. You're sculpting and I think he sees himself as an artist in that sense of being able to to shape the lines and open things up. Um it's really wild man. Like I said, I've never experienced anything quite like it. He's got a really unique technique and I I I like it and it works. So, um, you know, like I said, we I saw him actually the day after the show. Um, and you know, just spent three hours on the table and, you know, opened everything up. So, like I said, it's it's it's a process. You got the Muscle Mayhem coming up. I Everyone thinks that the, you know, everyone's like, "Oh, I'm going to do Kansas City because they think it sounds like a small time show, but I have a feeling it's going to be a better lineup than we've seen all year." Uh, how do you think you'll do going into that? You know, I try not to focus on how I'm going to do my my focus is really always and it's it's always been this um is to be the best version of myself. I always feel like if I can bring my best and that's all I can really ask for. That's all I can control. Um I think sometimes it does get a little nerve-wracking like all the big names and all the hype and all these the folks are doing the show and you see everybody at the athletes meet and everybody's like, "Oh, I'm cool. I'm great. I'm going to win this." And it's like, you know what? At the end of the day, you know, the show is tomorrow. let's get on stage and let's go to work. Um, and so it's it's really for me I like to try and put all the other noise to the side and like who's going to win, who's doing the show, who's doing this other stuff, and really just focus on myself because that's the only variable I have any control over. Yeah, you're right. You're absolutely right. Going into uh September's Olympia, um, a lot of guys, especially the first time around, they skip the Olympia. Will you be at the Olympia or will you skip it? I will be at the Olympia. I would, you know, th this was one of my like goals to make it to the Olympia. I think that was my actual bodybuilding goal was just to do the Olympia. Like that it was literally at first my bodybuilding goal was just like, "Okay, you know what? I want to turn pro." And it it was like a bigger goal because I guess I had sat on it for so long than it really was in reality. And so afterwards I was like, "What's next? This is such a letown." Um and I was like, "Well, you know, I needed to I need to do a show." And I didn't really feel like I competed as a professional until the third one. I was like, "Oh, now I feel like I know kind of what it takes to compete um and get out and travel internationally and things like that and compete." Um, and I feel like, you know, once again, like the the the it was somewhat antilimactic as well. So, I think now there's this I think the the chase itself for some other progression um in the sport is ultimately I think what the goal is. And so, you know, succeeding in sec securing, you know, an Olympia birth is like, "Wow, this is great. No way I'll pass that up." I'm not I'm not delusional. I don't think I'm going to go beat Phil Heath. Um or Cedric or Dexter. It's funny. I saw Dexter at the show. He's like, "Oh, you gonna be up here with me." I was like, you know, we're in a different league, Dexter. I get it. You know, and I love Dex, you know. Um one of his friends is was actually my very first coach when I was a kid. So, I've known Dex for a minute. And so, um you know, he's messing with me. But yeah, I mean I I definitely want to go and take in the experience because you know that's that's what every every bodybuilder that's gotten on stage, that's what they want. And if for not and the overwhelming community, like the people that I know here in the Bay Area, um no, there haven't been any pro bodybuilders from the Bay Area that have that have done the Olympia. A lot of guys that have that have competed and never turned pro. And so I feel like ultimately what what this it feels like at least has felt like for the last couple days um is everybody's opportunity to to somewhat vicariously like live that dream and my own as well. And so um definitely won't pass on that opportunity just for nothing else the experience. Well Gerald congratulations on the big win. As you know we've known each other for you know many many years and I've watched you grow up and uh you made it buddy. you're you're heading to the Olympia and we'll be seeing you in two weeks at that muscle mayhem and hopefully you'll uh you'll head into the Olympia with two big wins under your belt. Yeah, it's going to be a good show. It's going to be a fight. I'm excited about bringing I think I'll be much better at that show than I was at this one. Um so I'm excited about that. All right, and that will take us to the end of another episode of Live with brought to you by Yamamoto Nutrition. I'm Dave Palumbo and we'll see you next time.