All right, Dave Palumbo here. I am going to periscope on a Saturday night. I should be going to see the movie Creed, the seventh installment in the Rocky series. Um, but instead I am uh doing some troop transports here. I was like I say, I'm moving fish from one tank to another. Except if you look at the tank, these fish are very big fish. Now, I moved one previous already. I'm going to move this other big Oscar here into the tank upstairs. I moved his buddy up there and he made a complete mess. So, I figure that um it's probably a good idea if I periscope this because you never know what can happen. And uh you know, Amanda feels that it's it's funny. Uh I don't because I'm I'm so water and I'm cleaning up water constantly. So, I got my bucket here with my net. Okay, not to interrupt. Oh, I just I just splashed fish water in my eye and I can't see. I'm blind. I can't see. Heather De's just came in. How funny. We were just talking. Yeah, we was talking about Utah people. Heather, I have some good boa constrictor breeder friends in Utah and a and they're the wife is a hairdresser just like you. All right, here we go. So, I got my net. I got my bucket here. I got to get that fish in this net into this bucket without making a huge mess. Dave likes to spill water is the problem. I don't like it. It just happens. All right, the net's big enough, luckily. All right, here we go. Let's see if we can get this this albino white Oscar. We're going to get him upstairs to a bigger tank. He's out growing this tank a little bit. All right. The key is once you get them in the net, that's not the hardest part. The hard They're very powerful fish. So once you get them in the net, he's not going to want to come out of the tank. See, this guy knows it's cuz he saw his friend get he saw his friend already get it. And you don't want these guys to damage themselves. That's the That's the real issue. So you got to be very patient. You cannot let the fish get you stressed out. You got to control the fish, which I'm not doing a very good job of right now. All right. Come on. Come on, buddy. Water everywhere. We haven't even got him out of the tank yet. Wait. And then we got to put him upstairs in the upstairs tank. That's even a big Yeah, just get him. Come on. All right. I got him in the net. Here we go. He's going to splash when we get him out of the water. That's a given. No. Copyright. Copyright. Wow. You think I know what I was doing? All right, that's one transfer. We still have We have water everywhere. Now I got to get him upstairs and I got to get him in the net. He's still in the net in the bucket. All right, we got to transfer him upstairs. This might be more challenging now. This is a little more challenging, guys, because invariably when he gets into the water, he's going to splash. Turn the light on and back here. Unless Unless I I might have I think it's going to be worse. Unless I've tired him out. Isn't that making it worse? I think the lighting situation could be worse. You don't want light behind you. Okay, it's it's still pretty dark. Here we go. I got him up. He's up. He's in. Wow. I must have tired him out. I got everyone all psyched up like he was going to make a big deal and he didn't do anything. Which I'll take cuz the other one made a complete mess of everything. There's water all over my floor. All right. All right. Now, I got to get another fish out of here who's who I think is sick. He's going downstairs. So, let's let's get him out. Yeah. See, he's got like a little bulge inside of him. He's not going to be happy. I I don't Let people see what you're talking about. All right. Well, we'll see him when we get him. See, he's got a big I thought he was pregnant at first. I thought she was pregnant, but look, now they're all They're all protecting each other. Whoa. No one wants to come out. Okay. Maybe he's just constipated and all this movement will get him to go to the bathroom. Either that or have a heart attack. I don't even know if this I don't know if this is interesting to anyone, but so if you don't find it interesting, you guys can just tune out. All right, here we go. Whoa, man. Almost got wet. All right, you got him. We're going to move him downstairs. I look like an expert doing this, Amanda. I I I got to be honest with you. I I wanted to look more like a buffoon because I think people would enjoy it more. Well, the first time you did, you got water all over the place. Yeah, I think I learned from experience. Put him downstairs here. There's Jedi. See the new baby room. We got the furniture. Whoa. Water everywhere. All right. Now, I'm going to get I'm going to get this going to get this water out there. I'm going to put the water from that tank in there. I'm using too much of the same water. Now I got to get these little fish out, which seem like they might be easier, but they're not. All right. The less the less water you put in these bucket, the better. The more water, the more splashing. Let's see if we can get these guys out in one piece. See, they're not they're not going to go gently. One silver dollar. This is the easy one. All right. Why so many fish tanks? Because he's OCD. Cuz I have to have I have to have one of everything. It's like having, you know, every anabolic steroid. You You don't want to just try one or two. You got to have them all. Whoa. Did he jump out? No. You would think with a small tank it would be easier, but it's not for some reason. cuz I think the small the small fish are the small fish are harder to get in the net. Any idea what I can do for inflamed shoulders? Arthurize five pills twice a day with some unflavored gelatin packets. You can pick that up at the supermarket. And what you do with the unflavored gelatin is you put them in your protein shakes. They don't taste like anything, but that collagen is going to give your body the raw materials to repair the joint connective tissue. If you're a steroid using athlete, you can try some decadel. That's always good. It's 200 milligrams a day a week rather. That'll help. Okay. Not good for the wood floors. Let's see. You're taking all of them out of there? Yes, I'm taking them all. I'm putting them in the living room type now. We're transferring. We're making troop movements today. Look at this guy. He's really fighting this. Put up a sword. They know how to stay out of the way, too. This guy's pretty smart. Would you look at him? He could I don't even know how he's getting away from the net. This is a big net. Small fish. Look, he got right He dug right in the sand. And all that sand now is going into the filter, which is going to clog the filter, which means I'm going to have to clean the filter later. He lives He lives in Europe. When can he buy it? Where can he buy it? Arthurize. Uh, we sell it in Italy. John and Rico Pika. VP Power sells it. Predatornutrition sells it in England, UK. Uh, or you can order it directly from speciesnutrition.com and use the coupon code AP25 and you'll get 25% off. So, that's the best my best suggestion. Now, where is that fish I was just going to scoop? We should get We should get the cat to come here and help us out. Jedi's in the box right now. One more fish to go. That Oscar we took out is not very happy. I didn't acclimate him right either. So, don't do this at home. I did this the total wrong way. By the way, just for everyone watching, that might be the tumor right there. Yeah, you're the host. Are you sure you don't have them all out? I didn't get the big guy, did I? Whoa, they're jumping. I got flying fish here. No, I only have two. I only have three. I got one more. Just hiding there. There he is at the top. This guy's not happy. He's going to love his new tank. I don't know why he's fighting me. He's going to love his new tank. I don't even see where he is. He He's here. He's on the other side now. Oh, it's the black one. He's He's got good camouflage. Come on. Okay, we got him. We got him. Now, what I'm going to do now is I'm just going to pour them into the other. You're going to clean up the water? I'm not cleaning up right now. I'm on Periscope. Come on, Jedi. Does the chef clean up while it's cooking? Absolutely not. Yeah. You don't want to do this in reality. You don't want to just pour the fish in there because it's You really want to acclimate them. They'll probably They can If they were little fish, they would probably die. Hopefully that shark doesn't eat them. No. All right, we got two more fish to transfer, but I I got to I got to get a towel first. Saturday night, the Columbbo House. Dave, are you a cop? Cop? No. Are you gay? I am not gay. I am not a cop, though. I'm not part of that. Never been part of a police force as far as I know it. I might have been made a comp honorary member by George Farah. However, look now my shirt's wet. The water just keeps getting worse and worse and worse. Trying to fix this filter head. Okay, we just went to the diner. I had uh about 6 ounces of salmon. I had kleslaw. I had a big huge salad with tomatoes and cucumbers on it. I had moatza ball soup. I had two huge moatza balls. And I had pennet pasta with spinach sauteed on it and broccoli with a lot of garlic on it. So, I'm going to stink probably for two days now from that. But it was freaking delicious. I'll tell you that much. And then I had I ended it off with a fruit plate the at the good old East Bay Diner. Can't go wrong there. They're saying no Iron Debate this week. Uh next week, this coming week we will have Iron Debate. I don't know who is going to be on it. We challenged Matt Mine Rod to come on iron debate and debate Chris Aceto. We haven't heard back from him. You got water up there. There's water everywhere. Look, just to give you an idea of how much splashing is going on, there's water up here. Okay, we got two more fish to put into this. Jedi, we go back to the room, get the two more fish, then we will clean up the water after that. These guys are definitely going to put up a fight, too. I know it. I know it. I'm going to have to do water changes. Need Jimmy the Bull back again. Jimmy the Bull. Jimmy the Bull will come back. He's back. He's He's back. And he's he's feeling better about himself, I think. And so, the dogs are sleeping. There's three of them. Okay, here we go. These these are, if you saw the big Oscars from before, these are these are smaller Oscars. we've been growing up. These are longtailed. They call liail uh or veil tail Oscars and we're going to put them in that bigger tank in the living room and they're going to get huge in there. Any word from Jeff the producer after he didn't show up? No, I was actually looking for Jeff. It's I I was at the gym today where Jeff trained and I was looking for Jeff the producer. I was going to ask him how come he didn't show up to the the 100th anniversary special and uh he wasn't there so I think he's hiding out for me. I think he's feeling a little inadequate from that coming, but I could be wrong. Maybe he doesn't give a [\h__\h] The first one's always the easy one. It's It's after that that is hard because then the the second one kind of figures out what happened to the first one and he gets a little nervous. So George arrested him. He said George arrested him. Yeah, he might have. I got to put an AP out on him. Jedi is very entertained. Yeah, Jedi likes to do this. Jedi likes anything with fish and water. And if you can combine the two, you're even better. All right, this guy is This guy's gonna I think what happens is they tire out after a while. That's what happened to the other one in the living room. I think he's This guy's getting a little tired, too. My netting skills from back in the day when I worked at Petland discounts are not as keen as they used to be. Matter of fact, I hate scooping fish out. This is like the one thing I really don't enjoy. because my shoulder hurts and and and I get frustrated. I want to beat the fish up because he's and and I slip on the water on this on the wood floor. I hurt myself. So, not good. This tank's harder because the net's too long and jumped right out of the net. Did you see that? This is the wrong. As my dad would say, I have the wrong equipment. I have the wrong equipment to do the shot because this net is too long and it's not letting me get in there. Any chance Aaron or PJ will be a guest on Heavy Muscle Radio in the future? Um, I invited Aaron to come on the 100th anniversary. He declined politely, so I guess he had something better to do, I think. He said he did watch it, though. Was Amanda a bodybuilder, too? Amanda won the USA Championships in 2005, the overall bodybuild. So, she's better than I am. Come on. Got him. Jedi is very entertaining. I'm ex I'm absolutely exhausted from doing that. I mean, there's so much water on the floor. You cannot believe it. I know you guys can't really see it. It's like It's like Well, it's really awesome. It's like a tsunami hit this place. They're not happy. It's the best supplement to support kidney health. I sell a product at davepalo.com called Kidney Stuff. I'm telling you, I can't tell you how many bodybuilders whose kidney function has improved by tenfold from using this. So, if you go to dave palumbo.com and you buy kidney stuff, get at least two months of it. You do eight weeks of it, follow the directions, it's a it's like a a tasteless shake, basically. You gulp it down. I mix it with my fiber every night and you'll see your creatin go right down. Clean up your kidneys, no problem. Is it normal to have a headache while dieting? Uh, if your blood sugar is low, it is. Um, I don't know what kind of diet you're following, but it is certainly possible. um given the fact that you know when your blood sugar plummets the first thing that happens is your brain goes dead and when your brain goes dead a lot of times you get a headache a lot of times when you just start a diet uh you'll get a headache too also one thing I didn't know is if you're taking plumbuteroluterol can definitely give you a headache and it's a vicious headache too are you on TRT I got to interrupt because I'm going to forget the questions I am not on TRT right now believe it or not for over a year now. I have been clean. 100%. I needed to do that to get Amanda pregnant. I am on nothing right now. So, this is 100% clean. And I only eat, and Amanda can verify this with a yay or nay. I eat two meals a day. Literally, I eat twice a day. That's it. And I've been cycling. And I've been uh he's negative calories at the end of the day. Yeah. I'm definitely below calories what I should be eating. But, you know what? I feel good and I don't care. So, I don't even think you eat 2,000 calories a day. Yeah. I don't know. I have big meals, though. My two meals are pretty big meals. And whatever happened to Sally Anne and Brian? Uh Sally and quit for unknown reasons. And then of course, you know, because they were together, I had to let Brian go because conflict of interest. So, but I I I do like both of them still to this day. You know, I wish I could be friends with them. They for some reason are mad at me. Uh I don't know why. Like Like I said, she quit on me. But hey, like I said, I still love her and I still like Brian. No hard feelings. All right, so we transferred these fish. They got beat up. You see that guy? He got really beat up. I should probably put a little water conditioner in there. Help the slime coat. When they scrape their fins up, you got to you got to support the slime coat. Because the slime coat is like their protection. The slime coat on a fish is like the the probiotic bacteria in our colon protect our colon. The slime coat protects the outer coating of the fish. So, there's stuff we can add to the water. It adds a little extra coat in there and it'll help them heal up. You can even put some put a little bit of kosher salt in the water, believe it or not. Sea salt or aquarium salt and that'll do the trick as well. So, I think you're making Bella nervous over there. She Bella, one of my cat dogs, does not like doesn't like when I do water changes. Not at all. Doesn't doesn't enjoy it. She's completely hiding. Yeah, she doesn't enjoy. We have to I should put her on the couch. Come on, Belle. Belle is my oldest dog. She's What is she now? 13 or big? More. Come on, Belly. Come on. Come on. You can go on the couch. She's got bad joints. I got her own arthralized, too. She'll lay on the couch. This way she feels safe up there. Right, Billy? That's right. So, this tank is transferred, but now we got to let the new fish out. We get the new fish. We got to show people the new fish. Because if anyone's still hanging in there and listening to me, they must have some interest in in in aquarium fish because I haven't really talked about anything else. Although I've been I have been answering questions about bodybuilding. So, this is like a an ask Dave an impromptu ask Dave segment. All right. I got to get the ladder. Actually, I don't need fire. Now, we're going to transfer the new fish. We got We got a whole bunch of new ones. You don't want to any arowas. We You know what? The arowana's at the office. We got the really big albino silver arowana at the office. You guys, if you watch any of my monster fish videos that I put up on my monster fish site uh on YouTube, you can see the arowas. They're pretty cool. Uh, I was going to get a red one from here, but I think the guy was a scam. He never I never got back to me. All right. Now, when you put new fish in, this water that came from the fish store is nasty water. This is like the water you take a dump in. You don't want to put that into the fish tank. So, you put a little water in here. They're acclimated now. The temperature has been assimilated cuz they've been floating in the in the water. So, I pour them into my net. Now, Matt loves your fish tanks. And they also want to know how long is the arowana. The arowana is over 2 feet now. Okay. Now, I'm going to take these fish and they're going to go in here. I think we should put a few in the in the turtle tank, too. Right. I'll save two for the turtle tank. So, I got two. We're going to go into the other room. The turtle tank is actually They're kind of asleep now, but for how long should I take Arthurize? I got a little inflammation on my right shoulder. I to be honest with you, let's let's go over what what happens when you take Arthurize. The joints have no raw materials to repair themselves. When we eat, you know, post-workout nutrition or throughout the day, we don't eat ligaments, tendons, and cartilage. We only eat protein. We eat the the the meat part that will repair your your skeletal muscle, but nothing we're eating and consuming is going to get you by the raw materials to to repair joint and connective tissue because remember in the gym, you're wearing that down too. The cartilage and the ligaments and tendons are getting damaged. So, you know, you need to take those basic raw materials. Arthur lice is the raw materials, the glucosamine, the MSM, the chondroitin, the boron. So the the answer to your question is you really should take it all the time. As long as you're going to train hard, you should take a glucose, a high potency 4,000 milligrams per day of glucosamine and 4,000 milligrams per day of MSM every single day. I do it. If you do that, you'll never have joint problems. I have joint problems already. By taking that, it kind of keeps my joints from getting worse. Um, but in the short run, you should certainly run it for at least four to eight weeks minimum. What are your thoughts on MCT oil? I think MCT oil is is a waste. And I'll tell you why. Because if you're going to consume a fat, you might as well consume something that's essential to the diet. So, fish oil, primrose oil, um, macadamia nut oil, which is a monounsaturated fat, not technically essential, but a very useful fat in the body, good for heart health, good metab metabolic fat. Um, MCTs are just energy. It's it's kind of a waste. It doesn't do anything. They can't be incorporated into the cell membranes of muscle cells, so they can't be used to repair muscle. They don't make hormones. They're just energy. So, to me, it's a to me it's a waste. They're not bad for you, but they're just not going to do anything in terms of good stuff in the body. If I'm going to consume fat in my diet, I want something that my body can use and can make it healthier and can make it repair itself better, you know, out of the gym. So, to me, uh, I don't really like. Now, you know, coconut oil is technically an MCT fat, and it's, you know, a lot of people use it. It's a good fat, but once again, not essential. Um, I also find it's very strong. It has a very strong taste, and it kind of sullies the taste of everything else you mix it with. So, Sam, well, there's a lot of hype around MCT oil. Yeah. Because it's cheap. That's why if if you'll notice, there's a pattern. Anything that's cheap to make in our industry, people will push branch chain amino acids. Very cheap to make. Push. Push, push, push. You got to use these intraworkout shakes. Anything with carbs is cheap. Push, push, push. You got to have that. Pre-workouts. Most preworkouts of the market, especially the ones that are proprietary formulas are mostly just caffeine. There's nothing else in there. Push, push, push. Lot of profit on that. So, always when people are pushing something, think about what's the science behind it. If you don't know what the science behind it or why you're taking it, then you're probably just wasting your money and you're making some company a lot of profit. And that that's the sad but but honest truth about our industry. The products that most people don't buy are the ones they really need. Everyone should be on like a product like demineralize that I sell. It's a multivitamin, multi-mineral. Everyone should be on an essential fatty acid supplement like Omega that contains fish oil, evening primrose oil. These are essential components to a diet. A fiber supplement. If you're not using a fiber supplement, a multivitamin, multi mineral, and an essential fatty acid supplement, you are missing the three most important supplements that you could possibly put into your body. Once you got those three covered, anything else is icing on the cake after that. Okay. No one ever built extra muscle from doing a pre-workout. Okay. But they have built extra muscle from consuming a fatty acid supplement central. You're saying like on it that Joe Rogan is producing? I don't know what that is. What about it? What about the Joe Rogan? I I I guess that's podcast. I don't know. I don't know who it is. I like Joe Rogan. He's producing maybe it's a proprietary blend. I don't know. Oh, he's got his own little uh That's what they're saying. Well, yeah, he's probably he probably sold out, too, because he wants to make money. And then Matt says that his wife uses the macro to fry her chicken. I do that, too. And she loves it. You can make great chicken cutlets with that. Let me tell you, four angel fish going in now. These guys will get nice and big in here if they survive. They're a little small. We got the catfish. These are your These are Amanda loves all these. He's pitching on it, Brand. Tell them to bend with the knees. Me? You should be You should be bending with your knees. After you after your bike for 12 miles, three days in a row, you won't be bending from your knees so much. There we go. I have a bad quad, too. Don't forget. Oh, man. These things didn't come out. Whatever. This is Amanda's favorite fish right here. The uh the ugly the ugly ducklings. The catfish. See if we can get them to come out. They suck all the algae off. They stick in the bag. There we go. Yeah, those are nice looking. Last bag. We got the platties. Tuxedo platties. Those might be the best fish that you got. You like the weird ones. He's already sucking to the tank. Yeah, that's what they do. They suck. That's what they do. Last one here. Plecos. Those are actually bushy nose. They're not plecos. The plecos uh this is a discus fish tank and and the discus fish the plecos will suck on the discus fish and kill them, but the bushy nose won't. I'm going to save a couple for the turtle tank. Let's see. Will George ever come on Iron Debate? Never. You don't think so? I don't think so. I don't think black going to let him be honest with you. Oh, he's still under contract, isn't he? Yeah, he can't come on iron to bait. Should I put all these fish in here? I don't remember cuz I wanted to put two females and a male. I don't know what I got in there. Is it a female, female? I thought you were going to put those in the turtle tank. I was going to put a couple in there. I was going to put two in there, but I got to see what the sex they are. He said it would be really funny. I'd love to get them on to be honest with you, but I don't think he would do it. To be honest with you, he's not going to be allowed to do it. That's a male. Maybe I have the two males here. I don't know. Um, why cut back? What happened to Aake? Ake is working with Muscle Meds. Uh, they offered him a very nice contract. I told him, "You're crazy if you don't take it. A lot of money. Keem has bills to pay." I'm still working with him on his diet. And, uh, we're still, we have a good team going, and I think next year is going to be a big year for him. I really think he's going to win a a big pro show next year. That's my prediction. And he'll be at Bros versus Pros next week. He will be at Bros Pros next week. Absolutely. Defending his title. Amanda and Dave are going to be great parents. You must be so excited. We are. It really hasn't sunk in though yet. I think once he's born, it'll sink in. I'm looking for that one. We're too busy for it to sink in. I see two of them. I know. I put three in there. Do you see the other one, Cloudy? There's two right there. I don't know where the other guy is. Maybe I should just let them all in here. Jedi, I think, what are you doing? Jedi thinks he's helping. Jedi's in the bag. Is Dave ever coming to Switzerland? We'll see. Switzerland let me come here? That's the question. Probably. I'm grounded for now. I can't fly anywhere. I can't go anywhere. You know, we have the baby coming up in about 6 weeks. So, we're uh we're not traveling anywhere. However, there's there's definitely some plans on the horizon. I don't know how it's going to be to travel with a baby. We're going to find out because uh we might be going to a Hawaii in in June and we have a possible Utah trip planned, believe it or not. They're saying, "Congratulations. Have you thought of the name for the baby boy? I think we're going to call him Logan. That sounds like right now. That's the prevailing uh pick. I seem to like it. Amanda seems to like it. So, hey, if we both agree, it's a good name. Let's see what else we got here going on. All right, let's clean some water up. All right, final questions, guys, because all the fish have been put in their respective tanks and we're going to end this periscope. Not too many disasters. I was going to do water changes on the Thanks, but I think I'm going to wait till tomorrow. I think we got too much. I think there's too much recycling here. Where did the gains gone is what you're being asked. Where the what? I I don't know. Where did the gains gone? The question didn't really make sense. These are albino redeared slider turtles. Logan, beautiful. Loves it from Portugal, isn't it? It's very late. It's got to be like like it's like 2:00 or 3 in the morning in Portugal, isn't it? What the hell are you guys still doing up watching Periscope? Are you guys laying in bed? Must be. How often do you do water changes per tank? Once a week ideally is perfect. Um I the breeders do them every day, but this is not what I do for a living. So I it takes me long enough to do like we have 14 fish tanks. So and then we have two at work and I have a one of them is a 600gallon. So takes a long time. But I it's therapeutic to me. I think and I come up with all my crazy ideas while I'm doing fish tank. So and I scream and I get all my frustrations out. I get water over. I yell. I bang my foot. You know I I do think it's a it's a stress reliever for me and that's why I do it. Um, you know, we have different different The snakes take a long time, too. We'll have to do a Periscope of me cleaning the snake tanks. But all right, let's uh let's wrap this thing up. Amanda, they say it's 3:00 a.m. there, by the way. I knew it had to be like 2 3:00 a.m. in the morning. I don't Do they have uh daylight savings yet? I don't know if they have daylight savings. There's water. There's water in places that I don't even know how it got to be honest with you. How much do you change? Quarter or half a tank. Uh anywhere from a quarter to a half depending on how how dirty the tank is? Ideally about a third is about right. They say a quarter, but when you have big fish, you got to do a little bit more because they they produce a lot of waste. Um this tank right here now with the new fish in it, which actually looks really good actually. Suppose that light behind you, man. Let me see what it looks like with the light up. That's pretty cool. Let me show this. This tank is looking pretty pretty hot, I got to tell you. Pretty good. Everyone's I think everyone's going to get along in here if they live with from the shock of me just throwing them in there. This tank you take about a third of the water out, I would say every time I change it. Why no snakes at home? Uh to be honest, we have no room to be honest with you. Uh because the office I like to keep the snakes quarantined over there because if they get out in the house there's too many places to go. I have mammals in the house. Snakes like to eat mammals. Mammals like to eat snake kill snakes. Not a good mixture. So if I did keep them in the house I'd have to have a separate part of the house. And right now I don't have that. I'm renting down downstairs to giant crane styles. So uh we're not going to keep them here. But ideally somewhere in the the near future if I ever move uh if we ever move the operation down to Florida, something like that, I'd like to have a snake separate snake part of the house or maybe even a separate like outdoor unit like the guest house or something like that, you know, just for the snakes, you know, where I can control the temperature and everything I got to do. That's the that's the dream, you know. We haven't got to that stage yet. But guys, thanks for watching Periscope. Hopefully I answered your questions and you got to look at me and uh watch with amusement as I get water all over me and change the fish tanks. Here it is Saturday night uh at the end of November. See you next Periscope.