Welcome back to Live with brought to you by Yamamoto Nutrition. I'm Dave Palumbo and today's guest is the 2017 NPC Summer Classic Teenage Overall Champ and Men's Open overall champ. I'm talking about 19-year-old Giovani Delbondo. Welcome. Hey, how you doing, guys? You uh you made quite a splash about a week ago and not only did you win the teen division, but you won the men's open overall uh in rather spectacular fashion, I might say, up in New York. And a lot of people are talking about you. You got the teenage nationals coming up in less than a week. And uh all is well in your world. Congratulations on the big win. Crazy. I feel like I'm dreaming. I can't believe it. Now, your dad was a bodybuilder back in the day. Probably when I was competing. I think we might have even competed at some of the same shows. Um, at what age were you really first exposed to the bodybuilding world and and we started getting interested in it? I mean, growing up, even as a kid, I'd say like four years old, I was watching Pump and Iron. My dad was making me hip post stuff. When I was around 10, I would go to the gym and he'd show me how to do negatives on the preacher curl, negatives on the leg extens, you know, advanced training stuff, which I believe uh has really helped me to get to where I am now. training at 10 years old with weights. I wouldn't, you know, obviously not like uh like I'm training now, but I was getting, you know, the chance to see how to form correctly and and how to do the exercises. At at what point did you get kind of hooked and say, you know what, I really like this and this is something I might want to do. Get up on stage and pose and stuff like that. I say when I was 15, I said, uh, you know, I was playing football at the time and I'm like, you know, I don't really like this. I think I need to find something I can express myself a little bit better. And I thought bodybuilding was a perfect alley. So, I got ready for a show. I dieted on 30 carbs for like three and a half months. I had no idea what a cheat meal was. I dropped a bunch of weight and I was right on stage and it was awesome. I fell in love. Now, were you a were you a heavy kid? Were you a very lean kid as you know when you were in your early teens? Uh, I would have to say like like skinny fat. I mean, I guess I had a big bone structure, but not really that impressive at all. When did you first learn about like how to eat properly? Because I mean, you know, all kids like to eat junk food, let's face it. When did you start eating like the bodybuilder type lifestyle diet? Well, I knew that uh you know, got to be eating your high protein and uh you know, your fats and your carbs, but I had who I'm very thankful for eating. He showed me how to diet for my first show and um he he really helped me to try to understand it. I mean it's it I don't know your first bodybuilding show. I was 16. I 16 on my first show. And how did that show go? I uh competed in juniors and I beat two uh two guys 24 but I actually lost to a teenager. I don't know what he's doing now but see what he's looking like. Well, you you had contacted me earlier in the year and you said, "Hey Dave, I want you to help me uh get ready for Teen Nationals this year and we started working together and I saw some obviously some tremendous potential and I'm not the only person who saw that potential in you. I know Ed Connor has contacted you. He always seems to find a talent and uh you know so it's you got to feel kind of special you know when a lot of people who are in the upper echelons of the bodybuilding world are are showing interest in you and and giving you compliments right yeah it's unbelievable Ed Con is is a great guy he's really raised my confidence you know I didn't really know that I had some talent I knew that I was training hard and doing it but this made feel like hey maybe I could be something and I hope that's what I can be Now, how do you um keep your head together? You know, you're such a young guy. You're getting a lot of compliments from people. Obviously, you know, you just won a men's open show in New York, you know, a very good good show with some quality competitors up there. How do you keep your head straight and, you know, not, you know, go nuts because a lot of teenagers, you know, just don't have the mental, you know, fortitude to to, you know, to maybe not let it go to their head, so to speak. I gotta I gotta say that, you know, right there with me grounded and and I plus I got a great coach like you, so I'm always able to just I just stay humble and I just love training and that's what I like to do. I don't let it get to me. What What kind of advice has your dad giving you? Obviously, I'm doing your diet and everything, but like what does your dad tell you in terms of like, you know, getting ready for a show or, you know, the the the idea that, you know, people out there are going to criticize you? Is he very supportive and helpful in that sense? Yeah, he's great. He's really awesome. The you know, we put a lot of emphasis on training and you know, put 100% into training, then the confidence is always going to be there because you know that you left it all in the gym. So, if you come in looking off, you know, that's the best you could do. Just got to go back to the grind, come back better. Now, it seems like the last couple years, the teenage division has gotten very competitive at the teen national level, which is great because for a while it had been pretty pretty poor quality. Um, obviously going into this year, you're looking for that win. We're looking at some footage right now of you at the win that you had at the summer classic right now. And obviously, you're going to have a lot of muscle up there. You have great conditioning. Um, do you feel confident going into this year's TE Nationals that you can emerge as the champion? I I do. There are a lot of great competitors and um I mean they're crazy looking, but I have like the advantage of me being so tall is is going to play for me and plus I've been doing squats in my deadlifts and and I've been going hard at it. So, uh the thickness I got think it's hard to match and plus I got the conditioning. So, you know, hopefully hope for the best. You know, you you you bring up a good point because a lot of teen very good teen national competitors that I've seen in the past were shorter. They're on the shorter side because it's a little easier to fill out your frame when you're, you know, when you're shorter. And let's face it, you know, when you're a teen, you don't have that many years under your belt of training to really put that much muscle on. But you seem to have added a tremendous amount of muscle to your body and filled out this very, very tall frame. What are you about 61? I'm actually closer to 63. Wow. Okay, that's tremendous. Have you always been strong? I mean, we're watching you squat 400 lb like it's a joke almost, you know? Yeah. I mean, uh I I do uh I did 15 for 34 reps at rest when I was 17. And that video went uh went pretty viral. It was on a lot of Facebook accounts, big gym accounts. So, I mean, I always knew how to how to really push myself in the gym. I like to do sets of 12 watts. Like, in the offseason, I was with 495 and I'm back around 405 that. So, uh, deadlifts really easy. The only thing that came Well, I guess bench came. Can't really complain about anything. So, you know, it's all good. Now, have you ever had you ever thought about, hey, you know, maybe I'll be a powerlifter? because you are pretty strong, you know, for a guy your age. Uh, I don't know. I wouldn't want to tear any muscles and that's smart. I think I got the look of a bodybuilder. I mean, uh, absolutely. I don't know. I wouldn't I wouldn't want to do a powerlifting, though. Who Who's stronger, you or your dad? Oh, me. He was he was back in his day, but you know, I surpassed How old were you when you got stronger than him? Do you remember the day? Uh, well, I'll tell you this. Actually, should have told you this first. He squatted 315 for 33 when he was 17. And I'm like, I got for 34. So, that's what I did in that day. I was like, what was the day you went to the gym and you I'm sure you guys were training together when you were younger. What was the day you went to the gym and you benched more than he did? Do you remember that day? I benched what? What was the Do you remember the day that you actually went to the gym where you actually were able to bench press more than your dad? What? Like, when did that happen? Was that relatively early on or do you actually remember the day that you actually did it? No, I actually don't. But uh I bet he remembers. Yeah, I'm sure he does. That's funny. Um is it um when when you train, okay, does and with your dad, do you feel that there's more pressure when you're working out with him because he, you know, is he hard on you in that sense in terms of pushing you? I remember when I was uh 16, I was get ready for my first show. I was, you know, so depleted and uh I was just out of my mind from the diet. I I was crying on the leg extensions and I'm like, "Oh my gosh, I'm I can't do this. This is crazy." But then after I calm down, I'm like, you know what? This is pretty awesome because I bet no one's really doing it like this. And I love training hard. So he pushes me and I and I love it because people want to keep p. Yeah. Now, have you I'm sure you've gotten I know you're very popular on social media. A lot of people know who you are, especially a lot of the competitors because I I have I'm friends with a lot of the coaches and they're like, "Oh, we know who he we know who Giovani is." And I find that funny because there's a whole little community out there in social media land. Um do you find how do you deal with the people like who might be negative against you? because I know there's always going to be people that that tell you you're great, but there's a lot of negative haters out there. How do you block them out? A lot of times young guys have problems with that. Um, I don't know. I just dismiss them. I I really don't get much haters, honestly. Uh, I don't really think about it either. So, if they hate me, I don't know why they would. Just do what I like to do. Yeah. Well, there's a lot of jealousy out there a lot of times. Now, you you and I were discussing, you know, what it's like backstage. You know, you got your Hawaiian shirt on. You say you, you know, when you were backstage at the last show, you wear your Hawaiian shirt, you're very mellow and chilled out. You're having a good time back there. And then there's obviously there's the other extreme where there's a lot of guys backstage who are miserable. They got the sweatshirts on with the hoods on and they don't talk to anyone. Um, what was what was the response you got from a lot of the competitors backstage, especially seeing that you were so young? Everyone couldn't they couldn't believe I was 19 and they were very nice to me. How good. It was a great environment. Yeah. When I got there looking around at everyone and I'm like, "Oh my gosh, they're all you know in these dark hoodie and uh they got the hood up and you know mean mugging and I'm in my Hawaiian shirt sticking out like a to I was just having fun and that's what I did." So, what was it like? Was it what was it like being backstage with Dexter Jackson who's a you know who's a probably one of the greatest bodybuilders of all time, you know, holds a lot of records, most wins, obviously he's a Mr. Olympia. Was it was it was it a special experience for you? Yeah, he uh he's a very big guy. I I'd never seen anyone that thick before. Honestly, I'd never even been to a bodybuilding show. I That's why I asked you. Isn't that crazy? Why do you think that would be? I would think your dad would have brought you to a couple the at least the night of champions that used to be in New York all the time. No, I I don't know. I'd love to go. Yeah, just competed in them. But I saw he's a nice guy. I saw I saw Jan Morel and uh John Del Roza. I told him that he should have won the the New York Pro. I'm sure he loved that. Like when you look at the guys competing over the last 30 years, which physique do you find the best? Like what do you say when you look at a physique and say, you know, that's the kind of guy I'd like to look like. I love his physique. I would like to look like a bigger Bob Paris. I think, you know, he's got a beautiful physique. I like Kevin. Yeah. I don't know if I could ever look like that, but but that would be He looks crazy. Uh I love the legs, but I guess Bob Harris now when when you know looking at the uh the new division they got nowadays, the classic physique division. Had you ever thought about doing that? Are you or are you pretty focused on open bodybuilding? I'm not I'm not sure what the uh weight limits are, but I like open bodybuilding. I'm not really sure where this is all going to take me, but uh you know, if I got the goods, I'll go wherever it's uh wherever it's best for me. I think at 6'3, you probably would be fine with your weight because what what did you weigh on stage again? 230, something like that. Yeah, 231. Yeah. So, you you you probably still be pretty good just because you're so tall. you'd probably fit into the division, but you know, you're a young guy. I think over the years, you're gonna put a lot of muscle on. Uh you got this team nationals coming up now in in about a week. Um and obviously winning the title of team national champion would put you in in a very elite club. Guys like Branch Warren, uh you know, Jason Hu, you know, Gerald Williams who just has done really well relatively recently. Um how would that what would that mean to you to win that title? It would mean a lot to me. I mean, I've been I've been wanting to be a team champion for a while, but I think I was ready to I I wish I would have competed last year instead of uh stopping and going offseason, but I have no regret. But you made a a good point. You know, if if it doesn't go my way, you know, this is just a stepping stone and I'm here to stay and this is what I love to do. not going to define me if it doesn't turn out the way I planned, but I'm just gonna come my best. I know a lot harder than I was at my last show on Saturday. So, I'm going to be coming at my best. So, well, Giovani, best of luck up there on that teen national stage. I know a lot of guys watching this are going to be rooting for you and hoping that you win this show and make your mark, first stepping stone, so to speak, in a very long career, hopefully. Thank you, Dave. All right, that will take us to the end of another episode of Live with brought to you by Yamamoto Nutrition. I'm Dave Palumbo and we'll see you next time.