I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations dosed for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Arnold South America prejudging just letting out a short while ago. And no surprise, good veto the story. Good veto as you saw there in the middle with Leandro Perez. Impressive himself. But the big story here is Vitali Galnikov. Good veto came in absolutely as advertised. You get a look here. This video courtesy of KNX Film. Great, great video and media coverage down here in Brazil. I have to say it's been absolutely great to see so many high quality videos, pictures, great footage of the show. But Good Veto absolutely came in as advertised. We've been waiting to see this version off of Good Veto and he came in and absolutely dominated in prejuding. There's no doubt about it. No question about it. He absolutely flat out brought it. You got to look at this video footage and I mean, forget about just the fact that he's absolutely complete. There are zero gaps. Look at those legs. Those legs are I mean I'm reading the comments section and I mean just so many people who were there in person. I mean they're calling him big Rammy, they're calling him little Rammy, they're calling him Junior Rammy. Is going to look at Leandro Perez. Leandro Perez very impressive in his own right. um when the competitor list for the Pittsburgh Pro came out say about 3 weeks ago, you know, he may have been at least to American audiences maybe one of the more lesser name, lesser known names uh in that lineup. So, you get a good look here in that show about five weeks away. So, you get a bit of a preview, but my goodness, I mean, again, we talk about complete, we talk about showy body parts, this is it right here. Um, again, big legs, good separation. Um, back if I guess if we have to nitpick, just the back maybe doesn't match what he brings in terms of legs at this point, but I mean, he brings that back up. I mean, you look at these legs that that's nutty. Look at that the chest striations. Uh, this guy's got it all. I mean, this is a fairly complete bodybuilder. And I mean, again, you look at the lineup that he's going to be facing in the next five weeks of the Pittsburgh Pro. Um, you know, he's certainly going to be a factor. Um, but again, in this show, you look at Good Veto and you get to look at the top four right here. Good veto again, we talk about all the attributes, we talk about the showy body parts, takes up a lot of room on that stage, as does Leandro Perez for that matter. Um, but this was highly, highly impressive. this show the Arnold Brazil, you know, we over the last few years is is generally seen smaller lineups, but this one in terms of the quality of the top four, I mean, this is absolutely impressive to see. You look at the tie-ins on Leandro Perez, very impressive legs, very impressed with the hamstrings, with the glutes, you know, the posterior chain. Very impressive. But you look at the back of Good Veto, that is freaking wild. That is insane. I mean, we talk about good veto over the course of the last couple of years. You think about the different chapters um jumping off that stage, injuring himself and having missed a significant period of time and then last year narrowly missing out on Olympia qualification, the Detroit Pro going up against the wouldbe number four bodybuilder in the world in Martin Fitzwwater. But look, we saw this coming. This is what we wanted to see at a good veto. And you saw some of the progress pictures and people said it right there and then. Forget about Arnold Brazil. Forget about Pittsburgh. This is someone that could be a major factor on the Olympia stage. So great to see Good Veto coming out and absolutely delivering a vintage performance in prejudging. Finals is going to be at about I think 6:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. So, we'll try to do a wrap-up off that as well. But impressive showing at the Arnold South America.