RFK Jr., keep doing what you're doing. I believe you. You guys should believe you. And shame on you, Greg Det. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here with an RX Muscle rant. Haven't talked about him in a while, but Greg Ducet's at it again attacking my good friend RFK Jr. That's right. RFK Jr. had done an interview where he and I actually listened to this interview. This was months ago where he actually talks about, you know, why he looks so good, why he's in such great shape. He talks about the fact that he uses, you know, eats really healthy. He tries to eat organic foods. He takes innumerable vitamins that he can't even list them all. There's so many. And I I could relate to that. I take a lot as well. I take a lot of um vitamins. I I can't even list them. He also talks about the fact that he takes testosterone replacement. uh from my doctor and includes uh testosterone replacement and he specifically mentions that he doesn't take anabolic steroids meaning he's not using any of the synthetic anabolics like anavar winstrol that kind of stuff he just takes you know testosterone replacement and uh Greg uh doesn't think that he's telling the truth and first of all I want to say Greg and I are friends you know when I see at the Arnold take a picture together. We We do all kinds of good stuff. So, whatever goofing I'm going to do on him right now or he does on me, it it's all good all good fun. But I completely 100% believe RFK Jr. because number one, I think that he's he's pretty transparent about what he does. He's pretty transparent about his belief system. he wouldn't be going on the record, you know, over the last I can't even tell you how many years he's been doing this, talking about vaccines, talking about um the food additives now becoming the health minister here and becoming the guy who's going to clean up the food supply and clean up the drug companies. This guy has been vilified so many times in the news by the leftist media. This guy has been made to be a cook. Even his own family has tried to like, you know, certain members of his family that is has tried to distance themselves from him because they worked for the Biden administration. So this guy, if he was full of BS, he would certainly wouldn't be out there putting all this information out there about his belief system and and the research he's done and the companies he's, you know, you know, sued and stuff like that. This guy is just not a liar. If he was using anabolics, he would say it. this guy that I can completely believe that he's taking testosterone replacement. He eats good. He's got a great tan because he believes in sunlight. He hikes every day. He takes a lot of vitamins because he's import, you know, he wants to make sure that he he satisfies all his vitamin uh I guess you could say needs. And I truly believe that he's not taking any anabolic steroids. He looks completely believable. Why is it so hard to believe that if a guy has been working out his whole life, he trains hard, he's on testosterone replacement, that he can't look good just because the guy is ripped and he's lean at 70 years old. I'm sure I'm going to be lean and ripped at 70 years old. And and I only take hormone I take very low hormone replacement levels. So I don't think that Greg is judging him fairly. I think Greg is always looking for some kind of conspiracy theory like that someone's full of RFKG is not the kind of guy that's full of There are people out there that are liars. I agree 100%. And they like try to portray themselves as natural. They try to portray themselves as a certain way. The liver king comes to mind. Okay. He was exposed. RFK doesn't fit that category. Just doesn't. There's nothing in his physique to indicate to me that he is taking beyond hormone replacement. He's not big whatsoever. He's just very lean. But that's consistent with what he does. He does cardio every day. He eats a clean diet. He watches what he, you know, you could see his face is even lean. I mean, the guy is in good shape. You don't get in good shape just from taking drugs. There's a million people in the gym that are on tons of anabolics. They look terrible. He's got a tan. He he obviously has a very strict routine that he he sticks to every day. And if you talk to anyone who sees him at Gold's Gym Venice, you know that this guy, he comes there, he does his workout every day, he hikes, he has a whole routine he does every day. He's like a bunch. That's why I really relate to this guy a lot because he's got a lot of neurotic tendencies where he is in his routines and he doesn't deviate from those routines one bit to for Greg to be going there and start whining about you know he says he's on bioididentical hormones and he I I think the vitamin A really means vitamin Anavar and vitamin Winstrol and Greg you're barking up the wrong path with this guy. A lot of your other stuff is very accurate when you expose people. RFK Jr. is absolutely looks like he's on hormone replacement and is just a guy who really follows a strict routine. And you know what? He should be a good role model for not just guys that are his age, 70s, but guys that are like, you know, in their 40s and 50s and 60s. Hey, if you can stick to a diet, then that's, you know, a lot of people always ask me, Dave, why do you eat so strictly? Why do you have such a strict routine? You're not competing anymore. You know, it's because if I'm going to be an advice giver, right? If I'm going to go out there and give advice to people about how to eat, how to get in shape, how to be healthy, I better live that life myself, I better walk that walk myself. I better go out there and get those diagnostic tests. I better go out there and and make sure that my blood pressure is good and my blood sugars are good and that, you know, my hormone levels are balanced and I'm getting the right vitamins, that I'm eating the right foods and the right amount of essential fats and the right amount of carbs and and and protein because if I don't do that, then I'm a hypocrite, right? I mean, Greg himself is in great shape. Obviously, he takes great care of himself. He eats good. And I'm sure Greg, when you get to 70 years old, you'll probably look amazing, too. Okay? because you are following that lifestyle and you will live that probably for the rest of your life just like I will just like RFK Jr. has been doing and will continue to do probably till the day he dies because that's the kind of guys we are. We're driven type A personalities that do not let other people tell us what we can and can't do. We figure out the way to stay ahead of the curve and be the leaders and then give advice on how to do what we've accomplished. And that's exactly what RFK is doing. And you know what? That's why I am so happy and so passionate about the fact that this guy got nominated and got, you know, verified as the health minister because we need that a guy as the secretary of health and human services who actually walks the walk. I don't want some fat slob in there. I don't want some person who doesn't work out, who doesn't take supplements, who doesn't eat right in there telling me what should be in the food supply, you know, what drugs are are are are, you know, acceptable, what vaccine. I want someone who actually cares about what they put in their body, who's going to say, you know what, kids should not be eating high fructose corn syrup, okay? They shouldn't have lactosefree on a ice cream that has milk as its first ingredient. That's deceptive marketing. They shouldn't have trans fats in the food that we eat and that the foods that we're sold. They shouldn't have dyes and and food coloring agents in the cereals and the and the candies that our kids eat when it's banned in every other country in the world. I want that guy in there and so should you guys. And we should be happy that he looks that great and he doesn't need to go take a drug test to prove what he's doing because he lives the lifestyle that he espouses. He talks about what he does and he lives that and that's why he looks the way he does and we should all espouse to be just as good as he is. We should all say, "Hey, you know what? If this guy can do it, he's not a professional bodybuilder. He's he's a he's a lawyer. He's a lawyer who who was a former drug addict early in his life because he he he was sad and depressed about the fact that his father was murdered when he was 14 years old and he didn't have a father figure. He lost his uncle before that JFK and now you know he was left alone. He became a drug addict for 20 years or whatever it was. He was a drug addict and then he cleaned up his act and he became successful and he overcame all his adversity that he had in his life and that made him a better person. And we all have skeletons in our closet. We've all done things we're not proud of. We've all done destructive things in our life. And some people it was their ruination. And other people overcame it and used it as a as as a way to make themselves better than they were before. I lost my mom about the same time he did when when I was 14, a terrible terrible case of pancreatic cancer. It was it was very traumatic to my sister and I growing up. And it could have destroyed me. I could have become a drug addict. I could have just as easily as he did. I could have, you know, had terrible things. I could have gone out and been a a bad kid and and did poorly in school and used it as an excuse. But I use it as as a as a motivation to make me work harder and to go in a direction where I said to myself, you know what, my mom died young. I'm going to use this as motivation to do only what I really love to do, what I'm passionate about, and then I'm going to tell other people how to do it as well. And that's what attracted me to bodybuilding and the fitness industry. So what happens early in our life, the adversity we overcome will mold and shape what our futures are and to foof and try to discount what someone's accomplished by saying they're full of crap and they're really using anabolics and growth hormone and insulin and all this other stuff is really really disrespectful to RFK Jr. and all that he's accomplished throughout his life. I mean, this guy cleaned up the Hudson River. He sued every company on that on that along the Hudson River that was dumping coal and waste into there. That Hudson River was the worst river of all time. The fish were all dying. Now it's the cleanest river, okay, out there. And it goes right through New York City, this this river. So he cleaned that up from all the lawsuits. He sued uh Monsanto, the company that makes Roundup that were poisoning the soils, you know, and he won. He wanted like billions of dollars for his clients. This guy cares about what goes into our body and what's in the environment. And you know what? It's no coincidence that, you know, kids are all obese nowadays. Diabetes is higher than ever. There's all kinds of weird cancers people are getting much earlier. It's because of the stuff that's being put into the food supply. It's because of the environment is polluted. and this guy wants to clean it up and not many people are willing to unselfishly go where he's willing to go. And so that's why if you want to know why I believe this guy and why I believe he's telling the truth because he's the only one telling us the truth about what's going on in our country here about the fact that the drug companies own everyone. They own the news agencies. Of course the news is not going to be is going to be biased because they're being bought off by the drug companies. It's and he's going to end that. So RFK Jr., keep doing what you're doing. I believe you. You guys should believe you. And shame on you, Greg Ducet, for doubting RFK Jr. Dave Palumbo with an RX Muscle rant.