A few short days ago, in a galaxy very near and dear to us all, a small coventry of nutritional experts dwell among the bodybuilding masses. They are affectionately known as the diet gurus. Recently, however, there's been a disturbance in the energy field surrounding these contest prep experts, and a split has been detected. The wise technician known as Christo has challenged the rank and file of the evil Blackman Empire and has thrown down the gauntlet to the conniving and manipulative Darth Farah. Witness the verbal battle as it ensues. So, Brad Row, he's like a 10th tier pro, beat your guy Freddy last year. How's that work? Sean Roden's beat your guys at the Olympia. Most important show every year. Come on. Every year. But my guy still Kai is still not reaching his still. Kai never When is he going to repeat his Oscar condition, dude? Kai was in Oscar. When is he going to repeat his Oscar? You don't think last year he was in condition? When he wasn't in 2009. No tell that's your opinion. That's everyone's opinion that is at his best to me opinion as the old state. I don't really care. My opinion is different. George. George, were you a cop? I'm not a cop. How about that, dude? I mean, how how you know, get the camera on, George, and ask him. Was he saying you bring us something? Well, are you I don't even know. Huh? Are you gay or not? Were you I didn't I don't go in the video. I'm just saying. Are you or not? Why are you Are you gay or not? I'm not. Okay. So, are you a cop now? And the guy didn't answer. Okay. the police department would like to There's my problem. I bring it up. You can lie on every issue. On every issue, that's all you got to say. Ask Biggie if he's asked me to work with him, dude. He's sitting right here. He's there. He's He's 3 ft from you. So, if you want to bring it into the bed, there's Vig right there. I asked you. No, my wife [\h__\h] me. No, dude. Come on. You're a [\h__\h] wife. No. No. Don't do that. Don't [\h__\h] do that. Because what exactly happened was I was upset and I asked you about about uh should I look better? Could you walk me? And that's what the question was. Okay. So So your wife your wife on your Okay, then I apologize for that. I took your I took your wife standing there. Sorry. I told you I said he's standing right there as a question. No, it's not. Well, it's George who comes up here with this fragile apology. This man, you're sour. I as a gentleman I want to shake your hand because everything between me and you because when when you do it in his hair it's in his hair it's in his hair it's in his hair that's for by the way too last weekend and the year before how he got mad when I when I told him what this earth I I guess he's back to the 200 employee factory when he gets back into Rochester on Monday. It's an RX Muscle exclusive. Over and out.