Dave Palumbo here with our continuing coverage of the 2017 Arnold Classics brought to you by Quest Nutrition. Visit questnutrition.com. Uh tonight we have a special guest on the line who's going to tell us a little bit more about what went down in Australia last weekend. Uh he's a good friend to the show and I'm proud to announce that he's one of the few 212 pro competitors that was able to step into the open and place top five. Congratulations guy. Sister Nino, what's going on Dave? How you doing? You you took us by surprise. No one even knew you were going into this show. You kind of kept it uh hush hush to the last minute, huh? No, I didn't know I was going into the show. So Oh, you didn't? Yeah. Tony said you uh he saw you he Instagrammed you and said hey why don't you come out and do the show and he convinced you in about he said about 15 minutes. Well I was like oh yeah you have you're having a 212 this year and he's like oh no no I meant like the big guys and I was like I said listen I said I'll do the show. I said but you know I'm not about I'm not delusional by any sense. I was like I don't need to go to an open show and get my [\h__\h] pushed in. Yeah. I said uh he's like well if you come in shape he's like you don't have anything to worry about. And you know, I really don't have a big appetite. I don't go out after shows like José Raymond and gain 40 pounds in a week. So, um, I was like, might as well just if I'm going to be there anyway for Centurion Labs, my sponsor, I said, "Fuck it. I can stay in shape for another week or two and and you know, get it done." And I did. Everybody kept asking me what I weighed because they thought I weighed, you know, more than I did in Columbus. But I weighed myself before I went to bed last night and I was 212 after flying for 24 hours. So, I was nowhere near 220. Right. Right. You did look big. You did look bigger. Um, you held your own, I thought, pretty well up there on that stage and there were some big guys, you know, in the top five that you had to go against. Obviously, conditioning wasn't the forte of anyone who was really up there. So, you obviously stuck out like a sore thumb with your conditioning level. Um, was it intimidating? Because, you know, usually you're used to going up against guys. You kind of all weigh the same thing. You're about the same height and now you you're backstage with these monsters. No, I was actually less intimidated because at the end of the day, I had the mindset that this was probably one of the only shows I've ever done where I have zero to lose and everything to gain because anybody that loses to me who's a little 212 guy, you know, I'm not bashing anybody, but you know, if I was a 260 pound guy losing to somebody who's like 208 210 on stage and that would kind of suck. So, I had nothing and lose going into this show and I had everything to gain. So to me it was I actually had more fun on the stage because it wasn't as nerve-wracking going against like Flex Jose David, you know, hit a Tatada where we always flip flop all the time. So did you um did you agree with the placings at the at the Australia show? I thought Brandon had had Max be um by far. Max was uh way way better from the front. Nowhere near as good from behind. I thought he was very soft from behind. I'm not um again knocking Max. I just thought he was off from behind. Michael Lockett's good, but he's like uh you know, he he he's got a he comes in ridiculous shape, but he's he's got very uh weird weird structure to him. His legs are a little odd looking. He's got an insanely wide like like big round shoulders, traps, and rear delts, but then like his lats aren't as big. Um Jeff Beckham's tall and a little more lengthy for the class. I thought I could have been as as pro I I thought I could have been battling for third or fourth. Um they gave me fifth, so I was pleased with it, but um yeah, as far as the placings go, I mean, you could you can argue second through fifth, I believe, pretty much all day long, but I think Brandon, you know, uh held his own up there as far as, you know, first place goes. Is Brandon Curry, in your estimation, as good as people are saying, or is it just that he's beating some weak lineups here? I think Brandon is just I I don't think I think Brandon a improved his upper body, which um obviously not knocking him, but I think I think his legs did come up, but I think he actually improved his upper body so much more that it still throws off his lower body. Um so I still think he needs way better leg development um to be a top contender at the Olympia. Did he get better by going to Kuwait? Yeah, no distractions. Absolutely. Um, do I think it's the best version of Brandon that has yet to come? Uh, I would say no by far. Okay, that's pretty honest. Uh, let's talk about the the controversy of the show, uh, which was un an unfortunate controversy of course. Dallas Macccarver coming off the second place loss to Brandon Curry in New Zealand the week before comes up flies over to the Australia. um goes into the prejudging and at some point during the pre-judging, I don't know if Johnny has some of the the pictures or video of that. Hopefully we can get that up there. He starts to falter. Tell me what happened because you were the only guy who ran everything because I was there from the time it happened to the time it ended because I was the only one who ran off stage with him. So for all the people that want to talk [\h__\h] about Dallas and all the past pro bodybuilders that you know claim to be wanting to grow the sport that are being [\h__\h] online. Um I'm not going to mention any [\h__\h] names, but they know who they are. Um I find that completely disrespectful, especially to a 25-year-old kid. Um they were doing a side chest and I saw Dallas kind of stutter step as they um were getting into it and I I was staring at him because I was if you're looking at the stage I was side right because I wasn't in that call out. So I'm watching him. Yeah. I'm very attentive even when I'm not if I'm not in a call out that doesn't mean I'm not paying attention to who's on stage. So then he got back into the shot and then as they turned around to go into a back double, he kind of like stepped forward and and his head kind of went down and then he kind of like picked his head back up and then I started walking over and then he kind of just like collapsed over. Al, one of the expediters caught him. I came up behind him and grabbed him around his waist and we all like walked him to the back. They were screaming, "Sit him down." And I I I have a lot of um doctors in my family, so I know if somebody can't breathe, you don't sit them up and compress their airways. You want to lay them down or lay them on their side so they can get most air in their lungs. So I laid them on his back. Um and then all of a sudden he started convulsing as if as if he was having a seizure. Um and obviously there's different types of seizures, you know, whether you're epileptic or you know, you're just having a seizure. So, I know from experience from people that having a seizure around me. One thing you want to do is either lay them on their side so they don't choke on their tongue. They're kind of, you know, I've I've seen people put wallets in their children's mouths to keep their mouths open so they don't bite their tongue off. So, I went to go grab one of the little towels and put it in his mouth. And he Dallas grabbed my hand and I said, "Dallas, it's Guy Buddy." I said, "You got to take a couple breaths for me." Because he started shaking like he was going into, you know, some sort of like seizure. And uh I told him to take a couple breaths and he breathed. I lifted. I I screamed for a Gatorade and obviously you have every, you know, bikini, you know, figure girl in the back getting ready to go on. So, they're all asking what's going on. So, I'm telling them to back the [\h__\h] up to let the kid breathe. So, somebody threw me Gatorade. So, I lifted his head and he finally opened his eyes and he like knew it was me. I said, "You got to take a couple sips." Because I thought that it was the fact I knew he was sick cuz he had told me on the bus ride over he wasn't feeling well. And then I obviously, you know, you're at a depletion and you're you're you're um dehydrated. So I was just trying to get some fluids into him immediately as fast as I could because obviously I wasn't hooking up a saline drip, right? Um so he took a couple sips of Gatorade and he f you actually see his body almost went like into a relaxation state, right? Then the medics came over and gave him oxygen and he I think he went through almost three bags of fluid. But before they hooked him up with bags, he threw up for about a good 45 minutes to an hour. And then uh he came backstage with the sailing drip, they, you know, hooked it up on the back of the door so he could just sit there and relax. And after 20 minutes, he looked at me and he goes, "Am I allowed to finish the show?" He's like, "I want to go back out there." And I'm like, "I got a new [\h__\h] found respect for this guy because the kid damn near [\h__\h] died on stage." and he's looking at me going, you know, I think I think I'm hardcore and he's looking at me after like going into a [\h__\h] seizure, hooking up to sailing drips, going, I want to go back out there. So, you know, to me that says something for Dallas. So, for everybody that wants to sit there and point fingers, you know, the difference between what happened to Dallas and what happened to me in Columbus was I didn't I didn't go into like a seizure um or anything like that, but I collapsed when I got off stage because I was so sick that I couldn't breathe. I had to call for the medics to get me an inhaler. So the difference between what happened to Dallas and what happened to me was people saw Dallases, nobody saw mine. So for people to bash Dallas um for pushing his limits, you know, people go out to watch us competitors and buy tickets and and buy expo tickets and and pay for flights and hotels and then you want to bash a kid for pushing his limits to to try to make his fans, friends, and and you know, everybody else happy. and then and then to go bash him is just absolutely in my in my opinion an absolute just disgrace to um you know it's a disgrace to Dallas because it's unfair to him and the people that are doing that are just not fans of the sports. You're just doing it for [\h__\h] attention because they're nobodyies. Now guy, I I gotta ask you, obviously you're not a medical doctor, you know, so you can't give me a definitive answer, but you know, the question has been, was he overdehydrated because Chad, his coach, and him pushed themselves too far to the limit, or as the story that's being told and that I heard and that Tony Dy even kind of confirmed to me, uh, did he have a severe respiratory tract infection or was it a combination? Well, he told me he was sick. um lead like like when he was in Columbus and he said he wasn't feeling any better in New Zealand and then he said he got worse when he got to um Australia. So he told me prior to all this that he was not feeling well um because I actually had an extra albuterol inhaler for my bronchitis that I actually gave him afterwards. Um and actually he text me and he said thank you. He said that helped a lot. I can breathe a lot better now. Um I don't think this was planned out. I don't think I don't think Chad pushed his limits. I think Dallas is a warrior and pushed his limits as an athlete. Yeah. And didn't want to give up. He has he's got that, you know, not I mean, [\h__\h] I I should I have been in Columbus competing? No. But, you know, some guys are warriors. Some guys get a [\h__\h] sore throat and they want to back out of a show. You know, there's other guys that they'll get hit by a Mac truck and they'll get up from the street and they'll they'll finish their cardio. Yeah. Um, Dallas is one of those guys. I don't think Chad did anything wrong. Chad wasn't there. I don't know Chad's protocol. I don't know what Dallas took or didn't take. But I think for me personally, when I was sick, you know, being dehydrated and having all those issues definitely makes things 10 times more harsh on your body because you have all these other variables that you're not used to that are coming into play. And unlike Dallas who probably didn't take antibiotics, I took antibiotics which is probably why I wasn't as bad as Dallas. Yeah, that's a good point. You know, I made that point in my rant the other day and I I said, you know, the only dumb thing that that Dallas did was not taking antibiotics. They said a lot of these guys do the same thing. They they think that the antibiotics going to make them hold water, not realizing that the respiratory tract infection itself will make you hold more water than the antibiotics will. So, it it's foolish. If you get sick, take antibiotics. Penicellin based antibiotics are very safe. See, it's a lose-lose because if you're sick and you're not taking by antibiotics, your body's cortisol levels are raised. And if you're taking antibiotics, your cortisol levels might get raised, but it's like if you're going to make something 2% worse or 10% or 2% better or 10% worse, like what are you gonna do? I mean, I was on [\h__\h] prennazone in Columbus. That's the worst thing you could be on just to make sure my skin you were able to breathe. That's that's the key. You know, if if Dallas can't take a breath on stage because he's got so much mucus in his in his lungs. Obviously, that's not going to help him, you know. So, I I I'm convinced that he did have some kind of respiratory. Now, a lot of people are texting me. They're saying, "Well, how come he wasn't coughing? We, you know, we saw all these videos of him. How come we don't see him coughing?" He was coughing so bad backstage. That's what I wanted to ask you. was it wasn't one of those it was one of the ones that almost sound like a like a when he coughed like you could tell it was not a normal cough and I think he wasn't coughing in an interview or coughing when you talked he was backstage and the cough sounded so deep and so raspy you could tell that he was not well yeah he probably he probably couldn't catch his breath on stage and it sounds like almost he might have been a little hypoglycemia because um you know from what you're telling me you know when you go into like that little bit of a seizure that sometimes could be very low blood sugar. The Gatorade obviously brought him around like you said. So, it sounds like there was a little low blood sugar, maybe toughness, getting enough oxygen in him. I'm sure he was dehydrated. You're all dehydrated up there. But when you combine dehydration with being sick and low blood sugar, you know, that's what happens up there. And uh you know, people there's a couple I I won't even mention who they are because I don't want to give them any credit for for even mentioning them on the show. They said I didn't do that either. Yeah. They said, "I call Dallas stupid." Yeah, I did call him stupid because it's stupid when people don't take antibiotics when they should, but you know, he's 25. I say this, I'm going to cut you up. And the reason why I'm cutting you up is because in 2007 when I did the Metropolitans, you probably don't remember this, but I when it comes to everyday life, my memory sucks dick, but um when it comes to bodybuilding, I don't forget anything. Um, in 2007, two days out from the Metropolitans, I came down with strep throat and I felt like [\h__\h] And you said, "Go take antibiotics." And I said, "Well, isn't it going to make me hold water?" And you said, "No, go get go to the doctor right now and get antibiotics." So, I had strep throat the day of the show. I was on my I was on my third day of antibiotics and I and I won my class. So, ever since that day, if I get sick before a show, I go, I remember what Dave told me. You know what the funny thing is, guy? I used to take uh antibiotics augmented the last week before the show because it would keep my skin very clear cuz I I would get very broken out from putting the protein and all that and that stuff on my skin. So I would take it for a week just prophylactically and it never affected my conditioning any at all. So some of the more severe antibiotics will but the penicellin based ones like the amoxicylin ampillin penicellin sephosporin they're very safe to take and that's what you know I'm glad to know because you just named everyone that I'm allergic to so I appreciate that so what do you take what do you have to take like ariththramycin I'm allergic I'm allergic to amoxicylin penicellin kelex and codine so what do you take uh ariththramy I take a clarithroyc ariththramy zpack which sucks um you all like the I got they put me on uh cypro a lot, right? You know, I got to take like the hardcore drugs because the those ones don't do [\h__\h] to me. I'll die. So, where does Guy Sister Nino go from here? I mean, you just you did an open show. You did a great You did great at the Arnold, the 212 division. Uh do you shut it down now or do you keep going? I'm getting I'm getting emails non-stop about Brazil. I think I kind of opened up a [\h__\h] can of worms now. Oh, they want you to come out there again? I've gotten like seven emails in four days for the open class, huh? Do it. But last year, but yeah, I want to do it. But the thing is is that I I you know, my focus now is, you know, isn't I love competing, but you know, my focus now is I'm still and I with points, I'm qualified for the Olympia, but I I refuse to go to the Olympia on points. I'm not I don't roll like that. It's not me, not who I am. I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll drop out with somebody else take my my point placing. So, um I I'm 99% all in for uh for the New York Pro. Okay. Um I know people are probably sick of seeing me win it three times, but until somebody walks in there that can actually take me out, then I I'm going to keep doing it until uh until I have an issue. But, you know, I feel like based off of the competitors that compete, you know, you get to a point just like the '9s, you know who's doing what shows, you know who you lost to, you know who you can't beat, you know, you have a hard time beating, and nobody in that show is, you know, in in my opinion is at my level. Could I be wrong? Could there be a dark horse? 110%. But, you know, the only guys I know that are doing it are Craig Richardson and Sean Cleridia, who haven't beaten me um ever. So, I don't really know what else to say. You know, well, you know, you know, if you do Arnold Brazil guy in the open class and maybe we can get you to go to Arnold South Africa and Arnold Hong Kong, you might qualify in both the open and the 212. I actually just had this conversation that somebody said, "Have you qualified for for open in points?" I said, "I would literally call Steve Weinberg and be like, "Listen, I know this has never been done, but can I cross over with the Olympia and do both shows?" Ever. First time ever. That's right. Exactly. I like that you have the balls to do it because a lot of these guys, they're like, "Oh, I don't want to do it." You know, obviously Flex Lewis did it once uh or twice, I think, and did very well, actually. But I like that. I think I think your physique is good enough to place very well and you've proved that in in lineups that are not Olympia qual you know obviously at the open Olympia you'd have a problem but anything below that I think you you're a top five guy you know in the open so this is how I look at it man I mean back in the day there was you know it was it was bodybuilding there wasn't classes in in in in bodybuilding I mean yeah you know you had the Franco and the Arnold back then but you know in the9s and moving forward it was always it was just bodybuilding. It was there was no classes. You had the Lee Labradas, the Frank Zaynes going against the bigger guys. So, um I you know to me it's bodybuilding. Just because there's a two 212, you know, cut off. Does that mean us 212 guys shouldn't see where we stand? I love to see where I stand against bigger guys and see who I compete and how I match up and how I look next to them. To me, it's fun. It's it's bodybuilding. Why stay content in your little box, you know, and not go outside it and see where you, you know, compare and and and how and how well you do? I mean, and [\h__\h] And the pri I made more prize money taking fourth or fifth at [\h__\h] at uh at Australia than I did winning a 212 show. So, you know, it's money in your pocket, too. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's true. You know, I want to ask you a question. And I was interviewing Ry Winkler at the Arnold Classic at his at the Oxygen gym booth there and I was asking him how he thought his brother did and uh he said to me, you know, I I felt that my this is my opinion, he said, but I felt that my brother should have beat Guy Cisterino. I love Rolley and I think Rolley needs to get his eyes fixed. I love Quincy. I I think Quincy is great. Quincy, I actually convinced Quincy to keep his beard for uh the for for the Arnold. But Quincy, listen, he's he's he in my opinion, and I'm not take I'm not I love Quincy to death. So I I hate when I talk about bodybuilders and they [\h__\h] take it to heart. Quincy is is a taller 212 guy, right? He doesn't have like the hard hams and glutes. He's got big arms. I think Quincy would do really well in classic physique. Maybe I I I told Ry, I said I thought he needed to be, you know, a bigger guy. He probably needs to be in the open class. I don't think he can even make the weight classes classic because he's because he's taller. If he's going to continue to weigh what he weighs, he's not going to Well, because he's taller. But if he put on Listen, if if if Quincy put on 20 pounds of muscle, he would be a freak. But you got, you know, Roy's biased because it's his brother and and I I respect that because that that's admirable because that's blood and you always want to defend your blood. And I think Quincy's a good bodybuilder. Do I think Quincy can beat some of the top guys? No. He just he's he's young and I think he needs 15 20 pounds of solid muscle because he's a taller guy. When you have a guy who's 5'7 and a half or maybe even a little taller going against guys who 5'5 and a half, 5'4, 5'3, you're you're you're giving up a lot, especially at that weight. Guy, what do you think that uh Dallas Marver should do for the rest of the year? Shut it down or continue? Um I don't I think he should, you know, just because you start feeling better doesn't mean you're not sick. Number one. Yeah. Um, so if he wants to do another show to qualify for the Olympia, I think what he should do is pick a show later in the year before the Olympia, win that, go to the Olympia, and be done if he chooses not to do that. Second option is, um, he's 25 if I was him. Um, personally, after the long three shows he's had, how sick he got, passing out on stage, that would scare me enough to be, you know what, I'm 25. I got a long longevity in this sport. I'm gonna take the rest of the year off, get healthy, and recover and come back next year, win a show, qualify, and then go on from there. All right. Well, let's see if he takes your advice, guy. Thanks for coming on and giving us your strong opinions as always. I would expect nothing less. Thank you, Dave. Always always appreciate being on your show. All right, and that's going to take us to the end of another episode of RX News Update: Road to the Arnold Classic. I'm Dave Palumbo and we'll see you next time. Heat up Heat.