10 and n you get ready for two guys who can't handle the truth. I want the truth. You can't handle the truth. But we can be Columbbo Christo rxmuscle.com presents Heavy Muscle Radio. Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo and I'm joined as always by the technician Chris Aceto on this July 16th, 2018 evening. And Chris, uh, this is a late one for us. We're recording very late, but uh, better late than than ever. We have to wait till everyone goes to sleep and and disappears from our house. Like it's like we're broadcasting from out of space or something. It's so late. It's like Mission Impossible. Kids have gone to bed. Wives aren't fighting with husbands. I gota like Don't worry, Amanda. That's me, not you. Yeah. I got to like take like a like a a high like a little high tension wire and like slide out of my son's room. That's the new thing. If I don't have to like tiptoe out of there. And I'm like the worst at leaving the room quietly. I make a lot of noise. I bang into things, you know. But if you Right. If you make like a a creek in the floorboards, he wakes up and he's like, "D, is that you?" Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you you try not to move, right? You try not to move or breathe. Don't breathe. Hold your breath. Hold your breath, tape. Like, how'd you guys become How did you and Chris become bank robbers? It's incredible. How what was the skill sneaking out of babies rooms when they're, you know, you try not to wake them up, right? Right. You don't even move and you you'll stay in a frozen spot for like six minutes, right? Oh, just to not have to go lay back down and wait till he falls asleep again. Absolutely. That's a good way. Two hours. Yeah. Unbelievable. So yeah, we had a it was pretty it wasn't I wouldn't say a super quiet weekend in the pro bodybuilding world, but we had a quiet weekend. We had that one show in Portugal. I didn't even know the show was taking place, the Portugal Pro. Yeah. And uh Hadti Shupin came out of nowhere. You know, he's he's he's the guy like we don't know where he's going to compete next because he's he's got to get a visa to go compete in different places and it's very hard for Iranians to go anywhere. Matter of fact, I thought Canada was easy, but evidently from what I understand, it's not easy to go to Canada. From what people are telling me, it's it's just as hard as the United States. So, Heidi went to Portugal and he cleaned up there. One straight firsts, beating a very good Nicholas Vouad. I don't know if you uh Oh, no. They both they they both look good, but um Nicholas issue is the uh structure, right? you know, he's he's he's looks like uh somebody hit him on the head a little bit with a hammer. So, it like I don't know, something's off. There's nothing really off with the structure. Um but he doesn't have tremendous flow. He's a little leg heavy and ass heavy. Uh he got the funny um well, he still Yeah, he's got Frankie muscle, which people are going to love. Um, but he got, you know, he's he's put it this way, he was freaky last year, not as freaky as this year. And I said, someone sent me a picture and they said, "Have you ever seen so much muscle on a little short guy?" And I said, "Well, it's not that impressive." And they're like, "Oh, you're such an idiot." And I said, "Well, listen. He's going to be competing in North Carolina. He's either going to win it and go straight into the Olympia and be top three." This is a prediction, Dave. How close is this? Or he's going to North Carolina against uh Craig Richardson. And who's the other guy? 212. He's now open guy. He's really killer physique from Slovenia. Oh yeah. When he went up against Yeah, I know who you're talking about. So I said he's either going to get first this weekend in North North Carolina and he's going to ride his hype train into the top three in the Olympia this year. This was last year. Well, more than likely he's going to run up against like a Craig Richardson and then this guy who beat Craig. Craig was second. This guy was first. I forget his name. Come on. You love him, Dave. This guy's physique where the jumbo at the North Carolina 212 last year. Oh yeah. Yeah. No, I I know who you're talking about. Um Nicholas Nick B or whatever the guy's name was third. said, or Nick, he's going to end up third place cuz he's going to go up against people with a lot better flow, a lot better structure, and surprisingly when they stand next to him, they're going to look like they have as much muscle as him. And that's exactly the way it went down. He got third, Craig got second, and deservingly the guy who won the New York Pro last year. Oh, no, no, he got second at the New York Pro after that. The guy who won the North Carolina won the North Carolina. I can't move, you know, he moved up to the Open. I I I know what his name is. I I'm having like a like a mental moment right now. Google it somewhere. You're supposed to come up with these on me. Come on. The the listeners want to know who is the guy besides Craig Richardson who beat him last year. It it was perfect because the the kid had the super X frame, the white guy white guy uh from Slovenia and and you know he went up against Craig's crazy frame when Craig's in shape and Craig was in tremendous condition. That's who it is. Milan shot it. So it was Milan then Craig and then Nicholas. So, uh, the the knock the only knock on Nick is not the muscle, not the density, not the hardness. It's the way it all flows together with the the back's a little shallow for the legs and the legs. Something's a little short. I think the arms maybe, right? But you remember he had like he had some jimmied up muscle groups that he had the skateboard shower last year. Forget it. It looks a lot skateboarded, but he got the uh skateboard the muffins in the shoulders. He fell off the skateboard. That's right. That was the excuse, right? They said, "Yeah, he fell off a skateboard." But but Chopi just ate him. I mean, Chi looked uh phenomenal. He's He's really good. It's a shame this guy can't go to the Olympia because of his visa issues. I'm really kind of pissed off about it, actually. I mean, this was his 1,00% all-time best. He's a free His waist is a little thick, but he's so big, it doesn't even matter, really. Yeah. No, he was he was more conditioned here. He was just uh than he's been and you know he's just I think you know it's always who you're standing next to to but I think he was just better than he's been here. I don't even know this sounds like like you know like a story you would listen to like the 1960s like the guy you know can't get to the United States for whatever reason because he's in some communist nation and you know and and you and you look back 20 years later and you're like why didn't they let this guy come to the US to compete? He was the top level athlete in the world. Well, the president had an issue with with Obama who signed a problem Trump can't will won't let him in. That's I know. But, you know, is that what is that the reason? Isn't Trump preventing like some of these Trump doesn't transcend sports? Right. Right. There should be a way to like, you know, appeal this thing, you know? It just doesn't make sense to me, you know, that they shouldn't let a top tier athlete into this country. At least let him in. You don't have to let his family in if you don't want to, but let the guy can come compete. You know, what the hell? I mean, I can't even believe it. It's ridiculous. Uh there should be a way to like, you know, have like some kind of a professional athlete exemption. Well, it should be like you're a dignitary. You know, how like they have like the they have the the United Nation uh ambassadors who come here. It should be the same thing. They should have like some kind of like a special, you know, exception. I look, I don't want any terrorists in the country either, and I understand what Trump's trying to do. I don't necessarily agree with the way he's going about it, but I understand. So, I support that because I don't want terrorists in the country, but you can't just you got to have exceptions to the rule because there are certain people that that that are in a different class. They're not in the political arena. They're in the the athletic arena. Well, the whole thing is uh political. I wonder if there was like a like a guy who was like a real like top-notch like movie star you can from Iran who they you can you can come from Saudi to to to the US right all the hijackers in 2001 were from Saudi that's kind of weird cuz but Chopi and you know can't come and you know I helped 212 guys and you know what I'm so terrible good stay there better for me right in other words let him come for god's sakes it's it's ludicrous really. Why can't he come to compete? You would think the that the Olympia people maybe like you'd think Arnold would get involved at least, you know. No, you you just you know what you would think someone You think if Arnold make a made a call to Trump that he couldn't make because they hate each other for God's sake. Oh, that's right. They do. I forgot. I got that idea. The bobble doll. Didn't you just see Trump recently with the bobble doll? Well, you know the AMI owns the Olympia. I'm sure they like I'm sure Trump has some kind of relationship with them, right? Well, he's they Trump was telling AMI. Didn't you see that? Trump was telling AMI what headlines to write against Hillary's health when running into the election. All right. So, they have a rel they have a relationship. I guess that would be considered a relationship. I mean, you can't write this stuff. It's so crazy. No, they have a good relationship. So, there there you go, Chris. And then they would do and and and AMI would do the catch and kill stories on Trump's like hook or girlfriend. You know, they would pay the play they played they paid the playboy girl to be a consultant for the magazine and they she told her like in in exchange for never writing the story that she had an affair with him for. And that's not even Stormy Daniels. That's the other girl. Oh, is that is that how they got by the whole the Playboy Bunny? The Playboy Bunny, whoever she is, you know. Unbelievable. Never never a dull moment, Chris. Never a dull moment. So, anyway, look, you know, it was exciting. We get talking about that. Well, it's exciting with Yeah. with the hottie. He looked very good. He looked very good. And uh and he's not going to be in the Olympia. Uh because uh all the hijackers were from Iran. I mean, oops. Saudi Arabia. Yeah. Here's a good one for you. Let's I mean, what let them who one person who wins on the Olympia stage? Hottie Shupin or Flex Lewis? I'll say Hottie just to be totally controversial and piss off Flex Lewis. Do you do you believe that he could challenge him? I mean, physique-wise. Um, well, did he challenge him in Korea? Some people would say he beat him. Yeah. Okay. Has he improved here then in Korea? Yeah, I'd have to say yes. Yeah. This is Yeah. So, I mean, my point being is this. He is beyond beyond worthy to be on stage. Let me say this. Let me ask you this, Dave. Who is better? Him or Ocanani? Oh, he destroys Ashkanani. End story. Destroys him. Yeah. End of story. Well, I don't think Ashkani ever ever challenged Flex Lewis, though, so I don't that's not necessarily a good analogy, but I mean, where did Oshkani beat Jose Raymond for that point last year or the year before? It's got no legs. No, no, he's got, you know, muffined up arms and delts. I'll tell you what, I'm looking at some of the video of uh Vouad, you know, posing against He's phenomenal, too. He's really good. Yeah, I got this. This might have been one of the better 212s we had all year. Tremendous. But I mean, the top two are tremendous. Yeah, I'm gonna do a little Bullard um is like a B version of He's like that. He's like the not the B, but not the A version of like a He's like a Lee Priest type. Yeah, that I see it. I see that. Big legs, big arms, torso is a little long. ass's glutes a little bit too big, but but I guess if you have strided glutes like his, it doesn't matter. Um, and then the back is a little weak on the back double enough so with overblown legs that it looks a little funny. Yeah, I agree. I agree. Very good. Very good analogy. As soon as you said that, I saw it. Great side chest pose, man. What? The two of them. I don't want you to think I'm a crackpot, Dave. But I will say one thing. I think that Vouad still has some issues with the delts. They're not They're better than they were. They don't have They don't look Yeah, they they still they they still look mildly suspicious. Well, there's there's scar tissue in there. That's We should We should We should find out from all the internet warriors what they shot in there. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. All right. What else? Well, let's let's see what else was going on at that show. They had a um a bikini I'm sure. Well, they had a third. It's funny. They had hottie and then they had you know Nicholas and then it was like uh guys we really didn't know and they didn't look bad but they obviously was not I call them European peeled guys. Angel Frost from Spain was third. Fourth was Zoran Klesk, excuse me. Kfki from Macedonia. Manuel Canadilis from Spain was fifth. These are guys I saw the pictures. They they look like amateurs compared to these other guys because let's face it, these two guys can definitely be top five at the Olympia. You know, unfortunately, Nicholas might be there, but unfortunately hottie won't be there. Yeah, there was a men's physique in in in Portugal here this past weekend. David Mazolari wins from Italy and then there was a figure pro division Zulerna Duran from Italy. Italy cleaned up here, huh? And there was a bikini loyla nasanova from Ukraine one. So we're gonna see a lot of people in the Olympia that we don't really we've never heard of. And in women's physique there's only four women. There's a good this was a good chance for women's physique women to to get an Olympic qualification and no one took advantage of it. Lena Finakova Fen Cukova. Fen Kukova sounds like a tennis player. She wins from the Czech Republic. So, congratulations. Oh, I see Tim Gardner was out there. Oh, this is a Tim Gardner show. I think it was. Tim Gardner is all over the place. I don't know how he does it. I got to be honest with you. I'd have a nervous breakdown. Workaholic. Tim's a workaholic. I'd be I'd be divorced and have a nervous breakdown if I did all these shows. I like to see these international shows. To me, it really uh it shows that uh there's interest around the world now. I think this is great. Before there was every show was in the United States. I like to see these international shows. Even if the lineups are not as strong, if I was a competitor nowadays, Chris, I'll be honest with you, if I was competing nowadays and I was a pro, okay, I would go and do these international shows just just to say what I know it's more expensive and you got to but a lot of times you can negotiate deals and hook things up with sponsors to, hey, say I'll look I'll sit at your booth the whole weekend because usually they have expose with these things. And um I would go do these shows. I think you guys out there who are pros should take advantage of this, especially if you're good. Um, this should have been uh, you know, this should have been a show that more Americans were in, you know. I think it was they missed the boat by by not doing this show, especially the first year you do it because this is when you get the biggest advantage, you know, over these people because no one shows up. And but I I would be doing traveling. I like to travel. I know it's a pain in the ass when you're dieting and stuff like that to have to get your stuff up together, but at that point, you know, really, if you think about it, Chris, at the end of, you know, at the end of the diet, what do you really have to do at that point? If you're in shape, you're in shape. You you you pack your food and you go. Yeah. Did I ever tell you uh Gustavo Bedell, you you got to get Gustavo on sometime and get the full story of Gustavo? I it it it's in regards to traveling to shows. Oh, he the first time he turned pro, he won I don't know how he got his pro card. Maybe he won the Puerto Rico. He probably won South American championships some. Yeah, South American. And it it's such a small world. Uh I had gone up to Boston with to go down I went down to Boston to see Jay in a snowy like December. We went to see this contest and Richard Jones won. Remember Richard Jones? He was a Shawn Ray knockoff. talk about if Nicholas whatever this kid with the big legs is like uh Lee Priest then then uh what's the kid's name I just mentioned look like the Shawn Ray look the Shawn Ray lookalike was Sean Sean Jones Richard Jones Richard Jones we sound like two [\h__\h] insane people we can't think of can't remember anything we're like our parents Richard Jones wins a show and lo and behold I never knew he meet at that show was Gustavo Bedell. I talked to Gustavo years later and Gustavo could not believe I was at that show. I said, "Yeah, me and Jay went to see it." It was It was like a a show in New England by the guy you you used to guest post for the guy down in Water. Oh, Jimmy Dotus. Jimmy? No, no, there was another one. There was another guy. He actually had a heart attack and died. Oh, Greco. Greco. Yeah, Lenny Greco. Not Lenny Greco, wasn't. It was something else. Yeah, Jimmy Greco. So anyways, uh I years later I I meet with Gustavo and and I so I forgot about this time because I never really noticed him. And then once in 2000 on the tour, he got like 18th place and I was staring at this guy backstage. I was like, "God, this guy's really good." And he kept on getting like 18th place. I'm thinking, why is this guy not placing? You know, I was there with Jab over in Europe and I was thinking, why is he not placing like, you know, 10th or seventh or ninth? I mean, that's where he should have placed and he'd be like 18th, 18th, 18th, 18th. Well, years later, I I told him that and he said, "Well, you should have seen like two years later." He said he got his pro card and he called up Wayne Deillier and he said, "I want to compete." Wayne gave him the list of shows where they were and they were like, you know, 15 shows in 18 days in Europe, right? when they had the European tours and and Gustavo would take like the caboose on the train because he had no money. He would literally take the train to every single stop and I said, "How'd you do on the tour?" He said, "I got dead last in every show." Okay. He said, "But I was making an an impact. I was getting some experience." Right. Right. Right. So, he had good stage. He had good stage presence. Gustavo, right? He We beat Ronnie in the challenge round twice. No, he bamboozled him. He worked all year on which poses. He was like on a game show. That was like a game show to strategy. He strateg $20,000 pyramid or something. He, you know, a family feud. They would say, you know, he outthought everyone evidently because he won that challenge round. Yeah. Easily two years in a row because he could he could beat someone on something. Well, he he could always beat Ronnie at the side tricep and then he could beat the other guys in the other poses. So, you only had to beat you only had to beat Mr. Olympia once, you know, he knew the pose he had to beat him in. So, that was funny. It was such a What a crazy fight. I gota I gotta get Dorian on. Dorian used to judge that, you know. I gotta get Dorian to talk about they had Mr. Olympias on there. He had like Samir and Zayn on the panel and which is the worst thing because these are all guys that like I don't like that physique. I don't like his physique, you know. No. What someone said is this. They said all the Mr. Olympias will vote for physiques that look just like them. Yeah. Sam would want the guy with balance, right? Zayn would want the vacuum and the small waist. Haney would want someone with the front lat spread. in a three/arter back pose. You know, Dorian would want total graininess, right? You know, Coleman would want a freak. Uh Larry Scott would want someone with big biceps. Franco Columbo would want someone with a peeled chest and peeled most muscular who's under 5'6. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He definitely would be biased against like a Gunter. He'd like Lee Priest. Yeah. He'd like Lee Priest over a Gunter all day long. Well, I don't know. Well, I don't think we'll ever see that. Now, we only have the people's champ this year. You know, it's funny. I had um I don't know if you saw the part one, but part two will be this week. I interviewed Dan Solomon. He was in Cape Coral. Ironically enough, some Oh, last time I saw Dan. He says, "Oh, you still doing that radio show?" And I said, "Yeah, we're on like we're number one in in our time slot, Dan. You used to be number one." Dan Blackman used to pay you $85,000 an episode. We were talking about that how Dan's like, "Yeah, I used to have a stopped the radio show." said, "Yeah, because Blackman stopped competing with me." I said, "I got you those those years." Guess how Dave could get a raise in like 10 minutes. Hey, uh, Steve, uh, Dave offered me uh, Dave Dave Dave Dave offered me a hundred grand a month. I gave you 140. The true story though. You know what? Dan came to me and wanted He must ultimate negotiator. And I was, you know what? I was just thinking about starting up Muscle in the morning. That was my my original brainchild. And I said, you know what? That was in Miami, Dave. He came to you. I said, "Dan, you know what? I didn't trust Dan then, but go ahead." I still I don't I don't even trust Dan now, but no, I'm just kidding. Dan has nothing to lose now. But back then, I didn't trust him because And he by his own admission was always trying to sabotage, you know, to get get the scoop on everyone. And I said, "You know what, Dan? If you do the radio show on my RX Muscle, you know, channel, I said, I also want you to do part of your deal with me is going to be doing a show that I have created called Muscle in the Morning." It had never been out yet. I'm gonna we're gonna build you a little studio in your a little backdrop in your house. You're going to record it. You'll send the footage every day to my, you know, video guy and we're going to edit together because I figured he'd be good at that. And that's my original intention was to him to do muscle in the morning. And so I when when we couldn't break when he really was just getting me to give him a bid so that then he can tell Blackman, I'm willing to pay this. And then Blackman would out bid it. And because he didn't really want to work back then. Yeah. It's like when in real estate you go look at something, they said, "We got a contract coming in." Like, "Oh, sure. I'm sure you do." Yeah. Right. Yeah. Exactly. So, so that's how that that that's how that happened. And then I just started Muscle in the Morning. I said, "Fuck it. I'll just do it myself." And that's how I that's how it started. So, thank you, Dan, for in pushing me to do Muscle in the Morning. And I'm sure you'll thank me for all the money you put in your pocket for those whatever it was, two, three years that Blackman paid you for doing nothing. Basically, we got to have a radio show. I'm going to have a radio show. Yeah, because he got excited about Howard Stern Blackman, right? No, he he he was excited that he he didn't have a radio show and he didn't want me to get both radio shows. Not that it would have mattered at I I don't even know why at the time I would have I thought it was important, but I thought it was important at the time and it was probably just to to to take it away from Blackman, but it was stupid. I'm glad I didn't do it. I'm glad I'm glad I didn't wind up having to pay Dan all that money. Although I think if he I think we would have got sponsors at the time um if I had brought Dan on. But who knows? Back to the uh the pro schedule this past weekend. Lenda Murray had a pro show in Norark, Virginia and she had a men's physique show won by Greg Brandt. Congratulations. And the pro bikini was won by Ashley Janelle in Colorado. And uh Jacqueline Fuks won the women's bodybuilding. have a lot of women's body. They they have an awful lot of women's bodybuilding pro shows for a division that doesn't exist anymore, right? Isn't even Olympia division. Tara Siltzer was second and Bonnie uh Papus Switz or whatever her last name is now is third. So, uh yeah, the Wings of Strength people are doing great. They're freaking uh their shows are killing it. They got huge lineups of people. They're going to have their world championships, the Rising Phoenix coming up in September. giving away more prize money than all the women's divisions at the Olympia. Yeah. So, who's better than them? Women's bodybuilding is doing great. I would do women's bodybuilding now if I was a women's physique competitor. By the way, did you hear Juliana Malagari retired? No, I didn't know. Mhm. She won't be doing the Olympia. Big news. Yeah, but that actually is big news. I wonder why. I wonder if it's because she just I gota You know what? I got to go on the show. I hate speculating because you know what? I'm going to speculate now and she's going to come on the show and say, "No, no, no. This is the reason. I want to have a family or something like that." Yeah. Yeah. I know you're going to say that. I know she would like to have one. I don't know if that's the reason. I got to reach out to her. Well, just just have her come over and put uh your son to bed so that you can do the radio show earlier. I, you know, do I wonder if it had anything to do with, you know, the rise in the rise of the uh Chenique Grant uh star, you know, on the horizon after winning the Arnold. She's a she's she's going to be tough battle. I would have liked to seen them battle it out, wouldn't you? I I would say, well, you know what? I would I would um Chenique Grant is off the hook. Uh but but or and uh Juliana uh Melik Carney is as well and she's um if she puts her mind to something, you know, her she's she's she's she's certifiably crazy in a good way. Yeah. I think I guess but but I'm sure Chenica is as well, you know, certifiably crazy. You know, I mean, they take it very very serious. It'd be a battle of the ages. Sure. It'd be like a Jay versus Ronnie type thing. Yeah. But we're not going to see it obviously because she's not doing the show. I'd like to see um Candace Lewis cross over from figure into women's physique. Last show, man, she was talk about being off the hook. She's so dangerous. It's ridiculous. I think she can I think she can challenge Chenique. I think Shenik's a little bigger now, but I think that she can challenge her for sure. I think about that. I'd love to see her hit a couple poses against Shenique backstage, you know, especially if they both win the Olympia. That would be crazy. All right. So anyway, so Linda had So the Linda, congratulations on this year pro show. It seems to be growing every year. They keep adding new um new divisions and uh you know, it's it's great. It's great that they have a a way for former competitors to actually make a living, you know, as promoters. And the shows have tremendous amounts of competitors in them. Obviously, I'm sure I know the Lender Show had a an amateur division that probably was packed to the hilt. So, great job, you know. Great job. See what else I have in my little list of stuff to talk about. What's going on with this Steve Laurius? You know, let's just remind people what's going the whole Steve Laurius story. Steve Laurius originally worked with you. He claims for three weeks, you claimed for six weeks. Then we saw him go over to my friend Justin there at New York who he claims he went over there because Justin lives local to him. And we saw Lori and Lorius has been talked about by enormous amount of people as being like the air parent to the classic physique uh Olympia throne. He's got the small waist, the vacuum, the whole thing. He wins Pittsburgh pretty easily or easily by point. Go ahead. Some people would say easily, but other people Divine Wilson would would question would question that. Well, I mean the judges would question it. He won by a point. Yeah. And he the following or two weeks later he instead of doing New York again doing New York against Dine Wilson again who was second in Pittsburgh. He decides to do the 212 division because a friend of his is doing the open or is doing the classic. See that was the story at least. And you predicted on the on the show that he was going to get destroyed at Well, I predicted I must take my predictions back to Phil Heath not shouldn't have been left muscle tech. Well, go ahead. You said he will be destroyed because he couldn't stand next to these two 12 guys. And turns out you were right. He was like out of the top 10. I said that and I said his friend would be destroyed in the in the uh who he wasn't competing against in his division. Yeah, Emit didn't do well, but Amit did do well in that other show in a very weak class, too. So, I mean that New York Pro was New York Pro did not have uh excuse me, New York Pro did not have Reagan, Divine, and what names? My goodness. And and the and the freak from Germany, the classic. Who was the guy from Germany? Look, I can't remember anyone. Wasn't Divine in New York, bro? I thought he was in New York. Yes. So my point was I said that lineup which AIT was in was radically different than you know the top three in New York which was like those are three those three guys could win right a Mitch just took second behind what's his name Vissers Wesley Vissers my god he's he's got he's got weaknesses from head to toe. Yeah. Yeah. He's he's not the greatest either but I mean he's got a he's got a great look. I mean arguably could have won that show. Yeah. True true. So, let's get back to Steve Laurius. So, Steve Laurius, then he disappeared and uh no one heard from him and now he he pops up and he's uh he's all of a sudden Neil Hill is training him and that's an Aaron special dude. I can predict. Of course. Oh, of course it is cuz it's he's I predicted him before you even How's that? But um he seems to be I guess but I guess Justin who's his former coach is upset. Not upset, but he's he's I guess he's well because he banked on him, dude. Well, I think Yeah, but you know what? I think he he seems to be giving all the credit to like u Neil Hill, who's a great trainer, by the way. But I I just, you know, Neil hasn't worked with this guy, you know, for any shows yet. Credit to what? Is like the greatest coach of all time, but me, you know, it's it's, you know, let's face it, the guy the guy did win Pittsburgh, you know, with Justin helping him. So true. True. We never heard any any So you did predict that he was not He might have had a few screws loose. I don't know. Well, I I I predicted that um I predicted immediately off um I did I or did I not predict Dave that he would leave Justin in a heartbeat? You did. You did. You did predict it. I didn't say it on the show just because it it's you know it probably wasn't the place yet. Why do these guys switch coaches so frequently? How could it be the coach How could the coach be that bad if he won the Pittsburgh Pro? First of all, first of all, a lot of these here's what happens. You you quote coach someone and lot a lot of these guys talk to each other, right? Mhm. And then a lot of these other coaches, whoever these are, I don't mean everybody, but a lot of quote these other coaches follow them on Instagram and then like, you know, jerk them off all day long. Right. But that's not Neil that's not Neil Hill style. No, I know. But that's why I said that's an Aaron special right there. Um, so, so I mean Aaron's panicky over there that he's paying Steve Laurius and he's, you know, not in the Olympia, right? Well, he isn't. Well, he's not Oh, he's not doing the Olympia. Or is he doing the Olympia? Of course he's not doing the Olympia. Not yet, at least. Or but he wasn't. I don't I don't know. Well, he had said he wasn't doing it, but you know, maybe with Neil. Well, then he's definitely not doing it because that talk about a head case. I mean, you either are or you're not, right? We'll find out, I guess. So, what was the what was the question and I'll answer it. Why do guys keep leaving coaches, especially when they have good results with them? You've had guys leave you too and I've had people leave me too that and they were winning shows sometimes. I mean, I I've had uh and it don't bother me. No, I know it doesn't bother me, but but is it like they think the grass is greener someplace else? They're missing out on something. What's going on? That's what I'm saying. first they're followed by other coaches on their Instagram who who you know uh you know Reagan Grimes will post up a picture and you know Justin is there to like comment on every picture he posts. It's called trolling the guy. So if god forbid the guy like doesn't win a show they're there to say you know if you need any help. Gotcha. And they'll do it like this because people are [\h__\h] certifiably nuts after they don't win a show. You're right. with with and they'll do this, you know, your pecs could have been a little fuller or they'll do this, you know, if you were just a little drier and a little fuller or they'll say, "Look at so and so that I coach. If you had that condition, be like me saying, you know, look at uh you know, Roden's legs. I'll give you a leg workout. I don't even know what the hell he does for legs and I don't care. They look good. Just get the fat and water off them." You know, it's like me say, "Well, look at look what I did for Edardo Crao's condition, right? I mean, that's what people do. They you it's it's a sale. It's just so that's what people are crazy after shows and they're sus susceptible to any advice." And I know that, Dave, because wellknown people email me all the time with other coaches after shows and they say, "What do you think?" I said, "I think you look great." Because it's the worst time to give. It's totally disingenuous to give advice to somebody coming off a loss after a show because they're just searching, grasping at straws. God, Blackman should have tried paid us to do the show instead of Dan Solomon. The show is better than any one of Dan's. So, oh, getting back to I'm glad you mentioned Dan. Getting back to Dan. Getting back to Dan. So, it's true. Getting back to Dan. So Dan was Dan was in the No, we're talking about Steve. What do you mean? Well, forget Steve. You already gave me the answer to the question. I forgot I had I was originally talking about Dan Solomon though. So Dan Solomon was in town in in Cape Coral. You know, he's from Florida, obviously. He's from the other coast and he was over. He's like, "Dave, I'm going to be in Cape Coral. Is that where you live?" I said, "Yeah, I live in Cape Coral." He's like, "I'm going to come I'm going to come by." I said, "All right." So I said, "Come by. We'll do an interview." So I got him came by the studio, met my kids, whatever. and we were bullshitting and I'm like, "Yeah, let's let's go into the studio and let's record something." We recorded an hour. So, we did two parts and we talked about, you know, any we talked about everything, but we talked about the People's Champ, you know, award that they're going to be doing and what his thoughts on it were. And we talked about, you know, would Kai Green come back to compete and and why he should come back and compete? Uh, you know, the timing is right now and, you know, it would be great for the sport and great for the show. And we talked about some other contro. I talked about why, you know, how ridiculous. And he agreed with me, which is amazing. How ridiculous these exclusive contracts they still have are where like Phil Heath can't come on my show or can't go on his show or whatever it is because, you know, they got some kind of like exclusivity that they don't even use, you know, anymore. It's it's it's outlived its purpose. In other words, there's no magazines anymore. There's no there's not there's no even Flex magazine anymore. So, I don't know what why they won't let Phil, you know, go on other shows and promote the Olympia. I think that, and I even brought up the point, and Dan, I'm agree with me. I believe that Phil would be a more liked champion. Oh, absolutely. If he was able because he's actually like, if you watch an interview with him, I've seen interviews on other talk shows with him. And the guy is pretty entertaining. You know, he's you might not, you know, like his physique, but or you might not like his attitude, but he's actually an entertain. He's got very insightful. He's well spoken. Well, I I don't know if he's entertaining, but I I know this. He's won the Olympia a lot of times. Um, and for every person, you know, I know he's got this reputation that people don't like him, but he's got a massive fan base. And, but the reason why people don't like him is they don't really know him. Imagine if I if I'm not part of it, David, is I mean, I'm agreeing with you. If you if you can only do one interview a a year and you know, you say one thing that's controversial, people are gonna say, "What an idiot. He said this." Well, I mean, everyone says something, you know, quote, stupid I do all the time. Who's ever who's interviewed him and actually asked him about his upbringing and and how he, you know, I mean, all we know is we he shot a few [\h__\h] baskets at the University of Colorado there and, you know, played basketball. I mean, that's the only thing I know about him really. Yeah. I want to know, you know, everything about him. And so, you know, it's kind of foolish for them not to let their Mr. Olympia, the guy who represents our sport, you know, the guy who, you know, is is is in the social media world, you know, dillydallying around there because he can't actually go on anyone's show and actually tell people what he's actually thinking inside. He winds up making posts on on Instagram and and then people take it the wrong way. And then you can't you need to sit down and be able to explain yourself to people. It's like, you ever get you ever get into a texting uh thing with with clients and they get insulted because they're not really because they don't really pick up your tone? You might be being sarcastic. Maybe you're just being short with them because your kids are driving you crazy. Instead of just picking the freaking phone up and calling you up on the phone and talking to you, which usually completely negates everything that's been done via text, now they're like, "Oh, I didn't know you that. Oh, I thought you were mad at me." Or So, it's the same way. social media can be taken the wrong way because you can't hear the person speaking and and and the genu you can't tell if someone's being genuine or not. So I just said, Dan, it's just I can't believe that they're still they're still playing this card. Yeah. These uh What do you say? He's like, you're right. It doesn't really serve, you know, he he's Mr. Politically correct, but he he agreed he did agree with me. He did agree with me that it doesn't serve its purpose anymore. It did when there was magazines. I understand because the magazines wanted to have the scoop. They wanted to get the the the the edge on people. Uh I want to sell more copies of MD because I have so- and so in in my magazine with an exclusive interview versus Flex magazine, per se, and vice versa. That makes sense because that's when when people read magazines, it was important to have, you know, cover lines. Yeah. But no one reads magazines anymore, and that's not relevant anymore. So, you know, any why any company would even spend money on on trying to pay someone to be exclusive to them is is is a is the biggest waste of money in today's So, so he's wrapped up with who? Flex. No, he's wrapped up with no one. He's he's he's doing the Amazon.com uh broadcast this year again. No, I mean I mean Phil Phil. Oh, Phil. Yeah, I guess he's Flex AMI. I guess he's got a contract with them, you know, which is fine because they own the Olympian. He's Mr. Olympia. I understand that. But but but they're not using him. So let him but they they don't they don't care to use them cuz take your champ but take your champion put a freaking t-shirt on him that says Mr. Olympia, AMI, Flex Mag, whatever you want to put on. I'll tell you what, send them around the country. You want Well, that look when it comes to Dave Plumble, that's never going to happen because you'll get a just a you know. No, but but I'm not in other words, I'm not scooping anyone. It's it's going to promote. Yeah, but unfortunately, you would be scooping because send him to MD, let Ron interview him, too. And then send him over to, you know, whoever else want to interview him. This is I mean, Dorian Yates made the rounds. He's you know how popular he is from doing all these interviews with all these different media organizations now. It's it's the biggest mistake I think that that's out there. It's an antiquated system. It was it worked. Like I said, I think it was great and smart. I look I worked for MD. I we were trying to scoff up any everyone because it made sense back then, but not in today's social media, you know, world. It just doesn't it doesn't make sense anymore. And you know, I just think that it's killing Phil Heath's brand. I think it's killing a lot of guys brands, you know, because they can't get on. Dexter is one of the most See, Dexter is smart. Dexter goes on his own Instagram and does his own like videos. Um, even though he's exclusive to AMI, he can do whatever he wants on his own page, which is which is also ludicrous because here you are, they want exclusivity on you, but you can go do your own stuff. Like I mean these guys hire their own uh video guys and they start their own channels which is fine but you in order to promote your own stuff you need to go on other channels that are popular as well. So that's just my suggestion. Like I said I it doesn't matter to me. I mean it's just I just you know Dan and I did a very good interview in the sense that we talked a lot about a lot of controversial uh subjects and we gave our a lot of strong opinions and I think it'll be it was the first part was wellreceived. I think people will even like the second part better because it's I started getting animated, you know, I started getting into the whole interview thing. At first I was I was just interviewing him and then I it became more of a discussion between him and I as to you know what our opinions are on everything. And I told him I said look you know I said I had to take a you know an approach to how I cover my journalism and my approach is different than yours is. And I said you know what the funny thing Dan is? You could interview Kai Green. I can interview Kai Green. You can interview Phil Heath. I can interview Phil Heath. They'd be two separate interviews, completely different. That's a great point. It's a great point. And they would both be just as entertaining. It's a great point. And and you you've told me yourself, in fact, when I said, "Oh, Dave, that was a great interview." And you've said, "You got to see the interview with so- and so did with him." Yeah, it's true. And I I disagree with you. I said, "No, yours is the best." No, you know what it is? Because And you've told me, you said, "No, go see so and so's interview with him because it's it's a totally different perspective than mine." Right. And you know, you have to take that as an interview because if I see this five interviews out there on on a person, most of them are all the same. I'm gonna I don't want to do the same interview as everyone else. So, I'm going to be like, "All right, well, I got to take a different angle." That's why when I interviewed Dorian, I waited for everyone else to interview him first so that I wouldn't ask the same questions essentially. And then I asked him my set of questions, you know. I said, Dan's like, "Well, what do you what do you mean?" I said, "Well, Dan, you're not going to ask controversial questions if you get Phil Heath on. can ask him questions relevant to, you know, what's going on in his life and in the world in terms of his bodybuilding world. You that's what you are. You know, I said, you're like Larry King. You ask the questions that they're they're not they're not super controversial, but they're but they're what people want to hear about. I said that that's a gift that you have. You know how to ask questions that people want to know the answers to. I ask questions that people never thought of necessarily or maybe did think of and thought no one would ask. That's that's how that's my approach I take. And because that's also interesting, you know, it's interesting in a different way. You know, it puts the person in a different perspective. Um, it's not them just talking about themselves. It's them having to think about themselves and and give answers because it it's what makes them tick. And I think that's what also people want. I want to know what makes Phil Heath tick. Why is he so successful? That is absolutely 100% the most important part, right? But it's also interesting to know how he came up and and and and the shows he won. You want to hear, you want to know everything about the guy. You know, Kai Green, same thing. We've heard all the Kai Green. We know Kai Green's contest, you know, history already. We know what shows he's won already. But what makes Kai Green tick? Remember when he remember when he did that Arnold Classic that he won? I don't know if it was 09 or 010. And he fell off the treadmill. He was like so like lethargic. Remember, remember that he actually went fell off the treadmill and everyone's like, "Oh, Kai is not going to make it to the show." And I I want to know what happened. No one ever asked him, you I want that's a question I would ask if I had Kai on what the hell happened that [\h__\h] give me the that's what he was working with Oscar you remember well there was so much there was so much drama around that whole prep and he looked great made it to the stage and looked great I want to know what was going on behind the scenes there was another one if you remember when he did that Olympia he was like him and Oscar like sequestered themselves for like six weeks in in Vegas you really oh yeah we speculated for the full six weeks we said the the we were speculated on the ambient temperature changes with the humidity And and it was fun, right? And you remember that that and wait a minute, wait, wait, wait. You asked me. You asked me, Dave. I remember that prediction. You said, "What do you think?" I said, "It's going to be a disaster." Dave, you were right. You know why I know that? What? I said because I saw that video of you made for MD Dave when you went and storm. I said only I know. I said only Rocky can go to Russia and win and train with the in the snowstorms and and and the logs and stuff, right? But you know what? Home is where your heart is or whatever that saying is. And you have to be most people, especially artists, and Kai is an artist need to be in their environment. And I predicted that and I said I predicted it every single week. I said the pictures were put out, posts and videos. I said, "It's not going to end well at all." Poor Mike Pussell. Mike Pinella was sent there to videotape that whole six weeks in Vegas. He sent Muscle Med sent him there. They paid for the whole thing and he couldn't get remember he couldn't get Kai out of the hotel room. Kai would be in this hotel. There was like a suite they were staying in and there was like the the main room and then there was the bedroom and Kai was in the back bedroom and and and Mike was Michael. He all day long he was in the in the in the regular room, the main room with Oscar because Oscar was there in the room with them too. Oscar was cooking food like like Oscar was cooking like he was an old Italian grandma all day long for Kai. And Mike's like, "Is is Kai coming out? It's been like six hours already. Doesn't he have to go train?" "Yeah, well, he might come out. He might come out in a couple hours." And so Mike was there all day filming like Oscar and the cooking and like people coming in and out of the place, but but no one saw Kai Green for like at all. We don't even know what Kai was. I want to know what Kai was [\h__\h] doing in that back room for so long. And what happened? Yeah. Come. Don't you Don't you want to know? Well, I I had he guest posed for someone I know and they the person had the gym and it was like, "Oh, Kai Green's coming to the gym. Guy Green. Kai Green." And so Kai said, "I'm going to go into the locker room and come out." You know, he went into the locker room. He didn't say he was going to the locker room. went into the locker room and it was midnight and they're waiting for him like the owner and his friend to come out and it was like 1:30 when he finally came out in the morning. They didn't know if you know it was a long trip and it was overseas and they didn't know if he had fallen asleep but they didn't want to go in and disturb him. You know what I mean? But the the oddity I said why didn't you guys just go in to check on him? Maybe he had fallen asleep. They're like, "Well, you know, it's Kai." And you know what? If Kai threw his hat into this year's Olympia, right? I mean, talk about Olympia hype up. That's what Dan and I were talking about. It would be crazy, right? It would be crazy. Yeah. And we were also saying about how, you know, how much time does the guy have really left to to to do this, you know, and this might be the year to do it, you know? Who knows? Big deal. You don't Who cares if you don't win? He Kai can't lose. If he does the show and he comes in second or third, it doesn't matter. He'll still be the most popular person there. Well, the the fans would vote him number one for sure because fan thing and he'd love that and he'd he'd say, you know, you know what Tai would say? Well, no, he'd say it's harder to win the fans vote. I it's easy uh I mean it's easier to wi to win the judges vote because you're the perennial winner and the same judges are judging you year after year and it's the the the garnering the support. Look, let's say he did the show and he really and he came in and he came in second or third, okay? And he deserved it. Okay, let's say who cares. You know why he could win this year, Dave? Who cares? He still would be the most popular guy there. Period. End of story. No one care about anyone else. He could win this year because there's the lineups are always it's important who you're standing next to. And I know it's important about Phil, but you know, he could if he looked anything like what he's capable of looking like, he could win because he's got the crossrighted quads, which means he'd have the best quads up there. H they'd be, you know, not as big as Ramy's, but they would just be crossrighted. Very few people in that lineup have deep crossed quads. Um, technically he could demolish the ABS shot against Phil and Ramy, right? I'm not even mentioning Bonak. Uh, he could win the back double arguably, although Phil is Phil's Well, I should walk that one back. Phil's been able to money shot. Yeah, it really is. But, you know, I mean, you never know. I agree with you. I think there's only a benefit from him doing the show. If I was the Olympia people, I'd just pay him to do the show. And they probably already offered him it to do it anyway. And they told me he offered him money to do the show and and he wouldn't take it a lot too. Then he needs to try it one more time. And enough. Aaron offered him enough that you would do the show if he gave me offering you that money. Aaron, my number is uh 20757. Oh my god. So yeah, I thought Aaron Aaron had a big announcement. He was gonna sign a big name and I thought it was gonna be Kai and I was wrong. It was actually um Brian Shaw signed the world's strongest man. Brian Shaw. It's not that big, but go ahead. I guess he figured he's the biggest guy because he's 450 pounds. But anyway, on another note, I'm going to deviate from bodybuilding a little bit and go to muscle science. Say go to my Yeah, muscle science. Muscle science. Muscle science. So, they uh I don't know if you've seen this new article that just came out. It was in another language. I had I put it in Google Translate. One of my one of my followers sent it to me. They found that blood bear, the bear from bloods, especially when they're hibernating in the winter. Yeah. Can make you grow more muscle. Did you know that blood the blood from bears? Like in other words, if you take the blood out of the these bears, they're finding there's some kind of there's some protein in there or some kind of factor that can actually prevent muscle weakness in older people uh and can build muscle. You know, of course, they apply for weakness in older people and weightless astronauts, but let's face it, the athletes are going to all want to use it. They haven't really isolated what it is yet, but they're trying to figure it out. Pretty interesting, right? Because they they find Why do these bears when they hibernate in the win, they don't lose any muscle? Think about it. They go the whole winter, they don't eat anything. They don't lose they don't lose one gram of muscle cuz they're bears. But there's something that's that's preserving the muscle is what what I'm saying. So, they're trying to figure out what it is. So, should I be have my cousin who's selling grass-fed cows start like raising Maine black bears? That's right. There you go. That'll be the newest thing. Everyone's got to find a way to cheat. You know that there muscle cells evidently swell in size. Like they get bigger. And I think that's what makes them more more anabolic because, you know, we they we know for a fact that volumized muscle cells tend to be more anabolic. And just like dehydrated muscle cells tend to be more catabolic. So be great. Imagine that they can come up with the the pill or something like that that has that contains this factor in their blood. It's only produced in the winter, by the way. If you take a bear when it's comes up wakes up from hibernation and and it's eating normally doesn't have that in there. So, it's adaptive. Something that that helps them get through the hibernation. I'm sure someone will exploit that. It'll be on one of these peptide sites like next week. They'll have like the bear factor number one or something like that. Glet. Unbelievable. So, I like these things. You see my condo almost burnt down, huh? Yeah, I saw that. I saw that the uh he was trying to find Jews, the guy, and burn the Jews, right? Is that what happened? Yeah. Chris has a condo in Miami. He sends me this article about this graving lunatic, 70s something year old, was trying to burn down the condo because he thought there were Jews in there. Is that what he was trying to do? Kill Jews? Yeah, he lived there and he poured gasoline down. Oh, he lived there, too. Yeah, he lived there. And he poured gasoline down the trash shoots. Oh, really? Well, he really knew what he was doing. Two He had poured two out of another I think he had 26 other containers of gasoline. Wow. How come they don't get him out of the country? He sounds like a terrorist to me. Um, well, he he's going to try to He's so crazy he thinks he's going to qualify in the 212 Olympia. Uh either that or either that he belongs where my dad is cuz my dad tried to light his house on fire too because he thought he he was trying to warm up the house. But they No, they arrested him, charged him with um uh attempted arson and attempted murder. Wow. Is was he of sane mind or is he was he out of his lunat like was he like demented? Um I don't know. He's like in his mid70s. Crazy though, right? He probably has dementia, you know. It's dementia is a very sad thing. I went and saw my father today, you know, and he obviously I told you this, I think I mentioned on the show, he broke his femur in four places. They had to redo that they had to put his leg back together and they put he had to redo that hip replacement he had on that side done 25 years ago and he's not doing well. He's got a touch of pneumonia. He's when old people start falling and they're and they're, you know, they have mental, you know, memory issues, it doesn't really bode well for him. I My dad's at the stage where he's like, you know, I'm done. I'm like, what do you mean you're done? He's like, "I'm done." Because I I said, "You're done with life or you done with the because you're pissed off that you're in pain." No, life. I said, "So, when people give up like that, that's it. It's over, unfortunately." So, I you know, I don't know what's going on with my dad. My sister's flying down here this coming weekend. So, I don't know if my how long I know everyone always asks about my dad. So, I don't know if my dad's going to make it past this one. I don't think he wants to anymore. I was I try to give him a little pep talk, but you know, also he's very confused because you know, whenever you get my dad was in under anesthesia for six hours on this this surgery, so he's definitely whacked from that. And uh he's uh he's actually pleasant in the hospital, which is which is a bad sign also. Everyone's like, "Dad, we love you, Dad. He's so pleased." I said, "That's not a good sign." I said I said, "When he starts cursing you out and yelling at people, let me know because that that's a good sign that my dad's back." So, he could use maybe I got to get him some bear blood. I I got I got to go find some Anyone who knows I I know we'll have some one of our viewers out there who or listeners probably has brown bears. Um unfortunately, they're not going into hibernation right now. I'm have My dad's going to have to make it to the winter. I can take some bare blood and transfuse it into him. He was his the iron was low anyway, so he probably could use a blood transfusion. It's terrible getting old. It is. It's a little depressing, but uh it happens to the best of us, I guess, right, Chris? Well, some people don't make it to the world. True. I told my dad that, too. I said, "Dad, you've overcome a lot already." I said, "There's no reason why you can't keep going." He's like, "I don't want to." You know what? I when I when I hear that, I don't even get sad. I kind of like, you know what? Yeah, maybe he's right. Well, it's about quality of life, isn't it? After a while, Well, it's always about quality of life really, right? I mean, the really the the only reason my dad is really living at this point is to watch his grandkids get, you know, grow old and get a little older so they can interact with him. And I I don't know. I think he's uh think he's going to he's better off uh in another place. I don't want to see him suffer. It's hard to say terrible to say it about a father. It's about a parent, you know, to admit that maybe, you know, maybe the living life is not as good as as going to the next realm. But, you know, I don't want to see my dad suffer. You know, if he's suffering and he's not happy, I don't want him, you know, to I don't want other words, a lot of people try to save people because they because they can't. In other words, it's bothering them. They don't want to lose their they don't want their parent to die because it's going to bother them. But, you know, if that's what your parent really wants, you know, if if my dad is done and he's given up and he's like, "All right, you know what? I'm I'm good. I lived enough life. I I want to move on to my next agenda, whatever that is. I'm not against it. I want him to be happy. I don't want him to suffer. And uh you know, for people like your dad or my dad, losing their memories is is worse than you know, physically handicapping them because that's their whole life was based on their on their mind, you know, and and the things that they said and the things they did, you know. It's terrible when you can't you have no control of that anymore. Totally. I mean, someone was it you who mentioned uh made the comparison with dementia in terms of you know how like sometimes you ever fall asleep and you wake up and you're like you're just like totally lost where you are. Yeah. Mhm. Imagine being like that, you know, 24/7. Yeah. No, it's it's not a it's not a good pleasant way to to live your life. So, but like you said, a lot of people don't make it. I mean, is it is it worse to be to die at 40? You know what I mean? I I think that would be worse, you know? So, look, as long as my father can kind of drift off to uh the other world in a very peaceful way, I think that that's the best way to go. That's how I'd want to go, you know. I don't want to I don't want to uh be pathetic, you know, and my dad's not pathetic yet, but I don't want him to get to that point. So, we'll see what happens over the next couple weeks. I'll keep you guys updated. The World Health Organization, Chris, officially declared bacon as harmful as cigarettes. Did you see read this? Uh this was last week. That's that's insane, dude. They should be shot. They're saying, and look, I've I've said this also too for a while that uh processed meats are very carcinogenic to I know we've known that for like years that they're carcinogenic, but for God's sakes. Really? You know what? How about this? It it's what would you you see a 10-year-old on a corner and eating a BLT sandwiches smoking a pack of marals. Which one are you gonna tell them is worse for him? I mean, these people are just [\h__\h] But you know what? Sorry, insulting [\h__\h] people, but I need I needed some They're just stupid. I mean, really, they they say they found they say this is the article. They say they found well the world health organization says it's claimed that they found sufficient evidence in humans that the consumption of processed meat calories causes colarctal cancer. Uh meat consists of multiple components such as heem iron and meat can also contain chemicals that form during meat processing or cooking. For instance, carcinogenic chemicals that form during meat processing include nitroso compounds and polyyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. Cooking of red meat or processed meat also produces heteroscyclic aromatic amines as well as other chemicals including polyyclic aromatic hydrocarbons which are also found in other foods and in air pollution. Some of these chemicals are known as suspected carcinogens. But despite this knowledge, it has not yet fully understood how cancer risk is increased by red meats or processed meats. So, I mean, if I if I didn't go to medical school, I probably could have pronounced all those terms. Um, now they actually have a chart. This is really funny, Chris. You know, I love when they do this. They probably spent $10 million on this study. They have a chart on bacon's cancer risk. How much bacon you could eat to raise your color can uh colurectal cancer. All right. So if you eat two strips of bacon per day, you only increase your risk 5.9%. However, if you eat 10 strips of bacon per day, you increase your col percentage your chance of colorectal cancer by 9.5%. Now Aaron, I know that you have uh you eat Aaron Singer eats a lot of bacon. I've watched him at breakfast, you know, before. You better cut back your 10 strips to two strips or maybe no strips. I don't eat bacon, so I I'm not worried to be honest with you. But, uh, cured meats are not good for you. We know that it's sad. Like you said, if you have a hot dog once in a while, it's not a big deal. But if you're eating it every single day, I I guess it could it could definitely cause problems. You know, I think not using a fiber supplement is going to increase your risk of colctal cancer a lot more than eating a couple strips of bacon every day, but they, you know, they claim it does. Yeah. Well, how does how does two pieces of bacon compare to two bar rolls a day? I don't know. They that that's the that's the chart I want to see. You're right. You know, that's the chart. And who who are the guinea pigs they used? I mean, it's just it's just uh it's all You know what the problem is? They do these retrospective studies and they they look at all the people who got colorctal cancer and they say, "All right, well, what did you eat? What was your diet?" Look, I can't remember what I ate this morning for breakfast. I don't know how these people come up with what to eat in [\h__\h] 25 years, unless they're just eating the same thing every day, you know? Well, I eat, you know, eat two eggs and two pieces of bacon every every morning, you know? After I read the article, all of a sudden, I got this craving for bacon. I'm like, I want to [\h__\h] eat bacon all of a sudden. I don't know why I don't even never eat a piece of bacon in 20 years. Kill yourself. All of a sudden, I want I have a craving for bacon now. I want to go make some bacon. I'm going to go to IHOP after this this show at 3 in the morning and go get some bacon. So, Well, as long as my dad is ready to to to leave this mortal plane, maybe I should have him eat a couple pieces of bacon. He might as well, right? Get as much bacon in as possible. Did Did you Did your father smoke? He did smoke for many years. I thought he was a smoker. He stopped though. He stopped. He hasn't smoked for 20 years, but he he smoked for a long time. He smoked the pipe. He smoked cigarettes. He he stopped the cigarettes and he started again. Imagine him smoking the pipe. My dad had smoked the pipe. Yeah, because he had but he considered not smoking probably. Yeah, right. He didn't He claims he doesn't inhale that. He'll just I said you're lucky you didn't get mouth cancer. I said you you destroyed your gums from it. But I said you didn't you're lucky you didn't get My dad has got a very good uh um constitution because he obviously uh has endured a lot of uh health issues over the years. But uh father time beats us all. You know that's the bottom line. Time is longer than twine. Yeah. His father lived to 92, but his father never smoked or drank. So, you know, Yeah. You definitely can get an extra five or six years out of yourself if you don't if you don't do that. That goes back to quality again. Yeah. No. Yeah, you're right. It's all quality of life. That's what it all comes down to. I always said, you know, who cares if you live longer, but if you if you're miserable and and you feel terrible while you're living longer, it's it's maybe not a good idea. But that's why I always said, I want to live long. I want to live I want to live to be old, but I want to be functional. You know, that's the key. You want to be functional. Yeah, 90 would be great as long as I'm functional to to 90. 100 would be better. If I'm functional to 100 if I'm if I'm disabled then it's not to me it's not worth living. You got to keep You know what? You got to keep your mind busy all the time. Believe me. Got to keep it all. You know what? You got to keep it busy all the time. You got plenty going on. Not that anyone cares, but I did. I produced a very rare boa constrictor, Chris. Um one of the only people to do it in the I think I might be the first person in the entire world to produce this. It's called a a crystal boa. It was a combination of these two these two babies I bought and it produced I produced a bunch of them too. And uh so I am now uh on the boa constrictor breeding um I guess you could say rankings. I I' I've moved up the rankings quite a bit recently with this uh with this the production of this this animal that I produced. The real rankings because your your radio show is ranked what was it 30th or something? Yeah, I think we're like last we're the last radio show. But uh yeah, so I just uh it was to me that was like that was like getting your pro card, you know. I I got my pro card in in reptile breeding. H the crazy things you do. You know, it's funny though. I always tell people though, it's very important to have hobbies outside of bodybuilding. You know, bodybuilding is my my source of income and my job, which I love, which which is good because it's always nice to love your job, but then I you have to have a hobby. And I would say, you know, breeding reptiles is my hobby. You know, even though it could become a could become a good source of income in the future, but it's not right now. And so I enjoy doing it. You know, Chris like loves bodybuilding, too. And I know you're real estate is your it's really your source of income, but you also love it. And that's that's important because you have two different passions. So if something doesn't goes wrong in one, you got the other to kind of fall back on. If you, you know, if if someone burns down your house because they think you're a Jew, you know, at least you can at least go through the radio show and kind of, you know, get get your uh all your depression and frustrations out, right? Yeah. You got the craziest [\h__\h] people who live in your buildings. It's unbelievable. Well, that's that's uh I agree with you. You know, there's never a dull moment. What happens if if like someone who lives there burns the building down? Is what how does that work with insurance? You know, well, Joe Cherry would have been down there. I mean it would have been like you know right I mean but does is that like you know how like uh you know if you kill yourself you don't get like you don't get like No someone burns your building down you're insured. Okay. It doesn't matter. That's what you have insurance for. But isn't that considered arson kind of like if you live there? Yeah. But arson is like if it's not insured if like you know me and you overinsure of the building that me and you own and then we have like Amanda and my wife. You don't put up that crazy lunatic to burn the building down cuz he wanted to get his [\h__\h] insurance money from it. That that's, you know, crazy things have happened. Yeah. No, I know. It's scary. Thank So now Chris, here's the question that they arrested this guy, right? He's probably going to do jail time, I would think. Oh, yeah. Right. Maybe you could pick up the apartment at a good rate. You know what? You already investigating? No. No. I'm sure people are on it like a Right. I would be on it. Chris, you better get get that apartment, man. Come on. Like white on rice, Dave. What do you think those things? Did he you know if his apartment looked good? I mean, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Maybe you could pick it up for a song in the dance. No, those things are always like curses. Yeah, right. I don't know. You never know. I'm sure his family's going to want the apartment, but maybe you can buy him. Maybe they don't want to take care of it. It probably needs a complete The guy probably was living like a slob there. It's probably needs a whole redo, I'm sure. Yeah, but it's if it's oceanfront, Miami Beach. That's right. That's what I'm saying. That's right up your alley. You like to do stuff like that. I I heard uh our friend Jose Raymond is going to check out your area. Oh, he is? I didn't know that. He's going to buy a house down there. Wow. On the West Coast on my side in your town. Really? How come he didn't tell me this? Jose, call me. I got a lot of people moving down here. He he said uh Lloyd Dollar who he prepped and looked tremendous at that uh most recent show right wherever was uh Lloyd lives either in your town or nearby. No, he lives right here in my town. He lives in Fort Myers on the Cape Coral and um he said uh you know I don't know what he said. He said, you know, $400,000 house is going to be in 10 years, whatever, a million dollars. And that may or may not be true. But I said, you know what, Jose? I said, here's what Florida has. It only has two things. Weather and no taxes. Yeah. So, that alone will always make it a growth area, which means real estate prices will always go up. And who cares? You're buying a h you're going to spend half the amount of money you or a third of the amount of money you spent in wherever he is in Boston there to get the same house. Yeah. So you saw my house how big it is. I don't even have a mortgage, you know, on that. So it's who's better than me? He could sell his house up there and move down here and and he'll live like a king. And you know what the funny thing is? I'm getting a lot of people to move down here. My friend Cole Hanzik is down here now. He's working for me. And uh who else was telling me they're going they want to move down here? A couple people told me they want to move down here. Keem Williams is thinking about moving down here. I'm going to turn the the west coast of southwest Florida into the new mecca of bodybuilding. Everyone's going to I want everyone down here. I'll have people in the studios. We'll have TV shows. Uh telling you this is Cape Crawl is the number one growing city and I didn't move here because of that. I just it just is. It's the number one growing city in the United States. Everywhere you looked there's houses being put up here. I'm shocked that you haven't been down here yet scouting out you know real estate. I'm shocked. No. Well, my you know my really you've never met him either. my really good friend in Miami is a builder and he's always maybe we could start a little company, Dave. He's always asking me, "Let's do it. Let's build a house." But you know what? He still builds these houses in Miami that, you know, they're not like on the West Coast. I mean, they're just they take a lot of money to build and, you know, they sell for a lot of money. So, I always say like, you know, what if somebody can't come up with $665,000 for, you know, two 2200 foot house? You could put up a you could put up a $100,000 house you spend and sell it for 200 here all day long. That's I mean the bang. Dave, we should we there. We just Let's make a pack. Chris and I new hobby. New hobby for me. New Oh, no. It definitely be a hobby. Joining Chris's hobby now. I'm joining Chris's. We can call ourselves three three uh threemen. Three amigos. Three amigos. Three Shmenrics. Christo, Jose Raymond, and Dave Palumbo are building houses now. We could start a reality show. We could. We could. There would be a reality show. You see the guy with the snakes and he's got like a radio show and and what are you talking about? It's completely nuts. The two of us couldn't [\h__\h] change a light bulb together. We have to hire someone. I don't know how to do anything like and no one wants to work. Dave, I was going to actually I was embarrassed. I was going to post I was dead serious. Yeah. I was going to send you a picture. You would have cracked up of a towel bar that I hung up and I was proud of myself. Yeah, me too. When I do stuff like that, I get very proud of myself. A towel bar. You see a man, I can put up do anything I want. Anything I put my mind to, I can do. I just choose not to do it. That's all. So, if we have any house builders who want to move to Florida also and work for our new three, we have the guy in Miami. I'm telling you, he's a onetop deal. He can There we go. Um, sign me up. Sign me up. All right. Well, that's uh it's getting late. I have still have 600 emails to answer and uh you know how that goes. Monday is always a busy day in the body world. This coming weekend, what do we got up? We got some shows coming this weekend, don't we? Uh we do. I forget what it is. There's some big pro show coming this weekend. I'm going look on the schedule right now. Tell your I hear Chris doing work in the backdrop. No, I'm just looking at properties while we see Chris is doing his hobby while we're talking. You know, well, you're you're it's an addiction, dude. Yeah. Los Angeles Championships next week. So, that's a big one. Pro Oh, it's only pro Figure. Never mind. Thought it was a big one. Bikini Show next weekend somewhere. There's a bikini show everywhere. John Lindsay's got one every single weekend. Yep. Battle in the desert. Pro bikini men's physique. Is it really a battle? What's that? A bikini? Yeah. What's the Katy also titled battle big man weekend show pro show jackpot $25,000 men's bodybuilding in Spain Alakanti Spain next weekend give me give me the lineup of course God forbid they release the lineup you know I don't know why they can't release the lineup you know two weeks early so that Chris and I could handicap it on the show I have no idea I'm sure it'll be up the day of this radio show we unfortunately we record the radio show the day before that. But yeah, no, it's going to be a great show. It looks like uh it's at the Grand Hotel Bali and uh they got a really nice website for it, too. 25 grand. Plus, they're giving out pro cards. Another one of these big European events. I like it. It's a great idea. See if they have any athletes listed here. Yeah, check it out. If I were Heidi Shupin, I would do the open. How about that? What do you think about that idea? I think it's a good idea. You might think it's a good idea, right? With 25 grand, who's gonna beat Let's Let's put it this way. Who's Who's going to beat him? You know, all the guys who who the big the big names for the Olympia are all qualified already. They're not competing anymore. How would how would Hottie Shupin do in the uh how would he have done in that uh show that um where Michael Locketta beat Sergio? Oh man. Um, he'd be no lower than third. Yeah. By the way, Justin Rodriguez uh threw Sid. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Justin Rodriguez. I don't know if that's true. Then Justin Rodriguez is pissed that I think that that Sergio deserved to beat him. I didn't think they were. It was like, yep. Let me see if I can find the email. I'll read it to you. Oh, exactly. Oh, no. He didn't contact me, but he contacted Sid. Sid is a good So, here it is. Oh, let's hear it from Justin Rodriguez. I'm going to read on the air because since Justin won't come and do any interviews with anyone. I don't know why, but I've reached out. We've reached out to him before. Hey Dave, um I have great respect for you and I see your RX Muscle programs every day, so he watches. That's good. And I know you're a master in bodybuilding, but I cannot understand how you can say that Sergio beat me. If you're looking for a pose by pose in Chicago, maybe uh he won in most it it seems a child next to me. The big winner that day was Michael without a doubt was the best man. So Sergio, if you're listening, uh Justin thinks you were a child next to him on the stage. I don't happen to agree with that, but how do you respond to that, Chris? Uh I think Justin's a great bodybuilder. Um I like his physique. Uh, I think that, um, put it this way, when I saw him last in New York, what he placed in the New York Pro, you think? I can't remember what what what I did this morning. I told you that. Well, I I just I I mean, I I think that he was in the top five, you know. I I think he's very good bodybuilder. Just leave it at that. Justin was, you know, Justin was third behind Juan, remember? Yeah. So, he's right up there. He's going to be winning pro shows next year. I'm telling you, he's right there. Yeah. No, I mean, he has the ability to win, but I think that Sergio is better than him. I do. Pro shows um next year. Um, I think he's I think when we when we talked on the show last and reviewed the show, I said that he's improved, you know, every year that he's quote been on the scene, which he's been on the scene very, you know, short period of time, but he's improved and he's got a good structure. uh his um his his issue is just um it's not condition and and it's not maturity. It is like it's it's that density has to like simmer like he needs another year or so maturity. That's all it's called. Let me get it out for God's sakes. I was going to say it's a William syndrome. Yeah. In other words, when Ake first came out, people would say like, "You got to get peeled." I'm like, "Dude, if he tries to get peeled, he's going to probably have to drop 40." Yeah. And people would be like, "What are you talking about?" He said, "It's going to be really it's going to take some time because he just got big so fast." And it it's the Jay Cutler syndrome when Jay was like 18, 19, 20, 21. It just took it to that like year 99, you know, it took him a while to let that muscle on that frame. I guess you call it simmer simmer to it and just get dense and you can't force that. In other words, you can't force it. That was the example with Hakee. If if he tried to force it and say, you know what, I'm just going to get beat for the show when he just put on all that new muscle that first two, three years, then backfire on him. Yeah. It's time. It's time. That's all. I agree. So, but I but I I thought uh I thought he deserved third place at that show, you know, just like I thought he deserved um uh you know, roughly what he got in New York. I don't think he's being judged uh harshly. No, I think he's being judged fairly. Yeah, I do. Um I love I love that him and him and Sergio go at it, though. When Sergio hears this, he'll probably start start up the Instagram war again, I'm sure. That's probably why he said it to me. I'll get him on the show. He'll go on the show. He'll listen. I think he's just lazy, that's all. There's no reason for him not to come on the show. All right, Chris. Uh, let's wrap this thing up. Uh, we're out of time. Until next week, remember with Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. Good night, everyone. Call 911 now.