Hey, baby. Hi, Tracy Hes. I am BBB Pro. Got an RX muscle tip for you ladies and you gents. We're here at the beautiful Universal Pro Fitness Gym here in Horcham, PA. And I this is amazing piece of equipment. This is one for the hamstrings and the glutes. And I'm going to show you a combination of super set exercises of them both. Okay? looks like this. Most gyms have some of these machines, but if not, you can always do this a after on a uh machine where you can do your pull downs on your back and they have these little levers in the back will hold you into place. You can actually do this exercise on that as well. Okay. Going to come into the machine. Make sure your hips are all the way at the end of the machine. Basically, it's almost like a hyper extension. Come all the way down, but when you come up, you're going to pull through with your hamstrings and your glutes. See that? It's an awesome machine. Get stretched down. Come up. Pull with your hamstrings and glute. This is no joke when you're trying to get those tieins to come in. Come up. Squeeze with those hamstrings and glutes. I'm give you one more of these. Flat back over when you're coming down. Pull it in with your hamstrings and your glute, not your back. And take a break. This is fantastic. Wow. And you really can feel that connection between the hamstrings and the glutes. Now we're going to walk over and to do a stifflegged deadlift. We're going to superset with this exercise. So here we have a wrap overhand underhand grip. Lift that bar up. Step back. Flat back over. Stick those glutes all the way out. Get a good stretch in front of your shins. And pull it back in nice and tight. Flat back over. Get a good stretch in your hamstrings. Pull them back. These two together are so tough, guys. But if you want that nice look and great tieins from the back, you may want to hit these two and squeeze. Fantastic. So, the numbers you want to start with 10 on the glute hand machine, 10 on the stiff leg deadlifts, getting up to 12 to 15, but stay low cuz they're going to burn. Thank you so much for joining me for this tip of the week. I'll be back next week with another RX muscle tip. Keep those glutes and hamstrings strong and keep them tied in. We'll see you next week.