Tony O Burton is headed back to Las Vegas. I created Stes Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. And we're back for another installment of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo, joined by the technician Chris Tacito. And uh Chris, we did a little remodeling of my RX Muscle TV studio here. So my things might look a little different. What' you do to it? We we just we changed some lighting around. As you can tell, the background's a little lighter. Now, I have a new camera. You know what? I bought a camera on at the behest of my um my new advisor and possible new RX Muscle employee, Jesse Peterson. And uh Jesse um had me buy this camera and you know, the camera was a little expensive. It was a Sony. It was all right. And then he's like, "Oh, you got to get a lens with the camera. The camera doesn't come with a lens." Now, let me just tell you guys something. For those of you who know anything about cameras, if the camera doesn't come with a lens, you probably shouldn't buy the camera because what you're going to find out is that when you go buy the lens, the lens is actually more expensive than the camera is, Chris. Yeah. It's like trying flying Spirit Airlines, Steve. That's right. The seats cost more than the actual flight does. That's right. So, they say they don't tell you that when you book the Spirit flight, you're not actually getting an actual seat to sit in. You have to then purchase the seat. You've only purchased the access to the airplane, you know. So anyway, so I I I order this this these two things on on Amazon and Amazon's a wonderful tool, right? I mean, we all love it, right? It's not the cheapest, but it you get the stuff fast, right, on there. I mean, you get the next day. And I got the camera and the and the the lens the next day. And I was all excited. I called him up. I said, "Jess, you got to come over." And um so he came over like a couple days later. We were setting up everything. And he comes out like almost he was almost in tears, Chris. And I'm like, "What's a" You know, I'm like thinking, "What? What? What? What's wrong now?" Because, you know, there's always something going wrong, right? He's like, "The lens." He goes, "This is not the lens." I said, "What? What do you mean it's not the lens?" He's like, "Someone must have taken the real lens out, returned this lens, and then Amazon sent you this lens." But he was acting like as if like, you know, I was stuck with it. But I I said I said, "It's Amazon. You send it back. I'll send it back again." So, yeah, people are scammers. I don't know if you if you know this, but they they buy expensive stuff on Amazon. They somehow can open the packaging up such that it doesn't look like it's even been tampered and then they can put crap back into the box. Um, usually a lump of coal and then they seal the receal the packaging and the people at Amazon don't know. But, you know, the truth is if someone sends something back to Amazon, they they should they shouldn't put it back in inventory. they should throw it in the garbage, you know, because I know that when someone returns something of mine, like a species nutrition product, I get a charge back. So, there's no reason for them to put it back in into inventory because it's already been paid for. So, they're like double dipping, I think, these guys. Well, maybe it was uh Yeah, who knows? A a lot of Have you seen that? A lot of the Amazon trucks have been hijacked. Well, they have really by and they empty out everything and then they sell it back on Amazon through those little small Wow. like stores that people have. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, there's got to be a way to track that the inven, you know, by the skew number or something like that, too. I'm sure it sounds like a like a like something you'd hear the mafia do back in the 70s, right? Yeah. The old You remember the old that fell off the truck? Oh, yeah. Of course. You know, you know, your dad had to have come home with some stuff and and your mom's like, "Where'd you get this? It fell off the truck. Don't ask questions." You know? No, we weren't we weren't in with the mob. No. No. You don't have to be in with the mob. But you knew someone that was in with the mob who would say, "Hey, I got these." Uh, no. That's That's you guys. 100 jars of peanut butter. You want some? Yeah, I'll take 10 jars. A dollar a piece. That kind of That's Long Island Italians, not me. Oh, you guys are actually much more honest up there. We're on the upside. Oh, you you think it's like normal and crooked, but not crooked. There was always something falling off the truck somewhere. And and it's usually it was usually my the See the the Jewish side of my family, the Jews, they deal with clothing. They they only do stolen clothing. So like suit jackets. My father was always like this guy Murray lived on my block. He always had hot, you know, sport jackets. My father like was into dressing and everything like that, but he was too cheap and probably didn't have the money to go buy fancy clothes. So, he would go to Murray's house and Murray would roll out this rack. And my father's famous line, Chris always was, I too broad in the shoulders. Nothing fits me off the rack. I need custom clothes. I said, "So, go get a custom clothes." He goes, "Yeah, you know what? They cost a fortune. Can't do that." So, he'd wear these fat man like the fat man stuff and they try to get it tapered in and stuff like that. Never looked It never looked right. Murray's Discount, Dave. Mary's Discount Rack. Yeah. So, whatever. Uh, what else did I do? Oh, so not that this has anything to do with bodybuilding, but I take my kids to the mall. Well, first we go to we go to this pet store. They like this pet. So, Pet Kingdom. I sell some some snakes to them and stuff like that. So, I go in there and it's these new new owners have been in there for the last couple months. They let my kids pretty much do whatever they want there. And they're really cool guys. I got them all in my nutrition products, species nutrition products. I brought a whole bunch in for them for free, you know, and we we have like a good relationship with these guys. They're the middle Middle Eastern, you know, they love to barter and stuff like that. So, we were in there today, you know, shooting up the, you know, shooting the [\h__\h] whatever. And the kids were in there having a ball. And we leave and we go to the mall. As we're walking into the mall, and I use this I have this back entrance into the mall, Chris, that no one knows about. It's like very cryptic. Like, it's a weird entrance that no one parks there. And it's because I don't like to fight over traffic, you know, all the people. And I go in there and as I'm walking in, walking out is the guy who who does the birds at the pet store. Like, I just saw you two minutes ago. What are you doing here? They have a storage they have like a storage room in the mall somehow. So, I I I I said, "Hey, what's up?" We go in the mall, my kids and I, and Logan wanted sneakers and they and they had and they wanted ice cream. So, there was this ice cream place that does I don't know if you've ever seen rolled ice cream. Have you seen this? I haven't seen it. They take this like liquid ice cream and they lay it on the It looks like a like a like a grill except instead of being hot, it's freezing cold and they crush up cookies and whatever, whatever they sprinkles, whatever they want in there. And then they they as the, you know, the the the liquid ice cream hits that cold grill, it it's it freezes. And then they with a scraper, they scrape and it it goes into like a roll almost. And they take these rolls, they put it in a cup, arrange these like rolls. They look like almost a little like I don't even know what looks like a like a spool of thread almost except it's it's it's ice cream. And then they whipped cream they put on there. More sprinkles. And they Chris, it's $15 per per I couldn't believe how expensive it was. My kids were so enamored by the process that I had I had to do it. So of course they they couldn't even eat a they could have split one of them. the whole I had to get three separate ones because everyone wants their own and I'm like now I'm pissed off that we spent all this money on ice cream and I'm like whatever you know they I filmed it so I fig if I'm gonna if I'm gonna spend this much money on ice cream I better film it. So I film it as we're walking back my daughter's like I want a soccer jersey you sell you know the little stands in the middle of the mall. So I walk up I'm like fine fine fine you know they the other two got shoes we stop at the stand. And I'm like thinking, I know they're going to rip me off, right? Who's running the stand? But the partner who owns the pet store, he's like, Palumbo, what are you doing here? I said, he goes, you come to the mall. I said, yes. I said, what are you doing here? I thought you own the pet store. He goes, oh, I owned all the He owns the three stands. One of them is called Dubai Chocolate. Did you know that they make chocolate in Dubai? Dubai Chocolate. Yeah, but it's really not Dubai Chocolate. It's like Middle Eastern chocolate. Call it Dubai Chocolate. So they got Dubai Chocolate and then they got the the stand where they sell the soccer jerseys and another stand. So he's like, I I take care of you. Don't worry about it. I give you the two jerseys, three jerseys for the price of two or something like that. So everyone everyone got a jersey and a pair of shorts. Compliment to the guy at the the pets for the pet store. It's like one of those movies where you know John Candy and or Chevy Chase is is working every job in every stand they go to. You know, one of those deal. Well, that's US species. That's right. That's right. He's like a jack of all trades. He's like, every place I go, I see the same guys from the from the from the pet store. They they they work 14 different jobs. All right. Anyway, that's uh that that's that was my day. Other than that, I did I did want I wanted to ask your your opinion on something because I went to my my daughter's graduation on Friday. She gradu now. You know, when we were kids, there was like graduation from elementary school, graduation from junior high, middle school, and graduation from high school, right? There was three graduations. Now, I don't know if you I'm sure you're aware of this. I don't know if they have it in Maine. Every grade, including kindergarten, they they graduate from Do you notice that? What they probably give, too. No, but there's a graduation ceremony every single year from every grade. Yeah. So, I go to the the graduation, you know, of course you you want to go see your kids, whatever, graduate. I had a great time, but and um I'm thinking to myself, man, I could do a great rant on this. You know how we always criticize the press conference because it's too long at the Olympia? Well, the graduation ceremony, I feel like Larry David. It's a little too long. It's a little too long. They don't have to announce every kid's name. You know what I mean? What they should do is they should give away the award. They should give the awards and then you go we should go back to the kids classroom and they should give the separate graduate. I don't want to see a hundred kids, you know, walking on stage. Everyone, Dave, every year they have to make them feel special every year. They have an award for the the the worst kid in school had there's an award for him. Like the the the try to try really didn't try hard enough, but did try. So, we're going to give him an award anyway. You know, from the kids who don't who would Yeah. We're going to give an award for the Right. Right. Right. Right. So, I went to that and I I didn't want to I didn't want to complain. I didn't want to do a rant on it because I I didn't want to be negative about the school system, but you know, you know, I we we we criticize. We critique things for a living. So, I also noticed that every kid's every door every girl's name in school is Sophia. It's got to be the most popular name of all time in Long Island. No, I'm not in Long Island. I'm in Florida. Yeah, in Florida. Then Florida. It's all the Long Island people. I guess Sophia is the is the most common. So, we go to we go out to eat with uh my daughter Arya's friend after graduation whose h name happens to be Sophia. Imagine that. And her brother's name is Guess what her brother's name is? Can't be Sophia. No, it's Logan because everyone is Sophia and Logan in that school. I thought I was being original giving him the the name Logan, you know. No, Logan's pretty popular now. It's very popular now. Yeah. See, you're you're good. Fared is a great name because there's this there's there's no one named Fared in good school. He's he's original. You know, that's an original name. Part of part of the meaning means unique. Oh, is that what it does? Is that what it means? Yeah. I I like it. I like I like unique names. And you know, you try to give your kids like a unique name, but then you also have to be careful because if you give them too unique a name, they could get made fun of, too. So, you don't want to give them like a bad name, you know? I thought, you know, it's it's crazy though because, you know, I'm sure all the all the parents who gave these women, you know, so their daughters Sophia, they probably thought they were, "Oh, what a beautiful name. It's so original. There's no Sophia's." And then everyone's, you know, Sophia now. So, and and when we were kids, I don't think I don't know one kid that was named Sophia. Oh, neither do I. It goes in cycles. I And now I don't see any I don't hear any David's. I haven't heard one Chris. Well, they're too they're too po. Well, they stopped naming them that they're they're they're too old schools. Lee anyway. That's right. They're they're Jaden. Jav there's a million Jay names there. Jay's are very popular. I noticed Jaylin J. Yes. Jin. Yeah. Anyway, speaking of Lee Haney, since you brought it up, uh Haney's taking a lot of heat and you know, Haney is usually the guy who takes no heat. I I think the the industry is is definitely turning on us old guys. I I gotta tell you, I don't know why, but they don't want to hear any critiques from us old guys. So Haney said on Instagram on his Lee_Haney official Instagram, "Bodybuilding has lost its way and appealed to the general population. No longer is it being showcased as it was in times past. This is apparent to the teenage athlete that I'm greeted by in my travels. There needs to be a reset before our sport comes crashing down. However, let's keep hope alive by making the necessary changes to our sport. What's your take on that? Um, there are 750,000 reasons he could be considered uh incorrect. Give me uh give me a few. Well, the prize money is 750,000 for the I was that's exactly what I was going to bring up. That's pretty exciting to me. Yeah. Um that's that's the primary reason. And um I don't I don't know the context of what he said. Is that all he said or Well, that's that's yeah, that was the post. So that's his post. So they weren't paraphrasing. That is his actual post. So I don't know if I can look and see if they uh they shortened it at all. But um I don't think it's appropriate for me to comment because I don't know the the backstory to it. You know, if it was he was posting in response to someone asking him something or just his general feelings. But yeah, I think to get Lee I'm going to get call Lee and get him on the show because you know Lee's Lee's a fan of the show. Obviously he's been on the show before. Immediate response would be to Mr. Olympia that uh one of if not the best Mr. Olympia that there are $750,000 reasons or $750,000 reasons why that statement might may not be correct. And uh Miss Olympia, Linda may criticize um I I think Lee Haney means maybe I think Lee Haney was really referring to the to the physiques themselves, not necessarily the industry because the industry is flourishing, right? I mean, we have a lot of we have a lot of excitement around the industry. There's a lot of prize money around it. Although, I will say this that the I from the promoters, now that I've been going to shows, Chris, and talking to promoters, the numbers have definitely dropped a lot since COVID and they have not come back and I don't know what it is exactly and I was trying to speculate and come up in my mind with a theory. Maybe you and I can already know the brainstorm it because before co we there were show these local regional shows the national qualifiers there was 300 entries 350 entries now they're lucky if they can get a hundred why do you think that all of a sudden after co now there's less people competing um so there's less definitively less I mean yes the numbers are way down yeah on the total number of shows They're about the same. They're about I think they're about the same in the United States. The national shows are still big, but I'm talking about like the regional qualifiers and stuff like that. Um I don't know the answer to that. There's two theories that have been put out there that I from people I've talked to and I had one of those theories. One theory was that no one wants to compete anymore or no one cares about competing anymore because they're making so much money or they're they're they're they're basically competing on social media. And if their social media pages are up and they're doing and they're having a lot of, you know, traction on their social media, why risk competing? And then if you don't do well, it hurts your social media presence. I don't know if I buy that one. I would say I would I would agree with that simply because you know part of that because you can get validation from winning the Florida State Bodybuilding Championships which is a great title to have or the you know New York State Bodybuilding Championships. Any any title is a you know nice title to have. Um but you can get more validation by posting something on your Instagram and you don't have to go over the finish line. meaning you don't have to go all the way through prep to get that validation in this day and age. I don't want, you know, I'm not trying to be mean, but it it is what it is. You could still look like five weeks out and filthy a picture to look like you're, you know, 10 minutes and still get that level of validation on your phone. Um, you know, and not spend the money too. Well, and create followers, you know, from what you may not have got by winning the Florida Championships. Yeah. My other theory, my other theory is, and I've said this before, and I'll say it again, and it's it's not a knock against, you know, anyone specifically, but the entry fees for these regional shows are way too high. I mean, I think the national uh proqualifiers are too high. I mean, to pay $350, $300 to enter a show, $375 per division is is insane. But that's a proqualifier. I understand that. You know, they, you know, if anything, that should be a deterrent to people not to waste their money, but they do it anyway. But on a regional level where you're going and and you're bringing your family with you ostensibly, which they're buying tickets, I I you know, when we competed it was like 25 bucks. I mean, granted that was 20 years ago, but you know, or even up to 15 years ago, but I think it's too high. And I think that people can't afford between the entry fees per division, the tanning, the, you know, if they have to stay in a hotel or, you know, or whatever the case, it's a it's an expensive endeavor. You know, if you're if you're a woman, you have to buy a suit that probably cost, you know, crazy amount of money, hair, makeup. It's it's very expensive to compete. And I think that that might be a deterrent to some people saying, you know what, I can't do three shows or four shows. I'm going to do one show, qualify, and then I'm going to try to do the proqualifiers because at this point, I don't want to waste any more money. It's it's almost as expensive to do the regional shows as it is to do the national shows. So, I might as well just do the national shows at this point. um which I don't think is a good strategy because you want to build confidence in yourself, you want to build stage presence, you want to get experience doing these regional shows, but I think they're really expensive and um and I was talking to Dean Caputo when I was at his show and that's why they give away so much stuff like goodie bags, the winners, the overall winners, they pay their way to to to the nationals, whether it be uh to the team universe or to the North Americans, they pay all expenses. So, it's kind of an enticement to get people to do the show. But he told he's the one who told me he goes the numbers have been really down and and I and I think it's from from the fact that it's just really expensive. Well, I was going to say, but I didn't want to I wasn't sure when you said what is the reason. I was going to say maybe it's because people are watching their wallet this day, you know, the last couple years more. But I I think you nailed it actually. um and it's price point and if it's one thing that I've learned in the last it's not the only thing I've learned but something I'm sure about um price point absolutely 100% matters and I tell you Dave um I run 10 Airbnbs and I can guarantee you I can lower the price for something that's empty right on my screen right now that something something that's empty like 10 days from now lower it 20% and it will book wow 10 minutes or not 10 minutes but by the time I wake up tomorrow and the same and if I the the the same by the same measure um whether it be a luxury apartment or mid-grade or even low-level apartment or mid-level I always try to get the highest price possible and I'll put it out there and maybe I'll get like you know three people four people who inquire about this apartment and maybe we'll show it to them and it, you know, they they're looking at something else in that price point or lower. And then let's say I lower to something very reasonable. It's not uncommon to get a hundred inquiries for the same apartment. Wow. So price point plays a big role. It's like if you could price your protein just for example, what's what what do you sell it for retail? someone orders from you. Yeah. The the two the 1.55 is I don't know like 60 bucks or something like that. Yeah. Just let's make believe and you could sell it for for 40. You'd sell so much more starting tomorrow. Oh yeah. Oh. When I do a sale like if we have shortdated product and I do a sale sometimes we do half price that we sell it. We sell it all out instant. So you know price people buy you know 25 tubs you know 30 tubs because they know they're smart shoppers. Besides price point meaning something it is expensive to enter a show and if you're you know John uh Dave Palumbo you know and you're a competitive bodybuilder and there's four shows that you'd like to do you might just narrow it down to two right there's two other people you know multiply that by you know the number of competitors it's easy to see where um participation could be down which kind of mirrors where the economy is was is at, you know, or where it has been over the last four years with, you know, with the with, you know, Biden in power. I think that the economy really went down the tubes. People were hurting uh and uh you know, they cut back on their pocketbooks. Let's face it, bodybuilding is is a luxury item for most people. It's not their career and they can't afford to do all these shows. And before they were they were they were doing everything and they were I couldn't believe how much money I couldn't believe the numbers of competitors in these shows. I was amazed. I said this is never going to stop. I said this is incredible. The industry is growing. I can't it must be the fact that there's so many new people coming into the industry. So when it dropped off I was like whoa that's kind of weird you know that in like two years it can drop that much. Yeah. I mean co kind of affected it a little bit but you think guys would want to get back into it and again and unless it's the old Milos uh theory that you know when people are competing they keep competing and then when they stop it's like it's hard to get back into it again. I think that that maybe COVID created uh because it paused bodybuilding for for so long a lot of people didn't come back to it after that. They they went on to other things or just, you know, got distracted from, you know, not a lot of people are like you, me, or the guys out there that are insanely, you know, dedicated to bodybuilding and and completely, you know, addicted to it. You know, some people it's kind of a fad thing, you know. Maybe it was a fad thing. Now the now the fat thing is to do social media, you know, work work on that page, you know, put content up, filter your pictures, you know, do whatever you got to do. Sensationalistic stuff, fun stuff. Uh, it's it requires a lot le Well, maybe not a lot less work, but it's a lot less suffering, that's for sure. Like you mentioned earlier, yeah, I mean, it's uh it is what it is. I mean, as I said, I I can't stress enough. It's always on my mind. Actually, it's funny that you p you you pointed out price point indirectly or directly. Yeah, it's sc it's scary. People really have to take that for uh you know being serious, you know. Hey, did you see the um did you see the update? I feel like black. Yeah. Did you see did you see the latest glutes? Did you see what's his name? Uh Rubil Moscara Neckzilla video. Let me pull it up here. Hold on. He's four weeks out from Dubai. Oh, he's doing Dubai doing me a quarter term where he opens up the arm and just Yeah, he's looking pretty thick. What are you thinking? Oh, Honey Han's is working with him. I thought that said Rambo on his back. I was like, who's Rambo? But it said Rambo. Looks big. I mean, I can't you can't really tell. Can you tell like what he looks like? Looks like I don't know. Kind of like the lighting washes him out, you know? Yeah. I gotta tell you, when when guys send me an up this is the truth. When guys send me like and women send me their their uh posing updates, I hate the court of turns. I I wish they would just not send me the quarter of turns. I I know the court of turns are are judged, but I just want to see the posing already because, you know, you're determined to see what they're if they're in shape or not really. You know, but everyone loves to hit those four quarter turns first. You know, it's funny. He he's so big and he's so wide, but he and he and he has a like Victor Rich Victor Richardsesque physique, but I think his waist is a is a lot thicker than Victor Riches was. What do you think about that? Yeah, the the main problem for him is always those going to be the legs getting them separated. When you have gigantic legs, they're just hard to separate. Yeah. can say like I think the the only person who was exempt from that was Tom Plattz. True. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Legs, Ramy's legs, Muhammad's legs. They're all very big legs. You uh Siobhan's legs. Just Egyptians. How's that? I remember Blackman used to be like remember Sylvio Samuel's legs. Yeah. He always had these big billowy veiny legs, but they had zero separation in them. So you you know the problem is you get next to somebody with just incredible leg separation. Yeah. And your eyes go right to the guy with incredible leg separation. Yeah. That's he's going to have a he's going to have a little trouble. I agree with that. But I don't know who's I don't even know who's left to could try to, you know, contest Dubai. Uh who's in it, you know? I don't even know. I mean, that's I haven't heard anything. I mean, let's think about all these people who have, you know, qualified already. Yeah. It's like you almost don't even I don't know if anyone's even left to do it. I mean, who no one wants to d start dieting, you know, so close to the Olympia. They are all trying to rest and, you know, get it done. I I wouldn't be surprised if we saw Samson jump in that show at the last minute. Nathan Dash is doing Dubai, too. So, let's look at let's look at his update. Hold on. There we go. Pull this up. There's Nathan. Oh, that's the that's the Kuwait kitchen. I mean the Kuwait bathroom. Oh, that's the magic mirror. That and I I took a picture when I was there in that magic mirror. Oh, you you were actually in the que. I didn't know that. I took a picture and I I posted up a picture of me. I check photoshopped my head and I said, "Look at this mirror." Oh, you really weren't there? Okay. I was there. Oh, you were. When did you go to to Kuwait? I went there with Ramy when he won the Kuwait. Oh, that's right. That's right. I forgot about that. Wow. Nathan is a freak. I mean, he he he certainly could win this show. You know, like I said, with not that many people uh left to qualify, this could be his show. He certainly has better separation than Rubial Mascara, although maybe his legs are not as big. You know, he won't he won't be quite as big, but he has he has I think uh more, you know, he's been added. He's got more maturity to his muscle for sure. Yeah. Yeah. Let's uh I guess let's talk about this uh this show that took place this past weekend in this Legion Sports Fest. Antonio Burton qualifies. I'll pull his picture up. What? Tell me what you uh what you saw and and I know you weren't there obviously, but what did you see in the pictures? What you know, what do you feel about him? I I I know we're both kind of big fans of of Tonio Burton. He's come a long way. You know, he was originally a 212 guy. He got to the open. He's won shows. He's been on the Olympia stage in the Open. What What's his potential? Uh and on a scale of uh 1 to 10, how good was Tony Burton as far as Tony Burton's concerned? Um, I think he was a pretty much a 10. And I think that, um, he's a perfect example of a collection of lack of weaknesses. He is a walking collection of lack of weaknesses with great condition, which automat automatically will allow you to beat almost everybody, right? Because if you have a weakness, know you're going to get exposed by somebody else. Whether it be a back weakness, weakness, quad separation weakness, ab pose weakness, you know, pec weakness. He doesn't have any weaknesses. No. And it's so rare to see someone with no weaknesses. He's even got cabs, too. Yes, he does. That's Believe me, I He's got everything. Phil Hill would beat him, but he's Phil. He's good. Yeah, he's really good. He He He just uh in every pose he looks really finished, polished, complete, full and hard. It's a it's a way more dangerous body than uh I think he'll be given credit for for this win simply because he didn't get to stand next to a Rubiel because he would definitely beat Rubiel. My my opinion. Yeah, I agree. He would just your your your eyes would go to the abs and thighs between the shape, the condition, and the lack of weaknesses. How would he have done at the New York Pro? You think um he would have uh um third, second? Who was third? I think I remember. He Yeah, he would have beaten Reagan. Oh, Rean, right? Yeah, he would have beaten Reagan. Reagan was fourth. Fifth. He would have beaten Kriso. Yeah, he's not anywhere near as big as Reagan in Kriso. you know, this show like I think you know, like Reagan's New York, we're talking New York look, not the last look, but the New York look, you know, you were your your eyes would have probably gone to him because of the width and the vtaper, but um you know, look at the legs from the you know what I mean from the on the ab shot on the most muscular. There's a lot density a lot of density. Yeah. So th those are just two people who are much bigger than him I think that he would have beaten. I think you're right. You know, the more I'm looking at him, I mean, he really really looked good. The only the only thing you would say against like Kriso is you clearly would have him beaten him on some shots, but you know, someone would argue no, he's not big enough. And then you'd say just look at him in the side, you know, in the most muscular. Just look at him in the absent thighs. Just look at him in the in the back double. You know, even the side shots, you'd say he's he's big enough with all those lack of weaknesses, with all that condition, with all that density to knock off people who are much bigger than him, who have weaknesses. That's the key, you know. It's no, it's no like shocker that Reagan's legs are his weakness or it's no shocker that Kristo's legs are his weakness or Krzo's torso is his weakness, the the length of it. So, you would see those weaknesses. You would still say they are bigger, but you your eyes would come back to that's my opinion would come back to Tony. Yeah. Yeah. I'm I'm on board with that assessment. I think it's pretty accurate. I think that uh he's good. You know, the question I mean the only thing that's he's got working against him, you know, we is he's not the biggest guy on stage and but didn't seem to hurt Dexter Jackson. I think his thing he's got to remember is that he can't try to play that size game. He has to come in peeled. He's got to be like the blade, you know, on that stage because if he comes and tries to come even a little too big, he's still not going to be bigger than anyone and he's g and and it's going to take away all his wow factor from his body. True. He has to be shredded. That's that's his calling card. He can get grainy hard. He can get fibery and and separated. He has to bring that to the stage and not worry about his body weight. Yeah. Obviously, he doesn't want to overd. But I'm just saying he if he if he starts playing even like I'm going to eat, you know, I'm going to carve up on 10,000 grams of carbs because I'm going to be a little fuller. I I know I'm hard. He'll ruin his physique. He he's got to be shredded and peeled. And I think that that that could definitely land him in the top 10 for sure. I mean, maybe higher, you know, at the Olympia. So, there. Well, he's uh he's qualified. He's in now. And I think I think all the main guys have qualified for the Olympia at this point. I'm trying to think who hasn't made it. You mean from the top 10 of last year? Yeah. Yeah. For the from the top group of guys that want, you know, that want to do the Olympia. I think they're all qualified now pretty much. I think all the 10 top 10 from last year are in. You got Hakee. Uh, Bonak. Uh, who was 10th? I think Hakee was 10th. Raphael, they're all qualif They're all qualified as we can like like the kids. We can have a little graduation and give everyone an award. And the Andrews LeBron is not, but he's not doing it, you know, but Andrews qualify. I mean, everyone's everyone's in, you know. that that's why I'm I'm I'm curious what's going to happen in Dubai. I I still think that the any all the guys out there who Chris we know can get in the shape at the drop of a dime should be doing Dubai for $100,000. You know, the lineup is going to be a little weak because the top top guys have qualified. So, if I'm a if I'm a guy who's not quite at the top, I would I would have to I would really find it hard for me not to do that show. To be honest with you, I I think like a Martin a Martin should do the show. The guy's seems to get in shape pretty easily. I would jump in there, you know, and and I would, like I said, I made a joke before, but I wouldn't be surprised if Samson showed up and did that show, especially if he thinks the lineup is weak where he can go in there at at 95% and win, you know. It's not It's not a long flight for him. He's right in England. It's a couple hours, you know. Um it's a lot of money. I you know, I don't want to say it because I don't want to get I don't want to get into an argument with you, but I I would I I'd like to see Andrew Jack jump in that show. He's he's living in Dubai for God's sakes. It would be easy. Yeah, we're trying to win an Olympia. I I I know that. I know that's the goal, but I'm just saying it's He's there. I mean, he probably he probably looks amazing right now if I know you. He probably could do it if he had to, but your your head has to be in it. Your head definitely has. Yeah. Well, you know what, Dave? It's just It's hard to as a professional, it's just it's hard to pass up all these shows, right? Yeah. But 100 What's 140,000, I think, for first place. Yeah, that's that's the Arnold a couple years ago, you know, we're talking at this point. And the lineup is weak, you know. I mean, it's hard to pass if you were in striking distance, you know, if you were in striking distance and could make it to that show with a potential to win even if you lost, you know, you it's not chump change, I'm sure, for second place. No, no, it's still high. It's a lot of money. That's a lot of a lot of as Greg Valentino would say that's a lot of scul you know. I mean whoever wins it is going to be a happy bodybuilder that day. Is is Sass doing that show? Uh he's doing um trying to get the qualification. He's going up to uh vanquish Reagan in Toronto. Hopefully if Reagan wins, you know that SAS will do Sass will probably wind up doing Dubai winning it and at the end of the day after doing 60 shows to try to qualify for the back head when you said who's doing it. I'm thinking well geez I I didn't even know it's coming up. I'm like SAS can just diet every you know diet. That's what I was thinking. SAS. Yeah, if SAS jumped in that show, you know who we haven't seen this year and I and I might be out of the loop on this one. What happened to um what's his name? The kid Hassan Mustafa. What's he doing? I don't know. He's getting ready probably to compete. Maybe he's doing Dubai. I Yeah, I wonder if he's doing it. But that would that would be a great show for him to do. I you know, I used to be I know everything that was going on, you know, with everyone. It's it's it's there's too many guys out there to keep track of everything and I I got to keep track of where my kids are. Luckily, I got them locked in the room next to me. Dave knows I find out and I'm like I tell you Dave and you're like, "What?" I'm like, "How could you not know Dave?" Yeah. on the weekends where I have my kids. I don't know what the heck's going on. Yeah. Get information from you. Then I find out like you would be the one sending me the Phil Hill video. Yeah. Yeah. That was a good video you sent me. I don't even know where I put the link to it or I put it up. Look, look at this shot of Hassan offseason. He doesn't look like he's dieting for any shows to me, but he he looks freaking enormous. Yeah, he's got a little Phil Hill shoulders and arms there. Phil Hill. Phil uh Phil Heath. Phil Heath. Yeah, the guy's got incredible arms. He's He's We've We've said this before. He's like a Paul Deo really is what he is. He's And it's funny. He's got these like baggy sweatpants on and his legs still look big in the sweatpants. That's how big his quads are, you know? So, I don't know what he's doing. I don't I don't I don't doesn't really say what he's uh what's going on with him, but he should he should definitely he should he should have been in that lineup. That's for sure. I'll get it. I'll get a lineup. I gota I got to contact Beter and see what's going on with that show. He must have he must have at least an inkling of like who's going to show up. Then going to MCU it I don't know. That's good. Beta likes to hire people at the last minute. I don't know. You know, he'll be like three days before he'll be like, "Uh, you and Sid, do you want to come?" I'm like, "Yeah, that's a strategy, Dave. That's like a Trump strategy." Like, three days before. Come on, man. Money possible. They say doing something in in 10 10 days. No. Then he pulled out last year with me. I'm like, I I I need some time. I you can't tell me like like three days before to go out there, but you know, he's got a lot on his plate, so I'll let him off the hook on that. All right, let's go back to the show. I thought that um what's his name? Patrick Moore looked really good. What What was your um assessment? What What does Pat what did Patrick do to this show that he didn't do for the other shows? And is it more a a factor of the fact that he wasn't being challenged by the the level of a lineup that he normally is? He looked dramatically He just competed the week before. I know, but I'm saying he he looked a lot better than he competed when he competed at the other show. He smoked everybody who beat him. Yeah. I I think it might be a mental thing with him. It seems like when there's the pressure is not on, he does really well. when there's a lot of pressure on him and in a stacked lineup, it seems like he he things just don't work out right for some for some reason. You notice that? I don't know. I don't know about that. But he what I do know is he looked really good here. He looked like full round hard um looked excellent. I mean, you could make a case from winning the show really. I mean I mean although Tonio has like a lot of wow factor but I mean you really could make a case if you wanted to. Front double in front last. Look at the the the vtaper. I'll pull that up. You know it's it's like it's a ridiculous vaper. So I mean Lee Haney would put the stamp of approval on that. Yeah, he absolutely would. You know, Patrick's got one of these physiques where I just think, you know, he's got the structure. He's got a lot of muscle. When he's in shape, he looks really good. But for some reason, when he stands in certain lineups against certain really good guys, he just he doesn't he doesn't stand out. And I don't know what it is when in lineups where the it's not that deep the lineup, he seems to be so impressive, you know? Well, I I don't I'm having trouble articulating why I why that is. Is there is there a reason why that that he doesn't pop his physique doesn't really stand out in in impressive lineups? It it's a great question and the easy answer is that it's because in a lineup like this um his structure is so overwhelming for people that you're probably not going to look at many people other than him. The problem for him remains that if he's standing next to like a keem on one side and bone on the other with you see where I'm going? Yeah. You know, his structure is clearly better. Um, you're not going to notice his side chest versus bone. In other words, bone just like denser and and bigger. And that's basically all it is that somebody's denser and bigger. That make sense? Yeah. Look, I'm look look at this shot right here. I mean, this is you can see I mean Patrick's got pretty good legs, but but I mean B Tonio Burton's got insane legs and you could that's how he beat him. I mean Patrick might, you know, have a has a really nice upper body. his legs just still have not come up to match that upper body from a from a so it's like the best structure versus people with still more muscle. That's that's the only issue. Yeah. And it's not any issue other than that. It's not a fullness issue. It's not a flatness issue to to any real degree because imagine this with 20 pounds more muscle, you probably win the Olympia. Yeah. Yeah. That structure. Yeah. With that structure. Absolutely. Because your your structure when you have a great structure, it gets um amplified the more mass you have. Pretty good structure. It gets amplified. When your structure is not that good, you put on a ton of muscle, it doesn't even matter anyway. Wow. You know what I mean? It's a lot you you it doesn't you need to put on like 60 pounds of muscle when you don't have good structure to be able to like have like Olympian level impact where you know if you have the the perfect flow, it doesn't take tons of muscle to be able to like enhance that overall package. Yeah. No, I agree with you. I agree with That's why And that's why frankly when he was 10th at the Olympia, people were talking about him becoming Mr. Olympia. Yeah. That first time, right? Yeah. Everyone was hot on him. Yeah. That show that this guy's going to be Mr. Olympia. Every single person at the Olympia that year would tell you, "You're too small to crack the top five. You're too too small to crack the top seven. You know, we're going to give you 10th." But there he was rewarded 10th based on what they saw, you know, condition and and his shape. But the the knock was, you know, the size. Yeah. Look at that side tricep, but that's a great shot. Yeah. And Bruno Santos is who's to the right of Tonio Burton in the in the middle. Phenomenal. I mean, the guy is the best he's been. I mean, he lost to two guys that have better shape and structure. That's really what it amounted to. He's got he's probably got more muscle than those guys and he's and he's just as hard as them, but shape and muscle and conditioning outweighs, you know, just muscle and conditioning. That's that's the way it goes in bodybuilding, unfortunately. Uh but you can clearly see he's bigger than everyone else. But, you know, I think Patrick and Antonio had better conditioning, especially in the glutes, hamstrings, lower back, but Bruno's bigger. But, you know, he took third here. I think that's a that's a great little feather in his cap. And it wasn't given the fact that it wasn't a star lineup. I still feel like the competition was pretty was pretty um impressive. It wasn't like a pushover, you know? I thought they were it was good. I mean, it was wasn't a weak lineup. Just no. wasn't, you know, Pittsburgh Arnold. That's what we've been looking at lately. Pittsburgh Arnold, New York. Yeah, that's that's biggest disappointment was Blessing Awa. The biggest uh disappointment I think you know there's a lot of hype coming into the show about him. You know, he had won two pro shows before. He's been on the Olympia stage. What's going on with with Blessing? Can we see him regain some of that splendor that he had a few years ago? Or is he is his leg are his legs just never going to come up to to snuff with that upper body? I don't think it was the legs coming up to snuff or anything like that. I just think it was mostly a conditioning for him. I think that he would have been certainly in the mix if he was like very hard and he was like way off. So, I mean, that's why he landed fifth or sixth. Yeah. I mean, he's he's going to have his legs going to be under par no matter what, but you might as well be peeled and have them under par than just, you know, out of not in good shape. Oh, I agree 100%. You got to show up in in the best shape of your life. You cannot you cannot show up and expect to be judged, you know, accordingly, especially when we've seen you at your best before. We've seen him win shows and he was spectacular. You know, his legs were never his best body part. He obviously has some sort of I don't know if it's a knee injury or something that's not enabling him to train his legs the way they that that he needs to. Now, there's a couple things he can do. He could get the knee fixed and I don't know what that entails or whatever, you know, whether a knee replace I don't know what I don't know what he needs. I don't know how bad his injury is. Uh or or you know he's got to pack it in and say I I can't do this, you know, but you're not going to get to that Olympia level and place in the top six of the Olympia, you know, with legs that are subpar compared to your upper body. I mean, you could have the greatest upper body of all time. Look at Joel Stubs. Joel Stubbs might have had the freakiest, craziest upper body with the biggest back. He made Ronnie Coleman's back look small and he had he had a double quad tear uh earlier in his career and he just his legs just never came up. But he was enormous this guy. He he was tall. He was he was like a Paul Delet, but he couldn't build those legs and and he couldn't achieve where he where he wanted to go in bodybuilding. He could have gone all the way this guy or at least he could have been in the upper echelon had he ever had legs to match that upper body. And I believe in my heart that he had the genetics, Chris, to have those legs. He just couldn't train the way he wanted to because of the injuries that he had in his legs. Well, I guess Blessing could, this is an inside joke, Dave. He could pull it out. He's got He's got to be able to train. If he can't squat, he's not going to get legs. you can't get if you don't have good genet leg genetics to begin with and then you can't train the way you need to and I don't know how he's training. I haven't talked to him about it but I'm assuming he's not able to do certain exercises that he needs to do to build the size because he has he is a genetic freak. So he could definitely grow bigger legs if he was able to train them properly. I think that's holding him back and I and I think it's going to continue to hold him back and it's a shame. it. To me, it looked like he decided to to do this show the last minute. Um because he just wasn't ready. I remember seeing pictures of him from a few weeks out. I'm like, "This guy is way off. He's never going to make it in this in this time period." So, I don't know if he waited till the last minute. I don't know if he cheated on his diet or if it or if they decided him and his coach to do the show at the last minute and they try to like, you know, c play catchup, so to speak. And unless you got a crazy crazy freaky metabolism, you just can't do that. Not on a pro level for sure. So what is what is your recommend recommendation for blessing? Do you tell them hey continue dieting, do the Dubai show, you know, take a few weeks off, you know, so that not off but I mean take a few weeks to get in the best shape of your life. Do the Dubai show and and then see how you do or is it like you shouldn't compete until you fix those legs. What do you think? I don't think the legs I mean the legs were broken shows meaning they're not but at the end of the day when all is said and he just needs to be in better shape and it doesn't matter which show he picks whether it be Dubai or another show um he just needs to prep in a way that's going to bring his best and I think that this was this was obviously not his best But um I'm sure you can figure out why, you know, figure out usually in prep, you know, it's like 2020. Hindsight is 2020. After the show is over, you say, you know what, I should have ramped up the cardio six weeks out or I should have really pushed the diet harder the last five weeks, six weeks. Um or sometimes you realize like you know what I fooled myself thinking you know that that was water or that fullness was you know better than being in condition. So yeah, whenever you have to make some sort of a concession when you're competing, in other words, you have to say, well, I either have to do this or I have to do that or I have to look this way or that way. And you can't be your absolute best where I I'm going to bring everything at 100%. you probably you probably shouldn't compete, you know, especially if you're at the at the level where you're trying to get to where you want to go to the Olympia, you want to be a top six guy. If you're not there yet, you probably should try to fix whatever is preventing you from getting there. Now, I don't know. I haven't interviewed him. I don't know exactly what's get what's preventing him from getting there, but like you said, he certainly wasn't in the best shape of his life. And yet he still placed high which tells you how good this guy is and what how good his genetics are. But you got to have wheels, you know, and you got to be in shape like you said. So I think this was this was a fail for him. Maybe, like I said, maybe he should continue dieting for the next four weeks, do the Dubai show, you know, I don't know if he's going to win, but at least if he placed as well because he's in the best shape of his life, I think that's going to really boost his stock way, way, way up. So we'll have to see. I don't know what he's if he's decided what to do yet, but I can't imagine that he was happy with the way he placed. Can you? No. No way. Impossible. I I haven't even seen him post a post on his Instagram yet. Really? Everyone else, you you know, if you've won shows, you you you are confident that you can win more shows. So, anything outside of winning a show is like a gut punch. Yeah. I I I kind of feel bad for him in that sense, but whatever. Let me see if I can pull this up. This is when he uh when he won last year, Indie Pro. He's got glutes, you know. His side shots are not bad. He just I think his legs look better last year. I don't know what happened. Maybe, like I said, maybe he's got an injury. You just can't train him and they're getting worse. I don't know. Last year, Dave, it was more than a year ago. No, when he went into was that two years ago? I think it was two years ago. Maybe you're right. Two years ago. But I'm saying his legs have gotten worse. So, I don't I don't I don't know if it's if it's only But you said it. You know what? When you have really he has good leg separation. When you have good leg separation, even if your legs are a little smaller, when they're in shape, you can kind of bamboozle, you know, the judges if if you pose them right because he puts his leg way out to the side and you see all this separation in his in his, you know, adductor compartment. You see that sartorius muscle. He is impressive and he poses well. So, he can hide his weaknesses, so to speak, as Flex Willer would say, assuming assuming that he gets in the best shape of his life. So if you can't build that leg mass, you better at least show up at your best. And I think that you're in that sense, you're 100% right. Yeah. So, well, it seems like, you know, every week we qualify more and more people for the Olympia. The Olympia is coming. I can't even believe how fast this whole process is going. It's like insane at this point. I like I can't believe that we have these shows are just we're banging one after the other out. We got Toronto next week. Yeah, it's a big one. The Toronto Super Show. We have the MRO Classic in Alakanti, Spain the week after that, June 15th. June 20th is G is going to be the Dubai Pro and uh that's going to be a big one. Obviously, they're giving away 140 grand for first place. There's a China Pro on June 22nd. Also, the same weekend, I'm assuming that there probably won't be very many uh people at that show. There'll probably be a few Chinese guys that that qualify. Uh the Flex Weekend at Italy Pro is going to be taking June 29th. That's going to be a big one in Milan, Italy. There's a show in Portugal on the July 6th, which is the Mr. Big Evolution Portugal Pro. And then uh Chicago has been cancelled. There's no Well, there's no open in Chicago. Did you say Chicago's canled? I don't There's no Yeah, there's no open. There's no open there. Kidding me. No. Yeah, there's no open as far. That's what it says. Even on the schedule I'm looking at, it says masters 40 4550 5560. cancelled. What? When was it cancelled? I don't know. That's a good question. I don't know. I think I'ming someone for the Chicago. That's weird. Yeah, I knew they originally had it and they took out the the open. I don't know why. Like off the grid to know. Yeah. Well, that's why I review these things. Tampa is going to be July 31st, August 2nd weekend. That's a big one. Tim Gardner is down there doing that one. That's phenomenal. And the Texas Pro is going to be August 8th through the 9th. And let me see what else we got. Uh, and that's it. I think we'll get Masters Olympia in August also on that same weekend. And I think that's it for the for the qualifiers for the unless is is well may September 5th might be a qualifier. Pro Muscle Italy Pro. That's an open show as well. So, there's still a lot of pro of qualifiers out there to to qualify for the Olympia. So, this year we won't have an in, you know, we always have like a year where there's someone misses qualifying because they wait at the last minute. There wasn't enough qualifiers. There's absolutely enough qualifiers this year out there. My fear, Chris, is that we're going to get some really crappy shows toward the end because all these guys that are qualified are gonna say, "Ah, what am I gonna do?" Want to qualify because some heavy hitters are done. You know what I mean? It's it's it's nice that if you're a really good bodybuilder. Yeah. Nothing's worse than you're a really good bodybuilder and you like who'd you lose to and you like of course you lost him. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. top five, you know, four times, whatever. But it's nice that there's shows still remaining where really good bodybuilders have the opportunity to make it into the Olympia, right? Like a a Bruno Santos, for instance, will probably qualify at some point, you know? I'm sure probably in the Italy show. There's nothing better than getting to the Olympia once when you're not like a top guy because you can go the the overwhelming response of people who do qualify for the Olympia. They don't do good at the Olympia but they get on the Olympia stage is like, "Huh, guys aren't that much far ahead of me." Yeah. I I can't see like a guy like Rubio Moscara not making it to the Olympia assuming he continues to compete picking the right picking I mean look at you picking picking the right show I mean or not picking the right show continuing to try at these shows because yeah definitely qualify I mean anyone who's a freak who's like you know really really impressive is going to get a qualification at this point there's enough shows to do it at uh you know just all you got to do is just stick in there and keep dieting and bring it. What I I'm shocked that we don't have that I'm not seeing Sergio Lever, you know, competing again. Why doesn't he do Dub Dubai Pro? Although he's not in Dubai anymore, so I guess that's why he hates to because he went to jail in Dubai. Yeah. Yeah. I forgot that he he's not there anymore. But but I'm saying I'm shocked that we don't see him doing a show. You could you could not pay him the prize money for first to go back there. I know. Let's see what he's doing. Has he made a statement at all? I mean, he's always he's always making statements, but I don't think he has said anything about I haven't heard him see him post on really on social media recently. I'd love to see him jump in one of these shows and get his qualification spot taken care of. It's I mean, he he's a freak. I mean, I really love the way he looked when he competed, but we'll see. So, guys, if you're still thinking about, hey, I haven't competed or you know what, if you're one of these guys that gets in shape real easy, I think Dubai is is is a you can't miss. I would make it into a little mini vacation to be honest with you. I'd go out there, do the show, you know, even if you don't qualify or whatever, you don't win it, hang out in Dubai for a few days. It's a It's a nice excuse to go to Dubai and have a really nice vacation there. So, well, you can go, Dave, and cover the show and have a really nice vacation. I I believe me, I would love to. I think I have my kids that weekend. I got to look. What is What What's that? What's that? The weekend of the Where is it? Chicago. Where is it? Texas now. I can't see it. I just Oh, here it is. the June 20th through Oh, no. I'll be in Alabama on that weekend, which is a much bigger show. The whole Wack Pack will be there. There'll be a much much bigger show. Don't Don't go to Dubai. Come to Alabama. Come to Montgomery, Alabama. And uh I'll give you a tour of the city. We'll be there. All right, Chris. Uh we're going to wrap this thing up. As we say every week here at Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. Sure does. We'll see you next week.