This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the 2010 NPC Team Universe here with our women's heavyweight winner, Haley McNeff. Haley, you looked very shocked on stage when they called your name out. Yes. Um, I thought I was getting third. People told me I was getting third. I was like, "Okay, I'm getting third." So, that's what I thought was happening. What do you What do you think swayed the judges in your favor? I I think I know what might have done it. Um, I honestly like I didn't look at the other women and so I don't even know what they looked like compared to me. Normally, like I'll be able to judge, you know what I mean? So, I won't know until I look at the pictures and I'm like, "Okay, maybe, you know, she had this or I had this or whatever." Well, you know what is I always tell people presentation is very important on stage. Shows are won and lost with presentation. I thought your presentation was very professional even though you're only 22 years old. Do you practice a lot with your posing? Um, yeah, I would say every time I hit a mirror, you know. Now, another theory, another theory I have is you I talked you into doing the Bros verse pros 4 deadlift challenge two weeks from your show and uh you put on quite a display. You did 36 reps 20 or 28 28 reps and you know what I think it was that publicity that that pushed you over the top. Well, I owe my my career and everything to you. You do to RX muscles. I don't want to take credit for myself. I owe everything to I don't even I don't even work hard. I don't even lift weights. No, there were a couple boos. Let's be honest, there were a couple boos in the audience. Some people were a little upset. They thought maybe your conditioning wasn't as good as it needed to be. Um c if you give yourself some constructive criticism, what did you feel about the way you you pres the physique you presented on stage today? I was really disappointed with my conditioning. I It was a complete disaster. I got sick last night. Um I was fainting all night. I was dehydrated. I the they almost called the paramedics today. They weren't let they wouldn't let me go on stage. They were shoving Fritos down my throat. They were literally pouring Pedialyte into my face. And they were like, "We're calling the paramedics. You can't compete." And just nothing went right. You know what I mean? My body just Well, something went right today cuz you emerged as the uh champion. And I And you're going to the world championships now. Does it am I? I thought you only Weight class winners go to the World Championships. Oh, Lord in heaven. 22-year-old Haley McNeff going to the World Championships. The uh heavyweight victor here tonight at the Team Universe. Anyone you want to thank? Uh yeah, Dave Pulsanella and Chris Zimmerman. I wouldn't be anywhere without the two of them. What a what a duo that you're thanking and and RX Muscle, of course. And and RX Muscle and Dave Plumba and all the things you guys do for me and just everybody that supported me and pushed me along and obviously Jeff Jeff the producer. And absolutely Colette. She's helped me so much with this show and there's probably a million other people I'm not thanking. But it's all right. Go eat. For now, I'm Dave Palumbo with one happy lady. Haley McNeff rxmuscle.com