The good thing is it doesn't appear that there was any foul play. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here with an RX Muscle news update. As you know, a couple of weeks ago, I reported on the death of bodybuilder and friend to RX Muscle, Haley McN. Uh, we had a huge, huge support from the bodybuilding industry as a whole. It even made it all the way to TMZ and um obviously a very beautiful woman, great bodybuilder, great personality. She worked with RX Muscle extensively and uh was very sad to hear about her passing. Um we did a show on her commemorating and remembering her on after hours and I received an email from the family and thanking us for that but also wanting to clarify some points and uh about around surrounding the death. you know there was an autopsy performed. The autopsy results will not be uh available for 3 months. So right now there is no cause of death. The family does not know what caused the death. So any rumors that are out there or anything that might have been insinuated on our our show or any other, you know, social media post or shows is just pure speculation. They they do not know what the cause of death was. As a matter of fact, according to the family, the Sudbury, Massachusetts detectives informed them directly that no drugs were found near her. Uh there was no foul play. There was no alcohol present in the home as well. And she was not vaccinated and she has not taken anabolic steroids in over 14 years. So at this point, there is no cause of death. They don't know. So that's why an autopsy is being performed. So any speculation about whether she had the the jab or she or she was doing steroids or she was doing recreational drugs is just pure speculation. And you know what at this point it doesn't even belong in the conversation. The autopsy will tell exactly what happened. Uh they're obviously taking their time doing this and uh you know we saw it with other bodybuilders who had passed and this is the really the best way to do it because to speculate is silly. Um, and I understand why the family would be hurt by speculation because it, you know, while it seems fun on social media for people to make up crap and to make off-handed comments about Haley, think about how much her family, uh, her friends, the close ones that is, are hurting right now. And so just out of, you know, pure common decency, let's let's not speculate, not let's try to refrain from saying anything. Now that we know there is an autopsy that was performed and they are analyzing right now. I'm assuming the family will release those results. Hopefully they'll send me a copy and we can go over that and we'll know exactly what killed her because let's face it, I don't think anyone is denying anything at this point. They just want to know the truth. I mean, think about that. Imagine if you had a a daughter who or a really good friend or even a girlfriend or wife who passes and you don't even know what the reason is. uh the it just doesn't make sense and uh it's it's it's terrible not to to the not knowing part is is is sometimes just as bad as losing the person because it's like you you wondered what what possibly could have happened which is something that I guess came into mind. I always assumed like the worst sometimes especially when you don't know what the real cause of death was but there was no foul play according to the police and the detectives. That's a good that's a good thing. But at this point, you know, she is a young woman and when young people pass, they always usually do autopsies because they have to rule out any kind of like homicide or poisoning or anything suspicious because let's face it, young people just don't pass. Usually, you know, if a 90-year-old person dies, you know, there's not there's usually not a lot of uh speculation as to what was the cause of death. you know, it was usually either old age or they fell or they had an infection or they had pneumonia, but not someone who's in the, you know, the prime of their life at this point. And and that's that was, I think, the most disturbing thing. It's interesting that the world and industry at at large really got behind this story and it really blew up tremendously. it went viral and I think that has a lot to do with you know her personality and uh if you you know look at the pictures and the videos she's she was a very energetic she was a exuberant she had a lot of life inside of her and and if you listen to her videos or you watched her perform on a bodybuilding stage that energy kind of hit you and knocked you away. It was intoxicating. It was it was almost like she had a charisma that was undefinable. and and and when you lose someone like that, people really want to know what happened. They they want to know what the story is and it's it seems to be more compelling. It it it's sad that some people's death kind of goes unnoticed and then other people's it's like everyone grabs the story, you know, and I think that obviously people love to say steroids, steroids killed her, steroids killed her. Let's face it, the girl didn't take steroids that long and she certainly wasn't taking steroids like any of the men would take them. And she certainly was not masculineized in any way whatsoever. So, there's no way steroids killed her. But, it's an easy target, right? Because if you have if you have a muscle and you have a vein down the middle of your bicep, that's an easy target for a lot of the trolls online to do. And I and I know it's it's it's can be very disheartening to the family to to hear that stuff. Likewise, you know, when people start throwing out, you know, that recreational drugs were involved or that it was a suicide and you and you know, as the family that that's probably not the case, then that's also kind of depressing because you you can't defend against this. You have to kind of just wait for it to go away. So, I'm glad the family reached out to me. It was it touched my heart. They were very touched by the tribute I had done to her and some of the nice things I said about her, and they were all true, of course. And so I'm glad that maybe that gave them a little piece, but I thought this video was necessary to do because there was some information that wasn't accurate that we put out there. And uh that's we don't know what the cause of death is. And right now to speculate it was is not going to be good. I'm glad the autopsy has been performed. Once again, once those results come in, I will report that. For now, this is all we know. Uh, I hope that this story, you know, doesn't get any more legs behind it. I hope it's just happens to be some kind of a freak accident. But, uh, we'll find out for sure. You know, if obviously if there was foul play that maybe was on a more subtle level that no one picked up, hopefully the autopsy will pick that up. If that wasn't the case and there was a mistake or something like that that happened or maybe she had something wrong with her, no one even knew. Could be like an aneurysm. We, you know, people drop all the time. We see it happen in sports. We see it happen in in everyday life. You know, aneurysms are usually the most deadly, you know, way that people pass. And I've I know people that have had it. You know, one minute they're fine, the next minute they're dead. And then and I don't know if that's the case or not, but uh these are things that that we won't know until the autopsy comes back. So, once again, this is the update on the Haley McN situation. Once again, show the family some respect. Send your prayers and love out to this family because they are grieving and they are hurting. Once again, I just want to send my prayers and love and condolences out to that family and I hope we find out what the cause was at some point in the future. Dave Palumbo with an RX Muscle news update.