We lost both of these bodybuilders and great human beings way too early. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here with an RX Muscle news update. You know, I hate doing these and I've done way too many of these over the last several years, but we lost two, not one, but two amazing, amazing people from our bodybuilding community over the last couple days. Uh, the first one was Haley McNeff. A lot of you out there seem to have really liked her and and knew her. And I think she really first the first time I ever saw her was when she I saw the uh video raising the bar, which was Dave Pulsonella is our good friend Dave Pulsonella and his brother Mike's little pet project they did. It was there was a few of them. I think there's a three of raising the bar one, two, and I think there's a three. And I know I think they're going to do an updated one, too. But the video series was tremendous and that really uh brought to light, you know, uh Mike's talent as a videographer and Dave's personality on camera, which I really loved. I thought they did a great job with that series. But Haley was in there. Dave at the time had been dating her. She was really I think she was like 19 or she was really young at that point. And many years later, I I met her and she was doing some stuff with RX Muscle and hanging out with our whole community. and I had time, you know, I spent a bunch of time with her and uh became friends with her and she was super smart. She had, you know, college degree. She was a really good bodybuilder. She was up and coming. I don't know. I don't know quite know why she stopped bodybuilding. Uh but I know she went on to some do some other stuff and I kind of lost touch with her after she kind of dropped off the bodybuilding uh map. but super nice individual, uh, great soul, very genuine, and like I said, you know, we I spent days with her and and a whole RX Muscle crew going out to dinners and, you know, doing bros versus pros strength challenges in the gym and it was, you know, we had a really good time. She was on TV shows. I probably should try to pull some clips from that, but I don't know if I'm going to have time. And I think this is more important to get this up in a timely manner because I really want to send out my condolences to her family, friends, any fans that she had out there. I know a lot of people reached out to me and said, "Dave, we really want you to do a a video tribute to her because she does have a lot of fans." And there are a lot of people that cared about her and, you know, they want to they want to hear me talk about her and I think it's sometimes, you know, I we put up a post on RX Muscles Instagram and my Instagram, but sometimes that's just not enough. And you know, you want to really talk about the individual. You know, like I said, I wasn't like super close friends, but she did spend actually almost a week at my house. She stayed at my house. Well, all the Arcs Muscle people were at my house actually. Aaron Singerman, who was working with me at the time, he was there. Uh I forget who else. I think John Romano was there or John was staying around the corner. That's when he was living in in New York. And we were all hanging out like, you know, for a week straight. I don't remember what the occasion was over what holiday it was, but we all had a really good time. and we would go out and uh you know eat and I think we went to a couple after parties and we had a really good time and once again she was a a super super genuine person and I don't know like I said what went wrong and there's really been no cause of death released. There have been some rumors and I don't want to speculate at all because it's disrespectful to our family. Uh especially because I don't I don't even know if they're doing an autopsy or not. I assume they would at some point and if the family decides to release whatever that uh the results of that are then that's on them. But uh for now I'd like to just send my condolences out to the family and say that uh you have our prayers here from RX Muscle and myself. The other person I was a lot closer to and that's Craig Licker. I don't know if you guys know Craig Licker. You know, for you young people out there, you probably don't know who he is, but I remember um my friend Bob Bonham, who owns Strong and Shapely Gym in in New Jersey, said to me, I was training at his gym. This is when I was first coming up and like just starting to, you know, you know, get some notoriety. And I was going to go see the um the 1994 NPC Nationals. I had just placed third at the Junior USA. People kind of were asking questions, who's this guy, you know, at this point. So, I was kind of getting a little bit of notoriety. I remember Bob telling me, he's like, "Dave, you're going out to nationals." I said, "Yeah, it's going to be the first nationals I'm going to go see. It's in Orlando. I'm all excited." You know, because Paul Deo was doing it. This was going to be his comeback. He was going to win the nationals, which he wind up eventually doing. And uh Bob said, "You know, Craig Licker is looking really good." I said, "Who's Craig Licker?" He goes, and he showed me a picture of him. He said, "He's up from the Boston area, and he's I think he's going to win the middleweight class." Now, at that time, the middleweights were super super competitive. Vinnie Galante was competing as a middleweight back then and you know he was one of the favorites and there was a whole bunch of other guys that were favorites as well in that middleweight class. I think Jose Figaro was in that middleweight class as well and liquor came out of nowhere and he won that class. I remember seeing him that I was at the show. I didn't know him about a year or two later him and I got introduced and he got his pro card at that show you know if you win your class at nationals. So he won Willie Stall, excuse me, um, excuse me, Derek Witet won the heavy the light heavyweight class. He he had beaten me at the Junior USA earlier that year, dropped down to light heavy, he won there. And then Paul De won the heavyweight class. There was no super heavy at that point in time. And then Paul won the overall. So it was a really good, you know, weight class winners. They all turned pro. And somehow Craig got in touch with me through, I think, I think it was through my friend Anthony Derzo in in Rhode Island. and he said, you know, uh, Dave, I want to work with you. You know, I want I heard you, you know, you really know what you're doing. And and I guess at that point, I had gotten really big. I met I was about 300 pounds at this point. And so, a lot of people were reaching out to me. Remember, there was no internet. He drove all the way from Boston to my house on Long Island, I remember, and we met up and we just hit it off. You know, sometimes you're just friends with people. You one second. You know, Chris Aceto was like that. John Romano was like that. Craig Licker was like that. Just same mindset. If you told Craig, you know, to to drink pe, you know, pee, he would say, "How much you want me to drink? Eat dirt. How many grams of it?" You know, that he was like that kind of a guy. And I started doing his diet. And he would literally drive to my house like 4 and a half hours each way, like once a month so I could look at him getting ready for shows and stuff like that. And remember back then there was no 212 class. So he went from winning middleweight, you know, 176 pounds at nationals. Now he had to compete with the with the big big boys essentially the pros who were over you know in the 200s and it was very hard for him and if there had been a 212 class I think he would have done really well because he had a really good structure and he got super ripped because he would you could make this guy suffer he did not care he loved it and then I started getting you know I started making a little bit of money in the industry and he started making a little bit of money and I you know I bought a BMW and and then he saw my car and then he wanted one and so he got an M3 and I had a BMW M5 which is the corridor and then we started going to there was a tuning place on Long Island that would do like you know upgrades like dining and all the different aftermarket places and he would drive out and we would go there and we would get sucked under our car. We would talk you know uh BMWs and so we had a lot of interest in common and uh it was it was really kind of cool. He would come out and stay for the weekend and then drive back. He would bring friends with him. I met a lot a lot of guys through him that he would just bring to my house. Steve, my friend Steve Reeves, uh, I met through I'm pretty sure I met through him and a couple other guys that he he brought over the years to my house and we were, you know, we were really tight for a long time and then Craig kind of went on and did his own thing. He was actually working in he had his own tuning shop. He was so into cars. He had his own tune tuning shop for a while. And then he came back to me and said, "I want to get back into bodybuilding and and he started working as a sales guy for me for Species Nutrition and he was covering the whole New England area and he was doing really well. Craig, if Craig put his mind to something, he can do anything. He was a great salesman and he was very a likable guy. You know, like if if you talked to him, you you you almost wanted to give him your business." And I, you know, I always appreciated his loyalty, his friendship. And uh, you know, he always defended me. He always, you know, he always said Dave's, you know, the smartest guy I know and he's my friend and and I always respected that about him. And I said I always defended him. If anyone ever tried to say anything bad, I always said you don't know Craig like I know him. This he was a good good guy. And once again, I don't know what happened. We're trying to find out what went wrong. I know he had a little bit of some some heart issues earlier, but I don't think that that was anything that was that was worrisome as far as I knew. And I I just don't know what could have caused his his death. And you know, hopefully they do an autopsy and we find out. Uh once again, I send my prayers out to his family and his friends. Uh like I said, he was a well-liked guy in in the Boston, New England area. And uh he's going to be missed. It's interesting that both Haley and Craig kind of came from the same area and they died a couple days apart. It's just it's an absolute shame. Haley was only 37 years old. Craig was was I think Craig was 57 cuz he was born the same year I was, 1968. So, we lost both of these bodybuilders and great human beings way too early. And once again, my prayers go out and my love goes out to their families. From everyone here at RX Muscle, I'm Dave Palumbo with a very unfortunate RX Muscle update.