Hi, this is Heather De's with rxmuscle.com. We're doing a little tour here at the David Barton Gym here in Seattle. Um, and let's start our tour. So, can you tell us why uh about this design? Who is the main designer? David Barton actually thinks of all the designs himself. Um, and then has the same builder for all of our locations. So, this whole ramp he kind of thought of as wanted to bring Seattle into the gym. Um, so it's supposed to be more like a skateboard, like snowboarding vert ramp. Um, so it's kind of a cool design when you walk through the gym and it brings you out to the gym floor here. Yeah. Let's take a tour. All righty. So, this is going to be our retail space. A lot of stuff in here um was actually brought in from like London and New York and Paris. David's wife, um Suzanne bought a lot of it on her vacations and then came here and designed it all for us when we first opened in 2009. So, it's kind of like eclectic, cool, fun stuff that you won't see everywhere. That is way fun. I love those shoes. Yeah. And then workout in, but still exciting. Well, not what I would work out in. I don't know. Some people might work out in this. And then as we walk through the gym, these are our offices here on the left for membership sales as well as management. Um, this is kind of a fun like juice bar area that we have different like social mixers and stuff with our members in. So, a lot of the times we'll open up the juice bar for an actual bar and have a lot of like networking parties with our members and stuff. So, yeah. So, do people hold special events here? Like do you ask? No, it's just they ask to Yeah. But it's really just for member parties. You know, we'll have different businesses come in for our member events. It's one of our favorite parts, the China day bed. Everyone loves to lay in it during their in between their sessions. Yeah, the trainers will be in there. We'll have to go wake them up. This the front desk where you check in. All righty, let's get to the workout part. All right, as we walk out to the gym floor, this is our lounge area for the members to hang out in. And then as we go to the right here, it's going to be all of our check out this. Yeah, this couch is pretty awesome. It was brought here all the way from New York. It was custom made for for David Barton. I know. That's pretty comfortable. I don't know if you remember better bodies in the past. No, we have to sterilize it. It's normally after they shower, then they'll come up and listen to music and hang out up here. As we walk around the gym floor, you're going to see all the free weights that are along the windows and the mirrors. Um, you'll notice a lot of the our members work out with personal trainers. So, you're going to see a lot of one-on-one sessions going on here. How heavy do your dumbbells go? Up to 120. All right. Not bad. Not bad. Yeah. I noticed the lighting is really cool. Very different than most gyms. The lighting is very unique to David Barton. Um, he actually places each light himself before the gym even opened. He came in and decided where each light was going to hit the equipment. After the equipment was brought in, um, a million dollars alone just in lighting in this gym. So, it's definitely something that, you know, he really feels a million dollars alone in lighting. Well, I would say like if you're going to work out and get people attracted to the gym, then you know they want to look good in the chair. So, lighting is so important. If you don't have good lighting, you're not going to look good. You're not going to want to go to that gym. Exactly. Well, and that's that's what he said. He's like, I've always worked out in these gyms with the fluorescent lighting. And he's like, nobody looks good in that lighting. Awful. He's like, why don't you want to feel good about yourself and look in the mirror and actually be able to feel like the lights are hitting your muscles in the right spots? And yeah, what kind of my There you go. Okay, this is my favorite place. Just kidding. Nobody likes cardio. Um, obviously plenty of cardio equipment for our members. No one's ever waiting. All of them have the iPod hookups and iPhone hookups that charge while you're working out. All life fitness and precore top-of-the-line equipment. Well, this is Seattle. You got to have a yoga. Of course. Of course. Of course. Our yoga instructors are amazing as well. They teach variety of classes. We do everything except for hot yoga. So, there's actually a class going on now. Um, we just don't we just don't offer hot yoga, but we offer every other type of yoga. Yeah, me too. Personally, McKenzie is one of our um amazing yoga instructors. She's also one of our plus trainers, so she does both. Um and really cool windows, too. I know. And the floor is beautiful. Absolutely beautiful in there. You know, I think it to tell you the chairs, I I don't know what kind of wood it is, but it's it's super cool. It's gorgeous. You think it's wet? I think it's funny. And then this is the potty studio. Oh, reformers torture chamber. Okay, this is one of the workouts. I don't know what the resistance is on. Do you actually know what these are? Yeah. Oh, except for a reformer. Except it would have to be this way. Yeah. I don't know if like I remember I don't really remember the moves day. You know me. All right. It's We actually have a DJ that spins right here as well, three nights a week. So, we bring in different local DJs from around Seattle, which is really cool. You can see him spinning from the freeway. So, it's kind of fun at night. Well, that'll motivate you to work out your DJs there for sure. You guys got any famous DJs? Um, yeah. I mean, our main DJ is from New York and um her name is DJ Colby and she's awesome. So, we are in the men's locker room right now. Towel service and then tons of lockers. Oh my gosh, hundreds. There's plenty. And they're all day use. So, everyone just brings a lock. Hey, George. It's going to be the shower area here, which leads back to the steam room and sauna. You guys provide every like all the essentials you need to get ready. Yep, we provide everything for you. Shampoo, conditioner, razors, shaving cream, Q-tips, everything you need. I don't know why they're not on, but they're not on. Yeah, I know. This is the tour of David Barton gym. And now it's time to go train back.