Johnny Styles here with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the Puerto Rico Pro Show with Heather Grace. Hey Heather. Hello. How are you feeling in my island? Welcome. I am very excited. I'm very relaxed. This is It's been nice. It's been really nice. Like I've never rolled into a show this relaxed. Wow. I saw Heather like in the pool like nothing, chilling, just you know, taking pictures of iguanas. Kenny and I, yeah, we found an iguana and so he had to do his like to catch it. It's It's one of those things that, you know, a lot of fans like like you here in the island. This is their first time seeing you. How does it feel? Oh, it's great. It's so awesome. Um I mean, even just the air, everything feels just light and easy. People are super nice. Uh it's very um it's very relaxed. It's great. Comparing Heather to 2015, what's the main difference in your eyes of the package that you're bringing? Um, my proportions are much better. My legs have come up. Conditioning is better than it's ever been, which is I'm excited about. I'm really excited about um I just I feel good. I feel relaxed. I'm not stressed. It's I think it's going to be a good show. You look like you're ready to go partying anytime soon. So for before we leave, just anybody you want to thank and your whole team. Yes. Uh Dylan Armbrush, my trainer, Kenny Wallik, my posing coach. Absolutely. Um gosh, I have a huge team behind me back home in Denver. But um I'm just really really grateful. I'm in a good place, good people, and I'm just ready to do this. Oh, my sponsors. I have to thank my sponsors. Very important. Uh yes, Lou with Divine Nutrition, Patrick with Warhammer Gym Gear, Spencer with ImageMD. Um, again, I'm a blessed woman. Very happy. For Heather, before we leave, you got to take us out with a front double bicep at least for all your fans all over the island. So, Heather's going to throw in a good I wish you could show a little bit of glutes, too, but come on. You see your front double. You see Heather has a killer back, but right now she's going to show a little bit. A little bit back double. See, everybody's been talking about Heather's bag, and it's one of those best bags in the world right there. We'll see that in the Olympia this year. So, for Heather Grace, I'm Johnny Styles, rxmuscle.com. Thank you.