The Mast NT from BSN available now. This is Dave Palumbo with rxmuscle.com. I'm here at the 2010 Arnold Classic. I'm here with our women's figure third place finisher, Heather May French. Third place. Third place. Third place. I got three for three now. I know you're you you're kind of stuck. I mean, that's a good place to be stuck because third place is is very good obviously at this elite level. But um what were you hoping for second? I mean first. I mean what what were you thinking when you were up there? I Well, okay. All honesty, I knew I was top four from the call outs. Um and I thought I was second or third, but then I thought maybe I'm fourth. So I like did the whole thing. I just knew I wasn't first. Like I just kind of knew in my head and then I just kept going back and forth between the second, third, and fourth. So I really never stuck on a number. Aaron is like 510 and you're like like what? Barely 5 ft. Yes. 5 foot. I It's really hard to compare you two. Well, that's the thing is like if you look at all of us, you got Mindy, you've got Nicole, you've got me, and and and they're like what? 57 and above 130. I'm And then there's Heather May, 5 foot 100 lb. And I'm like, bring it on. So, it's amazing though that you can stand up there with them. So, but that's that it is. It's totally cool that I could stand. I mean, I I have no I have no problem with symmetry. I'll fight you on symmetry all day long. I know I have good symmetry. Um, and if my conditioning's off, that can hurt me. Um, but I think I just lack a little bit of size, a little bit of muscle, but you're small. You really can't hold too much more. Yeah, I'm I'm Heather May. That's who I am. Yeah, you're pretty You're one of the hottest ones up there. So that that helps too. Thank you. They're all beautiful. Dave and and Heather will be at the Species Nutrition booth to Saturday and Sunday. Don't miss her. And uh so you look happy though. I I am. I'm totally relieved. I'm happy. And it was just it was a great experience. I mean, I took seventh last year at the Arnold. So to do third and third, I'm totally happy. How much cash did you win for third place? Um 8,000. Same. That's not bad. It actually pays your expenses for the show. You actually made a few bucks. Well, no species does. Yeah, that's true. Don't forget to pay taxes on that though. Yeah. And I'd like to also thank my sponsor species. Seriously, because um um they're going to help me even get to New Zealand call. And I'm like, you're going to be in New Zealand in what, two weeks? Yep. Two weeks. March March 20th. And so um from the suits to all the, you know, proteins and everything and just it's amazing. So I have a great sponsor. Well, thank you, Heather. And you looked awesome up there and we're proud of you. So what are you going to go eat now? Pizza and a beer. Pizza. Pizza. here. Wow, that's right up your alley, John. Pizza and a beer. Yeah. Where you going? Maybe we'll uh maybe we'll videotape you. Where do you want to go? Where are we going? Where do you want to take Heather May for pizza? Okay. That's always the response I bet she gets from guys. Anywhere you want to go, right? Not always, but I'll take it. All right. He'll take you up on it. John Romano and Heather May will be going to drink some beer and eat some pizza and uh I'll be going back to edit video. Uh congratulations, sir. All right. Dave Palumbo with a very happy girl here. rxmuscle.com. Heat.