You were a little upset that you didn't win the tub of protein, but yeah, I was actually Pete the producer came through. If you had a a bottle of Jagger Meister uh for the win, I think I would have got the question. Well, um some of I got to cough here. This is, you know, when you're doing a live show, it sucks. All right, I got the frog out of my throat. A lot of people on the forum, Colleen, are requesting that you say the word for now. Why is that? Because I have an accent. Say it. Say for. Four. Yeah. Everyone on the uh the the final verdict with Mel Chansy, the radio show you do every week, people make fun of you the way you say four because you say fa for four. Four. Now I think that Jimmy's pronunciation of the word three is way it's way worse. What? Say three. Say three. That's just like an Italian thing, man. What do you say? Say it. When we used to play botchi ball, you know, we were kids. What would you say? You got you know four balls. We used to go one, two, three, four. Yeah, tree. It's just It's an Italian thing. Yeah. So, what is her thing? She's [\h__\h] know. I have no idea. She's from [\h__\h] Jersey. Oh, is it Jersey? That's a Jersey girl thing. Is that what it is? Unless she was on the golf course too much. Yeah. I don't know. For All right, let's introduce our next guest. We have uh Dan Calibesi on the panel here. Dan, talk to the microphone. Say hello to our audience. How's it going, guys? Thanks for having me. All right. Uh, now Dan is one of these guys that like relentlessly pursued me and even though I was crazy busy, like I kept blowing him off and I felt bad about it, but I was just really traveling a lot and he just kept on me and and and found people that I knew and and and and he got him and I said, "All right, come down to the TV show and you're here." And that's what it takes really to market yourself in today's, you know, we were him and I I actually walked into Taco Joe's after the gym and he was there just ironically enough and we were sitting bullshitting a little bit before the show and I was having a cheat meal. I was like, "Oh [\h__\h] that was he's having a cheat me. I was having my regular daily meal there, you know, at Taco Joe's and uh we were talking about what it takes to market yourself in today's uh you know, world of bodybuilding and fitness and we're talking about social media and you know, you have to be relentless and I think that's something that you got going for you. Talk to me a little bit about what you how you got into the whole field to begin with. Yeah. Um Jim Merto for Alpha Design was the first photographer in Yoners by me that shot me got me into you know men's physique and competing. I've been a personal trainer for 10 years. You know, I have my own business and competing. Just kind of fell in line with fitness modeling and uh it's been awesome. And you know what I say about M physique, Colleen? You got to have a good haircut. He's got a good haircut. So, he's definitely going to do well in this show. I first I had a mohawk the first show. That's not good. No good. I got a lot little better, a little more reformed. So, you you got you were into the men's physique and then but now you just wrote a book, I understand. Yeah, I just wrote a book. It's published on Amazon, Fitness Cheat Sheet. You go to my website, dancalibiesfitness.com. No, you self-published this. Is that what it is? Self-published. Want to get it out. Is this an ebook or is this a regular book? No, it's a regular hard copy book and it's going to be a Kindle version too. Now, what what is it about? It's a weight loss system I created. Kind of like a point value system just to keep uh an itinerary for water intake, working out, sleep, everything like that. Well, what is it based on? Like what's the what is what are the ranking systems here? It's a simple point value system. So, every category is points. So, some strength training, water consumption, food prep, meals. So, you kind of set your point value. If you were real advanced like you, you might set a high point value, try to hit every area on the sheet. If someone's new to fitness, they might just try to sleep and get maybe two workouts in a week. So you can kind of go from a beginner to advanced. It's like a fun little game. So it's been working out good for a lot of my client. How did you come up with this idea from competing and all the things I had to memorize daily that I had to do 100%. I just tried to break it down and make, you know, modified versions for all different audiences. Yeah. But will people succeed? Like what if you just decide to sleep like like Larry was doing and then you wind up jumping off a bridge, you know, like in six months. That's not going to work. Not going to work. You got to increase your point value and you always got to get do a little better each week. What would Jimmy's point value be at at this point in time? He looks pretty fit. I'm sure he gets a lot of areas done. I don't think so. I think he's just pretty much he's probably around zero or one. I think you're looking at a guy that drinks beer, eats pasta 10 o'clock at night, and I go to the gym about once a week. See, he's got at least a couple points, right? He's got a couple points. He's got a couple points. Yeah, more than most. We don't go to the gym at all. That's true. Now, you probably have a lot of points, I would think. Yeah. You know, I got a good coach right now, you know, Factory, and uh, you know, I never was on such a stringent eating plan, and, you know, it's made a huge difference in the last, you know, show I did with him to when I did it without him. When are you competing again? Atlantic States and team universe. Oh, so that's coming up. Yeah, four weeks. All right. So, you must look pretty good then. Yeah. You know, he he has me stay a little bigger and then I kind of cut down a couple weeks before. Well, let's let's see what you look like because let's see if these point values work. Now, do you have a coach, but you have designed your own your own um your own workout system and uh and getting in shape system. How come you don't follow your own point system? Is it too hard to advise yourself? Um no, it's not too hard to advise. You know, I have to do everything real complicated. So for you know the point system for me it's you know you really can't mess up you know before doing a show. So let's let's see let's see you do a little men's physique uh turnar around there what you do. Let's see let's see your pose. Jimmy I want you to pay attention so you can critique him. Critique him on his men's physique stance. The worst torso twist. Yeah. Do it. Yeah. Do it. Pretend you're on stage. Pretend Jimmy's the judge. Head judge. Yeah. I'm a good judge. We know how much like you you like men's physique. Jimmy turn around. Let's see the back. I'm looking at his [\h__\h] haircut. What does that say, Jimmy? On his back. Turn around. It says uh Oh, you speak Latin, Jimmy, right? Oh, yeah. Fluently. It's very close to Italian. See what it says in the back. I'll tell you what it says. See if you can read it. It says uh stay out of my way. I'll [\h__\h] run you down. What is it? Well, let put your shirt on and sit down and tell us what it says into the microphone. Uh I noticed that a lot of younger guys are getting You notice this, Colleen? Sayings on their bodies. Yes. Usually it's in English, but his is in Latin. Why? Why did you pick Latin first? I didn't want people to read it. You know, it was a personal thing. I got it after my first competition in jiu-jitsu. It translates to in facing my demons, I find freedom. I was always nervous to compete as a kid, especially in like a faces my demons, I find freedom. Yeah. Jimmy, can you relate to that? Well, yeah. I said it in a in a different way. What was your what did you say again? Stay out of my way of knocking the [\h__\h] down. That's true. Yes. And what does that mean to you? Like I said, I had a lot of fear competing. So after, you know, I faced that, you know, anytime you have a lot of fear, it holds you back from a lot of things, you know, and competing was one of the things that I really wanted to do. So it was a really nice uh weight off my shoulders to get, you know, the first and second tournament done. But you mean when you were fighting? Yeah. Jiu-jitsu. Yeah. The fighters tend to put more tattoos on them. People physique athletes tend to stay away from people. And then, you know, I didn't want to get any more because when you get into fitness and stuff, it just kind of hurts you. So it helps you. Sure. Sure. Now, so how is your book doing on Amazon? Is it selling well? I did it more for marketing exposure. You know, I sold like maybe 80 copies. A lot of people knew me about the Well, now you're going to sell a lot more because people are watching it. So, you you know, do we get a commission on this? No. No. How seriously, what's the name of the book again? Say it's called the fitness cheat sheet. The fitness cheat sheet. And you can you can buy it on Amazon.com. On my website. All right. And what's your website address? Uh daniel caloriesfitness.com. All right. We to your left we have Sean Robinson who's been here before. Have you been on the show before? Sean, talk to the microphone. This is my first time. All right. Well, we've we've done some Iron Asylums with you before. Obviously, a lot of the uh RX Muscle fans know you from your post on the forums. Uh I understand you're getting ready for a show. You're looking very lean. What uh when will we see you back on the stage? Uh most likely Atlantic States and u the Jersey show. You seem very tired. Does that mean that you're training? You're dieting hard? I get up at 4 in the morning to do cardio. Oh, so we got you here pretty late today. Yeah. Why do you get up so early? You just wake up, you're hungry? I'm supposed to be at work at um 8:00 in Bohemia. Oh. So, do you get to work on time? Sometimes. sometimes. But um I just want to get it done, get home, showered to the Gotcha. How much cardio are you doing now a day? Right now I'm doing about hour and 45 minutes. Yeah. You have to You're one of these guys that has to do a lot of cardio to get yourself in shape. Your metabolism slow, but you put muscle on relatively easy. Yeah. Yeah. I I have to do keto. I mean Yeah. You don't You don't You're very carb sensitive. Yeah. You know that. Yes. I work with you a couple times now. Why don't you take You want to take off the shirt? I saw some pictures you posted on Facebook. You look pretty good. You want to hit a couple shots for us? We're trying to keep that under wraps for now. You posting on Facebook every 10 minutes, this guy. Give us a couple arm shots. Roll the sleeves up a little bit. Should hit a few arm shots for us so you don't you don't have to take the shirt off because at the end of the day Sean Robinson here getting ready for what? Atlantic States and uh dieting down. All right. You I hear some cracking and popping. That's a good That's a good sign, I guess. Now, uh since I got you guys on the panel and we didn't get to ask you before, uh what kind of porn do you like? Uh Dan Honestly, I mean, it always comes back to porn or or taking a [\h__\h] right, Jimmy? I got a question for you. Yeah. You do cardio 4 in the morning, right? Isn't it They say, "Isn't it better to do it that time in the morning?" Cuz, you know, you don't have too much food in you burn more calories. Dave always told me, you know, get in there empty stomach, right? You know, don't overdo it. Keep my heart rate between 120, 130. Right. Right. Right. That's what I thought. Yeah. I just had I didn't have the I wasn't thinking 4 in the morning, but hey, you got to get to work at at 8. You know, you got to do what you got to do, right? No, I remember my, you know, my days when back in the days when I used to You never did cardio? No. When I used to run at a ball 4:00 in the morning, I had to like catch the last All right. Uh Dan, what kind of porn do you prefer? I'm not a big porn person this time. Especially, honestly, four weeks off from my show, I have no fat in my Well, yeah. Now you don't. But what? offseason. Jimmy, you know that all everyone watches porn, right, Jimmy? Everyone does. I'm not honestly I [\h__\h] my wife a lot. I really don't. I get it out of my system quick. I want anyone's feedback who's watching. Do you believe this guy or not? Sean Robinson, I know you watch porn. What kind of porn do you like? I like blondes. You like blondes. All right. All right. Blondes with big butts or just It doesn't matter. Just as long as they're blonde. All right. Very honest. We have a very honest panel except for Dan who claims he doesn't watch any. I'm a liar now. Right. That's right. You're a liar. Of course. Brandon a liar and a fool on here. Uh let's talk a little bit more about uh about the book because uh uh I would like to get into the book a little more. Does it talk about aside from diet, does it talk about different types of workouts? What kind of workout regimens do you believe in? I didn't want to go too in detail about the workout. You can make a whole book on workouts. I gave uh some sample circuits that you know the average mom could do at home like a couple five minute circuits that they could run through. You know, real simple stuff, body weight, squats, jumping jacks like that. Mhm. Okay. So, it's more of a basic type of approach. You're you're trying to hit more mainstream America. Yeah. A lot of my clients are a lot of moms. I had, you know, two kids trying to lose the weight. Tried numerous diet plans, failed. You know, I've been doing a lot of online coaching, helping people with diet plans. And do you work out of a gym, too? Um, I do fitness consulting at a gym in Westchester. What gym? Uh, Apogee in Bedford. Okay. And, uh, they kind of hired me to, you know, increase small group training. They want to do another monthly membership model. So, that's going Now, you're a good-looking guy. All right. I have the question. I know Jimmy's gonna you're gonna you're gonna you backed me on this one. He's a good-looking guy. I I notice he's wearing the wedding ring, which is good. But I'm sure on Facebook you get all these chicks that are probably hitting you up, you know, asking you, you know, inappropriate things. How do you deal with that? You know what? On my Facebook, I have my kid on one side and my wife Theyse girls don't care about that. You know, my wife's pretty crazy. She checks your Facebook. No, if there was a comment, she'd [\h__\h] go to call the girl out real quick. She's really Spanish, half Irish. She doesn't [\h__\h] around. Oh, boy. That's a crazy comment. So, you're uh So, you're being monitored. In other words, yeah, it's no joke. I get uh maybe once in a while mom will leave like a little, you know, smiley face under your picture and you know that's about it. You're not. Yeah, you're not otherwise. Jimmy, do you believe him? [\h__\h] lie again. Well, you know, I'm a good judge of Kevin. Yeah, very good. That's why I'm asking your opinion. I've been watching him talk. His body language and all that. I'd say yeah, he's telling the truth. He's a legitimate guy. Okay. Good. Good. There is a few good guys left in this industry, right? No, he's just scared [\h__\h] of his wife. Well, she's got the Spanish in her, right? Karine, he should be afraid, right? The Spanish women. No joke, right? Very dangerous. No joke. What What's the Spanish word for the sp which what kind of a wife is his wife is logo? Typically they're crazy, jealous. Like Johnny, you have a good What's What's a good word? I just I just want to ask what's your wife's name? My wife's name is Danielle. Well, Danielle is looking at you right now live. Oh, she's watching making sure there's no there's no hot women here. It's a good thing I didn't put Colleen next to her. doing it live and um good to joining us here live. Johnny, what's the word? There must be a word for a Spanish woman who's very jealous. Do you have a word in in in your language? Um in Spanish is salosa. Seosa. What does that mean exactly? Translated. Jealous. Jealous. She's just extremely jealous. She when she gets mad, she [\h__\h] gets mad. That's good. You have a good marriage. Don't Don't rest don't mess it up. No. Keep your mouth shut while you're here. Pete, if you got married, which I don't think you'll ever get married, but will you wear a wedding ring if you get married, Pete? Yeah, of course he would. Pete says he would. First of all, to get married, you got to talk. You have to have I don't see, you know, he's a good-looking guy, though. But you don't think he's good. But what's the brother do? Stand him in a corner. He talks. Believe me, he talks. Talks talks. That's another word people wanted you to say. They said they wanted Colleen to say for talk and Patterson. Say Patterson. Patterson. Patterson. She can't say Patterson. That's where she's from, right? I I don't know. Jersey City. About the ring. I I have a fight with him because he don't like rings. He doesn't like what a rings. Oh, yeah. That's right. You guys are going to be getting married at the end of the year. I was the same way. I was resistant at first for a while. You have a nice ring. Let me see that ring. Yeah. I didn't want to go traditional. I had to go a little different. But, uh, you know, I got It's really not all the way. You might want to push it up a little more. She might be a little kind of play with it. I kind of fumble. It's like a little habit. But uh you want to hear a funny story, bro? Did you ever wear a ring, Jimmy? I got a gaze three times, right? Tree. And I gave all three girls the same [\h__\h] ring. That's horrible. That's why you had the same bad luck three times. Horrible. No, it's not horrible because they didn't know it. You know what I mean? One girl threw it to my face. No, they girl I had to chase her around for like You had a cursed ring. What do you expect? So, I just kept giving the, you know, the next girl, you know, then finally I had to sell it. I was behind on my rent. I had to sell the [\h__\h] ring. Thank god you got rid of it. Maybe that's why your luck changed a little bit. Exactly. Sean, will you wear a ring if you get married? You will? Okay. Talking to the microphone. Uh Colleen, when you were married, did you wear? We were married, right? No, I was engaged. Oh, you were engaged. Will you wear a ring if you ever get married? Of course. Okay. But it's got to be a big diamond. I did not wear a ring when I was married. Probably why I didn't last. I had this engaged ring from since 2007. And my finger is like the figure. Uh oh. So, what what are you going to do? You got to get it sized, huh? I don't know. I don't know. I you know, I I think that um the women when I wear a [\h__\h] ring, my [\h__\h] looks like that. Got that little indentation. Women like rings better than men do. Men do not like to wear rings by nature. You don't take that off when you go to the gym and train. I got used to it. And then I if I take it off, I'll leave it somewhere. I'll lose it. It's like a collar around his neck, right, Jimmy? It's done. It's done. Is there any good psychologists out there? Cuz I [\h__\h] need one bed, man. I got to sit down on the couch. Submit your application. We need to submit your application because I got to come busy. All right. Well, guys, I want to thank everyone for coming down for the TV show. You could uh check out Dan's website at one more time dancaliburiesfitness.com. And we're going to see Shan on stage at the NPC Atlantic States second weekend in June. And uh what are you doing? What do you got coming up? Anything? Well, I wanted to compete, but you told me not to. No, no, no. Not a competition wise. Anything? Any special events? Uh are you going to be appearing at the I'll be at Yeah. Uh the New York Pro in the Long Island NPC Long Island Long Island and then uh of course the USA's. I'm going Dave. I'm going to plug the show before the New York Pro. Got to let everybody know what's going to happen that week. Oh, we in two weeks we have a live heavy muscle TV show. We're going to have Candace Keane down here. She'll be here. She'll be here. Mel Chansy will be down here. Who else will have Johnny that I'm forgetting? Jimmy? Well, Jimmy the Bull will hopefully be there. You know, a lot of people have been asking me. Last time Mel was here, I smashed my car to my other car. My drive was so drunk. Let me ask you a question. A lot of people have been giving me flack because you haven't been on the TV show. They think that I've been telling you not to come. You have? No. You have been not showing up. No. Every time I text, you tell me there's no show. And then I as I call Colleen 4 hours later and she tells me they're working. You're lying. Jimmy will be appearing at the Veterans Hospital for the next two weeks at 2 afternoon. And uh Karina Farerrell, what do you uh got coming up? Anything? Anything exciting? When's the M? So, when's the wedding? Do we have Do we set a date? In September. Possibly the Olympia weekend. Very hectic weekend. We'll be there. We'll all be there. And Pete, the uh producer will You can catch him on Muscle in the Morning every morning, Monday through Friday. For now though, we are out of time. I'm your host, Dave Palumbo, saying see you next week.