Heavy Muscle Radio. Okay, our next guest, good friend of mine, been in the industry even longer than I have. He is the new co-host of Physique Star Radio. He's also an instrumental part of the new Myot Tropics company that Dr. Scott Connley has started up. It's my distinct honor to welcome Vince Andrew to the show. How you doing, Dave? Glad to be here. Vince, you you've reinvented yourself way more than I have in this industry. Oh, well, I guess you have to, right? Yeah, you definitely you're like Madonna. You're like the Madonna of the of the supplement industry. Oh, man. Never heard that one. What? Talk to us a little bit. For people who don't know who you are, tell us how you got started in the industry because you've worked for pretty much everyone. Uh yeah. Uh, I got started in this. Uh, I was a bodybuilder and um, I was selling products basically. I bought them from a distributor and I would sell them out of my condo and uh, so this was like in the in the 80s and then started a company that was a distributor of nutrition, you know, sports nutrition back when there was really only I think really three of us that focused on that. It was Boss Babalary. Bob Yeah. And um the Castello brothers, right? They're out of business, right? Yeah. Well, Castello turned, of course, into Optimum and by Glam. Yeah. So, um and then um the other distributors were selling, you know, vitamins, herbs, all that stuff. So this whole idea of being a sports nutrition only distributor kind of came around in the like mid80s 85 86 maybe. Uh and so from 88 to 92 or you know right before metric started I was a distributor. a big brand was Twin Labs, right? And uh Weer and you know that turned into my relationship with Weer and so then I went to uh I worked I wor I worked for Reer Nutrition for a couple of years as a vice president of sports nutrition and then uh after a trade show my wife met Dr. Connell said it's something like hey does your husband want to move to California and that's Connelly. So yeah that's Connie. So, uh, you I went to, uh, I went to work for Scott at Metricx and, uh, that's where we really met. You were Metric athletes. Mhm. And, uh, was there for a couple of years, as you know, the company got sold. Tried to stay there for a bit, but, you know, when the place gets sold, it's just never the same. No. And uh so the probably the other most you know noteworthy would be went right from there to EAS and EAS had sold 2/3 uh you know Phillips had sold twothirds to an investment group and they wanted to make sure that their health and fitness side of the business didn't fall apart right away. And so that was a great opportunity. I got to go there and write the supplement review the fourth edition. And um did they ever did they even listen to you any of your recommendations? Uh well, you know, it was a very unique situation because I knew what they were up to. I knew what they wanted to do. They wanted to blow the revenue line up and and and basically sell it again. And you know, we got a lot of things done in the health on the health and fitness side, but we didn't get any resources in comparison to what they were spending on everything else. um the the management there had big dreams of mass market like all these companies did and so they spend 90% of the budget on that and uh we outperformed them by you know in our area not really because of me and all but because of what EAS had created you know what what Phillips had created over there was such a you know a brand uh I guess uh loyalty It took a long time for that thing to to to die, but the, you know, the powers of be certainly did all they could to wreck the brand and make it just uh I call it a chip and Chad or a Suzie cream cheese brand. You know, they just watered it all down. During this period of time, had you been in still in contact with Connelly? Yeah, I was in contact with Scott and uh actually right when I left uh EAS I I took a position at Prolab and I started talking to Scott about doing something and then Scott got sick and so we had planned on doing some things back probably in like 2002 or something like that and um then it just didn't so you know Scott went on and do um a bunch of research on different proteins and I was consulting with another good friend of mine Ryan Harbuckle. You know Ryan from of course and um so we were working with a like a midsize branch to help them the new and the biochest and s and things like that. So, and Erggo Farm at Arnold's company. And at what point, because I know I've been breaking Scott's balls for for years to start his own brand up again. Uh, and then he kind of got involved with that other company and and he kind of got screwed over. What how did you finally convince him to do his own thing? Because he always told me, "Oh, I don't want to get involved with this again. I hate I hate the business aspect of it. I like this the research." How did you actually convince him to to to start over again, so to speak, with myotropics? Uh, well, you know, and you're right. You know, Scott, first of all, Scott has a lot of projects going at once. And, uh, his main interest is the science. And a lot of times, you know, the market or the marketing is he gets it, but it's he doesn't notice it right away. And so, uh, we had been talking about doing different projects. Some were in the medical area. Uh, some were just research. And then we had thought about doing something with this. He created this brand called Myotropics, but no products were in it. Mhm. And um so then uh it was last uh Olympia uh last September, I think I already told you this. I was walking around the show and I was like, "Okay, it's here. Physique is is is here. That's a market that we understand. Meaning that's what I've done." and and Scott's the perfect guy to deliver products for these guys because they want to be lean and muscular and they and and and so it kind of clicked with Scott that this is a place to do it and and and these athletes are serious enough to to to want to to need the product and um I think aspirational enough to motivate other people to go, "Hey man, this is pretty cool." And you know, Scott's always looking to like grow the market for weight training and people who are, you know, going to watch their nutrition. And uh just I think this looked like, you know, a great opening for him to not only sell to the people that are serious, but maybe get away from the the the super hardcore bodybuilding, which you know, can can start looking a little funny. Well, you know, the funny thing is I think Scott gets it. He also knows if you market to the to the people who want to get lean and and put muscle on, the bodybuilders will invariably use your products anyway. So, uh you kind of get both. You get to, you know, two birds and one stone, so to speak. Yeah. I mean that that's really the bottom line is and and and you know going back to all the different companies and the consulting with with these you know big brands small brands that the the big lesson is that you can only be as good you can only be good at what you focus on and and and so the market for these for the supplements are really actually trained. There's there's in my view there's no such thing as like mass market. I mean, come on. Those people don't work out hard enough to even care. They're in and out maybe at best. And so, you really have to focus on the people who are going to do the work. And from there, you can get other people. You'll go up the chain with the guys who want to be bigger and bodybuilding uh to the to the nth degree. And you'll get other people going, you know, I never thought about weight training and and and maybe taking a nutritional product like a meal replacement or something, but wow, I'd like to look like that. And so, it's really kind of the perfect thing. I agree with you 100%. I think that, you know, probably more people out there would rather look like a men's physique competitor than a bodybuilder. And probably a lot of people don't have the genetic potential to look like a necessarily like a professional bodybuilder. So, the men's physique is a more attainable look and I think that it's a good division that they brought into the sport because I think it's going to attract a lot more people that otherwise might have not gotten involved with the whole bodybuilding industry. So, uh and really the market is untapped. No one has really been the champion, so to speak, in quotes, of course, the champion of the men's physique world. And, uh I think the fact that Scott Connelly, yourself, and Myotropics is going to get involved. I know you guys are going to be giving out some contracts as the the year goes on and giving a lot of out a lot of opportunities to to showcase these guys. It's it's a phenomenal thing and uh you know I think the brainstorming that you and I did as far as launching this radio show physique star radio uh is also going to be another way on a weekly basis to not only cover the sport of men's physique but to showcase not just the men's physique competitors but all people out there whether they be celebrities or regular Joe Blow who want to go to the gym to put muscle on and lose body fat. Yeah know that's 100%. I mean, one of the things that another person asked me about like, "What's the difference between this bodybuilding thing and the physique?" It's like, and some of the people were like, "Oh, the physique might be like a watered down version of bodybuilding." I'm like, "Okay, well, so you've never tried to get an inch on your arms and you never really really done a diet, so you don't get it. Okay, these physique guys are going to bust their ass." Okay, there's no there's no question about it. It's not like the softer side of fears. It's damn hard, right? And so, uh, you know, if you go back to to the day when guys that maybe couldn't be the big guy thought they can compete, like Zayn versus Arnold, I think you're going to bring that back. They're not going to be on the same stage. There'll be physique versus, you know, a guy who competes in the bodybuilding division. But now it, you know, a guy who thinks he could look like a Zane could actually have a place to compete. And I think that's awesome. and and nutrition becomes a much more important component of what these people are doing because the drugs become pretty much non a non-issue because it's the aesthetic look that that they're looking for. So, your nutrition is going to be super important and I and I love the fact that Connelly his new products towards that goal. What What's this physique 2.0 product all about? I talked to about I talked about it with Scott uh on the Heavy Muscle Radio Show last week, but I want to get your take on it uh as far as it relates to just everyday man and and the people that are competing. Well, the the um the the genesis of the product really comes from, you know, single or individual components and and we you know, Scott has repartitioning substrate um technology and and and basically that's what it is. There's components, the protein component, there's a carbohydrate component and those are the main two and Scott's been playing around with different proteins and stuff like that and and and some other uh things in the carbohydrate domain and and those make up this composite product. It's a meal replacement basically, but it's really much more than that because it's really geared for someone who wants to hold on the muscle while they stay lean. And so, it's not like this I'm going to bulk up, diet down. It's not it's it's it's it's something that you can take a couple times a day and like you said, you know, you're going to have to rely on nutrition more than, you know, maybe pulling some kind of chemical wizardry out of your hat, right? And so you got to be consistent. And the, you know, the protein component and the carbohydrate component are specifically uh meant to allow you to basically repartition your body, which is the the bottom line for a physique guy. You know, you want more muscle, less body fat at the end of the day. And I think that this is also a product that can be taken 365 days a year for these guys. It's not like something like you said that would be like a bulk up offseason product and then a a diet down product. You can use it probably while you're dieting and while bulking just changing some of the other components of your diet. Uh which is going to be a very uh I guess novel product because you know what it seemed like everyone strayed away from the meal replacement shakes the repartitioning technologies that Connelly had basically I guess invented in the early 90s and and now Connie is bringing it back uh only even better than before. So I'm excited to try it. I'm waiting for my my prototypes in the mail. Scott promises me you guys are going to send me some so I can dry it out. Uh