heavy muscle. Our next guest is the 2009 NPC Nationals middleweight champion, the new IFBB Pro, Nathan Dracy. Welcome to the show. How you doing? Well, we haven't really talked since your nationals win, and uh you've kind of been missing in action. It's been uh about 2 and a half years now and I I wasn't sure you were ever going to get up on a bodybuilding stage and here I run into you at the Emerald Cup this year and uh you're getting ready for New York Pro. Talk to me a little bit about what you've been doing the last couple years. Well, I kind of I kind of hit out a little bit. I went through some some personal things and and um and then kind of took a a little bit different direction in my life. I I own a Gem Evolution and I had been doing that for 6 years and and to be honest, it was it was my dream growing up and something that I really wanted to do, but it was taking so much time and so much uh money to keep it going. Um it just it turned out to be all about how much money I could make and less about how many people I could help. And so people don't realize that. People don't realize that a gym business is a very very difficult, time consuming, emotionally draining business. Uh especially if you're trying to do something on the side like bodybuilding. Yeah. Yeah. And I, you know, I've I'm friends with some guys that own some big time gyms and and uh and they're just very cutthroat people and they're very good business people. And to be honest, like I went into it kind of blind and young and I didn't I didn't really know a lot about the business. And so, you know, I knew it from the bodybuilding standpoint and thought I could just bring that into the to society and and and do some good, but but it's about it's about running a business. And so, you know, I kind of found that out and and unfortunately had some business partners that kind of brought brought me down and and so so luckily I had actually uh brought in Advocare. a a supplement line and um there started slowly building that into my integrating it into nutritional programs that I was doing and and that really took off and and uh it's the type of business that can you build other people underneath you so that they're they're helping other people and making money as well. And so what I did is I started creating nutritional programs to go along with the supplements. And from there it just took off and it exploded and allowed me actually to walk away from the gym business and and so now I'm doing that full time and it's been awesome. Well, we'll get back to that in a second. I just want to give a little contest history on you. A lot of people don't realize you're one of the 30 uh NPC Emerald Cup overall champions. In 2007, you won that light heavyweight in the overall there. Uh 2008, you won the middleweight class at uh at the at the USA Championships. And then obviously the following year, uh, that's when we were working together for the USA and the Nationals, you won the middle weight class and got that pro card. Obviously back then you only weighed 176 lbs on stage. And, uh, the New York Pro, obviously, you know, the the weight class is 212, so obviously I'm sure, you know, you needed a couple years to to put on some size. Um, getting back to the gym business, you know, uh, a lot of us get into the whole realm of personal training and being in the gym business because we really we really love training and we want to kind of p pass that passion on to people and obviously if you can get paid while you're doing it, that's great as well. Uh, but I think you made a smart transition because now you're doing what you really like, which is which is educating people, uh, which is explaining to them how to train properly, diet properly, take the right supplements, and you're really not tied down to that albatross around your neck, so to speak, uh, that we all know very well. Uh, do you feel like you've had a burden lifted off you? Oh, for sure. It it in that sense it's made my life so much better, man. Like I said, I've gone through some some things that I needed to change in my life and and just kind of become a better person. But um but as far as that, it's it it when you don't have that I got I got to make $30,000 up front here to pay for my rent and then think about the rest of the people, you know, that's that's kind of that's how it turned out to be was like what can I come up with that can make more money? It was just time for dollars. And so now with this business, it's more of a it's a residual income where if I if I want to step away for two weeks, I'm still making the same amount of money. And if I if I decide I want to continue to make more, then I can put more time in. So do you feel do you feel that you're so successful at aare because of the fact that you are so passionate about what you do and and knowledgeable in that sense? Passion. Yeah, that but sense I think it hurts me. I think I I really to be honest I deal with with the average people now. Um I still do a lot have a lot of people that come to me for nutritional programs and for bodybuilding and physique and bikini and all that but I really don't work with them unless they want to take on Avocare and learn it as a business to help other people now. So I've kind of transitioned away from that. But you know the people that I work with um are are normal people. So for me it's hard walking up to them. They don't want I mean in the bodybuilding world I'm not a freak. You know I'm not that big. I'm just I'm 212 an average guy but but in in the normal world that's still it's intimidating to somebody that's heavy or you know so I really have to get down on a personal level and I really had to learn you as a bodybuilder I used to go into the gym have my headphones on and I would lift weights and I would stare at my hands or whatever in between. I wasn't there to make friends where now I walk around. I do a set and I look up at people when I talk to them. So, it's really it's helped me to grow as a person and to to open up to to society and and smile. And at first, it's weird if I go into a different gym that I'm not used to. It kind of catches people off guard because they're not used to somebody actually being nice to them, you know, that that that maybe they're looking up to or they want to be like. So, so it it creates a lot of relationships. um for the Emerald Cup. I guess the the coolest part about that was uh a week before I was up at a 24-hour fitness and um and this kid just did that. I looked up to him and smiled at him and and I could tell um you know something was up with him. He had a lot of scars and stuff and and uh so he came up and we started talking a little bit and found out he first of all has a huge passion for knowing everything about nutrition. But I got to talking to him and four years ago he uh he got this this type of cancer and I g him a 10% chance to live and he's they say if he makes it to 5 years of remission then he's in the clear but I got to bring him backstage and meet uh Branch and you know meet all the guys and show him what bodybuilding was like and that's his dream and to me that now I'm using bodybuilding for that type of thing which means a lot more for me than to get on stage and do well. Well, you probably understand now what I used to tell you all the time is I always enjoy training the and getting the guys who are like the real amateur amateurs, the newbies, the people who want to just do body transformation. I always get more pleasure out of that because they're so grateful to you for what they're doing and you can tell that you've made such a change in their life afterwards that there's some kind of like redeeming quality to what you're doing, you know? Exactly. Yeah. Do you do you think that bodybuilders are too introverted into themselves? And do you think that's a a negative aspect of our sport that maybe people think that we're like these mean people into ourselves? Yeah, I it's I don't know. The older I get, the more I'm opening up myself and I was always just a shy guy. I was I never had a thought of being, you know, I'm the best or anything. Like I was always surprised when I won and that type of thing. So, I don't know how other people thought of me, but I definitely think that about some of the other guys and and you know, the more the older I get, the more I'm trying to make like Dave Patterson, he's kind of just like a um he he does all the routines for a lot of the guys and the girls and he's been around the industry for a long time. Not not a big name outside of this area, but but helps out a lot of people. I've I've been in the industry for 10 years and never even talked to him and just kind of always give him the the nod as I go by and never say a word. But um but he helped me with my music and I just kind of went out of my way because now I'm trying to meet more people and just you know kind of get tied in a little bit more. And so I don't know, it's hard to tell. I mean you definitely you're always going to have some of those guys that just think they're they're the [\h__\h] and then you're going to have other guys that probably are just quiet and they used to be small guys and they're not used to being in the spotlight. So, it probably goes back and forth. You think it's an in insecurity issue with some guys that they just think that they're uncomfortable? Yeah, I think so. Um, let's talk about uh competition for a second. Um, when you won the national when you won the USA and then when you won the nationals, you were probably the most dominant middleweight I would say on the amateur ranks. You know, everyone was fearing you and uh you had that ridiculous conditioning. Um, you know, people just, you know, it was kind of like game over. You won unanimously both shows. Are do you intend to bring that into the New York Pro show on May 19th? That same level of conditioning and what do you think you'll weigh on the stage coming up from the middleweight 176 mark? Yeah, I mean this Well, definitely I have to say this weekend has helped me get me my mind back on track because um because I I didn't use you for this show and so I didn't really know what to expect. Um, the kind of diet I'm doing is a lot more carbs and it's really it's really like I talked to you a little bit about it. It's really up and down with your emotions and with your blood sugar level and that kind of thing. And so you're feeling you go from feeling really good to really shitty and and it's just not consistent like like when I was doing with you. So, um, so I I haven't known what to expect and so I don't know for for with you it was it seemed like it was balls out. I knew I was going to do as much cardio as I as it was going to take to get there. And on this one, it seems like you're trying to allow the the carb uh fluctuations to kind of do a little bit more of the weight loss. Um but seeing you um and stage and seeing pictures of myself cuz you always see yourself and how much I've lost 30 lbs so far and so I felt like um like I was on my way but then I saw myself up on stage in pictures. I'm like I got a long ways to go. I've been hitting it I've been hitting it really hard and so um I still I still feel like I have enough time that that's my goal. I to be honest like I don't really I've done what I could do in the offseason. So now I feel like I like this hardest. It's a finish to sprint to the finish line and and it's whoever can work the hardest and and not you know consistently give in and and just keep working as hard as you can. So I plan on being the the leanest guy on stage. Yeah. you always you you like to suffer at the end. I I have to give it to you cuz uh some people just can't handle that pain and you seem to thrive on it. So, uh I wouldn't count you out. You got to go up against the likes of like the Jose Raymonds and luckily I think Kevin English is doing the open, but you never know with him. Uh how do you think you'll stack up against him? Is it intimidating for you to to go up against these guys or do you feel like, man, I'm finally get compared to some of these top pros? Uh this is something I've been looking forward to. Um, to be honest, I I don't ever look at the magazines. Um, occasionally somebody will throw a picture up on Facebook and and I'll look and then um then I start comparing, but I try to stay out of that. I do I think I actually told you this the day after the show when you interviewed me as is I've always looked at at Flex Lewis's as physique is kind of what I wanted to go after. Um, I think we're kind of similar. I I think obviously now he's a little bit bigger than me, but uh um he's obviously not competing, but I have a picture of him up on on a wall and I and as I cut down, I compare myself to that, but that's about it. Yeah, I would say you probably have more of a uh Jose Raymond upper body. I I would think uh because you guys guys are I think you're tall than he is, though. I don't think he Yeah, he's he's pretty he's kind of stubbick legs and um and a thick back. So, yeah, I don't know. I don't know how to be honest. I have no idea how I'm going to stack up with these guys. I don't I don't like my physique in the offseason. I I mean, I'm a typical white guy where until you get really lean, you don't look really good. So, um, you know, I I think like Branch Warren up on stage was a good he just competed 10 weeks ago or four weeks ago. He looked amazing, but it kind of looks, you know, you take a black guy and he goes up there for the most part. It doesn't matter what what conditioning they're in, you know. So, structure, too. I mean, you actually remind me of a you actually remind me of a smaller branch, Warren. you kind of have that like thick, you know, stocky look, but when you get really really grainy hard, you look, you know, very impressive and, you know, Yeah. So, so it's hard to tell offseason, you know, where I'm going to be. Um, I had no idea. Like I said, I'm just going to come in as lean as possible and see where I stand. It's when when I was doing a guest closing is for me it's embarrassing because you know when you're up on a national stage or you're doing a show, you know, when you turn around like people are going to be like, "Oo, that man that looks awesome and I'm not there yet." So So it's like you don't even want to I don't even want to turn around and and do certain poses, but that's how it I always tell people it's good to go up and guest pose prior to competing because you know it gives you some stage experience and some stage savvy if you may and that always helps as well. You can kind of critique yourself and say oh this is what I should have done here or I should have looked turned here or I should have pulled it in here and uh I think it's good for constructive purposes. Uh talk to me a little bit once again about let's go back to your business for a minute because you are making a lot of money from Advocare now. I mean you're you've been doing it for a number of years. Uh what would you do if a company approached you and said, "Hey, I want to give you a big contract to uh endorse my products." Would you turn them down because of that? Oh, for sure. Yeah. This I have control of this situation here. That's the that's the biggest thing and and that's eventually how I would like to get into the bodybuilding industry is show them that they can they can create a security because you're with any company and and there's a whole array of different things that that that I can talk about but one thing is uh you know you and me talk about that um that you sit be you stand behind us is there's so many companies that have these blends in the products and their and their companies it it costs a lot because the FDA a doesn't doesn't really approve. They approve the the the company itself, but they don't go back and check all the individual supplements and you can run into issues where where you have these these distributors that are saying, "Okay, I want this product, this product, and this product in there, and then you're going to go out and get the cheapest thing." Well, that's not always the best thing. And it also depends on how they all um synergistically work together, right? Like like you were talking about how, you know, stimulants are not the best sit thing for each situation, but but they're a top seller, you know. Oh, yeah. You know what people do? They put proprietary formula. They put nothing of the of the real ingredients in. They put tons of stimulants in to override that fact. So, you think you're getting a lot of something in there and then uh it's cheapens down the product. Is Advocare a very reputable product line? Yeah, they use a company called Informed Choice that they send out to um that that tests all their products. And so we're actually one of the only companies that the full line is allowed for uh through the Olympic standards committee. Um we can be in all the NFL locker rooms, all the all the pro locker rooms. So it's a it's opened it up to um to be a very safe product that I can that I can feel comfortable no matter what pushing um to anybody for any situation. And then we have we have nine doctors um very renowned doctors in their own medical industries that come together that don't just work for Avocare that build the products. So like for instance Stanley Dedric is uh he invented uh he was part of the invention of intervenous seating. So he broke down um the amino acids that they use in the hospitals to do in drip bags. And so he creates our amino acids. amino acids are in the same type of grade as as they use in hospitals. So, so dealing with like a it's more expensive to start out with, but we can show you how to do a wholesale account and um and and get a discount that way and then also build a business where they can either pay for your supplements or um or you can start helping out other people. And so from the the bodybuilding world, what I would like to do is is teach people how to build businesses because you have all these people that are following around these pros and and doing booths and all that type of thing where really they don't get paid anything. They have no security. Um you're right. Right. And and this teaches them how to build a residual income. And this company has been around for 20 years. It's not going anywhere. How do you uh how do people get in touch with you if they want to get involved in the business aspect of it? Um they can go to Nathan vocarebydesign.com. Okay. Do you have um a uh Facebook page as well? Yeah. Uh just Nathan D. Tracy. Okay. There you go. If anyone's interested in learning the business, I'm sure Nathan will be happy to teach you. Talk to me a little bit about I want to get into relationships cuz I I always discuss as a bodybuilders. Uh I've had you fall in relationships cuz this you were married. you know, last time I talked to you, uh, your relationship broke down at some point. What happened? Was it bodybuilding related? Uh, was it just life happening or or what happened with that whole thing? Um I mean first of all um you know I I I I don't want to I don't want to talk a lot about it because um because I I respect a lot and and uh it really had nothing to do with uh well you don't know I guess in in the bodybuilding industry as you go through all this changes and hormones and stuff like you definitely going to feel different ways and um but for me a lot of it was um I felt like um I had some some issues my parents died. Um there was there was just things that I saw I I guess for me I felt like I was I was failing in life because my business wasn't doing good. Um and we worked together and she really she quit her job, came on, helped me with the gym and we were just around each other all the time and I guess weren't filling each other's needs. Um and we're blaming each other for everything that was going wrong, you know. Wow. And so so it was a tough thing. It's it's something that um we're not best friends now, but we still talk and I care I care a lot about, you know, what happens to her and who she is. And um I've been very fortunate. I I have a really good supportive girlfriend um now. And she actually she's the one that introduced me into a care. So So we we work together. So that that works well. But um you know, here's here's a good I want your input on this because I know my answer on the whole thing. Does financial burdens wreck relationships or can they wreck relationships? Is money a really big issue in in relationships? Yeah, they they I I'm into studies and and uh I've read a lot about that kind of stuff and also have even gone towards um going to church and that kind of stuff. So um but I think that's a huge part. I think also for a male that feels like he has to support his family um and then he if you feel like you're um you're not doing that and you're also into something like bodybuilding that sucks out so much money and and you're not getting a lot back from it. It it is it's tough. It can totally create that. How does one go about and I'm not saying you're an expert. I'm asking your opinion on this. How does one go about being a professional bodybuilder, balancing that with your personal life so you can actually have a personal life, you can make a living and you can be a bodybuilder. Is it compatible in your opinion? I I think so. I think you have to you definitely if if you're a good bodybuilder, there has to be definitely some um some stability there because and and as a wife, I mean, to be supportive and allow all that attention. I mean, there's different all different types of people, you know, I me personally, I've always been kind of around a woman that's been very secure in herself. So, um, so I'm not used to it in, you know, that insecurity, but I've seen it a lot and I've seen it in I've seen in guys too that date professional women that, um, they're getting a lot of attention and and it just I guess it also depends how professional you are with that attention. So, it's it's how you deal with I guess the fame is what you're saying. Yeah. Yeah. But, I mean, you do see a lot of relationship breakdowns in this industry. Um, we do see a lot of guys that have problems with paying the bills and and and not being able to, you know, balance that the burden of bodybuilding with with actually, you know, making a living and then actually having a family. I mean, uh, to a certain degree. Yeah. I Yeah. To be honest, you don't see a lot of that have good families. I I can think of Mark Douglas. I can't think of I can't think of a lot of them that I personally know that they have families. Um, but yeah, I mean, That's a tough thing because you also you have I I think for the most part you have guys that really take bodybuilding serious are guys usually that genetically weren't gifted or or or they were insecure at some point and so they use that and they funnel that energy and then all a sudden they're getting all this attention, right? And that's tough to deal with when maybe you growing up in high school you weren't getting all the girls and now everybody's looking at you in awe, you know? That's that's a tough thing. That's right. It's a tough thing to mentally deal with because you don't It's like you're almost like 12 years old again, you know, 14 years old again going through puberty. Uh, you know, bodybuilders, um, I'm going to make a a controversial statement. I want you to tell me if you agree or disagree. Are most bodybuilders just lazy? Is that why they maybe don't make a living? Uh that's that's a loaded question because um if they're good bodybuilders, you can't say they're lazy because look at what that how they torture themselves, right? You know, so I guess it's priorities like is there a priority to be the best bodybuilder money or or or do they have the drive to util to to find a way to utilize their skill to make money? Right. So how do you answer that? Or or is is the real is the real is the real issue here that the bodybuilders just don't get paid enough and because we don't get paid enough we have to they have to not only be bodybuilders have mean be focused on that but they also have to have a profession to go along with that to pay the bills almost. Yeah. Yeah. That's true. And and I guess I mean I don't know a lot about like UFC fighting and stuff, but I think it that was it is probably similar to that where before it it became mainstream and now all these guys are getting these huge contracts, you know, they you're beating yourself up and and not getting p not be able to pay the bills. Yeah, I'm sure it's very similar to that. But because bodybuilders have to know that this is never going to be probably a mainstream sport where we're going to be paid millions and millions and millions or even maybe one or two guys might make it. Uh don't you think you have to have a contingency plan or you have to find a niche for yourself in this industry? I always tell people this you have everyone can find their own niche. Obviously you found it with Advocare, I found it with you know uh Species Nutrition and RX Muscle. But I mean people have to find a niche for themselves and if they don't then they're almost doing a disservice to themselves cuz at some point even the ones that are making good money are not going to make money anymore. Yeah. You have to have a game plan. You have to have you have to look down the road and say, "Okay, are do you first of all, do you want to be a trainer forever?" Because any bodybuilder can step in and train people, right? They train themselves, but do you want do you want to sacrifice time for dollars for the rest of your life? Because you can get paid pretty good if if you're working independently, but you're spending your whole day training other people and listening to to all their laundry, right? kind of ide when you can't step on stage. Very uh very valid point and something that I think a lot of bodybuilders are going to have to uh contemplate at some point. And if anyone wants to contact you to get involved with Advocare, they have your contact information. I also want to make one more announcement that uh we filmed Nathan in the Iron Asylum at David Barton's gym that I've been raving about all show and uh we'll get that up probably a little later this week, early next week as soon as we get that uh interview done with you and uh obviously best of luck at the New York Pro. We're going to see you out there and uh I think that uh people are going to be shocked when they see you on stage. I hope so. Thanks and I appreciate it. I It's always fun to talk to you and and uh you've always been great to me. Appreciate that. That was Nathan D Tracy. Uh, a great guy, great competitor. Uh, really turned his life around. He's making good money now. Uh, congratulations to him. I always like to see bodybuilders do well and, uh, you know, pursue their dreams. Hopefully, he'll, uh, come in that top three spot at the, uh, New York Pro 212 class. It's going to be a tough competition, but he's got a lot of mass on him. I hope if he brings the conditioning that we've seen, he's going to do very well. And, uh, it was a great show. Once again, I want to thank Brad and Elaine Craig for a great weekend. I uh had a great time and thank you for bringing me in. Uh it's my booth was very successful. The Arcs Muscle coverage was great and it was good seeing everyone on the great Northwest and I know we have a lot of listeners. So, thanks to everyone. I can't uh say everyone's name, but uh I had a great time hanging out with all you guys. Kyle, thanks for the sushi dinner. We had great uh sushi lunch we had. We haven't done We got to do that a little bit more often. And uh next week we'll be in Orlando with Aaron Jbaka Singerman covering Bett Ed and Betty Pariso's Orlando Pro and that's going to be exciting. Got a lot of action down there. And then the following weekend we will be in Pittsburgh at Jim Manion show. We'll get the week off and then uh well Aaron's going to be the week the next week in Louisiana and then uh the week after that we will be at the New York Pro and the Junior USA. So, we have a lot of action coming up in the coming weeks. Stay tuned for the best coverage on rxmuscle.com. For now, though, I'd like to thank Nathan Draci for stopping by. Until next week, remember, with Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. Heavy Muscle Radio is a presentation of rxmuscle.com, the truth in bodybuilding. Tune in next week at the same time for another round with Dave Palumbo, only on Heavy Muscle Radio.