Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo and I'm joined as always here by Chris the Technician Aceto on this May 8th, 2017 afternoon. And uh another Arnold Classic down. It seems like every weekend, Chris, we're talking about another Arnold Classic happening. And uh I I I it's so funny because they have so many of them now, but uh they're very strategically placed at every continent. There's actually an Arnold Classic on every continent except Asia, believe it or not. And uh I'm sure I mean except Asia. I should say including Asia, but I'm saying except Antarctica. Uh that's the only continent that doesn't. I don't even know if Do people live in Antarctica? They have to live in Antarctica. You know, Elon Musk is talking about in like 20 years Mars. Really? I mean, if we can't if we we'll never make it to Mars if we can't survive Antarctica. Can you imagine if they probably had like a little settlement there on Antarctica and uh like it's like a little hut, you know, with a few, you know, houses, you know, little few little buildings for the researchers there. We Arnold could fly people in on like a helicopter and we could have it we right on the glacier there. We could do the uh the contest. That would the lighting would be amazing, wouldn't it? Yeah. Be be tremendous natural light like uh unfazed. Why don't you put a shout out? Maybe even Bob Grushkin. Grushkin would come out of retirement just to take pictures. Oh, no. He's done. His camera's he can't get the film for the camera anymore, dude. They don't make film. I'm sure someone makes film. You know, listen, you you have to put out a request to any potential listeners in Antarctica, right? And if they are to eat, drop you an email, Dave, and tell uh you should have them on the show. Have them as a call-in. Well, I'm sure someone out there is probably listening from Antarctica. And if they are and they have an idea of if there's any space out there, well, there's plenty of space, but there's any venue out there that, you know, I I guess the venue could be outside, but we really need like a hotel, you know, cuz these guys have to make their food and everything like that. So, uh I don't know how they would I guess you could You get those food companies. You get the food companies to send the stuff up. That's right. That's right. Isn't it funny that people people this day and age, which is different for you, I'm sure. Yeah. They don't cook their food. No one cooks their food. No. Yeah. I find that, you know, that's a good topic. We should do that on like Iron Debate or something. Ask Jay. Ask Jay because why why is it that no one wants to cook their food? I used to love cooking my food for contest prep because I was I was too paranoid to let anyone else do it for me. Well, just I I said ask Jay because he would he had uh you know early on he was a cook extraordinaire. He loved cooking his food, right? I know Eduardo Kare loves cooking his food, too. Yeah, he loves cooking his food. Yeah, he's a uh he is a chef. I I remember going into the hotel room once where you were when you were helping him and he had his room. I thought Guy Sister Nino was organized. I thought I I thought I walked into a restaurant. I mean Eduardo had like you know pots and pans and hot plates and spite like it wasn't just like most bodybuilders just you know boil their chicken throw it in a bag and throw it you know and freeze it. He had like spices and and like you know like fine delicacies there that he was like the way he was preparing this food it was like he was going to a French restaurant or something like that. Well when he's done cooking each meal in a hotel room he scrubs every utensil the cooking I mean it he cleans it obsessively. Oh really? So yeah he must be he must be real fun to be around. The pans the pots and the pans that he brings looks like they just came off the shelf. pristine. Pristine, you know, in from the store, they wouldn't look like my dad's pots and pans. It look like he lives in like uh they're from like 1920 or something like that. Speaking of my dad, you know, my dad um I don't know if I told you on the radio, did I tell you my dad tried to burn his house down or or by accident tried to burn his house down? said, "We'll send we'll send our friend Joe, the insurance claim guy, down at my dad lit a this is it's not actually funny, but it's funny afterwards cuz not no one got hurt, but my dad lit a fire in the in the middle of his bathroom for some reason with papers. I don't like like papers that he was like writing with, you know, like poems on and stuff like that. What he why he thought now he had done this once before in a garbage pail in in his room. He thought he he thought he was in Vietnam and he had to uh heat up the room, you know, he had to stay warm. But this this time, we're not really sure why he lit it, but he did alert my aunt, who lives with him, thank God. Uh that there was a fire in the bathroom, which she came up and tried to put out, which luckily was like right in the middle of the room. It wasn't like off to the side, so none of the walls caught on fire. The fire department was there in like two seconds. I got to I got to hand it to the East Meadow Fire volunteer Fire Department. They got there fast. They put it out. You know, I don't I don't know if you've ever seen these these volunteer firemen. I don't know if they have them in Maine uh or if they're paid. the volunteer firefighters in in Long Island. There's no like there's firehouses that like are worth millions of dollars, but no one really mans those like they do in the cities. Uh but there's like a volunteer core of guys. Most a lot of the guys are like people who work at the city, regular jobs, and then they just volunteer to on the weekends or they volunteer to be, you know, on standby. And these guys and I I remember one of my my newspaper guy was one of these guys. They they have these little radios and when when a fire is reported, they all hear it and they all jump in their car and they all run to the to to the firehouse. And it's like it's like the old bucket brigade back in the day, you know, where they would they didn't have hoses. They would actually have to take buckets of water and they they'd have like a hundred guys and they would just hand one to the next to the next and next until they keep putting out the fire. And uh so these guys got there, put the fire out. And uh my dad actually was taken to the hospital because he well I don't know if it was mental evaluation but he was he had a little smoke inhalation. You need uh special training to be the fireman. I don't know. I I think there's there's there's the core guys that are firemen like other places like paid and then there's like the want to be firemen that want to learn about how to be firemen because they're you know they're into it. You know here here's a true story. You could guy's listening I'm sure. So he can confirm it just cuz he not I don't need to confirm. He's just going to laugh when he hears this. He text me yesterday, right? He sent me pictures and I was texting. I said, "Oh, I'm on my way to the to a fire." And he laughed. He said, "Your day never ends." And I I I never responded. But I get to the fire the the quote fire the fire truck is there. That's your I'm assuming it's one of your properties. Yeah. And they want to give me like a citation for no smoke detector where there was this fire. Some little old lady had left something on the uh stove and she actually came back and the smoke alarm was going off and I didn't know the fire department was called but she had taken the smoke detector down on her way out the door. Oh my good what a dope cuz it was too loud. So when I got there, they're like, you know, the, you know, they're like, you know, quasi down my throat. And I'm saying, well, wait a minute, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. What? They said, you know, people can die here. There's no smoke detector. And so I asked this maintenance guy. I said, Bill, didn't you call me and say there looked to be a fire with tons of smoke coming out of out of an apartment? He said, yeah. I said, how did you how did you know? He said, "I was like outside the building and I could hear the alarm." And I said, "So what so what happened to the alarm?" You know, he said he said he didn't know what happened to it. So he found the the little lady and she said, uh, on her way out the door, she took it off the wall because it was a nuisance to the other tenants. She's like 70s something years old. So I had to get her cuz they'd never believe me, right? I mean, that sounds just too crazy. So I had to get her and say, "Ma'am, can you um tell this man what happened with the smoke detector?" And she she had she admitted that she had taken it down. Oh my god. Thank God. Yeah, exactly. How the hell would how would anyone have been alerted if there was no smoke? Yeah, that's what I said. I was confused. I asked him, you know, how did you know other than I guess, you know, an option would be, I guess, visibly smoke coming out a window or something. He could hear it. Usually that's too late when the smoke is coming out the window. Unbelievable. Yeah. So my dad Yeah. My dad luckily everyone was okay. My dad was okay. And uh but uh obviously he doesn't and and then when I talked to him he didn't even remember when he was in the hospital why he why he was there. He's like ah something happened, right? I said, "Yeah, he set a fire." He goes, "What? What happened? I I was smoking a cigar." I said, "No, you lit a fire. Like you put kindling in there. It was like, you know, a real fire." Uh, luckily, like I said, it was in the middle of his floor and he has this like like travertentine stone floor. So, while there's like a little bit of a discoloration there, it didn't it I don't know how it didn't burn down anything. It's not a hardwood floor, right? So, it didn't burn down. It's stone. Yeah. So, it didn't really it didn't travel. If it would have been next to the wall, though, it would have the wall would have gone up. Forget about it. The whole house would have burnt down. So, obviously, my dad can't live in his house anymore by himself, even though my aunt's there. He's she can't watch him 24 hours a day. So, I had to fly up to New York at the last minute and uh have a you know talk with my dad and you I went I went to see some uh some I guess you could say assisted living places by me which are really I got to tell you these new assisted living places are like country clubs. They're like I I I wouldn't have a problem living them. I mean they're really gorgeous and uh Well, you you could you could own a house on a golf course in a country club for what they cost. Yeah. No, they're very expensive. But you know what? They do everything for you. They they make they three meals a day. They make sure you go to meals. They do your they they clean your place, your apartment. Everyone has like their own little apartment and they do your laundry and they give you your meds. I mean, that's ex it's exactly what my dad needs. And and it'll be And you know what the funny thing is? He's living in in like this house that that is in total disrepair because he won't let anyone go in there and fix it fix it up and and you know, paint and and change up things. And he doesn't like doing any he doesn't do anything anyway as far as my dad doesn't like to clean. Doesn't like to do anything. So he's and he doesn't like the cold. So he's in the worst environment possibly. He had to wait until like he can't even like I can't let him stay in the house anymore. So now he's like I had to come down here and I had to talk to him about coming down to Florida. So now he I think I got him sold on the Florida thing. The problem is that he won't remember tomorrow that he sold on the Florida thing. I'm to keep reminding him of it. But uh the the the trip to get my dad from New York to Florida, which will happen probably in the next couple weeks, will probably be worthy of some kind of reality show. I I will probably need psychological counseling when it's all over. But uh if I might bring Johnny Styles just to film it because it might be worth uh people seeing it because it it I guarantee it'll be He hasn't been on You You've been hiding him. He's not been on camera for a long time. I know. The funny thing is that my dad has not traveled, you know. I don't even think he's gotten in the car other than go to the doctor in in years. So, um, this this will be very traumatic for him emotionally. I The problem is that there's two ways to do it with my dad is is to overmedicate him, which will make him more compliant, but it will also make him like like a bumbling fool, which which which could somehow, you know, sometimes if they think you're you're you're inebriated, they won't let you on the plane. So, uh, I have to try to like I'm going to have to try to balance his his his pharmaceuticals so that he's functional but still, you know, uh, inebriated enough that he will, you know, sit on a plane because he'll complain the whole time. It'll be worse than bringing my son Logan, you know, to on the plane. Yeah. Because Logan you can always pick up when he slows, you know, slows you down. Right. Right. Right. He's he might Well, they'll they'll wheel my dad down in a wheelchair. I'm just afraid that like, you know, my dad sits in a car for 15 minutes probably just going to the airport. he'll be having a nervous breakdown. You know, he's I'm uncomfortable and this and that and and uh he will he won't go gently. That's Well, you you got to divert his attention when you're bringing him to the airport. Talk about like, you know, English classes and and uh you know, the war when he was in where was he? Korean War. He wasn't he thinks he was in the war. He wasn't in any war. Now, yeah, but he was in the army. Oh, that's even even better. So he can, you know, he can create stories and keep himself busy so that, you know, if he's thinking of that, he's not going to be thinking of the anxiety of right traveling. Yeah. No. Yeah, I know. It's going to it's going to be a it's going to be a project. That's for sure. So that's what I got to look forward to uh in the next couple weeks, which is crazy because I got a lot going on because uh the end of the month I have the guru course at 27th uh sold out. I can't put any more people. People are begging me to to come into the class. I don't know why people wait till the last minute, you I every week on this show, Chris, I talk about my secrets to becoming a diet guru course. I say, "Sign up. Sign up." I said, "Dude, there's only limited room and I've already over oversold the class." Like, cuz a couple people signed up on my website. I thought we had taken it off of there. Uh there's there's there's too many people at this point. I'd look I'd love to bring more people and I'll have to hold another one. So, I got that at the end of the month. Then the two weeks after that, I'm going to Italy, believe it or not, with Johnny. We're flying to Italy uh to cover to do a factory tour of the Yam Yamamono nutrition factory there. Can you get me a shirt or something? Or still wearing Jay's shirt that he gave me from Still wearing muscle tech shirts? Yeah, I'll uh get your shirt. I I I'll let the the the you know, the only shirts I have is like what Jay gave me. Uh you have the Muscle Tech jacket. You wear? Yeah, I have the muscle tech jacket. I And I had another one that Cedric stole for me. I'll send you some species shirts. We're printing up new. Give me I got all the guy I got like 500 guyino Broadway shirts, but but they I can't wear them. I have to wear them inside out around my house cuz on the back they say things like it's a [\h__\h] war and I'm going to f you up everybody. And I have like Brad t-shirts still. I have Roden t-shirts. You're funny. Uh you're like my dad basically cuz my dad wears Boston I get the Boston Mass t-shirts. You want to hear something funny? Have the Boston Mass t-shirts. You want to hear something funny? You're exactly Wait, did I ever tell you about my son? I I told Jose this in this story once. When Jose first met my son, it had to be like four or five years ago. He gave him a picture of a most muscular with like 10,000 veins, right? My son, who was not homeschooled at the time, took it into like second grade and he had it pasted on his folder. That's funny. And they called me up and they said, "Come get this. It's profanity." What? Are you serious? Oh my god. That's a true story. Come get the, you know. Well, the funny thing is I, my dad wears all the old stuff I had given him. He, you know, he's like you, he will, he does no new stuff. And I went over to his house like this was maybe right before I moved. And he was wearing a muscular development like MD, you know, shirt or something like that. That is really funny. I'm like, where did you find that? Where did you get that? I must have given that to you like eight years ago. Still wearing the same thing. So, I gave them all new I gave him all my uh cuz I was cleaning. I was going to throw out all these t-shirts that I don't wear and I just gave them to my dad. So now he's got like a whole new uh wardrobe he's got. I mean his stuff was so old like I it was I couldn't even believe he was wearing it. It was so old stuff. Anyway, so yeah, you're you're you've become you know our dad already. And oh it's terrible. the the number one thing I think of during the day and this is a true story is don't become like your father and and it's just it's it's almost like sitting in Maine in November and you know winter's coming. Yeah. Like you just can't keep back the snow. I just can't you know I understand that concept. Don't become like your father but I don't know how to break away from it. I I need to sit down. I need to sit down with like Tony Robbins or something. Walk on coals or something to so I don't become like my father. We're It's inevitable. I It just happens. I keep seeing I keep seeing this the way I chew my food, the way I walk. It's like it's it's scary. It's very scary. I got to tell you. Um so, you know, I I I so I'm in a hotel here in um New York. It's funny because I the weird thing is I own a house, Chris, that's that's empty in New York. So theoretically, if I if I got a sleeping bag, I could really stay for free in this house because it's my house. It's the house I used to live in. Uh I'm trying to sell it. It's my rental house. It's it's on the you know, it's in contract. Uh but I it just doesn't have I need Wi-Fi. I I need I need modern conveniences. There's nothing hooked up there. So I have to stay in a hotel. And so I'm like, you know what? Let me make a cup of coffee. You know, Chris and I going to do this radio show. And uh I can't believe in this day and age, you know, they still they give you, you know, the the the free coffee. You know, they have a little coffee pot in the room and they have like Sweet and Low, you know, for sweeteners. That's the cheapest. I can't believe that Sweet and Low stay at You're not staying at the right side, are you? No, I'm staying at the Red Roof in. I You know, Red. There you go. Yeah. But I I didn't even know they made Why do they still make Sweet and Low? It's the worst tasting sweetener of all time. Because people like my father grew up on it and they love it. He puts it on like corn flakes, like three packets. What? It's it's the worst artificial sweetener ever created. Sweet. Listen, it's like anchovies. People don't like anchovies. Yeah. But when you when you grow up on anchovies, you love the taste of anchovies. So when you grow up on sweet and low, I used I can remember drinking fresca made with saccharine. Yeah. My mother used to drink Lipin diet iced tea and it was made of saccharine. It was like brown chemicals. It probably sac you know that I stacked that with sunlight that probably like triggered my melanoma. Saccharine is the worst tasting uh sweetener of all time. I I how I mean it was better than nothing I guess back in the day when that's the only thing they had to use other than sugar. But uh once they developed you know equal which was aspartame and then they obviously have sucralose now everyone uses which is Splenda. I no one used it anymore. I don't I can't believe they still make it that people use it. But you're right, probably by convention some people still use it. But I mean, how much cheaper can it really be than than than I bet if we went to the store, it's probably almost the same price as as as the sucralosas now and or the uh or the equal is unbelievable. You should get the manager on the radio show. I'll tell I'll tell you though. I'll tell you though, I had a pocket full of splendor because I know better. I I know that these hotels do [\h__\h] like this. So, I was prepared this time. I I didn't get caught in my pants. Anyway, a lot of action this uh this weekend in the IFBB uh all the way around the world, I should say. So, we were in Arnold, South Africa. We had a show. We had the Pittsburgh Pro and John Lindseay had a show in California. So, three pro events on the same weekend. Uh I think the the the name of the day obviously has to be Johnny Jackson comeback that you that you almost predicted last week. You said, "Hey, Johnny Jackson looks pretty damn good at this Pittsburgh uh guest posing." Johnny put up his uh his guest posing routine. Oh, Puerto Rico, excuse me, Puerto Rico guest posing. And uh I saidough to beat. I said it'd be tough to beat. You were right. I mean, he looked because I I knew he'd win the side chest. I kn I knew he'd win the most muscular. I knew he'd win the back double against, you know, everyone but Ben Pakowski. Yeah. You and I said if Ben Pakowski would have gone to this show with his legs, because this was really a show of of weak legs, he would he would clean up first. Yeah. Yeah. So long as his upper body was full enough, you know. Yeah. And and you know, if he had gone down to if he if Ben Pakowski, mark my words, had gone down there with Milo Sarsv, then he would have won the show because that would have that would have put the kibos on having a flat upper body. He would have had 80 units of insulin in him. It would have been great. By the way, that Milo I did an interview if if you guys don't know what we're talking about. I did an interview with Milo Sara um last week and it it's gotten like a million hits this thing. People love I've been getting people telling me this is the greatest interview they've ever watched on our site which I don't know if it is or not but it it's certainly up there because Milos is so radically honest in the YouTube they put the on the YouTube site. No, I mean that's the primary place to find it. Well, it's you can you can see it on rxmuscle.com. Okay. Is the link there? Yeah, we we we have it embedded on in our articles. But the point is that um you know the Milos interview got so much play and so many people were felt compelled to email me that they loved it and they want more of Milos that uh I was I was shocked actually. But but Milos is good because you know Milos will argue with you. He'll argue with we him and I it was like an iron debate and an interview at the same time. out. Milos is like a bodybuilding virus. And what I mean by that is you could go to like Estonia or you could go to South Africa or you go to you could go to Japan and ask someone what they're doing and they'll be doing some type of diet or some type of training and the diet in Japan came from Hyde who got it from Milos 15 years ago. You know what I mean? Well, Milos was the first guy. Milos was the first, right? But some some type of original concept came from Yeah. Milos He's probably like a high-tech Bob Gruskin. Milos was the first guy to to touch the international audience. You got to remember before the internet was the way it is where we can Skype and do all this stuff. It was just emails and and you know, Milos was a guy who was traveling internationally because he's from you know, Czech Republic there over there and he's he he's always in all these European countries. He had a big influence on people early on, even in the '9s before, you know, there was internet and where people could communicate on social media. So that's why I think he has a better foothold out there than a lot of people do. Now nowadays, you know, I, you know, I help people, I'm sure you do, too, in China and South Africa and Australia and it's no big deal because it's like everyone's on you could call each other on WhatsApp, you know, for free, you know. So, but before that, Milos was the only the only game in town, so to speak. the only guru is really out there. And I think that's why so many people, like you said, from 15 years ago, they have his diet, you know. Well, I mean, if they don't have the diet, they have some type of concept that came from Milos, which would be like a training system built around like some type of carlo, wasn't what I mean by a virus is, you know, how it spreads. I didn't mean that in a negative way. how viruses spread that information spread because Milos is doing XYZ and he's helping Hyde or he's helping Dennis Wolf or he's helping this guy and this guy goes back to where he's from and the you know people in his gym say hey what are you doing and they you know they get it from those guys Wolf and didn't Johnny Jackson used to work with Milos or am I making that up Johnny has worked with them in the past yeah way way back Now, I'm looking at the scorecards here and I got to tell you, you know, Johnny Jackson won, but there was a couple. Round two was actually won by Michael Lockett. I'm looking here. So, round one, two two minutes later. No, round one is is the is the prejudging. Round two is the finals. Two hours later, and then the opposing round, I guess, is round three, which Johnny narrowly defeated Lockad at. So, it was a lot closer than people think. Michael Lockett, you know, almost won his first pro show here, you know, and this guy is is is he might be the Milos of of of the new era because this guy can do every show. He's always in shape. This let me interject this. I you had said a few weeks ago that if Michael Lockett continues to do all these shows because he's not going to get burnt out, he's only going to improve and get better. And that's exactly what happened. Yeah. Yeah. And he's and he's able to sustain that that insane level of conditioning, you know, from show to show to show. We always thought Juan Morell was the guy who can do that, but Juan doesn't seem to be able to do that anymore. I don't know what what the what the issue is. He just um just doesn't look like the Juan Morell we saw two years ago. I don't know what's going on with his physique. He's good. Let's not take it away from him. I mean, the guy who was third place here, but he's not great. Uh he's not coming in as sharp as he needs to be. This is not This is not Juan Muro when he won the New York Pro. No, no, we're not seeing that. And I don't know what's going on. I don't know if he has injuries or if he's just not timing things right. It's also sometimes a lot of guys have trouble traveling. I mean, he's going all over the world. He's done international New Zealand. He's in Brazil, you know, it it takes a toll and absolutely on a bigger, taller guy, you know, it's not like it it just for some reason, you know, a bigger taller meaning there's more weight on you. Take out the the, you know, there's always exceptions. Michael Lockett's a big guy, too, but he's, you know, he doesn't have that issue. But some guys who are big and tall, the travel just hammers them. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's part of what's happening is is the travel. You know, the travel, you know, back and forth and, you know, you can say, "Yeah, everybody does that. Everyone's traveling." Well, not necessarily. He's traveling more than other people, you know, further distances, but it's uh has a more negative effect on a bigger bodybuilder and a taller bodybuilder. It would smoke a Cedric. You know, he'd be fried if he was doing all these shows by the time he got here. Let's throw another variable in there. He brings his daughter with him. Well, he needs a trophy for the IPB should give him an award for that or something. I don't you know how hard it is to travel with a young kid. You know that that's that's no joke. Are you kidding me? I can't even go to the soccer game this morning. It's too much. Take my three-year-old. He's staying here. Uh, so I I guess I've been telling enough people, so I guess I could mention it here. You know, my wife, Amanda, obviously is pregnant again. So, I found out yesterday. I was going to post it up on my Instagram. Who do you think I found out from? Come on, let's play $20,000. I think I told Guy. I think I told Did I tell guy? You lost the money. Who? Come on. Who would have told me? Who would have told me? You got to take a Probably she told you. No, Scooter told me. Oh, SC I told Scooter. Yeah, he told everybody. I haven't heard from Scooter in a month. He said, "Dave Palumbo's wife's pregnant." Actually, Scooter, he's got the pregnancy protocol. He's got that pregnancy protocol. Scoo Scooter actually called me also cuz he heard that my dad burn almost burned the house down cuz I told our friend Bill Brownstein, my my dentist, who I do his diet and uh Scooter's like, "What happened with your dad?" So I told him the whole story, you know, because Scooter loves drama like that. He's like, and I told him, "Yeah, I got to get my dad down." He goes, "You know, you need got to get power of attorney." He goes, "I got a lawyer for you." You know, he's Scooter knows every lawyer in every every uh doctor dentist in the entire, you know, country basically. And uh so he he gave me the name of a lawyer. I got to call the lawyer Monday. I I told Scooter yesterday, he called me. I said, "Scotty, you're you're one of like 11 people I follow on Facebook, I mean uh Instagram." And I actually his training videos, dude, they're off the hook. Yeah. Yeah. With the guys he trains. Yeah. He has I mean the intensity of whatever he's doing, whatever sport he's training people for, um they're just they're actually enjoyable to watch. Yeah. He's got so much he's got so much energy and the guy hasn't slept in like 10 years. He hasn't had a good night's sleep. Well, he'd love to sleep. He would love to sleep. He just can't sleep. Yeah. He was asking about some supplement he wanted to take. I said, you know, that thing I said, it makes Well, no. He was taking some supplement to help him, you know, I don't know, recover better. And I said, "Well, it's going to make you tired." He said, "Uh, will it help me sleep at night?" I said, "No, it's going to make you tired. You won't sleep, but because you can't sleep." I said, "But you'll be tired during the day." So, so that that's not good. So, uh, that was pretty funny. Anyway, so Johnny Jackson wins uh here, narrowly defeating Michael Lockett. Uh, it was perfect. It was perfect timing for Johnny really because everyone was kind of writing him off and somehow every year he finds a show to do where he wins. This year, this is a big show. I think there's some decent prize money. I don't know how much they give away, but usually these Arnolds are about 30 grand, right? 25 30 grand. Yeah. John I you know what, Johnny's one of the best guys in bodybuilding, period. He's one of the nicest people uh I've met in the in the sport ever. Right. But he keeps he keeps winning. It's it's it's crazy. I mean, when you think about it, he looks Oh, yeah. His face is he looks like he's 30. But the funny thing is that he he just has this leg issue and where his legs are just not beefy enough in in the the adductor compartment. And meanwhile, the guy squats like 7 800 lb, deadlifts like 800 lb. It's the most It's the craziest thing I've ever seen. But that upper body is so strong. I think that a lot of his powerlifting comes from the back, you know, because he's got the one of the best backs in bodybuilding. Always has. Uh, and pecs, pecs, abs. Yeah, biceps, shoulders, triceps. Good for him. He's Look, he's got to be close to I He's got to be close to my age, I would think, right? He's Is he in his upper 40s or is he mid-40s? Um, he has to be he's been 40 for quite a while. I know that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We'll have to check with Dennis James. I'll ask. You know, I think I'm going to try to get Johnny on the show this week. hopefully get a little interview with him because this this is a huge huge win for him because to come to the Arnold Classic, win that, qualify for the Olympia this way. I mean, that that's that's monumental. That's, you know, you got to take give him a round of applause for that one because a lot of people, no one was really except you. You know, he kind of jumped in the last minute, so we really weren't, you know, thinking that he was going to be able to do anything here. Um, but he beats everyone. He he take out he took out Lockett, he took out Juan Morell, who finishes third. Victor Mart when I when I saw the video last week and I I said I I told you I said you know I I wanted to say this if they judge it fairly and I don't mean that they judge shows unfairly but you know let's say Victor was in better shape and they put Victor next to them they do this well you know Victor's flow is better or you know what I mean so you could you could give it to him on an intangible right like where you know uh and that's what I thought would probably happen I figured like Victor would be in good enough shape where here's what I mean by fair. The intangible of oh well he's got better shape. Of course, he's got better shape, but there's this weird thing too of uh Victor's got such a big name that as a judge and as a fan and uh you know, as anyone knows the name Victor Martinez, if he's quote good enough and he's being compared to let's say Johnny Jackson and even if Johnny's edging him out, it's human nature to like say well Victor's better. Yeah. Well, that's where that because it's subjective and that's where the name, you know what I mean? Your eye would probably go to the bigger name. Well, he obviously wasn't better than anyone because here he gets fourth place. He didn't get even second or third. So, I'm assuming he was off. You know, like you said, if he was on, I think we would have seen probably him win the show. Off. He still takes fourth here. So, I have to assume that, you know, he just wasn't his best. You know, once again, maybe the travel screwed him up. It was his first show of the year, so he should have been fresh. I don't Is he working with the camel crew anymore? I don't I don't think he he certainly hasn't been in Kuwait. So, well, he's he's working with someone on nutrition, I think, but you know, he's not there. He's not sequestered. Yeah. Yeah. Victor needs to be there. He's one of those guys that will do well when he's there. Uh but he's he doesn't if he's not there, he's not getting the same level of attention and, you know, people watching. Victor needs to be like babysat almost, you know, for for these guys, you know. And I I think that he he's a guy who does do well in that oxygen gym environment where he's sequestered. Um I think that not everyone does, but I think he he certainly would. Yeah. But you think we'll see Juan Morell now go to the to Oxygen Jam. He won't because he's got a family. He can't he can't afford to leave his family that long. But I'd like to see Juan I'm assuming Juan is gonna probably do New York Pro, but maybe not. I don't know. I I haven't seen the lineup yet, but uh I'm assuming he's going to want to redeem himself a little bit and and try to win that New York Pro. But I think that New York Pro is going to be a tough tough show. I You know what? It's it's it's it's it tough to redeem when you put in 14,000 20 44,000 miles in the last 6 weeks traveling to these shows. In other words, beats you up. You know, it's not like one of these things like, okay, I'll sleep in late on Sunday and I'll fly to, you know, back home on Monday and I'll sleep in Monday and I'll be super fresh on Tuesday. You'll be beat up just from the the act of of traveling. And like I'm beat up when I when I travel these shows. I don't even work out when I It won't beat up like a locket and it won't beat up like a, you know, more compact guy. Um, Lock Lockett probably eats the If I know Lockett, he probably eats the plain food. He's probably, right? Guaranteed. Probably eaten. Yeah, he's probably eating breakfast, you know, this morning at drostanolone and probably better this morning than he was yesterday. He probably has the the the food on the plane. I bet he's because he probably doesn't pack his own food knowing him. And he probably looks better. He dries him out, you know. That's like Cedric, you know. Yeah. Bacon wings. Did you help fifth place? Uh, Ibraham Fahim. Ibrahim Fahim. Yeah. People People say he's a a R. Harris said that he's part of the camel crew, but he's not. When did you start helping him? He's He's good. I helped him the last couple years. Okay. You know, he's placed top five in a few pro shows the last couple years. He's another guy who's got leg issues, but he's got good upper body. You know, they're coming. The legs are coming. You know, it's like this tough balance. You know what I mean? It's like a Johnny issue. You know, you know what? Everyone in that, it seems like everyone in that top group had leg issues cuz Victor had leg issues. Michael Lockett doesn't have Michael Lockett's got the the the leanest legs, but he's certainly has leg issues, too. He's got that one, you know, leg that's a little smaller. Johnny's got the leg issues. Abraham Fee. So, it was basically the legless show. And that's why I think you and Juan has got what leg issues that I think that's why you and I can we get Yeah. Can we get Ben on on the phone right now with Milos and see if Ben It would have been a win for Ben Wowski for certain. Now, Jeff Beckham, who finished in six, was a guy who I thought could come in here and he's got wheels. Yeah. I see. He just was off. He just wasn't tight. Yeah. I mean, uh stop either. Yeah. Yeah. He's improving, but you know, it's it's tough to do a lot of shows. Tall guy. The tall guys have trouble on the road. You said it. You know, you know, but he's improving. you know, his trajectory is in the right, you know, it's going up rather than, you know, straight across or down. Well, Milo said when I interviewed him that, you know, I asking him about how, you know, back in the day, he did every show. He, you know, there wasn't as many shows, but he would do every show. He goes, if I was competing today, I would have the, you know, I would I would do, you know, 30 shows a year basically. You know, you know what? You know what, Milos? The most profound thing that he said in that interview for for me personally was you said, you know, you did whatever 78 shows and you know, in 99 he took a little break and then the fire went out. Yeah. Yeah. He said he couldn't get back into it. So, isn't that weird? Yeah. It's but it's very understandable. But you know, he was going, you know, this is a guy who would do the tour every single year of New York. you know he do all the shows like you said and he was always traveling doing seminars and uh you know he he had the unofficial title secret to the uh you know guru seminar he was doing guru seminars because everyone there was trying to learn from him you're right he was and and then in 99 he stopped competing and that was it didn't have to there was nothing left yeah he had the record did a noas he did a nas I think he had some personal problems but he had Uh he had the record at 72 shows he had done and Dexter just beat that recently but but Milo said had you know had there been more shows he would have Milos I mean uh Dexter never would have caught him on the number of shows you did. I said well Dexter competed 10 years longer than you did. I said that's why he got more shows than you. He goes yeah that's true. It is true. 72 shows is a lot of shows though to compete in right. Yeah consider how many he's won on 25. Yeah. Has he won like 25? He wins one and three. Dexter probably. Yeah. Yeah, you're right. That is a pretty good win. His win percentage is definitely the best out there. Well, maybe not. Lee Haney might have a better one just because Lee Haney didn't do that many shows. But yeah, but the the idea that he's won over 20 years, it's just insane. Everything about him is insane. Three decades I think he's gone, right? Has he been in 90s, the 2000s, and yeah, the tens. So, um, they also had a fitness pro show there. Uh, Regina Dilva won that with Darina Wilson who's trained by uh I think she's still trained by Lena Mission, my good friend, and Diana Monttero from Brazil in third. So, congratulations to those ladies. Uh, they like the fitness down there in South Africa. They used to have this the fitness in uh Brazil. I think they switched it up for figure now. So, the Arnold Classics, you know, I guess they usually have like one girl women's event, one men's event like in these in in the uh other countries. And then obviously USA, they have almost every every division, although they haven't did they I don't remember. Did they add Classic yet? No, they haven't added Classic physique yet. Next year, maybe. So, good weekend for the Arnold people. And John Lindseay had a show in California this past weekend uh pro men's physique event which was won by uh Wu Long from China. I didn't even know they had men's physique in China. There you go. Is he the first Chinese? He might be the first Chinese winner of a of a pro show. Do you know any other guys from China that ever won a pro show? No. Woo. I haven't seen the pictures yet. Should get him on the show. Yeah, if he speaks English. Safa Aria uh from California was second. and uh Jeremy Coleman is third. You know, it's funny because they have the guy's names, you know, they have the results. They have the guy's first name, then last name. Now, um for for Wu Wu Long, and I could be I could be screwing it up. They It looks like they reversed his name because they couldn't tell because he was from China, which would be a typical dumb American move, right? They have his first name is Long and his first name is Woo. So, theoretically, it's Long Woo. So I could be wrong. You think that's his name? You think it's L? I think a Woo Long would be his name, not Long Woo. No, I'm I'm That's outside of my sphere of influence. The way the names because I assume, you know, Don Long is his LA is is Don and Long. So I figured Long would be the last name, but maybe in China Long is a first name. Long Woo. Yeah, I think I might have screwed it up. So it's Long Woo wins, not Woo Long. See, now I'll never forget the guy's name. So, watch out for him at the uh Men's Physique Olympia because he'll be there now. And uh you heard it here first. Lang Woo, winner at the uh California Night of Champions. Hey, you think Wayne Deilly got upset with the fact that John Lindsay's calling his show the California Knight of Champions? Well, maybe the the trademark ran out. Yeah, maybe. I like the name Knight of Champions. I think Well, I love the Night of Wayne Deilia used call used to call it a Night of Champions. So, it's a different title, but but I thought it was I thought it was a good name. I guess when when they when Wayne and the IFBB went opposite ways, uh Wayne had trademarked the name, so they they don't use that, but they changed it to New York Pro, which doesn't really No one even cares what the name of the show is, but it was a good name. It was a good name. All right, let's see what else we got here. Um the Pittsburgh Pro is this also past weekend. And you look, you and I have been talking about this kid for a couple weeks now. Chris Bumstead wins the men's physique or men's classic physique, excuse me, division. Uh, beating a terrific Divine Wilson and Lee Banks in the process. Uh, here's a guy, Chris, that that is, you know, you and I were talking about him. I we don't know how he makes the weight class. He's a tall guy, so I'm assuming that's probably how he gets through. But what great symmetry, small waist, he's got a vacuum pose. He's got great legs for a tall guy. Um, I I don't know how he does it, to be honest with you. I don't know how he does it. Here's what's important about his body. It looks classic. In other words, he, you know, I'm looking at the pictures. If if you can do that, if you can do a kneeling front double bicep and if you can do a that Bob Paris where you you kneel and lunge and you square off your shoulders kind of like, but yeah, you'd have to see the pic. All his poses look quote classic, right? And some of the guys in the show are just bodybuilders in that division, which it it's the gray area is what's classic and what's not. Someone just told me recently, just cuz you can do a vacuum doesn't make you a classic bodybuilder, right? You know, you could be a bad bodybuilder who can do a vacuum. to me his the flow, the shape, the presentation, which he's he steals all Bob Paris's stuff. Uh, you know, makes him stick out. I mean, I I think I think like the guy who got second looks like a really good bodybuilder and Lee Banks looks more like a classic bodybuilder. Well, Lee Banks insists that he is natural and I'm sure he is, dude. I am sure he looks like he is. Yeah, his face changed. You know how when guys are are natural, their face gets like like more hollowed out? For some reason, this anabolics keep your face like like more beefy, muscular. I can just see it in his face, you know, that he's and but he's ridiculously hard. I'll give him that much. He's ridiculously hard. He's He's made I feel so far the the absolute best transition from men's bodybuilding y to classic bodybuilding. If you look at the pictures here, he's ridiculously dangerous. Yeah. I mean, he looks incredible. And I mean, this the guy who looks got second, I don't know who who I forgot. Wilson. Divine Wilson. Yeah. Divine Wilson. To me, he looks like there's It sounds odd, but too much power to his physique and too much like of a hardcore bodybuilding look to put him over banks. Yeah. I mean, look at Lee's when he does that like most muscular when he puts one hand on his hip and keeps the other one out in front of him. I I think Divine Wilson has has some I at first when you look at him, I wasn't that impressed. And as I started looking through the pictures, obviously I wasn't there. I have a feeling this guy in person looked wacky because he had crazy crazy separation. Crazy dense. You can't you can't capture that in in in pictures, unfortunately. Um, but I I'm sure and I mean his back double is the thickest in the show, but is that you know so it goes back to you know if he's the thickest in the show and he's he's equally he's harder than I think he's harder than Chris Bumfeld. Yeah, to some degree cuz the muscle looks more like uh aged in a good way more mature. Um, but obviously Chris wins based on the flow and the shape, which I I agree with. Did you look at fourth place, Karage Opara? This guy's got a crazy vacuum. 15 years old. He looks like a young Kai Green. Really? I mean, just nuts. Yeah, he he he's good. He's got a, you know, he's got some classic lines to him, too. You know, if if you're going to do men's classic physique, you got to you got to have a vacuum pose. I just think it looks wacky, you know. It just it just that's the classic look that everyone wants to see, you know. Uh, he's got a good vacuum. This kid, Bumstead's got a pretty decent vacuum pose, too, with the teeny teeny teeny tiny waist. You know, I got to tell you, Bumstead looks like he's 10 times bigger than he should be able to be and still make the weight less, but his maybe his bones are hollow and he certainly has a D. Is his weight 205, 205, or 210? I'm not I'm not sure given his height what his weight is. I don't I don't know his his statistics. We'll have to get him on the TV show and and I'll have to ask him because he is he looks like he's the tallest guy in the lineup or one of the tallest guys in the lineup. So, he probably has the ability to weigh more, you know, than these other guys. Don't forget the pro the pro cut off for weight and height is a little higher. So, I right or is it Well, it's 205 for a given height, but he might be taller than the given height, which means his his his cut off would be higher than that. Okay. Okay. It's it's based on your height. So, if you're taller, you know, maybe I don't know, maybe a guy 5'11, it's 205. But but for a guy 6 foot or 61, it would it would be 210, 250, 220. I don't know, depending on what the what the what the uh delineation is. I got to look and find. I don't know what he how tall he is. I will say one thing, he looks a little flat. And and the only reason I say that is because he needs some insulin. No, he the reason I say that is because he's so lean, but yet I'm not seeing some, you know, craziness in terms of striations and and Dave, I'll tell you exactly what it is, and you can ask him when you get him on the show. He's he he's he's from it's a Zayn Watson. Zayn Watson did the 212 Arnold. He was 230 ridiculously hard three weeks out, an open bodybuilder, and starve like a maniac down to 212. And you end up being less like gnarly and less hard at that lower weight because the only thing that's going somewhere is density and muscle tissue and water in the muscle tissue. That's the only thing that's leaving. So it it ends up with almost like a oh could be a little bit harder look. I bet if Chris I'm sure today Chris Formstell you know by Monday he'll be like insane. So I I I I'm guessing that's what it is because I mean otherwise he's in beyond impeccable condition. Now now here's a good interesting thought. The Olympia the weigh-in for this classic physique is like 48 hours before the actual show. guy like him wi with Milos on his side, you know, think about they could probably bump him up what 20 pounds probably by the time he gets on stage. The rash jumped up I think 15 last year. But Milos Milos can get him up at least 37. He could start out at 210. He he wind up at 250 on stage. You know, I I I think that this bumpstead kid can can move up to the open if you really wanted to to be honest with you because I think he's going to be limited on how much he muscle he could put on me. He probably can't gain an, you know, a single pound anymore. Well, I keep saying it and I, you know, if I predicted Johnny Jackson, I'll predict this that the classic, you know, in three years we're going to be seeing um uh 40 guys in the Olympia and, you know, we're going to be seeing new faces and we're going to be seeing uh triple the excitement that we're seeing now because it it's it will catch on like people have no clue that it will catch on. Well, I'm going to put you I get people emailing me all the time, oh, should I do classic or bodybuilding? And they're I'm like, "Wow, this guy looks incredible." I said, "Might as well do classic." Yeah, if you can make the weight, it's worth it. If you can't make the weight, you do bodybuilding. Now, I'm going to put you on the spot. Chris Bumstead looking like he did here. Can he beat Danny Hester? Um, yeah. Good. That's a What about Arash? Can he beat Arash? Um, close, right? It's close. You got to see him next to each other. He's he's he's he's damn good. I I said it right from the beginning. I knew the first year Classic Olympia was going to be, you know, it's like kind of like was when with men's physique. It's going to be it's going to be good, but it's not going to be not going to have everyone all the cards haven't fallen in place yet. Now you're going to see some wacky wacky physiques out there like this Bumstead kid and and I'm sure we're going to see more guys like him at the New York Pro uh that are gonna just, you know, blow everyone's mind. So, I think the Olympia is going to be a big big mishmash this year. It's going to be ch a lot of changing of the guard. I don't think we're going to see the same. Listen, there's only there's only so much there's only a few people who can freak you out on a bodybuilding stage in in an open show. You know, Kai Green can freak you out. You know, Ramy can freak you out. Phil can freak you out in terms of, you know, muscle per square inch. But some of these what are they figure girl who who the figure some of the figure I mean figures figure the the crazy tapers. How many have we been how many times have we been at a show and been freaked out by the crazy taper crazy cap delts ridiculously small ways flat of the thighs. What do these girls weigh? 105 118. So my point is you can be freaked out in a good way when somebody gets up there with the craziest vtaper, craziest cap on their delts. Yeah, they might be 210, but it's it's impressive to see on stage and it creates excitement and you can get 18 guys in a in a show in a couple years with all freaky B tapers. And in essence, it's going to have just as strong an impact as those four guys I mentioned in the open. Yeah, there were 32 guys in this classic physique division here. How many were they in the Arnold Brazil? A lot less guys, but they're invited. It's invited. How's how's Bumsfeld's legs compared to the top four in Arnold? Yeah, it would be interesting. He's they're better. Definitely, for sure. I don't know about the upper body. Isn't that interesting? Yeah. Yeah. I But I'm telling you, I think a lot of these classic physique guys can cross over and win uh win pro shows in the open men's category. You know, I was talking to my friend Justin Miller. He was sending me pictures of George Peterson who's doing the New York Pro in two weeks, and he looks wacky. I hope Bumpstead does the New York Pro, too. I I have a feeling he's not going to, but that would be a great that's going to be a great battle. Bumpstead verse Peterson if he does do it because those two guys are are just tremendous. Men's physique won by Raymont Edwards who uh knocks off Andre Ferguson who was on that big uh the big uh win streak there. I know Andre was predicting he was going to win Pittsburgh, New York, Toronto and whatever the other show he's going to do. He's he's going to be like the me loss of the men's physique division. Raymond Edwins, you know, puts the the beaten on him and wins that. Andre second. George Brown, another great guy who won the New York Pro two years in a row. He's third place here. So, what a great great great men's physique lineup. Uh Mohammad, I don't even know who this guy in fourth is. Mohamad Buckwamar uh was in fourth. Antoine Williams, another great men's physique guy in fifth. So, what a what a what a crazy lineup that was in men's physique. I mean, it's funny because the men's physique, classic physique seem to be very strong divisions at Pittsburgh. I guess a lot of guys like to go there. They want to show off the gymnion and all the, you know, top judges that are there uh at the Pittsburgh Pro Championships. Bikini was won by Michelle Sylvia with Casey Samson in second and Carolina Arujo in third, Katherine Radulick in fourth, and Sheena Jane Martin in fifth. And in figure, Andrea Pard wins with Maria Louisa Diaz in third and Sarah Ford in fourth. Jessica Padilla from Puerto Rico, that's Johnny's favorite, in fourth there. And Carly Stling in fifth. So Pittsburgh huge huge classes in all four of these divisions. Very successful obviously weekend. Also, they, you know, we the excitement of the weekend, however, in Pittsburgh is the is that men's physique. Men's physique. What am I talking about? I'm losing my mind here with my dad. I'm like my becoming my dad. We just talked about becoming your dad. Uh the men's pro guest poser lineup and we're going to talk about that when we get back from the commercial break. Chris, we've already gone too far. Uh stay tuned guys. We'll be back in 2 minutes. A legendary name in hardcore supplementation. Iron Mag Labs. 100% original patent pending andro compounds. The most effective hardcore groundbreaking bodybuilding supplements in the world. In the world. Iron Mag Labs. Revolutionizing hardcore supplementation for more than a decade. Visit ironmaglabs.com. Ironmaglabs.com. Hi, I'm Dave Palumbo and I just had a protein shake made with Quest Nutrition's new salted caramel protein powder. And I can tell you this, it's on a whole new level. It's a total reinvention of the protein shake. The taste is incredible, and its creamy texture and richness make it taste like a real caramel milkshake. It's incredibly low carb, less than 1 g of sugar, and 22 g of protein in every serving. No soy, and it's gluten-free. Just add water, ice, a scoop of protein, and shake it up. It's that easy. I actually look forward to drinking this shake. And Quest Nutrition has got a total of seven different flavors. They come in convenient single serving packets so you can mix and match. Check out loveyouproteinpowder.com for more information on quest protein powders and some delicious shake inspirations. Welcome back to Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo talking with Chris the technician of uh and we were just speaking about all the great contest results that took place this past weekend. The Arnold South Africa, the Pittsburgh Pro, the John Lindseay Night of Champions. And the excitement that I was waiting to talk about was the guest poser lineup that's always stellar in Pittsburgh. And this year was no uh different. We had six time Mr. Olympia Phil Heath out there. Dexter the Blade Jackson who we've not seen on stage this past year yet. He's saving it up for the Olympia trying to get his win number two on that stage at the age of 48. Big Ramy in from Kuwait with Ry Winkler also coming in from Kuwait. Dallas Macccarver in the house and Sergio Oliva Jr. who another guy that you're helping Chris that's going to be in making his pro debut in New York in two weeks. He's looking pretty stellar up on that stage. It's It's amazing how close facially that Sergio Oliva Jr. and Phil Heath look to each other. They look like they could be brothers. Yeah, it's funny. They have a similar look, right? They do look alike. I mean, a lot. I mean, especially when Sergio is is dieted out, you know? I thought it was pretty interesting. Now, I originally saw Kai Green on the poster. But I thought Kai Green was going to be in this lineup and we had seen some pictures on his that he had posted on social media like a week or two ago and he was looking insane. He claims he was 320 lbs. I don't know if that was the truth or not, but he looked pretty wacky. I figured we would definitely see him up in stage on Pittsburgh. I don't know if he had something to do or not or at the last minute. What do you think is going on with that? Where do you think Kai Green was this past weekend? I would have loved to see him up there on stage next to the big Ramy and Phil and all those guys. Yeah, I don't know where he, you know, disappeared to. Maybe Phil and him had a fight in the bathroom before and Phil put the beating on him. Put the beat down on him. Look, create some more rumors that aren't true, right? You know. Yeah. Fake news. Fake news. Uh what I I I look I looked at the lineup and I think you and I both concurred that probably of all the guys up there that Big Ramy looked the most impressive. Absolutely. Amazingly enough, because Sergio's got a show in two weeks, but Big Ramy actually had abs. I mean, he wasn't ripped to the bone, but he had some some good conditioning for this many weeks out from the Olympia. Yeah, he looked um he looked like he's taking care of business. Yeah, he I he evidently didn't watch the uh the Iron Rage John and I did about begging for applause where we were saying how how horrible it is when you beg for applause. Now, this was a guest posing, so you you could actually do that. But when he came out, he put his hand to his ear again, which was which was something that John and I said. Does that drive you crazy, too, when you see guys competing? You know, you know who who I think Mazzo started it and everyone copied him. But he started Yeah, but he started it when he was guest posing. Now, I don't think he did that when he was competing, you know. No, I know. But no, he did it years later competing and modered that and he started uh jumping in onto into the audience, which you know, I don't think he'd ever done. No. Yeah, you know, I was always afraid to jump into the audience because I was always afraid of hurting myself and and I saw a couple guys hurt themselves jumping off the stage. Uh probably the mo the guy who jumped off the stage the most gracefully that I've ever seen was Kai Green, which is amazing because he's so big, but he's you know, he's got that athleticism just Well, that's uh that's how Remy got hurt when he went into the audience. Yeah. Uh in India. Yeah. But it was I don't I don't think he got hurt jumping off stage. I think so. He was trying to get back onto the stage. Somebody pushed him. That's right. I think someone was like, you know, there was so many guys around him that it was crazy. How do you think Sergio will do in New York? Um, I don't know. I think he's got one of these physiques that, you know, he doesn't have a ton of muscle, but under the right, you know, condition, right? Lights, blah, blah, blah, blah. Right. I guess it, you know, I'm on the fence. We'll see. Yeah. Dallas looked big still. Yeah, he looked very big. Phil always looks like who knows in guest posings, you know what I mean? He looks like buttery round, but you know what I mean? It's Yeah. You know, and I guess you have to be there because I don't crazy. Yeah. Well, Phil's not the biggest guy. He's wows people when he's crazy shredded, ripped because he gets the cartoonish look to him. He doesn't have that off seasonason. But you know what? Ronnie never looked impressive in the offseason either. When you'd see Ronnie guest post, you'd be like, "Man, he's fat." You know, even Dorian didn't look that great when he guest posed. He was huge, but he wasn't that great. Some guys just look good all year round, like Kai Green. Kai Green just has that wacky muscle. And some guys don't look good until they're in contest shape. And Phil's one of these guys that when he's shredded to the bone, you just see detail that you never seen before, you know, and you don't see that offseason. Now, Roelly is wearing um the classic physique uh shorts, so I'm thinking you think he can suck down to that classic physique division? Um, you have to move it up to like 300. Yeah, he does look very big. He looks huge. You know, I had some guy email me and tell me that the um the secret to the oxygen gym guys is that they're he he said, "I know it. I know the secret. I'm going to tell you guys. I'm not I'm anonymous though. They're they're taking myio three myioatin inhibitors and and because they're on these three myioatin inhibitors that synergistically work together. It suppresses their immune system so much that they have to sleep in in in in tents so that they don't get sick and get exposed to germs that they have. I said, "Are you guys are you this guy? People are out of their [\h__\h] minds, you know, to actually believe this this this craziness. People believe anything." I said, "Well, why is a Keem Williams sleeping in the same room as as another guy and if their immune system is so bad and and they have to sleep in in a bubble?" I I don't know who makes this stuff up. It sounds almost like a Milo story, but uh it's not. So, I said, "Look, if you guys don't understand what bodybuilding is, it's about lifting heavy weights, eating a lot of food, and sleeping enough. That's bodybuilding. There's no secret There's no secret drugs. Everyone uses the same stuff. Everyone takes the same food in. Everyone trains with the same weights. Some people just train harder, more intensely. Some people are more meticulous with their nutrition. And some people have better genetics than other people. And that's the truth of the freaking sport because you know what? I had good genetics but not great genetics. And I was able to probably overcome a lot of my genetic flaws by putting extra muscle on and being super conditioned. But I never was going to have a Mr. Olympia physique cuz I don't have the genetics for it. So I maximized all the other variables. Um some people who maximize all the variables like Ronnie Coleman win eight Olympias or Lee Haney. Some people, you know, maximize some of the variables but not the other variables and they become good bodybuilders or good pro bodybuilders but and not great probodys. And we see it all the time. So, uh, when you go to Oxygen Gym, they're trying to maximize all the variables, but there's still the genetic component to the whole equation that you cannot discount. And that's why there's only one Big Ramy out there. There's only one Phil Heath. There's one Jay Cutler because not everyone has those kind of genetics. And I I think that people just have to accept that that that there's no secrets that people are hiding anywhere. Yeah. If there are It's a rxmuscle.com. acetoart rxmuscle.com. the noning secrets. Yeah. That you want to you want to relay to us. Now, uh I'm excited for the New York Pro that's coming up in two weeks. I'm going to go I might actually go see Steve Weinberg today. I don't know if I'm going to have time before I fly back, but uh I'll definitely see him when I come in in two weeks. But, uh I'm excited for the show. It's in the Westchester County Medical now. Now, my med school is is Yeah. You're getting really crazy Westchester County Center. I was going to say that sounds like where you went to college. It it was where I went to medical school, but it the Westchester County Medical Center is where I went to med school. Westchester County Center, which is about a couple miles away from there, very close, is in White Plains, and that's where the show is going to be. It's also where the the reptile uh I do my reptile shows there, same center. So, I'm wondering if there'll be there might be a reptile show the following day. So I can kind of do a double banger, you know, like show, bodybuilding show one day, the following morning I go to the the reptile show. Same same location. Anyway, it's going to be a great event there. I'm looking forward to it. I think Westchester is a great place to hold a show. I think it's a good move for Steve Wymer going to move it up there. I know it's a bigger venue. Uh they got good parking there. They charge for parking, but they got good parking. And it's going to look like it's it's going to look more professional, I think, up there. Especially since the New York Pro is such a professional show and I think really I think Steve had outgrown that venue the uh even though I love that Double Tree hotel there that they hold it in or not Double Tree they hold it in the uh Courtyard. Mar is it Marriott? No that's not it. You said it recogniz where is it? It's in I see now like I've become we've becoming our dads now Chris Tene New Jersey. It's in the Tene Marriott. That's where they they hold the Team Universe and all the other New York shows, but they're moving the New York Pro this year up to White Plains. So, don't go to Tene, New Jersey because there'll be no show there in two weeks. All right, I have a good quote of the week, Chris. I know you like my quotes of the week. I hear you typing in the background, so stop typing for a minute when we do this uh quote of the week. I actually have two quotes of the week, but I'm I'm going to pick one. I'm going to pick the Chinese proverb since the since Wongloo won the uh John Lindseay show out there from China. I'm going to check pick a Chinese proverb. The best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago. The second best time is now. You want to give your interpretation of that or you want me to read it again? No, let me think about it. Very very wise. There's never a wrong time to do something. Well, I mean, when I went out and bought fruit trees, you know, for my property in Florida, I'm like, man, if I would have planted these things, you know, I even said it, if I would have planted these five, six years ago, think about how much great fruit I'd have on it. And I think people do that all the time in life. They say, man, if I would have just, you know, been the bodybuilder I want to be, you know, at at 20 instead of waiting till 40. If I would have if I would have uh invested in that money, if I would have bought that house 20 years ago, right? How many times do you hear your parents say that? Oh gosh, forget about it. But the next best time to do something is right this minute. It's never too late. Start now because 20 years flies by real quickly. Another 20 years will go by real fast and you'll say, "I should have planted the plant 20 years ago." So don't don't be discouraged that you might not have done things in the time frame that you think you should have. The best next best time is is doing it right this minute. Start. If you want to do something, if you want to be something, start it now because five years flies by so quickly. Yeah. Like I I could have said, "Oh man, I should have had kids 10 years ago when I was 30, you know, five." And what do you mean 35? You you you would have been 40. So stop your age, dude. I would have been 39. 39. I'm not 50 like you yet. Next year. But I mean, I could have said that and I could have never had kids because of that. But I said, "You know what? I'm ready. I'm gonna do it right now." Listen, I was once out in front of a property that I bought and I bought it and the broker said, "Do you think you paid too much? This after sold it to me." And I said, "I think I paid a very aggressive price." And he said, "Are you worried about that?" I swear, Dave, this ties right into the conversation. Mhm. The location. What do you know about real estate? If people know nothing about it, what do they know? Location, location, location. Right. Right. The location is beyond prime. Right. So I said, "What do you think you could sell it for in 20 years?" Then he said, "I don't know, five, 10 times as much as it is now." And I said, "No, I think I'm I'm okay." Yeah. That's not too That's I mean, time goes by. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you knew it was a good deal. I mean, you knew it was a good property and and you weren't buying it to sell the week after. You were buying it long term. So, you knew long term that that eventually the price was going to go up to the point where you were going to make money. I mean, at some point, you're going to sell your properties and probably have a nice little nest egg in the bank that will be your retirement, you know, so that you when you and I are in a in a scenile memory ward together of Florida, we can afford it right now. Kids won't have to mortgage their their houses to do it. So it's it's scary. But if we do both lose our memory, c can we tell our wives to put us in the same place. Oh, I don't cuz your wife is younger. My wife is younger. So you know. Yeah. Tell I that's the only thing I asked. Can I be put with a even though we won't know won't remember who each other are. I just want to be in the same uh insane asylum. You know what? We'll run in Milos. We can get Milos to come visit us. He'll be right there with us giving us insulin because he'll say insulin insulin will get your memory back, you know. Yeah. Actually, Colette Nelson thinks that because I thought Milos will come visit us because Milos is like a Jay. They have photographic memories. Milos can tell you every little detail. I mean, you didn't get into a Dave with him, but he can go into the ill exhaustive details of Toronto, bro. I I I should have won that over Ronnie Coleman. I think he did win a Toronto Pro and and you know, meal three was uh 8 oz of chicken breast and 395 g of carbohydrates with 300 g of glucose and uh my weight was uh didn't even move. So, what that tells you is that I mean his memory is unbelievable when it comes to bodybuilding. That's He can tell you what Hyde weighed four days before the Olympia where he got 10th. He can tell you what Dennis Wolf ate at meal 6 on a Wednesday morning before the 2007 Olympia. Right. Right. Right. Right. People laugh and they say, "Yeah, yeah, he can. I gave him pie filling. Apple pie filling. You got to get him on. You got to You know what? You got to get him on because he's colorful. You got to get him on a ging. You We heard the technical Milos. Now we hear we got to get the He's got more stories than anyone because when you do 76 shows and you go on tours with all these guys and and these guys would all pick his brain. Oh, he knows he knows every Yeah, he you're right. He knows every diuretic that these guys took, every every anabolic steroid, every pharmacy they visited probably, you know, to get the stuff they needed in these European countries. I'm sure you're right. Milos probably has the greatest stories of all time. And he and he remembers them. That's the funny thing. No. and he was he was uh you know one step away from the Belco catastrophe that was going on that year. So he knows like stories and right yeah I'll get him on. You're right. I got I got to make a list of all the like four shows with him the way he talks. He has so much to to to say he has more stories than anyone but he can't he he knows all the stories detail for detail. But if you asked him what stories do you know? He couldn't remember all the story. Like you know what I mean? There's so many. He's like well just what do you want to know? You know, he just knows you have to jog his memory first. Yeah. But, you know, it's interesting that Colette Nelson did did when we did our insulin special, which meas didn't like, he's like, I don't I he didn't agree with it. But when I did that, she's, you know, she's convinced that, you know, insulin or taking insulin and and and really having super tight blood sugar control even in people who aren't diabetic will help with uh dementia because there's research now that shows that insulin can combat that or that dementia might be caused by uh overaccumulation of glucose in the brain. So that's an interesting topic. So maybe uh maybe Milis is right. Maybe insulin is is the solution to everything. Either that or it's going to kill us all. On another note, on another note, I you know, I always like to bring up interesting stories in the news that and and for some reason eat anything that involves eating is I always say is relevant to bodybuilding, you know, because we eat so much food. There's a story, I don't know if you saw this. It's so funny that I I almost can't say it without laughing. A man broke into a Burger King and he and he was caught drinking gallons and gallons of deep fried oil. Like old old deep fried oil that they had in cans. I know it sounds ridiculous, Chris. I'm going to read you the story. It's great. Florida man found an extreme way to cheat on his diet last night. He broke into a closed fast food restaurant and drank more than 25 gallons of used oil from the deep fryers. The Miami Police Department received a call from a for a break-in at Burger King at 2 am. They were there on in minutes. Upon arrival at drostanolone, they found 510 lb Romeo Carter chugging down oil directly from the deep fryers. The 41-year-old man has already inject ingested dozens of ga dozens of gallons of cooking oil, but was still drinking it with an apparent unquenchable thirst. He was arrested on the site and accused of burglary, criminal trespass, theft by unlawful taking of criminal mischief. Many officers at the Miami Police Department were still on the site this morning to gather evidence and complete the investigation. Mr. Carter was released on bail this afternoon and he briefly met with the Miami Inquirer to tell his of his ordeal. He claims, quote, "My wife put me on a tofu and raw vegetable diet. I couldn't take it anymore. I waited till she was asleep and went to drostanolone to get a couple of burgers, but it was closed. I was starving and depressed and I totally lost it. Mr. Carter faces a total of 35 years in jail, but he's already offered to pay for the damage he caused. And Burger King could possibly agree to a settlement and accept to drop the charges. You need to get him on the show. That's the greatest story I've ever heard of all time. Can you imagine that? The guy in Miami couldn't find one place that was open. He had to drink [\h__\h] cooking oil that was used. How good could that have tasted? He drank gallons of oil. Not not just like like a little bit. He drank gallons of oil and he was What's that? What's that do to your to your your bile or your I don't even know what it probably cleanse it, right? It's a Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Hits it. It's like the emergency switch on a on a gas heater in a in an apartment. I mean, just talk about clogging up the coronary arteries. Oh my god. Cuz that cooking oil is not It's not like you're drinking macadamia nut oil. That's like [\h__\h] nasty, rancid vegetable oil, you know? Oh my good people. Nuts. 510bs this guy weighs. Can you imagine? Can you imagine the way he the stuff that was coming out of his daily basis? Well, can you imagine that the the crap that came out of his ass? Thank god they didn't arrest him. They better release him. Can you imagine if he would have had to go because eventually he would have had to go to the bathroom and that's like an uncontrollable that's just oil coming out of your butthole. You know, when you when you get to that much, you're not absorbing all that oil that's going right through. Yeah, that's what I mean. What's it what's it do to your to your your your bile and your clean them out? Probably came a good It was like a colonic probably only in the wrong end. Who the hell could swallow that much? Gallons gallons of cooking oil. Gallons. I definitely want to get him on the show. We that that that guy is I I want to just know what what what the impulsive urge. I mean, he could have gone to 7-Eleven and eaten some burritos, you know? I mean to break into Burger King. I maybe he thought he was going to find some burgers there. I don't know. But that that's nuts. That's nuts. Well, there's nutty people. If the charges there's a lot of nutty people, right? Yeah. Yeah. He's expecting Are there more nutty people today than there were 100 years ago? I asked that question to myself the other day. Are there more nutty people? I mean, empirically, I think so. I think because there's more stimulus. Well, maybe we're more aware of them, too, because you know, with social media, we we we can access these people. But this guy should have his own reality show. I'm telling you, I think he's a star in the making. Well, maybe you can make him a star. I told you, you need the Saturday Night Live 11:30, some new programming show. The first one is $20,000 pyramid, and we're going to have me and Jay on there versus you and I guess it would be Milos. You know, my my um my wife likes to watch The problem is on that team you have two guys with terrible memories, me and you, versus two guys with like ironclad memories, right? But we but we we know each other because we talk to each other for hours every week, you know, so we might do better on the show because we Yeah, but Jay and me are connected from like, you know, we think alike. So Oh, you and Jay would be great because Yeah. You Someone told me that you guys sound alike, that you have the same inonations. Well, I sent you that picture on that that we're getting pitched right at that business meeting and we had that my son took took my phone and took that picture because he said you guys looked like twins. You both had the same expression on your face. Yeah. Skepticism. Unreal. Unreal. 25 used to be the $25,000 pyramid and then they went to the $100,000 pyramid. Yeah. Or we could do a mock Saturday Night Live RX Muscle. What's the one with uh uh Family Feud? Yeah. Yeah, that might be fun. My So, my wife watches this show all the time. Uh My 600B Life. It's It's on one of these channels. I was cable. Life a wife. Life life. So, it's like you're these people 600 plus pounds and they and they go into this diet doctor. He's like this guy who can barely speak English, but he's he's a funny dude. and uh he puts them on a diet and then they you know if they lose enough weight you know then he'll put the he'll do the stomach stapling you know procedure on them and help them to you know lose weight and look great or they do that he does skin reduction on them not necessarily stomach stomach stapling he'll do the skin reduction on them and cut off all the extra skin and everything like that and he it's a it's a crazy show I I I'm not really into it I don't really my wife's obsessed with watching the show Amanda loves it and uh this guy why why she like it so much I don't know she just loves the whole transformation formation process and to see these people. She likes reality TV. She's really into that. That's that's I I'm not really into that, but she's into that like a lot. And she finds it fascinating, I guess, to go these people lose so much weight. I mean, it's so crazy how much food some of these people eat. This this this oil drinking guy, I think he might qualify, but he's not 600 lb. He's close, though. He's 510. If he keeps drinking all that cooking oil, though, he might get up there. Uh he'd be great. He I'm telling you, this guy's a star in the making. You got to see this picture of He looks he he looks like a fat version of my friend John Scadder. Uh who my John friend John Scader will probably get mad at me for saying that, but not probably not. But uh he looks like a fat version of John Scader. He he's got no neck. He's got like uh you thought Jeff King had a big neck. This guy's his head is literally connected to his body. There's there's no neck. Zero. I've never seen anything like it. I'm going to send you a picture of him. Remember Anthony Clark, the powerlifter? Do you remember Anthony Clark, Chris? I don't know if I lost Chris. Yeah, I just lost you. He's huge. He was huge. Neck huge. I mean, you remember Anthony Clark? How was perfect perfectly round everything. Perfect powerlifter. I mean, he was one of the strongest guys of all time. May he rest in peace. One of the nicest guys, too. Man of God. Just great guy. But he had no neck. His his head was literally connected to his his his traps and body. This guy looks the same. I'm telling you, this guy could be a star in the making. I got to get a hold of him. If anyone knows him, because there's a lot we have a lot of listeners from from Miami. If anyone knows this guy, Romeo Carter, 510 lbs, 41 years old. It's amazing these guys are still alive at 41 with with that much weight on him. Meanwhile, you see these bodybuilders at at 30 40 years old, dropping dead from heart attacks, and this guy's [\h__\h] still drinking cooking oil and he's still [\h__\h] going fine. Probably he probably has normal cholesterol levels, too. I don't know how these these these heavy guys do it, you know. Anyway, I I I have a couple of Ask the Technician questions. I know you're uh we're running out of time here, but let's let's let's blow through a few of them. Just there's only a couple of them. Let me see. Hi. First of all, if people wanted to ask Chris questions, you could send them to me at huge.com. If you want to ask Dave any questions, you can ask them send them to aceto rxmuscle.com. Most people don't don't I don't like to do my Ask Daves on here anymore because I already do an Ask Dave uh TV show, so it's kind of redundant. Let's uh this one's from Paul Cullen, our photographer friend in Ireland. Ask Chris any final week tips for last week pre-ompetition in bodybuilding? Have a uh he's a natural bodybuilder. Be be patient. Don't go extreme. Okay, it's good. Good tip. Be be patient. Don't go extreme. Don't chase fullness. Don't chase condition. If you do that, a lot of times people will think you nailed your your peak. Good good good point. there. I mean, there might be more details to it than that, but I mean, that is the thesis for the last week is uh don't go for extremes. I agree. If you look good, keep doing what you're doing. All right, next question. Really enjoyed the Ed Connors interview, Dave. Was cool to see Chris Aceto doing a double bicep when he was younger on the show. Great vacuum pose. Can you ask him how to do a vacuum? Um, I don't know. I just It's It's like uh you either can or you can't. I mean, my Right. My kids can do vacuums. Well, I think you got to practice it. I mean, I used to, you know, practice a little bit. I didn't I can do a vacuum when I was first started, but I necessarily didn't make I don't think it made my physique look better, but um some people it looks great on if you have a big rib box, you know? I think in Louis Frigno, Zayn had a great vacuum. You gota just you gota you gota fringo had a great vacuum back in the day. I have a video called in intestinal breathing exercises that I did. It's on our YouTube channel Arxmus YouTube channel. You could do a search on it and if you put intestinal breathing exercises that will help you do a vacuum. It's basically sucking your stomach in and pushing it out and sucking it in and pushing it out. You're building up that transverse abdominis muscle musculature. Hey Chris, you know what I was thinking now that someone brought up your your double bicep pose with the vacuum. If you were competing today, you would have been a perfect classic physique guy. You definitely would have made the weight, right? I Yeah, I could. Well, I that and I I I couldn't put on mass um irrespective of having a tremendous amount of strength, meaning I think I had a tremendous amount of strength. You probably couldn't eat enough. I I know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No way you ate enough. That was a very I Dave I I could never eat much. You can't eat now. And look, eating eating habits don't change. If you go to a look, I don't eat a lot of meals a day, but if you go out to dinner with me, I can pack away a lot of food. I could tell you you I mean, unless you're like ravenously hungry hungry, you you don't eat very much food at all. And that's just that's just your pattern. You'll probably live to 150 because of that because that's what was saying restricted calories increases cert. Well, yes and no. Goes back to what you say about Ramy Phil. I mean, genetics play a big role on how long you will live. True. True. You have longevity in your family, don't you, though? Um, I have uh I do on my on my father's side, I have um I have one aunt who lived to 114. She died about 17 years ago. And my my grandmother lived to 93 and she was, you know, unhealthy technically since she was like 40, you know what I mean? Like she had uh continuous high blood pressure, um overweight, you know, she wasn't diabetic, but wow. We'll see. We'll see. We'll see. See, I wonder I wonder what I wonder if I can find that broker in like a 100 years if I lived 150 years ago sold me that building. And I said, "What will it be worth in 20 years?" You'll probably still have it knowing you, but uh All right, next question. Do you think glutamine, Chris, helps with dieting hard? Do you feel it stores fat since it has been used in place of carbohydrates to restore glycogen? Say that again. Yeah, it sounds a little weird. Do you think glutamine helps with dieting hard? Let's answer that first. Um, on paper, yeah. In real world, no. I agree. Second part. Do you feel it stores fat since it has been used in place of carbohydrates to restore glycogen? I never heard of that. I never heard that. You're talking about micro stuff. Yeah. First of all, I never heard of that. I never heard you're talking like like micro stuff. It's like, you know, is your heating bill going to go up in an apartment building if if nine out of 900 windows are cracked? No. There's just not enough, you know, it just you're talking about micro items in a bigger scope, right? That's why I'm not good at seminars. You My question is like yes, no, no, yes. Yeah. Well, they're yet he's asking a yes, no question. So, you answered it. Okay, here's the next part of it. What do you What do you feel is more beneficial for a bodybuilder in contest preparation? higher carb, low to zero fat, or low to no fat and higher fat. Excuse me. Low to no carbs and higher fat. No, excuse me. He's he he screwed it up. He All right, let me figure this out. Higher carb, zero fat. Yeah. Or higher fat, zero carb. Higher. I guess you would have to define what higher is with zero fat will make you lean for sure. And then you will get small. Yeah. Uh low fat, I mean higher fat, no carb. I think it depends on the person. Either you will get very hard or you'll get leaner for sure and just have like a h look to the muscles like not a dense look. It depends on the person. Right. That's my opinion with with with that. Notice I always say my opinion because it's it you know you can debate it all day long. Mhm. Yeah. I I look, we all know that um lower carb is going to get you in shape. So there there there's there's a balance between you have to figure out how many grams of carbs the person needs and you don't want to go zero flat fat because that's going to we know there's essential fatty acid requirements. So there's there's definitely needs to be some fat in the diet. So once again, the extremes are never the way to go. There's always an in between and that you got to find the in between for the person you're working with. I mean that that's really the take-home message, I think. All right, let's do last question here for Chris. Uh, if your show is in one day, prejudging in the morning and then the night show in the night, do you feel it's okay to go out and eat foods like burgers and fries that your body hasn't been used to the whole the whole only if you're very flat in the prejudging, right? You know, I know this. If you eat the burger and fries, I will guarantee you for 100% sure, or you eat cake or you eat cookies or you eat XYZ, you will feel like you're absolutely harder and denser and you may be and you won't know until you get under the lights and often times you say, "Ah, film." And you know what? Nothing is worse than a in a tough show than a slight film of water, right? Yeah. Because because if if you're not packed with muscle and you're if you're not packed with muscle and you're holding slight film, then that film really shows up. If you're packed with muscle and you're holding a slight film, you know, when you pose Kai Green, you know, um, you still see everything jumping. Yeah. You know, I I feel that once you're dry and, you know, after prejudging and as long as you're not drinking, you pretty much could eat whatever you want and you're probably not going to screw yourself up. Matter of fact, most people do look better after having some type of a of a junky meal after pre after prejudging. And then sometimes before prejudging, I give them because they're not drinking either. I I'll give them pancakes and some eggs or something like that. Once again, it depends on what the person looks like. Like Chris said, you can't just make a blanket statement. You know, some people you give them a burger and fries and they're going to it's going to destroy them, you know. Other people they look amazing, you know. So that's where a coach comes in. You know, that's why you need someone advising you. You can't advise yourself. You'll always make the wrong decisions. It just happens, you know. I I agree. I agree. And that's that's um you know because you don't know right. You you I mean you don't know because you haven't done it yet. So when you're eating that burger or cakes after prejudge you wouldn't know until you try it. Yeah. Like I said you know it works out. Yeah. You know but Chris you know if you're not drinking there's very little you can do to screw yourself up more than likely. I mean I always felt that you know people who had something a little junkier after prejudging it it made them look better at night. You know, very rarely did I say, "Oh, you know, the guy looks terrible." Now, there's a there's a proviso on that. If you drink a lot of fluid with with the me with the junky meal, you're certainly going to smooth yourself out. There's no doubt about that. Uh that I always find to be the case. But look, you once again, trial and error. Work with a coach you trust and and you should probably get some great results. And remember, the quote of the week, the best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago, but the second best time is right now. So guys, if you have something that you're passionate about in life, something you want to do, do it now. Don't put it off for another 20 years. And on that note, we are out of time. Until next week, remember with Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts.