10 and n you want the truth. Get ready for two guys who can't handle the truth. I want the truth. You can't handle the truth. But we can. Dave Columbombo, Christo rxmuscle.com presents Heavy Muscle Radio. Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Palumbo and I'm joined as always by the technician Chris Aceto on this lovely December 12th, 2016 day. Well, maybe not so lovely for you, Chris, cuz you're up in the uh the cold winters of Maine where I am down here in the sunny Cape Coral, Florida. And I have to tell you, I do not miss the cold. I am enjoying thoroughly the warmth. Yeah, I I don't I don't really mind the cold. I just hate paying for utilities. I just hate paying for heat. It's just something that you can't see or touch. Well, paying for air conditioning is not that much better, but it's it's nicer when you walk outside and it's and it's super nice out, you know. And I don't really even mind the cold as much as I hated this. Just hate the snow. It's just ugly pain in the ass, you know. Yeah. It makes your Mercedes look like hell all winter. Yeah. It's Well, I had, you know, right? No. No. It makes the cars, right? It's just dirty. It's just dirty. I'm You know what? I'm so over it. I can't even believe that that I took this long to get down here to get out of this. You know what, Dave? I'm I'm dead serious. Before we started the show, I was going to ask you, Dave, how happy are you that you made the move and and that you are saying to yourself, I wonder why I didn't make it earlier? Yeah, I did. You know, cuz we're afraid of change. Isn't that the case though with everyone and everything? We are afraid of change and uh we would prefer the misery that we're living. And it's like, well, the reason why my dad won't move down here because he's he's not happy, but he's he knows his unhappiness and he's comfortable with it. As sick as sickening as that sounds, I'm coming I'm coming down uh on the 19th and I'm I I know when I come down to Florida, I'm going to be like, why don't I live here? Oh, you you're going to Miami? Maybe we'll take a ride down there and see you guys. Yep. Going to Miami. We're only like It's only two hours. It's really not It's not a long drive at all. It's actually a nice drive because it's right across the state. It's there's no like traffic or anything like that, you know. It's not like driving in New York. You drive like, you know, I would you go 30 miles in New York and I've said this before and it's like it could take you three hours, you know, because with bridges and tolls and traffic and bumper to bumper and this and that and it's just uh they don't have that out here. So, I'm pretty cool with that. Although, I am pissed off though because my computer died last night. I you know, I bought one of these super sophisticated, you know, Dells with solid state hard drives. They don't spin. there there's it's like almost like flash memory. It's like it's like a flash drive in your in in your computer and it accesses data quickly and it's supposed to be you know better and cost double the price of course because I don't want to deal with computer issues because I you know what we do on our computers is it's just too val too important. I edit video. I, you know, I got to check emails and I'm doing 40 things at one time. So, I have a ton of memory in there. And I came home yesterday and I updated the fir there was like a update that was available. So, I had to click the update and it's updates the firmware which is how the the hardware works on the on the computer and next thing I know the thing reboots and not coming up and it's running some kind of diagnostic on my computer without me even asking. And then this screen comes up and I don't know what it means. So, I call up my friend from New York, JP. I said, JP, uh, what does this mean? I send him the screen capture. He's like, "You're fucked." I said, "What do you mean I'm fucked?" He goes, "Your solid your solid state hard drive is is jammed or whatever." I don't know what the term he used. And you basically just lost everything. I said, "What?" Now, it's not the money port because I have AI have a warranty on the thing. I know they're going to come fix it, but it's it's the time and frustration, the data on there. And plus, right, the frustration not having a computer. Now, luckily, I have my old computer. My old laptop I saved, which My old my old laptop, Chris, is is like your Mercedes, your 1980 Mercedes you drive around in. It's huge. It's clunky, but it works. It's It's like a workhorse. It's reliable. I always It's old faithful. I always go back to it. It turns on and it and it does what it's supposed to do. And it's good. It's good. You know, I I bought it, you know, I packed it up, right? You know what the thing is? as we I guess progress or as the years go on, they make things more shitty and more shitty, so they break quicker. So, you have to buy stuff quicker again. And uh it's sad because uh we're so beholden to our technology in in this day and age, aren't we? It's it's insane. I mean, I think Johnny would commit suicide if he couldn't check Facebook and and Instagram and Snapchat 40 times a day. I I I go to Home Depot and I'll buy an appliance for an apartment and they'll say, "Would you like the you know, extended warranty?" And I said, "Well, how long is the regular warranty?" It's one year. I said, "That's it?" I mean, it can't last more than a year. It's not even And then the extended warrant The extended warranty is like you pay for it 19 times by the time you Yeah. It's not even worth getting the extended warranty. I'll tell you why. Because they don't cover like everything. Yeah, of course. We think we You know what I think of warranty? If it breaks down in year two, Home Depot drives out and says, "Well, like all Bean, we'll we'll we'll take your old fridge. Here's a brand new one. Sorry for the inconvenience." Well, you know what? Here here's a great one. I bought a um I bought a warranty for my couch. I bought a leather couch with the man a few about a year maybe a year and a half ago and uh I don't I think the cat put its claw through it and the warranty I bought on there is if they damage they come and they fix it and if they can't fix it they'll replace it, you know, but the they're pretty good at fixing the leather and stuff like that now. They have they have it down to a p down to a science. So, you know what? There was a little little pull in the thing and I'm like, you know what? I'm going to I'm going to call up I have this freaking warranty. you might as well use it right before it gets bigger. Pay for it. So, I call them up and I'm like, "Um, yeah, I have AI want to do a claim. I mean, like, what do you send someone out to come fix it?" They're like, "Well, um, how big is the uh how big is the thing?" I said, "Well, I'll send you a picture." So, I email her a picture. She's like, "Oh, it's too small. We don't fix it." I said, "What do you mean we won't fix it?" "Well, it's not covered by the warrant. It's only like big big test." I said, "So, you want me to go get my freaking steak knife out and [\h__\h] make it larger?" Are you kidding? Sorry. Too big. Too big. We only do mediumsiz repairs. I don't even know if I told you the story. I could be losing my because I think I'm losing my mind. Platinum insurance for that. I went crazy. I couldn't believe it. They So, they don't they only fix what they want to fix. You know what I mean? Now, luckily Dell was very good. I called them up. They're like the guy basically I told him I said my friend said I could be screwed and he ran all the diagnostics with me on over the thing. He goes, "Yeah, you could call your friend up and tell me he was right." The guy was the guy was cool. He's he was from Tampa actually. He's like, "Sorry, man." And he goes, "You might be able to when we pull the hard drive out, you might be able to plug it into another computer and pull some of the data off of it or you can do data retrieval, which you know, I said, "Well, I don't." I said, "I don't know." So anyway, so he's sending someone out on Tuesdays hopefully with with a new Listen to this. Not only am I getting a new solid state hard drive, but the keyboard stopped working. Now, when I got the thing, the keyboard was like kind of like when I hit the space bar, sometimes it doesn't work, and you have to like smash it with your finger. And I just was too lazy to call them up and have them come out and fix them because So now I'm getting everything fixed. They're replacing the keyboard. Listen to this. This brand new computer, the keyboard, the trackpad, and the solid state hard drive all need to be replaced on this brand new computer. Unbelievable. Yeah. Yeah. That's they they make it disposable. You know, my uncle said this years ago, and I've said this also before. I don't want people think I'm I'm losing my mind. I I know that I repeat myself, but not everyone listens to every single show, although we do have some listeners that have heard everything. And uh my uncle said he years ago, like 20 years ago, he said maybe 20, probably 30 years ago, he said, "We're going to live in a disposable society. We're going to throw TVs out. We're going to throw this, you know, appliances out. No one's going to fix things anymore." And we were like, "What? Are you kidding me?" He was right. When do you call someone to come fix your TV? If if your TV doesn't work, you throw it in the garbage. You buy a new one. Yeah, I know. That's really the only thing that it pays to get a warranty on these days is computers because they're still expensive and you know really big screen TVs. Other than that or maybe an expensive washing machine, but other than that I I wouldn't get AI wouldn't waste the money on a warranty. Just buy another one. Yeah, I'm going to send you pictures. Uh I went out shopping for flat screen TVs yesterday. Wow. I'm going to show you I'm going to send you pictures when I when I replace them after the new year. I'm going to send you the pics of the old square TVs that I still have everywhere. Chris has cathode ray tubes still. CR T's old tech in the olden days when I was little the TV repair change the tubes and he'd give me the old tubes and I'd pretend I was like a scientist and you probably still have the tubes. I was like Dan Duchain. Yeah. Yeah. I should have kept some of those. And the TVs were so big you could you could like put like you know it was like a piece of furniture in your house almost. Yeah, it was furniture. People considered it. They were proud to display their TV like on they had the TVs on the legs like like you know 12 inches off the floor. Now people might not risk this is aging us but TVs used to turn you know used to turn the channel with a dial. There was no uh there was no digital type stuff. And uh my grandfather believe it or not was the got the first remote control TV. Now, it was a it was a relatively small color TV, but it was the first one. And my mother actually told me when I was growing up that that they had the first TV of like on the block, you know, because my grandfather was into technology. So, the first remote control TV, what it did was when you would push the button, it would turn the dial. The dial would actually turn on the TV set. I don't know how they That's funny. You'd actually see the dial turn. Yeah, you would see the turn. And of course, I would as a kid try to stop the dial from moving as it was, you know, just to see to test out the Would you break it? Yeah. I don't know if I broke it ever, but I'm sure I probably broke it at least once or twice, but I could, you know, my grandparents I could do no wrong back then. So, uh, it was crazy. I remember they used to hold every year they would have the Wizard of Oz. It would be on once a year and Thanksgiving time. Yeah. There was Right. There was no, there was no VHS tapes or DVDs. It was and it was black and white. Uh, Wizard of Oz before they colorized. No, no, no, no, it wasn't. If you remember, the the beginning of of Wizard of Oz was black and white and then Oh, that's right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, yeah. You're right. You're right. You're right. Right. So, every year I would watch this. It was like an event and I was up at my grandparents house with the TV with the remote control and it wasn't working. The TV wasn't working. And that was I guess in that little summer home they had up there, that was the only TV they had there. And I I was going crazy as a kid, you know, because I I had to get my way. So I had we had to go to the neighbor's house and they set me up there like in my own little room, you know, to watch the wizard of us because God forbid I missed it because you only got it one chance once a year to watch the thing, you know. Now Well, you haven't changed. You haven't changed for a bit. Same personality. Exactly. Right. Right. So now I now I know why my son is so demanding. You know, if he wants something, he he wants it. We took him to the Golden Corral again last yesterday afternoon. He was eating everything inside. He ate more food than I did there. Oh, we went to the Chinese buffet last night. Similar to the Golden Corral. That's That's Yeah. And and I I you know, it was I I you've been proud of me, Dave. I I ate a lot. I ate sushi there. I ate a lot. Wow. Sushi. That's a good That's a good uh buffet for sushi. I took them Let's see. Yesterday was uh on Friday, I took them for flu shots. And they had the 12-year-old got a flu shot. The three-year-old looked checked it out. The 11-year-old got a flu shot, the three-year-old checked it out. I thought he was fine. He squirmed. I had to like hold him down like I couldn't even hold him down. I don't believe in flu shots, you know, to be Do you have to give them flu shots to go to school or something like that? They don't go to school. So why would you give school? Just hang out with me all day. So why are you giving them flu shots? They're not exposed to we just just like our expos photos and old uh live with shows while other kids are in school. Um why would you give them flu shots if they're not even exposed to these other kids? I don't know. Because you know what it's the I never got a flu shot, right? I never got one either. Okay. So, what happened to me is two years in a row when I was in Florida in the mid '90s, I got the flu and I was like, "Wow, this is the flu." I mean, I thought I was going to die twice. Two years in a row. So, every year after that, I've gotten the flu shot and I've never got the flu. So, you're like, I don't know if there's any if they're correlated or related or I'm sure it is. If you're getting the flu shot, you're not going to get the flu. Some people get feel terrible after they get these flu shots. So I don't you know and I don't I always worry about the you know with the vaccines with the kids and everything like that you know so who knows but your kids are older anyway so I guess doesn't matter. U Michael Douglas honored his father Kurt Douglas 100year-old he's turning 100 this weekend. I saw that you know I saw that he turned 100. Can you believe it? I don't even know if I want to make it to 100. I guess I say that now but when I'm probably closer to 100. But I have to I have to believe that when you get into the 90s and you you're heading towards a hundred, the strategy is not so much like, hey, I want to go, you know, breed snakes. I want or I want to go buy a new car or I want to uh you know, I I think it's just making a day today at that point. I think it's like, yeah, I made it another day. This is prettying good day I had, you know. Well, you're forced to you're forced to enjoy all the simple things that you were rushing too fast around when you were younger to enjoy. It's true. It's amazing though. I'm sure Kirk Douglas smoked at some point in his career cuz he was in Yeah, he smoked a lot. He was a big smoker and he's 100. So, I mean, he made it and that's pretty freaking good. I have aunts who made it into their 70s and they they smoked two packs daily, sometimes three from their teens to their I mean, that's a long time to smoke. Yeah. I think his wife is still I think they've been married 62 years or something like that. Him and his wife. It's crazy, right? Yeah. So that's why old people like I mean you know a cup of coffee they can appreciate. I mean you and I can too but and everyone else can but the extent of it right the strategy is different when you're old. I my strategy is different nowadays. I mean it used to be you know I got to get to the gym you know now it's yeah I want to go to the gym but it's not a my whole life my whole day doesn't revolve around getting to the gym. So your priorities change I guess but uh yeah 100 years old it's crazy. If I make it to 100, I I really hope that I um I I'm coherent, you know. That's the only thing I worry about because with my dad losing his memory, I'm sure you feel the same way with your dad also with his memory. Yeah. I just I just want to be coherent. Otherwise, I really don't want to be around, you know. Yeah. Do you ever do you have days where you feel like you're loserly? Like you can't remember what you did with this, can't remember what you did that yesterday? Every day is like that. I can't remember anything. Yeah. You know, I don't even I do a radio show, I don't remember what we talked about when the show's over. I try to sit down. I'm like, "What the freak did we just talk about?" Well, the truth is most of the time we don't talk about anything. We just talk about life, you know? And I think people could relate to that, you know? How come we don't talk about bodybuilding and there's like 500 shows a year now? Yeah. Well, this is the end of the season, you know. That's why these other radio shows, they're done. They're just they're talking about uh, you know, end of the year stuff even though we haven't even got to Christmas yet. And then they stopped doing a show. You know, we we continue. Oh, my my my kids are into Malcolm in the middle now and they screamed the other day. You got to come see this. I came in. There were two. There was Chris Cook was on and and Bob Chikarillo. That's an old Jeff. Yeah, it was an Actually, I've never seen Malcolm in the Middle. I knew they were on Malcolm in the Middle. And I told my kids I said, "Yeah, I prepped one of those guys for a show when he won the Nationals." And they they pointed to Chickella. I said, "No, no, not him. I think George actually George did prep him." I said, "Someone else prepped him." You know, I a man that put on the uh NPC Nationals 1996. I didn't even know I had the the VHS tape. She must have found it and she was playing it. And uh I was in this I took fourth in that show and Jay won the heavyweight class and uh Dallas was it was it was in Dallas. Who was second and third? Who was second and third? Tom Prince looked terrible. Was second and Orville disaster. Orville Burke was third. He was just starting to come up. You know, he had the crazy Yeah. He was just starting to explode. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He got third on his B on his wow factor alone. I was the biggest guy up there without a doubt and the hardest guy, but you know, not the best shape, but but I was pretty in pretty big. And uh Daryl Terrell was fifth, who was pretty small. He was a small because remember there was no super heavyweight class. It was only a heavyweight class. Everyone was in the same class. Daryl Terrell, I remember that name. Yes. Right. And from Oklahoma. And um Bob Cherillo was in the in in the class. He was in like the second call. He he was terrible. He was smooth and he was he just looked he didn't know what he was I don't know what was going on with him, but he he didn't look good. He didn't look like the Bob who won the USA. You know, you know, you want to know something funny? Uh, in 87 I went to the to the nationals in Atlantic City, 1987. Long time ago, 29 years ago. Sean Ray won. What a what a class. That was insane. Vince Cford won the Middles. Phil uh Hill uh won the supers or the heavies, whatever it was. The supers. Yeah. and and and Chikarilla was like he was like a Cody Montgomery. He was 21 but he placed somewhere and I remember someone saying oh he was a phenomenal in ' 87. I mean not phenomenal but he was he was uh for 21 years old um he was you know had everything you need for a 21-year-old to win the overall at that show. You could see it. I think he was fifth. He was a good he was a good poser too. So, he really knew how to hide his weaknesses and show his strengths. You know, he had the good twisting shots and kneeling shots and stuff like that. And, you know, that that that bamboozles the judges, too. You know, that's that's important. You know, present presentation. We we've talked about that over and over. So, he he had he had some good some good skills. I don't know what happened. I don't know if he just lost his way in terms of he didn't know what he was doing diet-wise because George will and I'm sure George probably did help him, you know, with the diet and got him in shape. For sure. Uh he took what he was using. Chad was helping George, I think, at the time. And he was probably just basically pasting, copying and pasting Chad's diet at the time, but he did a good job with Bob when Bob won. It was probably the best Bob looked when he won the USA. Yeah, he was very good when he won. It was very It was It was a great comeback for him. Yeah, cuz he was one of those type of people who was Right. You're 21 years old. Talk about I think we talked last week about losing your confidence. you know, you're 21 and you're you're in a you know what, whatever class he was in where he got fifth that year, it was clearly better than any other class that he ever competed in in the next like 10 years, right? I think that class it might have been uh maybe he was a heavy maybe he was a a heavy, but the light heavies was was a stacked class. You had Vince uh Vince Taylor, JJ Marsh, all really good pros. Yeah, that was uh that was the beginning of the uh of the 90s era there that they were just they were kind of nurturing. They're all amateurs at that point up and coming. So, um yeah, we got the uh end of the year coming up. I think we're going to do an iron debate this coming week with some of our selections for the best of the year. We'll debate those, see who we think deserves to be up there and who doesn't belong to be up there. That will be this week. Why don't Why don't you do a commercial break here? your own commercial break and plug RX uh the YouTube station and and this station, you know, I didn't know you could download Heavy Muscle Radio on iTunes. I'm glad or get an alert or sign up, whatever. Yeah, I'm glad you mentioned that. You know what, because we had some problems with the radio show last week and um you know, a lot of people don't realize you can go to iTunes if you have an iPhone, obviously. If not, there's there's other feed burners and stuff like that, but there's an RSS feed button on the uh Heavy Muscle Radio page on on our site. You click on that and you can subscribe to a feed and you know because I have an iPhone I subscribe to iTunes feed but you can do it even if you don't have an iPhone you can still subscribe to the iTunes feed and it will download the shows automatically to your computer so you wake up in the morning the show's there from the day before you don't have to worry till we you know with us posting the article now I subscribe uh on my iPhone to podcasts that I enjoy watching listening to I should say so like I have the heavy muscle obviously podcast subscribe. So, as soon as the show goes up, it downloads automatically to my phone. It's on my phone. I can listen to it anytime I want. I have some reptile radio shows I listen to, also some car shows. So, I subscribe to the shows I want and then I don't have to worry about going to the website. It just automatically goes to my my phone and I can listen to them, you know, when I'm driving or whatever whatever I'm doing. I'm at the gym. That's my new thing. I always hated the guys that had the headphones who would listen to the music, but you know what? I'm like, you know what? I could actually listen and learn [\h__\h] So, I I I put listen to my podcasts. uh when I'm working out now, I just kind of let them play in my through my headset. I'm not not like I'm doing any kind of crazy lifting anymore anyway. So, guess my shoulders, but uh so that's what I do. So, yeah, guys, if you you know, if you don't want to miss the shows, just subscribe to the Heavy Muscle uh iTunes feed. Uh go to the uh like I said, click on the RSS feed. You can pick whichever feed you want to subscribe to. It doesn't matter, but at least it'll it'll give you the shows automatically. This way you you won't miss anything. And obviously the YouTube channel, you know, it's interesting. I watched this thing about YouTube the other day, I don't know if you know anything about YouTube. YouTube is basically a big search engine. It's like Google. And so people figured out that, you know, the more likes you get on a video, the more, you know, comments you make, certain tags you put on the video will will get you more hits. And that was true up until a year ago. But some they Johnny sent me a link a new one of these gamer guys um said that they have changed the algorithm now on YouTube. What what's more important is is length of time of the video because they want and well I should say length of time that people are watching the video. If you just put up a lot of crap, no one's going to watch it. But so our TV program I think the reason why our YouTube channel has been growing a lot also is because we have a we you know we do long shows. We do like an hour show, you know, an hour, you know, sometimes at minimum 20, 30 minute shows with all our original TV programming and people watch the shows and that's good. And that's why I think our shows are coming up more and we're getting a lot more visibility on the web. Also, they're saying that the um the fact that that if you put up content every day, that's important, too. And obviously, you know, we have muscle in the morning every day and we always have videos every day. So that that's good because they want to they want YouTube wants your stations the YouTube channels to be like TV channels and then we you know look I talked about this 10 years ago Chris to you or eight years ago about saying that the you know YouTube will or the internet will be the new TV stations of the future and that's really what you you dig those radio shows up because you used to harp on that all the way back in 2010. Seriously 2009. Yeah. Yeah. Because because I knew it. I just didn't know how it was going to come about, but I knew it was going to happen because it's inevitable. You you got that prediction, right? You got uh you got the prediction that men's classic bodybuilding would come into to fruition, let alone its own. Yeah. Yeah. You you need that thing. Have you ever seen that like the the Joey to I predict? He made all these predictions in 1955 or something. They're pretty pretty incredible. Are they really? Yeah. Oh, yeah. No, cuz he he says, "I predict," and one of them was that all athletes will use bodybuilding as a ways to become better athletes. Wow, that's impressive. That's really impressive. Well, you know, and he had all kinds of weird eye predicts. Kurt Curt Cobain predicted that Trump would become president. Did you know that back in the 80s? No, I didn't know that. Yeah. No, the Simpsons did. It was on the Simpsons. Did you actually Yeah. Yeah. That was but but but Kurt Cobain said I wouldn't be surprised if you know that people are going to get fed up with the establishment and that someone like smart businessman like a Donald Trump would become president in the future. Yeah. So I was wrong stock market. I thought the stock market would tank. Yeah. It's taken off since he I think it's up 8% or something. It's amazing because you know what you know obviously I sell species nutrition products to overseas you know people and they're all complaining because the dollar is too strong. The dollar is so strong. I know it. Isn't it funny? We think of the dollar as being like our economies being like [\h__\h] and meanwhile we we have the strongest dollar in the whole world. I don't I it's nuts when you think about it. I don't get it. Yeah. No, you can travel and and eat out for like you know when I was in when I was on uh the tour over there over there wherever we went multiple shows after the Olympia when like you know I don't even look I just charge something and whatever the bill when it comes and it converts over you don't know what the final charge will be till you get your credit card bill and you see what the charge is. But like eating out, you know, it converted over to like $7.88 for like dinner. I'm like $7.88. Well, Johnny says claims that I I starved him when I was in San Marino. I wouldn't buy him any meals. We were in a hotel. You probably were there the year before. There was a buffet that they fed us three times a day. Johnny obviously didn't like any of the food on the buffet, but he was too much of a martyr to tell me, you know, so he he didn't uh he had to sneak out. What did he like? Who knows? You know, I don't I I love the foods. There was like 40 different options on there, you know. I saw the video. I saw I saw the Speaking of the YouTube, right? Yeah, I did the video on on the food buffet. Sound like Speaking of the YouTube, one thing he liked on there, he's got a he's he's got a he's got a fast for like two days and then he'll find everything appealing. Yeah, because he eats too much junk. That's what the problem is, you know. No, that's I think that's what happened when I went out to the Chinese buffet yesterday. I hadn't eaten all day long, right? And you know, sometimes in sushi, sometimes you can eat sushi and it's like eating a Ritz cracker, right? Oh, yeah. They go right down. My my my kids were shocked what I was eating. Yeah. Very rarely, you're like a snake. Once in a while, you you you go crazy and you have to you have to load yourself up a little bit. You had to you had to re regow the glycogen stores that have been empty for the last 300 days of the year. 30 days. Yeah. 10 years. Chris, probably got like bloated cheeks today. You always got a little You got the swelling eyes, you know. Remember when No, you know when you No, no. What happens is, right, sometimes when you eat a lot, it creates a diuretic effect. I I went to the bathroom all night and I think I'm peeled today. Well, you know what it is? I think the protein. All that protein you ate probably. Oh, all because I notic when I eat a lot of protein, I'll pee a lot more, too, you know. But, uh, car if I eat like the only thing that makes me sometimes I I I I'll purposely eat a couple slices of pizza at night because I I I won't get up a million times to pee, you know, because for some reason pizza makes you hold water. I don't know what it is, but it definitely does. No, it what's it the salt and the and the carbs increase your eldoststerone level I guess. Yeah, it must be because it doesn't happen with any other foods to me. I could eat if I eat like rice and stuff like that. I goes I matter of fact I weighed myself and I thought this Amanda's scale was broken because I I was so light in the morning and at night I was eight pounds heavier. So it's a big difference overnight. So I pee at So I pee I pee at eight pounds at night. Now I know why I'm I'm up 40 times in the middle of the night peeing. And you know, it's not a prostate issue because if you have a prostate issue, you have trouble peeing. You know, I don't have trouble peeing. I just I just pee like like a racehorse every freaking, you know, two hours throughout the night. It drives me freaking crazy. I can't get a good night's sleep. And of course, I'm waking up because my shoulders are hurting me. So, every time I wake up, I'm like, I got to pee. So, I got to I got to pee. It's It's funny you're able to do that on one kidney. A half a kidney, right? Yeah. Wasn't there remember review that cuz people you know early in the day earlier in the show you said not everyone listens or they might be lo new listeners. Remember when we were traveling you and I all over the world we were in like Brazil and Australia. Yeah. Blackman was telling people I was looking for a kidney. Yeah. That Yeah. Chris was assistant Dave and they were looking for a kidney. That's what I Dave was in India. That's why he was in Brazil. That's why he was in Australia. Actually, you know, George, yeah, I think George said he's looking for a kidney because, uh, you know, he was, one of his kidneys was damaged when he was shot, you know, and he always only had one kidney and, you know, he told me that, you know, he's looking for that, you know, he might have to get a kidney transplant. But, uh, you know, I I, you know, look, whenever someone's has medical issues, I always tell him I always say, you know, you got to bless every day that you're alive. You know, we talked about that earlier, but uh you know, I don't know if that's true or not with George, but you know, he uh if it is, you know, I hope he hope he finds something because uh that sucks. You know, we we can make fun of each other all we want, but you know, when it comes to health, we're all on the same team on this one, you know. Yeah. I I I can only hope that you, me, and George at 100 years old are sitting around talking about, you know, the [\h__\h] old days, you know, that that to me would be uh Yeah. We'll be talking about the old days and and and and we will and and he'll still be prepping people for the Olympia and Sam will be sitting in the front row watching it. The question will be who has more money at 100, Jay or uh or or Farah? Um I think Jay's would uh be able to definitively answer that question as he would say he will. But will will Jay start becoming like a philanthropist when he gets older? Like giving away money like you know like Gates or something like that? Yeah, he gives it away now. Yeah, he he secretly gives it away now. Oh, he does. He gives it away and and Yeah. Yeah. He gives He's got all kinds of things that he does behind people's back. In other words, that people don't know about. Oh, that's good. I like to hear that. I like Speaking of not getting paid, you know. Except Except somebody, you know, he wouldn't give a dime to like, you know, somebody who's like, you know, one of these day Jay, let me borrow, you know, let me borrow five grand. Don't worry, I'll pay you back. Say, absolutely not. But it give 5,0001 away to some charity that you know he just visited, right? No, that that's good. It's good tax write off, too. You speaking of not getting paid though, you know, George uh Farah told me, you know, I mentioned this last week that uh he is owed it's 19 months. I think it's 19 months. Yeah. A year and seven months. 19 months worth of paychecks from MD. Now, George is considered I would No, he's not. Yeah, he is. I would consider George one of the, you know, more well-known people that that represents Muscular Development Magazine. He's pretty loyal. He won't do interviews with anyone. You know, he he's pretty loyal to to to Bleton there, you know. And uh Blackman, he didn't even know it because, you know, a lot he told me basically gets automatic, you know, you know, I guess the paycheck goes into the account automatically and he basically lets his parents use that money, he claims. So, he didn't realize he wasn't getting paid and then he looked and he saw the account was really low and he's like, "What the hell is going on here?" And then he checked and he hadn't gotten paid in 19 month 19 months. And so he called up Blackman and he's he was asking what the [\h__\h] going on you know and he's like how it is hard times you know meanwhile the guy who was like don't cut back he's got hard times now and so obviously you know no one's getting paid over there. The only person getting paid is Shawn Ray. We know Charles restructuring. We know Dan Ray is owed money. We know Ron Harris is owed money. We know the guy who draws the d the anatomy pictures over there is owed money. probably I would I would bet a million dollars that Peter McGuff is owed money too. Um if we can get him find out from him. But anyway, everyone's owed money over there. So I'm like thinking, well, Blackman's not doing too well. You know, obviously if he he's not paying people. I don't know why these guys are still over there, but whatever. That's their own personal thing. So, uh, my friend Kyle Watson, who owns a gym called the Species Nutrition Gym, Species Gym in Texas, you know, we he asked me if he can do it. And, uh, he's he's a loyal, you know, uh, brand person. So, we I let him do the Species Gym in Texas. It's a great gym. Sells all the products. He had a booth at at one of these Texas shows that was this past weekend. And you saw Dallas Macccarver there, and he and and Kyle had this great idea, and I I love the idea. Who are the two strongest bodybuilders in all of bodybuilding right now? The pro bodybuilders. Um, that would be Glette and think about who the strongest guys out there are though, you know. Dallas. Dallas. And uh, who else is strong? Come on. Who's my guy? My guy. Oh. Oh, Akee. Ake. Well, he's not your guy. He's going to He's going to Kuwait. But go ahead. He's kind of cool to be uh brainwashed by the uh cam. No, he's going out there to train. So Kyle's idea was to get Dallas and and um Akeem in a Bros versus Pros, you know, like a strength challenge, you know, part of like like a little subsidi subsidiary of the Bros versus Pro challenge. And he wanted to do it at the at the Species Gym there in Texas. I said, "That's a great idea." I said, "Why don't you talk to Dallas this weekend when you see him in in Dallas?" Ironically, you know, said yes. Dallas said no. Well, go ahead. No, Dallas wanted to do it, but he said he was uh he just got signed by MD now, which I find is is rather amusing that Blackman is signing guys when he owes everyone out there money. To me, that's despicable. Despicable. Despicable. Despicable. And he's obviously paying Dallas because you know what? He's schoing out with him. Wow. Wow. 320. Woo. You know, look at that. Wow. Big back. you know, he's obviously schmoing out with Dallas and he wants to get him on on the payroll so he can schmo with him and call him up and, you know, use his pictures or whatever. And so he's paying Dallas and he's not paying his employees, the guys who who are the the the backbone of that company, the bread and butter. The bread and butter. I mean, as much we could break George Farah's balls all we want, but George is is is the one of the backbone guys of muscular development over there. I I'm I'm stunned. I'm stunned. Oh, he just found out. Yeah, Ron Ron Harris. No, I was gonna say because I I can't I can't imagine someone letting it go for 19 months. I can't imagine Ron Harris, you runs writes every magazine article in there and he's he's owed over a year. So, I mean, I don't know how these guys are putting up with it because I mean, Ron pays his bills with this money. So, I mean it if I was a guy who worked for that magazine and did as much work as as as Ron Harris did and I wasn't getting paid and I saw that he just signed like another pro that he doesn't need, I would I would want to murder Blackman. I would go I would seriously want to go crazy on him. Um it's it's to me that's just so arrogant on his part. So like like oh I don't care about anyone. It's sleazy. It's sleazy. Thank you. That's it. Definitely. No, because it's it's one thing to have, you know what? It's one thing to have tough times and cut back. And why cut back? Why? You know, no, I mean, you know, you talk to people, you know what, Dave, it reminds there's there's two types of people. There's a tenant who calls me and say, "I lost my job." You know what the first thing I say to them is? Don't worry about it. I'm not going to evict you. You call me uh just just you figure out I don't even say me. I said, "You figure out something how you can stay there and I'm open-minded to it." Right? Because the worst thing that you can do is lose your job, right? Yeah. The other the the flip side is someone who doesn't and they don't pay their rent and they're, you know, you go out to eat and you see them sitting next to you at drostanolone. I'm in my mind I'm thinking I'm paying for their meal, right? Oh, you are. Yeah. Believe me, it happens all the time. No, that's why I want to reach over and say, you know what, I'm pay then you start the eviction process. Yeah. You want to hit something? I had one of one of my tenants evicted. Okay. Um, now the eviction process is such that they Is this the lady? Is this the lady? This is the lady who uh you send me the message. No, no, no. She She actually pays. She They're upstairs. They pay the people who live. The guy who lived downstairs became a drunk and he was he was not paying. And he would pay me here in drips and drabs. I'm like, you know what? I'm just going to get him out of there because I wanted to paint the place over and I'm trying to sell the house. I have him evicted. I get the eviction. I have to serve it to the sheriff. Now the sheriff when I go to the sheriff's office, they're like, "All right, you got to call a mover because now if we serve this guy and he doesn't leave, you're going to have to pay a mover to move this guy out and then you're going to have to pay for his [\h__\h] in storage for up to a month." I'm like, "Oh my, that's going to cost." Yeah, that's the the law states. So he this guy hadn't paid me. He probably owed me a month. I he got the eviction. I was I said, you know, I'm just going to I'm going to call him up. I call him, leave a message on his thing. I said, "Look, Bill, look, I know you fell." Now, now I'm the guy who's owed money and I have to like, you know, smoo this guy. I'm like, I I feel bad. I I feel bad. I know you whatever happened, you couldn't pay the bills. I said, "But you you're being evicted and and you you got the notice. They're going to come this week and they're going to take your stuff and they're going to put it in storage, you know, and you're going to I don't want that to happen." I said, "I don't care." I didn't tell him I had to pay for it. I don't care one way or another. I said, "But I'm just giving you a heads up because I you know, I can hold them off like a couple days. if you just give me a date, you're going to be out of there completely. I said I said, I'll let you get, you know, this is around Thanksgiving. I said, I'll let you get, you know, I I told him to hold off till after Thanksgiving. I said, because I wanted you to, you know, have enough time to move your stuff. So, he actually called me back and he's like, oh, thank you so much. You know, I know, you know, I felt I'm sorry, but you know, I'm I'm like super happy that I'm not getting paid the rent just cuz this guy's getting out and I don't have to pay the movers to to move this guy and store his [\h__\h] So, he finally got out. Thank god my friend went in there and painted. I was I was so happy that he got out even though I'm owed two months rent. I didn't even care. That's that's that that's how once again all the people who who don't live up to their obligations seem to be protected by society. You know, Romano would call it the postification of of of our society, but it's true. They protect the rights of the [\h__\h] downtrodden who don't want to work or don't want to pay the bills. They don't protect protect the right people is what I'm saying. Is Fred Hatfield still alive? Yes, I think he is. Is he? Next time you ask Listen, my grandmother, she's dead now. Yeah. She's from Italy. She she owned an apartment building and I didn't know when I was a kid the lady who lived above her. So, my grandmother was a landlord and she had tenants living in the building and this is before. So, it's in your blood. The whole thing is in your blood. the whole red this this this amazing is this this uh two two amazing stories is this uh the lady who lived above my grandmother for 40 years who my grandmother rented to her son was Fred Hatfield. Oh, I didn't know. And Fred Yeah. Fred used to come over and visit all the time. And my grandmother used That's so weird. And my my grandma my grandmother used to Hatfield. Yeah. She used to threaten She used to threaten people. I'll get Fred to beat you up. He'll throw you out if you don't pay the rent. She used to use him as a as a threat. Fred Hatfield, who was also known as Dr. Squat, you know, he had the he had that famous squat off with with Tom Platt. He was the first guy to squat 1,000 pounds. Yeah. Yeah. And he did it probably legitimately, too. Yeah. And and and uh and and oddly enough, you know, the neighborhood used to be like a, you know, just for poor immigrants. Now it's all gentrified. The building's worth and you could have retired four times with that building. You sell that building at some point? She she died. Listen to this. She died and uh it was in inherited by my father and his two siblings and they sold it in a week probably for pennies, right? For pennies. And the guy, me and my wife, this was had be like 16 years ago. Me and my wife were at a university one time and my grandmother was in her wheelchair. Oh, no, no, she was dead at the time. So, my my grandfather was in the wheelchair. So, anyways, the the the new buyer ran into my father and he said, "How's the apartment going?" And he said, "Oh, I sold that." My father was will go almost went through the roof. My father ran into city hall to find out find out what he sold it for. Yeah. Twice what? Twice what they bought it for. Your father keep punching himself in the head. No. Why not keep it? Why did he keep it and and rent it? Because you know what it's called? It begins with a G and ends with a D. Let's go on that game show. Jeopardy begins with a G. The word ends with a D. It's one of the cardinal sins. Greed. Greed. Greed. You got it. No, they wanted the short money. They wanted the money quick and fast rather than wait or just hold. I'm surprised you didn't try to step in there and buy it. I I did, but they they were like, "Oh, you know, it'd create conflict with, you know, going to create conflict." You should have said, "Well, I'll give you more than the people." No, you know, no, no, because to this, you know what would have happened? I was smart enough to realize this. I wanted it. Yes. But I realized, you know what? If 20 years go by and it's worth which it is now, no way they want more money, right? You there'd be call gave your father I that's my building even though he sold it to you. You Yep. You it' be family problems. If you call me up and say, you know, so and so is going to college. I know you bought that building for X. It's worth, you know, 10 times X. Can you can you can we get 5,000? Be like, Jay, no. I've donated to charity. On that charitable note, Chris, we're going to take a commercial break. When we come back, uh I'm going to tell you why the beer industry is, uh is very worried, uh because they are. Stay tuned. We'll be back in 2 minutes. A legendary name in hardcore supplementation. Iron Mag Labs. 100% original patent pending andro compounds. The most effective hardcore groundbreaking bodybuilding supplements in the world. in the world. Iron Mag Labs. Revolutionizing hardcore supplementation for more than a decade. Visit iron magabs.com. ironmaglabs.com. Hi, I'm Dave Palumbo and I just had a protein shake made with Quest Nutrition new salted caramel protein powder and I can tell you this, it's on a whole new level. It's a total reinvention of the protein shake. The taste is incredible, and its creamy texture and richness make it taste like a real caramel milkshake. It's incredibly low carb, less than one gram of sugar, and 22 g of protein in every serving. No soy, and it's gluten-free. Just add water, ice, a scoop of protein, and shake it up. It's that easy. I actually look forward to drinking this shake. And Quest Nutrition has got a total of seven different flavors. They come in convenient single serving packets so you can mix and match. Check out loveyouproteinpowder.com for more information on Quest protein powders and some delicious shake inspirations. Welcome back to Heavy Muscle Radio. Today I'm talking with Chris the technician Aceto on this lovely December 12th afternoon. And uh you know Chris uh I don't know if you're aware but the uh 2017 schedule has been released. Not the bodybuilding schedule, the guru class schedule, the secrets to becoming a diet guru. The first course will be given in San Diego, California. That's right. I will be heading out to San Diego, California on Saturday, January 14th. Uh we'll be holding this course at Hardcore Fitness. Derek Farnsworth set up the whole thing for me. He'll be there with his lovely wife and uh even Louis Ureadel will be there too. But uh we have uh limited seating. So guys uh sign up. I know a lot of people on the west coast have been asking me to hold the course out there. Uh Derek and I have been trying to make it happen and we uh finally have done that. So that will be Saturday, January 14th. You can sign up at davepalomo.com. L literally guys, I'm telling you, I've made it a little I've opened it up a little more for that for the San Diego course just because I have to let Derek and his wife, you know, come and there's a few uh there was some people that had already asked to sign up last year for me. So, I'm opening it to 20 people, but I'm telling you, I've already done 10 already. So, don't wait. If you want to take this course, uh, I I implore you, I probably will not be back to the West Coast, probably till the year next year after that, if I even go back. So, sign up. Once again, it's my uh 10-hour class. It's all day long seminar. I go over diet, supplementation, drugs, men, women, offseason, pre-contest, detoxification, sight, injection oils, peptides, insulin growth. I everything. There's nothing I don't cover. Uh, I teach you the science of how to become a coach and how to structure diets and how to understand your body and how the science works. And I think that that's something that's greatly missing out there. And everyone who's I don't think I've ever had one person complain to me after the class was over that they didn't they didn't learn something, that they didn't have a great time, that they didn't take away a tremendous amount of knowledge. And I give you guys a a book. It's all my notes. It's basically all my it's all my it's my playbook, I call it. And uh it's I just updated it actually for 2017. So it's it's grown in pages by about five pages. It's almost 90 pages now. And uh it's it's a nice book, bound book. You take that home with you. Uh no one else gets that. I don't sell it anywhere. I don't give it away. I don't there's no videos of the seminar. There's no tapes. So Well, you sold one. You did sell one at my my conf. I did. I did. I did sell one. You're right. The guy couldn't He was a far He was not from around you. So I I did. You're right. I have to admit, but um by and far no one passes these things around. It's it's it's something that you almost cherish. It's like uh back in the day when like people would make books by hand, you know, they would sew the binding of the book and uh you know, they would cherish that book and they would have all their you know, information and that that's what this is like. It's it's something you can go I wonder how many I wonder how many how many copies of the Underground Steroid Handbook Dan Duchaine sold. Probably a lot. But you know what I mean? It was it was a it was a valued thing. It was like the same type of thing. You would read it so many times it would fall apart almost, you know, on you because uh because you would the knowledge in there was so important to what we do. And I mean if you if you love bodybuilding and working out and putting muscle on and burning fat, this is you want something. You know, the problem with society today is Chris, people print their own books. So you don't know if no one's editing these things for validity. Back when we were in the 90s, 80s, 70s, if a book came out, it was edited by someone. That book was not a was not a opinion piece. Yeah, it was it was it was there was had to be, you know, references and stuff like that. Nowadays, you could self-publish anything, you know. So, I think people feel really uh comfortable after they take the class because of the science that I explain, you know, it's not like I'm just telling people things. I'm actually explaining why and how the mechanisms and and stuff like that. And I I I explain it in a very simplistic fashion so that you don't need a college education to understand what I'm saying. And uh you know I actually when I I we don't know if you remember we taught a one of my uh smart personal training certification courses which I which I give online if you looking to get certified as a personal trainer uh you can go on smarttraingline.com it's also on my davelumba.com website and it's relatively cheap. It's $120 and you can get certified take it at your own leisure. But Chris and I I brought Chris in and we taught an in-class one at a uh the JCC in in Long Island. You know I have the I have the tapes from that still. Chris, I have the the seminar tapes. I I gotta do something with them. I don't know if I'm going to put them up. Maybe I'll put your seminar up on a on uh because you did like about 45 minute talk or maybe an hour talk on Yeah, don't put mine up. I I hate being on camera unless it's Iron Debate. It's got to be live. You were really good though. I actually watched it and I was like I wanted to see because I had never heard you give a seminar and I was like, "Wow, Chris is good." You had you had to give a good very very logical very you know insightful about how to read your body and and and know what to you know do in terms of carbon. Well we we we me and me and uh Roden did seminars in England and the guy said what are you going to talk about this is like three and a half minutes for the uh I said I have no idea you know I I bodybuild in some way. Let me let me let someone ask one question and we'll just take it from there. Yeah. No you good. You were very good. I was I was impressed. So, um, anyway, so if you guys want to sign up for the secrets to becoming a diet guru course, that's on January 14th, uh, go to dave palumbo.com. Also, I wanted to just mention Titan Medical, Titanicalcenter.com. They are a rejuvenation clinic in uh, Tampa, Florida. I've been sending a lot of people to them. I'm really I love what they're doing. Uh it's a great great way to get on hormone replacement uh without having to go all the way to Florida to see a doctor because you can do Skype consults with the doctor and they send you for blood work and then you do a Skype consult with the doctor and they'll address whatever your needs are and I have a lot of my a lot of people who listen to the show have been calling them up and once again if you call up and you mention my name Dave Palumbo or RX Muscle they give you a discount. Uh but not only do they have great you know testosterone replacement in deca for decadelin for joint issues and you know they'll prescribe anavar for some women in certain circumstances HCG chlomid all that kind of stuff if you're trying to get you know more fertile or turn your body back on but they have injectable vitamins and I had mentioned this before they have different formulas and I told him I said look my crew out there that that follows you know what I tell them it's too complicated you got too many different formulas I said which fine because certain people have specific needs. Like if you want a really high, you know, high potency antioxidant, you want to use like I, you know, I use the glutathione formula they have because I injectable glutathione is is tremendous at at scavenging free radicals and and helping with oxidative damage in the body. But I said, you need a you need a formula that kind of has everything in it because people don't want to necessarily buy different a million different things. They they came up with this new formula called Titan Complete. I just got it in the mail. I just started taking it. Doesn't need to be refrigerated, nothing. I take a cc a day if I when I remember. Usually I take it after my workout because uh it's got uh the full array of branch chain amino acids in there. It's got chromium, you know, for for insulin, you know, sensitivity. It's got vitamin B12. It's got all the B vitamins for carbohydrate metabolism. It's got carnitine for fat transport. It's got everything. Uh it's a full array of everything. And I once again I come home from the gym and I take a a cc of it. And then I usually eat my meal about, you know, maybe 45 minutes after that. And uh I feel great on it since I've been taking it. I got to tell you, I love it because I don't have to take three different bottles, although I have all the different bottles and I might take a shot of glutathione once a week. But this I do every day and I've been doing it now for about a week and a half and I and I feel good. I feel like I'm recovering better from my workouts. Uh so I was having some cramping in the bottom of my feet at night that kind of stopped too. So I would I would check it out if you guys are going to, you know, contact them or you know, you might not want to just do hormone replacement. you might just want to do the vitamins and you don't even need a prescription or you don't even need to see the doctor for that. Just contact them and you can pick up these injectable vitamin formulations. They're really good. They don't hurt. They have a little lidocaine in them so they don't, you know, sometimes B vitamins, you know, burn, Chris, if you remember back in the day when we would take those B shots. But, uh, this doesn't hurt. You take a shot, you know, once a day and you feel good on it. And, uh, you know, I got to be honest with you, you know, I miss taking shots, you know, because I don't do any I'm not even on hormone replacement anymore. And uh so to me to be able to load up an insulin syringe with with the CC vitamins, I kind of feel good. You know, I feel like I'm doing something. You know, it might be a placebo effect for what I know. Fred, you know, Fred Hatfield, speaking, he used to give my grandmother shots. Used to give her the B12. Yeah, he used to give her the B12 shot. Funny as It's great. Hey, on other What about I I did hear What did I hear about bodybuilding.com? They laid off 90 employees. Out of how many? I don't I guess would be the question. 90 employees. Well, you know what's happening? Amazon.com. They didn't send them to Mexico, did they? No. Amazon.com is [\h__\h] giving them the beatdown. That's what what's going on. And I don't and I don't mind, you know, because I like Amazon's a very very loyal supporter of my brand. At least I know that. Bodybuilding.com was not. They were We had I had some problems with them. That's why I brought it up. Yeah. And you know what? Screw them. I don't care. You know, well, you I told you Jeff Bezos, CEO of Amazon, his favorite line is your your margin is your is your problem, right? Well, you know what? You know what the problem is? Amazon can undercut everybody. There's a level of arrogance that happens sometimes. And I know that the Olympia people had problems with bodybuilding.com, too. And they basically told him to take a walk. And I know Amazon is that's why Amazon streams the Olympia every year and sponsors that coverage. So, I don't know what's going what happened. You know what happened? This is what happened. When the Ducas were running bodybuilding.com, they were bodybuilders and they loved bodybuilding. When they sold to that investment firm, it it lost the lifeblood behind it. And that's really what happened. And so now they're run by corporate, you know, and when corporate takes over, the passion comes out of it. Imagine if I sold RX Muscle to like some TV station. What do you think it would be? Any any any energy, any, you know, vigor in in what we do? No, because it would become corporate, you know, that's it would be boring, you know. They would it would become Blechman again, you know, that that's ah what what do people want? What what's the the latest statistics say? I don't put content on RX Muscle from statistics. I put it from my heart. What do what do I want as a hardcore fan? What do I want to see? I want to see debate. I want to see talk. I want to see the real topics addressed. Are people going to get insulted? Damn right they are. Do I give a [\h__\h] No. Because you don't have to listen if you don't want to. You know, you don't have to listen to you and me bantering back and forth for an hour and a half every week. But people do it. We got almost 100,000 people listen to our radio show every week. People can if they don't like the radio show, they can cancel their subscription. Yeah, that's I was kidding. There is no subscription. So no the we have almost 100,000 I No, but I mean my point is right you know No, you know how when people say that when you're paying for something if you don't like it, you can cancel it. Yeah, we'll give it away for free. People complaining. Exactly. Speaking of uh hurting body, speaking about industries hurting, the beer industry is is getting very nervous, Chris, because of the legalization of marijuana. This new study so far this year, beer volumes have dropped roughly 2% in Colorado, Oregon, and and Washington, which have all legalized recreational marijuana. According to some data cited by the Neielson, uh, at the same time, marijuana consumption has grown in these states. Uh, the data indicates that many beer drinkers are swapping their six-packs for marijuana instead. I got a great idea. What? Pot beer. Pot beer? No. Per beer with a with THC, whatever the active ingredient is. The thing is people don't want to drink the beer, Chris, because they get fat from it. The calories the calories smoke and stay lean, stay peeled. Mainstream beer including Bud Light, Kors Light, Miller Light is under siege from legal marijuana with volumes down 4.4% in states studied according to this analysis group. So alcohol might be Was there an increase in consumption in wine or No, no, that's more marijuana. People want to just smoke. People want to get Look, let's face it, 90% of this country just want to get [\h__\h] up all the time. And you know that goes for the body. They need a relief. in need of relief. Yeah. They just want to get [\h__\h] up so they don't have to think about their lives, you know? It's it's it's a way to get rid of that stresses of day. Forget daylight daytime. Yeah. And there's a problem with that. You know, look, if you're doing it recreationally and having a drink once in a while, I think that's fine. But I think that there's a population of people that are are walking around stoned or drunk 24/7. And that that's a problem. You know, that's a problem. But I guess marijuana a lot less toxic to the body in the sense that you know alcohol destroys your liver you know and does other body. Yeah. It destroys the brain too and you know and I guess the worse you can be if you're a pthead is just a little bit you know punch drunk but you know people who are alcoholics it ruins their lives you know. So I I guess in a way it's it's a better option. You know, I would say you normally I would say it's not because of the smoking aspect of it, but now what people they they vape it now. They don't even they don't even smoke it like a like a joint anymore. They just put it in like that these vaping machines and uh they they actually sell liquid THC, you know, it's basically you can smoke it through one of those electric cigarettes. How about a high protein brownie or or a pot brownie or a a Quest bar with pot in it? Yeah, there you go. I guess once once pot's legal all over the [\h__\h] place, you'll be able to do that. Right now, you can't because what if you you you ship the bar to a state where it's it's not legal. You know, now you're committing a crime. So, yeah, that's pretty crazy. Yeah, that's pretty that's a good way to go to sleep at night. Well, you know, now they're they're they're marketing these canabonoids, which are the actual anti-cancer parts of the THC of of the of the marijuana plant that don't they don't get you stoned, these canabonoids, but they but they have tremendous antioxidant and and anti-cancer effects, and they're starting to promote that. and the the uh the Food and Drug Administration is getting pissed off and they're getting worried because uh because they're afraid, oh my god, God forbid that some something natural replaces our drugs that we sell, you know, for all these diseases. Maybe maybe with the Trump administr, you know, the Trump administration is pro business, very anti-regulation. So maybe you'll see an upsurge in the supplement industry. Seriously. Yeah. I I to me it's to me I don't I don't um Right. because it's all it's all it's all Democrats who want to regulate everything. Yeah. Well, I don't know. I think everyone wants to regulate everything. I don't believe that. I I I think we're going to I think we when I say we me and you, Chris, we'll do better with Trump as president, you know, as far as finance goes. Absolutely. And business-wise goes. So, you know, that's why, you know, people in our situation tend to be Republican supporters. I don't support anyone because I don't I think that the same. I think it's just a they just they just package it differently. That's all. But um I think that you and I will be do better. Do do I think that the you know people who don't make as much money will do better? Probably not. But um it's a it's a moral problem with the whole thing because I I I believe that the people who need help should be helped. But I think a lot of people don't really need to be helped to get help. You know what I mean? The people who just kind of siphon off the system. Yeah. People don't want to work and they want to just collect disability or they want to just collect, you know, free stuff essentially. So, I don't I don't have a solution. That's why I'm not in politics. If I if I thought I had solutions to all the political problems that surrounded this country, I would be in politics. I'd be running for governor. Lot you're in bodybuilding politics. A lot of things you say are read as political. Right. Well, because because in I could with regard to the bodybuilding industry, I have a lot of opinions. Economically speaking, I don't have any opinions because I I don't know what the right solution is. Well, sometimes you just got to throw it on the wall and see what sticks. Yeah. So, anyway, uh the season's over, you know, pretty much. I know. Did John Lindsay have a show this weekend or was that last weekend? I'm not even sure. He usually has the last show of the year. Well, you know, it you know, it's funny, Dave, is it's it's a lot of these shows there so many shows now, right? Yeah. I mean, do they even get covered? No. That's what we're going to That's That's my prediction for 27 2017, you're going to have pro shows with zero coverage, right? Yeah. I mean, you would have you you'll get coverage. You No, with zero coverage. You'll get zero coverage for some type of pro show coming up this year. There'll be nobody there. There's too many shows. It's too expensive to cover and no one gives a [\h__\h] anymore. That's the truth of the matter. No one cares. You know what? People like coverage that's enjoyable. Like if if you and I go to a show, we can go to the Mr. Long Island show and if we covered it, you know, like with with excitement and energy, people would would listen to it. They would want to watch it because that that's that's really what we want. Coverage is necessary. The problem is no one wants to put up any money to to sponsor the coverage. So, who's going to spend that kind of cash on on flying around and and doing all the the work when when no one's covering, you know, no one's putting up, you know, all these supplement companies? I I talked to all these owners a lot of these companies and no one knows where to spend their money. You know, I don't want to sound like an [\h__\h] or anything like that, but I mean, we're doing the only original programming out there essentially. And you know, if you want to spend your money where people are going, look at the statistics on our site. Look at the YouTube channel. Look at the subscribers growing. Look at the engagement. Look at how excited people get. They may not agree with everything we say, but people are watching what we're doing. And we're putting out original content. And we have content daily up there. We have a lot of availability for for sponsorship. So if there are companies out there and they say, "Hey, where should we put our money where people are going?" Well, they're coming to RX Muscle. As much as you might not like it, look, people might not like the fact that I own my own nutrition company, but I don't put Species Nutrition on every single, you know, show we do. There's a couple shows like my Ask Dave show that's sponsored by Species Nutrition because that's that's me, you know. But we have a lot of available, you know, space for advertising. And if people like want to know where they're going their products going to be seen, how they're going to get reviewed, you know, it's it's a no-brainer. Look at what we're doing. And, you know, like I said, I I I encourage people to go to the YouTube channel, go to rxmuscle.com, check out the original content because we're putting a lot of work into this content, and I know people are really enjoying it. I get emails and texts every day from people telling me how much they like it. And the bottom line is we're not charging for it. A lot of people are going to a, you know, a pay fee schedule and I'm not I'll never get to do I'm not going to charge for our content, but we need to be supported by the advertisers obviously to be able to continue to do this and uh we have some very very excellent advertisers on board. Quest has always been there for us. Iron Man Labs has been there for us as well as you know uh Titan Medical and you there's we have a whole bevy of of you know Dr. Blau and Lockout supplements. we have, you know, a lot of people who do believe in what we're doing out there and they promote that and they uh and they they support that and I and I welcome that. But you know what, the more advertising and the more, you know, support we get, obviously the more content we could put up there, uh to let us know if you really like the content, make sure you subscribe to that YouTube channel. Hit the subscribe button if you watch our content because that lets me know, hey, you guys are watching. You know, that's there's no other reason other than for validation on our side. Well, maybe we can get a uh an advertiser from the the pot realm. The high protein bodybuilding pot brownie. Yeah, we should. Yeah. Right. You know, uh speaking of uh I wanted to bring up one more thing before we go. As you know, I who could we get to endorse that? We could we could get lots of endorsees who like Martinez would have endorsed that. There's way more than Victor do. We got like I know a lot. Keep going. I don't want to mention people's names. Well, I'll only mention the people who who really, you know, who are out there who Troy Troy Troy's retired. Troy likes Yeah, Troy will definitely sponsor judging. Hey, Chris, take a look at this shot right here. As everyone knows though, I I obviously do the diet of Triple H and I do his wife Stephanie McMahon's diet and been doing it for quite a number of years. And I, you know, I work with the You're only one step away from the White House now because of Yeah, that's what I'm bringing up. And I always bring that up and I I've also done the diet in the past and I still you know she still consults with me. Linda McMahon who's Stephanie's mother, Vince McMahon's wife and she it's funny she had just contacted me like last week or two weeks ago about something about her foot. She didn't have some she had some she asked me some question about you know how to what supplements to take to help heal some kind of injury she had. And I said to her I said you know uh is Trump gonna is Trump going to put you in the cabinet? You know as a joke. I said I'm rooting for you. She's like, she didn't answer the question. She's saying thanks. And then the week later, the announcement comes out that Trump appointed her to what? Small business, the head of small businesses, something like that. Yeah. Yeah. Small business association. That's awesome. I know she's probably loving that. And uh that's a great position for her. You know, she can help small business owners like you and me, you know. Yeah. But that's great. She uh I would like to more I would like to see a live with with her husband with Vince. Yeah, I I brought that up to Triple H and they're like and Stephanie, too. And I'm like, no, they poo poo that. Yeah. Well, they didn't poo poo it. They they they think it was a great idea, but you know, Vince is like so, you know, so he doesn't really interview with anyone. Have you noticed that? No, no one. That's why I poo poo. I mean, it's just no one, right? No, he doesn't he doesn't do interviews. He's very quiet. I'd love I don't even want to interview him about the WWE. I want to interview him about bodybuilding. Business? Oh, I thought you going to say business. The business aspect is insane. talk to him about business, you know, but but I'd like to interview him. No, you know, on business, that first that first uh what's the annual event they have that's just, you know, been going on since we were kids? Wrestlemania. The first Wrestlemania they leveraged like had the first Yeah, it had the first one had to be 100% a smashing success or they were completely bankrupt, including like personal bankruptcy, like no money ever. They put everything on the line for that. For the first two, Stephanie told me they did that. Oh, was it the first two? and and it was like a because they wanted to make the second one bigger. So they did it again. They risked everything. Now obviously crazy, right? Yeah. The second one is not as scary because they knew the first one was successful but they they doubled their their but they had they they had 100,000 fans live for the first one. Crazy. That's I look I I if anyone wants to emulate anyone I I want to emulate Vince McMahon because he was he's a visionary and he and you know what we you mentioned this earlier your friend who works 100 hours a week you know for 20 years 95 hours a week Vince probably works 100 hours a week you know for his whole career and he's still working like that he's still a maniac but uh that's why he's successful you know that's why he's successful and that's uh that's what it comes out you know the guy actually told me this Dave he told me another thing that strikes me it's a real estate guy I met this weekend I was telling Dave before the show started he worked 20 years straight 95 hours a week and he's beyond insanely crazy successful and he told me you know there's tons and tons and tons of money out there's just not tons and tons of people going to work $95 a week for 20 20 years straight on their own business yeah I it was it's it's amazing I mean it's a simple concept it's it's kind of frightening to work 95 5 hours a week because his point was Chris, I'm telling you, it wasn't like like a lot of people say I work 55 and then exaggerate and say 95. He said I work 95 at 20 years straight. I look at granted he works about 15 hours now. I I I can relate to it. Believe me, I can totally relate to. But you know what it goes back to? Look, successful people immerse themselves in what they're what they love, what they're passionate about at the time, you know, because people's passions changes. Uh, if you want to be a successful bodybuilder, you have to immerse yourself in that lifestyle. I have a client, she was asking me, you know, hey, on my cheat meal, she's like, can I have two drinks, alcohol drinks? I'm like, you're dieting. I said, I give you a cheat meal to get some extra, you know, carbohydrates in you. There's no alcohol in this diet. I said, well, yeah, but everyone else is drinking. I said, well, then you'll be like everyone else and you'll look like crap on stage. So if you want to be exceptional, you have to go to exceptional lengths and make exceptional sacrifices to achieve what you want. If you know what I went through when I was bodybuilding, I was like a like a monk. I was I would train, I would eat, I would sleep, I I didn't go out, I didn't drink, I didn't do drugs, you know, aside from bodybuilding drugs. Uh and you know that was the lifestyle led for 10 years you know and that to to achieve what I needed to and to be a master an expert to maximize my gifts whatever they happened to be because if I didn't do that I would have left something on the table and I would not have been my best and then I would not have achieved what I achieved. So it depends on how bad you want something. If you don't want it that bad you won't put that much into it. If you want to be the best at something don't talk about being the best at it. Live being the best at it. That's the best advice I can give to you because people are not willing to make those sacrifices. Chris, I'm sure when you decided to be a real estate person, you said, "I'm gonna be the best real estate guy I can be." And you put everything into it. And that's why you're successful. I made a successful looking office before I had any. How nutty is that? You have to because you have to live, you have to see yourself in that position before you actually achieve that position. I knew we were going to have live original TV programming. I just didn't know how it was going to happen, but I in my mind I already had it. I saw it, you know. And uh I know that the RX Muscle site will be continue to be successful despite the fact that magazines and websites are going out of business and being replaced by social media because I know what we're doing is is is original and we're constantly evolving and you know I I saw this pattern a couple years ago, three years ago when I said I'm not covering contest coverage anymore. I'm going to focus on original TV programming. I knew this was going to be you know the YouTube generation was going to be the way to go. I knew people would be watching it. I said, "Why would I concentrate on something that's going to be antiquated by then? I want to focus on something first of all that I'm passionate about and that I like and that I always wanted to focus on, but I knew some this was going to be the way to go." And we So, we we put a lot of hours into cranking out a lot of content on the site that's original, but it's also interesting. You could put out a lot of bull I I I subscribe to this this fish tank channel. This guy, he records everything he does every day, unbagging fish and bagging them. And I mean, it's like hours. I don't even know how people I I even I can't watch it. It's so boring. But he's so passionate about what he does that you you almost you almost can relate to it. I'm like, "Holy [\h__\h] this guy can't fail." Because he just lives this lifestyle. And and um I could I respect that because like I said, this guy is I think the most watched YouTube guy or at least he was was the guy who plays video games, PewDiePie on on on YouTube. I don't know if you've ever seen him. He's got like a billion subscribers. and he just wanted to be the best video game player and he's making money doing it, you know, through through ads on on YouTube, you know, YouTube paying him a commission check every month. So, find what you like and what you love, I should say, and do it and do it the best. Be the best at it. And that's the take-home message of quote of the week, whatever you want to call it for the week. Find what you love and be the best at it. And that's you can quote Dave Palumbo on that one. And on that note, we're out of time. Until next week, remember with Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts.