Heavy Muscle Radio. Welcome back to Heavy Muscle Radio. I am now here on the phone with our first and only guest of the day. Uh he's a guy he's always wanted to talk to and bring on the radio. He actually contacted me. So the fates in the universe uh were uh in our favor. He was a bodybuilder in Australia, very popular at that. He rode for Muscle Mag International a number of years. He's now in the Hollywood scene and he's training some special forces in MMA. Uh, I'd like to welcome Guy Grundy to the show. Good day, mate. How are you? Good day, mate. I could finally say that to someone and actually mean it. That's a very calm. I'm proud to be the first one. Yeah. Yeah. We We have a friend from South Africa, a friend of mine, Andrea. And for some reason, I have a nutty friend who who confuses South Africa with with Australia, and he thinks that they say good day mate in a in South Africa. So we always say good day mate to this guy and it's not really appropriate because he's not from Australia but you actually are. So good day mate. You can feel free to use that it's a universal thing. Now how long did you live in in Australia for mate? I was born in uh 1970. I lived there till March of 98. So I guess when I was 28 I came lived there till I was 28 and did everything I could do in bodybuilding in Australia at that point. And then March 98, I was uh came over here to America and as soon as I got off the plane, I was basically at the golden door at four four o'clock waiting for it to open at five 5:00. You lived Yeah. You went you s you see out the dream so to speak. Uh which when you came to Los Angeles was in Venice was actually the dream was at Venice Golds and you really lived it and you wrote about it a lot in Muscle Mag. Mate, it's amazing how you you told me I'm into the law of attraction and energy or whatever it is, but it's just amazing because I you I used to sit on the bike where I do all my cardio in a little gym in Australia reading muscle mag with a column by Steve Nice. And I come to America, I meet Steve Nice. He's the first person to do a story and we he passes away and and I literally get a client, you start writing a column that, you know, which I always thought was, you know, was something I was taking after him. So so so funny. But yeah, living the dream. I just seen all the guys flex wheelie yourself all the training of gold in all the DVDs and magazines and I was like you know what that's where I got to be. So I got to stop you. Steve Nice for those of you who don't know who he was was this big monstrous looking guy. He had to be 6'5 or something like that. 6'4. And he was a big thick you know strong guy. And he just basically hung out at Gold's Gym Venice all day long. and he would he discovered most of the new talent there cuz he was there all the time. He's the first guy to feature me in a column, believe it or not, too. He also is the only guy to ever get me at my biggest at 319 lbs. He put some pictures in his column of me. I look like uh I look like it was going to explode. Uh I was so big and uh he did discover a lot of guys. Unfortunately, he did pass away. And uh it's ironic that you took over pretty much took you know the place of uh of his column. He had a column called Muscle Beach and he would Venice Muscle Gossip or something, wasn't it? But Muscle Beach. Muscle Beach. Muscle Beach, I think it was called, right? Yeah. Yeah, man. That was amazing. That was a huge thrill for me to meet him and but yeah, coming from Australia and then, you know, like I seen you was at the at the Olympow to swear on your show cuz I swear sometimes. This is like a PG thing. No, you can say whatever you want. You can tell me to go [\h__\h] myself if you want. I don't care. I'll I'll tell you that on the radio. I won't tell you that in person. Good. Fine. Um, yeah, mate. So, it's just a dream there with uh Steve Nice and coming to the gym and like I said, senior at the Olympic because you you won a lot of championships back in Australia. You won the Mr. Australia. You went to the World Championships in Nam. You you you won your weight class there or I should say your height class cuz NAVA did it by height classes. You've accomplished a lot in bodybuilding. But when you came to the United States and started living the Venice Gold uh gym dream, you did something interesting in the magazines. You started writing a column, but you gave a perspective that was a lot different than other people cuz number one, you were a competitive bodybuilder, which a lot of people who write these kind of columns aren't. Number two, you're an excellent writer. I just I don't really say that to many people, but you are an excellent writer. And number three, you told a very honest perspective of what was going on almost to the to the fault of making fun of yourself. Was was this something that was always inside of you that you always had the ability to kind of laugh at yourself? Yeah, mate. I think like yeah, take in Australia, we call it taking the piss out of yourself or it means, you know, you just don't talk yourself up like, you know, I'm an idiot or some, you know, you just make fun of yourself because the more in Australia, we also have another thing called Poppy syndrome. People love you when you're down and battling, but then when you get to the top, people start trying to push you to make you fall over just because that's just human nature. So I think I just developed a technique of seeing people that were successful. They're all going to taken the piss out of yourself. You're like, "How can a cop like this guy?" Like, you know, like Mike Ryan for instance, uh, who's a cool guy. He's a good-looking guy, but he's also cool. And you're like, "Fuck, bro. How perfect is he? He's nice and he piss out of himself." And you know, I'd rather have fun in life. And you know, besides that, people take the piss out of you. So why not do it first? At least you can get the get your own laugh. That's right. I always say the absurdities in life are what really make it enjoyable. Were you at the Gold's gym when uh when what's his name? Um Matt Senior there? Yeah, mate. When John Cena was there, excuse me, not his brother. I knew who you were referring to, buddy. I've been so fortunate. The gold I said I was there from 98. John Cena, he was working behind the counter probably earning $8 an hour and but you always looked and you were just like, "Yeah, that kid's a stud. He's going to do something. he's going to go somewhere and he always had that confidence about him. But yeah, I seen him there evolve also uh Chris Masters who I think I was probably the first person to write on him for the magazines and in my column and then he went on to be do well in the WWE. So I've seen guys come and go and it's you know then you realize like damn I'm pretty old because I've seen different trends of bodybuilders go like the era that I came up that were ahead of me gone. the guys that I was competing with, a lot of them are gone. So, I've seen seen the sport change and and progress. And I need to say with the bodybuilding now, I've got to the the way it's the judging and everything seems like the skill he is the number one guy. He's you've got something for everyone there. He's a good-looking guy. He's well, got a phenomenal physique. He keeps improving. He's got math, you know, he's a Jay Cutler, Flex Wheeler kind of combination there together. Did you uh do you did you get uh get along well with Lee Priest, your one of your countrymen there? Well, I guess we get on okay. I wouldn't say where where the I got to be careful. I'm going to be doing an interview over there pretty soon apparently. But I wouldn't say um yeah, you know what? I'll be honest. No, I wouldn't say we got on. Um it could have been my fault a little bit cuz he was ahead of me in Australia. He's a legend. And I came over here and I was a little unsure of myself and I had an unfortunate circumstances like of meeting Flex Will who was a total [\h__\h] and I admired him Lee and I was a little I'll talk about that and then I was a little reserved for me. I never I never walked up to Lee and said, "Hey Lee, you're you're a hero to me. I've got much respect for you." Well, I think perhaps that may have put our relationship on a funny thing. And and Lee, you know, I'm not being rude, but the guy needs a milk crate to talk to you because he's so short and he's got attitude. Like, you know, [\h__\h] Australitude, I'm going to put you on a milk crate and hit you. So, you didn't get along with Flex Wheeler. Is that Is that true? Flex. No, he was the biggest [\h__\h] in the entire world. I bought I I used to wear flex I was the white Flex Wheeler at home, bro. I would be wearing the the long tights with the black and orange stripes on it. just getting my gay flight attendants to buy it when they're in America. But I admired him and all these DVDs and this is the first time I met him. You know, apparently he changed. God bless him. But I'm talking about the flex that I met. Yeah, he admitted that he was an [\h__\h] back in the day. But tell us how much of an [\h__\h] he actually was. Hey, I will totally jump on that one. I would totally jump on that train. I'll get two tickets. So I come here March of 98. Flexible is my my hero. I got nothing but respect for him. I'm at the firehouse, the most important place in my life and any bodybuilder. He's, you know, and there was Flex Will. We're at the firehouse. My girlfriend who came with me, um, was sitting sitting in front of me, of course, and he was sitting behind me looking over my shoulder, looking straight at my woman, just looking at her like arrogant. And she says, "He's just looking at me." And I'm like, I'm taking a big breath cuz I'm not being arrogant, but I used I grew up on the street. I've fought all my gorilla training tactics for the special forces. The long story short, if him and I I would have beat the living [\h__\h] out of him. We weren't going to go and have a little karate point fighting. I would have just headbutted him and grounded his head into the ground. So, you already were thinking about how you would take him down if if it came back. Bro, I was thinking I was shaking. I was so angry cuz I love this guy, but all that love and admiration just went to hate. And all I can remember sitting there was and at the first time I guess I was professional. I said, "You can't walk up to Flex Wool, take him outside, beat the living [\h__\h] out of him, which I would do on your first day here. He's the best bodybuilder in the world. It's going to make you look like a total [\h__\h] like I'm an idiot." So, I let it go. I never did anything about it, but I've never ever forgotten. It was just amazing to see that man had so much power and admiration. And I I know he admits that he was an [\h__\h] but you can say, "Hey, I'm sorry." But people like me had to deal with that. I was in shock cuz I thought the guy was a god. And then for him to do that to me, it was amazing. And you know, then he gets sick. And I've never had one. And you you know, you know, Dave, you you're one of the coolest guys in the sport. Everyone's got something good to say about you. Thanks. Who's got something good to say about Flex? Yeah, there wasn't. I've never heard anyone say one good thing about Flex. And what amazes me about Flex is the posture that he came up with. Like I know everything about him. Rico Mcclinton. Chris Cor. Rico Mlinton is the nicest, most loyal. He's a man among a legend. Chris, I've got nothing but love and respect for him. Chris is cool where he'll say I had a hot woman. And Chris would walk up to her when I was go with Grundy. And she'd say yes. He would walk away. That's not a problem. That's respect. But Flex. Yeah. Um m just there. He listens until here says, "As a fan, for someone that came over from another country and you were the greatest thing in my world, you were the greatest disappointment in my entire life." Did did you ever have a fight with anyone over there at Gold's Venice where you got to the point where you're like, I'm taking this guy out and you just and you went, can you say some people names and not like, you know, I can't when we get alone, I'll tell you all of them cuz I've been Oh, you did have fights. You did have fights. Oh, bro, I've slapped a few people at G. just slapped. Come on. Tell me one person. I can't do it, bro. Why not? What's the difference? We going to get arrested. Come on. I don't know. All right. All right. All right. All right. You ready? The worst of the the biggest one. And you know, I'll say cuz I don't like him. And I tell everyone at Gold Gym, Mr. Canada, Eric Delaro. You You would slap the [\h__\h] out of Eric Delaro. Me and Eric Delaro. He's got a problem with this. Grundy will slap him again. We had a problem. I won't. He if he wants to talk about what he did, if you ever get him on air and ask him what he did to deserve a slap from me, I'd like to know. I I won't bring it up cuz it's embarrassing for me, but if he wants to do it to show the kind of man he is, he can do it. Long story short, I took him out the back of Gold's Gym in Venice. Yeah. And made sure the cameras weren't on me. I actually said, "Come outside. I got to talk to you." We had a problem in the gym and I said, "Let's go out and talk. I don't want to fight you. I want to talk." I said, "So, we go outside." Long story short, I in front of Julie, the fitness model Julian Gri and everyone at Gold Gym will back this story up. I [\h__\h] slap him, bro. This man's 280 lbs. I'm looking at him thinking to myself, "This is going to be one hell of a fight. I'm getting excited, bro." The man cried his very worried cried and said, "Do you know who my father is?" and ran after his hat and left. Oh my god. How embarrassing for him, mate. You know, and that's that's famous. and we were best of friends, but I used to write about him in Muscle Mag and put him in my column. So, yeah, that happened. And uh that's definitely And then I also had a problem with uh Ernie Taylor. I wrote some stuff about him in a magazine. Ernie Taylor with the big triceps from England. Yes, exactly. And once again, same thing with Ernie and and I actually made a challenge to him. I said, "Bro, I'll fight you anywhere you want to fight. Don't do it." Cuz long story short, I'm uh I'm well known to Gold Jim, my trainer all my life. He comes from England when I'm away on tour and I hear again, this is off Julian Gri, the fitness model. Julian goes, "Hey man, Ernie Taylor's looking for you." And I'm like, "Ernie?" He goes, "Yeah, he's going to beat the [\h__\h] out of you." And I said, "Uh, okay." I said, "First off, why is he telling you he's not telling me?" He goes, "Well, I don't know, but he wanted me to tell you." And I'm like, "Well, I'm not hard to find." And secondly, um, but basically the man had a problem with something I wrote in the magazine. He goes to Gold's Gym, belittles me while I'm not there. the gym I train at. Imagine me going to the UK, walking into his hometown gym and going, "Where's Ernie? Where's Ernie? I'm going to [\h__\h] out of him." And then on top of that, I'm not like I'm not saying I'm the toughest guy in the world, but I will back up what I say, especially back in the day. I'm more refined now. I'm 41. I'm acting. But he said all this stuff. He's the baddest guy in the world, Ernie. And I put a an official challenge to him through muscle mag and everything, and he backed out. Wow. It sickens me. Like if you're a man, like if you're a man and you're going to talk and do something, do it. But I'm not going to tell you I'm going to beat you up.