Heavy Muscle Radio. Okay, our next guest is a little different for this show. Uh, we left the typical male stereotypical bodybuilder and we brought in adult film star and NPC bikini competitor Inari Vox. Welcome to the show. Hello. Thank you for having me. Well, uh, it's it's a pleasure to be able to inter interview a beautiful woman for a change on this show and, uh, to mix things up a little bit here, but I thought you got to do that. So, that's right. But I thought you were enough, uh, you were of interest to me. The when I heard about what you do, I was very interested. And I want to start first of all, before we get into your whole career and how you did all this stuff. Where does your name come from? Because I can't imagine that your mom named you Inari Vox. No, she did not. Although I did trademark it so it is technically mine. And is the Japanese goddess of good fortune and box is one of my favorite authors. Okay. So you're a combination of a goddess and a uh an author of a book. At least you could explain your name. You know I was at a strip club once and this girl had a poem written on the side of her body. Um tattooed tattooed on the side of her body and I said to her, "Who who wrote the poem? who's this poem by? And she's like, I don't know. So, so, uh, it's always nice when you know the the backstory behind something that, you know, either indelibly written on you or is is your name, you know. So, it's kind of important. I would think so. I would think so, right? You never know that. Wow. Talk to me a bit about how you got into the porn industry first. Okay. Um well um in late November of 97 I had when I moved to Southern California I had the opportunity to get into the adult industry which presented itself in a peculiar way of chance and being a big fan of the adult industry I was very curious and I was pretty determined just to do one say that I did it just for the fun of it. Now why were you curious? Not a lot of w not every woman is is curious to the point where they would actually go up and do a a role on a video. You obviously had more of a curiosity than than most people. Had a very heightened sense of sexuality. I'm very cerebral in my sexuality. Anyhow, and already knowing that I was a bit of an exhibitionist, it was just something that intrigued me. And I I'm very passionate about the anology of of the porn industry. You know, it's more than just fame or money or having sex. Yeah. All those things are all very important, all very great, but it's a necessary evil in our society that I believe and not even evil. You know, I bet that one right to say it's it's it's it's necessary. You're riding motorcycles and all you're talking about. Yes, absolutely. I like to do that. Um, but it's it's very necessary in in the development of accepting of our own social sexual in our society, I believe, because sexuality is so taboo to even talk about or accepting ourselves. How many women do you know that actually have embraced their own full sexuality and and can be a positive sexual role model? Well, I don't think that I don't think that many because I think that the society will look down upon that on some people, don't you? Abs. Absolutely. And I I take my role as being a sexual feminist as it were, of being, you know, pro, you know, pro- feminine, sexual strong, to be able to, you know, teach people it's it's okay to be you and love yourself. Cuz if you don't love yourself, how could anybody else and Yeah. And and the thing is, I meet women all the time that don't even know how to please themselves, let alone talk about it. And it's it's it's just b it just baffles me because if you don't understand your own sexuality and you don't know your own sexual and you don't know yourself and if you don't know yourself how can you get along in this world get along with other people. Prior to getting into porn in 1997 were you able to please yourself? Did you know about that? Absolutely. I don't ever remember not being able to please myself actually. Um although I was not a very promiscuous person um at age I was still extremely very sexual like I said do you remember when your first time of pleasuring yourself was how old you were I again I don't remember ever not the very first time now absolutely not so you were like you were having orgasms at like one years old probably for all I was always myself I don't know I guess you had very happy boyfriends too along the way I'm You know what? Honestly, I I I married my first real boyfriend in high school. We were together for 12 years. And um Yeah. How old were you? Um we were together since my um my junior year in high school. You got married in high school? No, no, no. We were We had been together. We got married. Yeah, we gotten married um in my 20s. Oh, okay. Was he Were you in Were you with him when you got involved in the porn industry? Yes. How do you feel about that? Well, we we were never really monogamous our entire relationship and he was very supportive. Really? He was I'm sure he was supportive because you guys were uh were you guys swingingers or were you guys just doing your own thing? We were kind of open. It was swingeresque, you know, but not necessarily in in the lifestyle of, you know, the technical swinging term, you know. It was definitely open. You wanted to go out on a date with some other guy. He didn't have a problem with that. Well, we didn't really it wasn't really so much date oriented as it was more like hooking up oriented sex oriented. So, was that like your transition into the porn cuz you already comfortable obviously doing these you know these type of things? Yeah, I was I was already very comfortable. I mean it's very different though you know having you know relations on camera as opposed to in your personal life. You know it is very different. What's so different about it? I I would think for a man it's different because the men have to perform, but for a woman it doesn't really matter, does it? No. No. In some instances, you're true because um you know, a woman can fake it all day long, but if you actually care about what you're doing, you're not going to do that. So, you never you don't fake you don't fake on camera. Um I mean, there are moments of embellishment that you have to um at times, you know, to match a shot or to make it interesting because, you know, let's face it, you're making a product. you know, you're selling if you're making a fantasy, you're selling a fantasy, you're selling a moment. So, you are making a product. Um, but I it's it's it takes up more energy to to fake it and make it believable than it is to relax and really do it. I agree with you. I'm going to be honest with you. When I'm not, you know, if I watch porn, if I can tell that they're faking or that that they're just making the noises they're supposed to make, I completely I am not turned on whatsoever. I I laugh and I and I can't even watch it. I agree with you. And and as a performer, there's very little I have control over unless it's my own, you know, my own project. Um, often times I don't have I don't have final say on the look of the character or the editing or the lighting or location. The only thing I really have control over is my performance at that time. Are you performing right now? Because I'm having trouble hearing you. You're drifting away from my my phone call here. Oh, no. Don't let Don't don't perform now. Please be real. I'm not performing. So, what was the first scene you did when you were 23? Um, it was slightly controversial. It was from Max Hardcore. Let me hear it. What was it? Um, well, it was fine. It was It was great. He says he his his particular product is more fetishoriented in regards to a certain type of fantasy that um is kind of frowned upon most time in the future because a lot of times the girls get depicted as younger ages than we really are. Um I never personally had a problem with him cuz he he has he always treated me as a person with the utmost respect. sat me down and showed me, you know, the particular thing, you know, thing he wanted. Um, he wasn't he he he how can I say that? Um, he has a very great respect for a strong woman. And sadly enough, if he finds that you're a woman with weakness, he will try and exploit that. And um, but that's just people in business in general. Now, who's this? Who you? Uh, it was Max Hardcore. Max Hardcore. Okay, that's his name. Yeah. So, what was your scene that Max Hardcore wanted you to perform? You know what? It wasn't it wasn't actually anything so crazy in in his line of of work for saying honestly, I can't even tell you to set up right now. It was so long ago. So, you don't want to talk about it? No, I I could even I I don't even remember. No, I wasn't it wasn't as crazy as a lot of his other things is what I was saying. I'm sure one of our listeners will find the scene that you did somewhere and we'll we'll post it online. What was What was he known for? What was the kind of movies that he was known for that was more controversial than what you did? Well, I mean it was it was just he he would he would have rough sex moments with girls that would dress up as young girls. Oh, I see. Like rape fantasy type stuff. I don't I don't Maybe I I mean he had several different things. So, you know, but they were just they were just they were just kind of over the lines in a lot of cases. So, your first uh your first taste of uh of porn on a camera was did you do everything? Did you have sex? Did you do oral? That kind of stuff. Absolutely. Okay. Now, uh I understand you uh you took a little hiatus from um the porn industry for about eight years and then you just got back into it recently. Uh what made you decide to leave and then come back? Well, at the time that I took my break, um, I wasn't expecting on taking such a long break. Um, I had already won several awards. I had an action figure, a toy line, my own show on Playboy TV. Um, I was featuring all over the country. Um, the highest award you can win is the performer of the year and I did that with AVN and X-ray. Really? Congratulations. What year was that? Thank you. That was in 2000. And what what did you what was the the your star performance that uh won you that award? Well, those those awards are basically the emod the embodiment of your work in your career. You know, it's it's more not less for um one particular project, but more so I think when you're a performer of the year, it's everything that you did. Got you. So, that was awesome. And that was pretty that was the first award that I won, although I had had several nominations. Um I'd won best actress for Awakening. Um what was it what was Awakening about movie for vivid? Um it was actually a dark story. Um it was um PT um Paul Thomas is his name. He he directed that for Vivid and the story line was I got to a car accident and I was paralyzed and it's a well briefly paralyzed and it was a transformation of my life. I used to my character you know used to party and you know go crazy and you know and all my friends did too and then I got into this car accident had this life-changing moment of being able to learn how to walk again and the the story with um um it entails what my the people in my close circle how they still continue to you know do pornography and and drugs and party and everything else and I went through health um and those health healers and all that kind of stuff. It's so weird that this was a this was actually a porno, but I think if I remember correctly, it was roughly um based on a true story. Did you have any sex in the movie? Absolutely. I'm just making sure our viewers are already like suddenly fall asleep here because they think that you're not going to have sex in this thing. It sounds a little bit too spiritual. There was seriously it was there there's all kinds of sex. It was crazy. Um and then and then in the end it it was a really dark story. Even in the end, my character ends up killing herself. Oh, that's not that's that's kind of depressing. What uh what were you known for? What's like in porn? What are you known for? Cuz I'm not like a an afficionado of your work, but but I might check it out now that I'm I'm obviously talking to I didn't want to skew myself by watching yourself prior to this. What do you you're a special talents in this industry, you know? Um my my being very real, people will tell you that, but if you had to pick one thing, it would be my oral. You give good good head. Yeah, I got an award for that. Really? What was what's the best award you've won on that? Um, yeah. My favorite award obviously would be would be performer of the year, but to say that I'm the orgasmic oralist is pretty kind of a fun one. I like that. I like that. It's a very good uh it's a good title to have. Now, what's the um what's the biggest penis that you've ever um given pleasure to? Is it? Do you know? Does it take dimensions? No, but um the person would probably be Lexington or Oh my god, he's big. He's what is he like 14 inches? Something like that? 12 inches. Yeah, 12 14 something like that. Holy mackerel. Did you have sex with him too? Oh yeah. Wow. Like what guy could date you after having sex with him? It's like no one can please you after that, you know? That's not true. It's on how you use it. That's right. Let's keep keep telling people that. Maybe they'll believe it. What what uh was you weren't able to take all of them in you obviously were you? Oh no I mean there's science involved you know. Yeah I mean it's just limitations on space limitations right? Yeah exactly. Do you think that a guy who has a big penis like that has problems having sex because he he can never be totally you know fulfilled because he can never you know totally penetrate a woman. Right. Well I think it all depends because in some cases you can Oh really? H yeah. What? What? I mean, every woman everyone woman is is shaped differently. You know what I mean? Women that can take something that big. Wow. Yeah. Absolutely. Now, do you do uh anal too or you just do uh the you do both? Yeah. Yeah. Um is it can you take more in the uh up the the booty or than you can in the other thing? Yes. Ah okay. So maybe is is that how he gets pleased maybe when he does the booty sex in some cases? Yes. No. Then did you have anal with him? Oh, you did? Oh, wow. Were you able to accommodate him? Really? Oh, so you're really a star then. You're a you're you're an MVP allstar out there, huh? You know, sex is a sport, so I will take that. Wow. You got to work up to him. You didn't just start off with him, right? I'm sure it took you a couple years in the industry before you worked your way up to him. No, you know, I I don't I don't I don't know. Not necessarily. Maybe, but I didn't really look at look it to I never looked at it as working up to, you know what I mean? It's just either you're into it or you're not, you know? I I would imagine you know, you make you start out small and then you kind of like, all right, I I can do this or I can do that. I don't I Right. Doesn't it like you have to kind of wean yourself into it? I would. No, not necessarily. No, really. Oh, wow. You're good. You're good. Now, you've always been you've always been into working out, obviously, and we're going to get to that in a minute, the whole training thing, but do you think that working out made it easier for you in the industry? Uh, do people like prefer to work with you because you're in good shape and and you have a nice physique where some of these girls are just complete, you know, slobs, you know, out of shape, you know? There there is there is truth to that statement because um you know a lot of guys will tell you that a lot of guys don't have the the the freedom to to be as picky with who they work with as girls are. So a lot of times for them it is just work. Yeah. And so they you know when when they have moments or the opportunity to work with me you know it's it's like a treat because they can really enjoy themselves. Yeah I can imagine they probably would. Yeah, you're a beautiful woman and you're in good shape. You know the rarity in that industry. Do people request you? Yes, they do. Interesting. Now, I always had this question. When you do any kind of like anal type uh sex, do you have to prepare ahead of time? Do you have to do like enemas and and fiber supplements and all that kind of stuff? Well, yeah. You need to I should I should hire you to be my fiberiz, you know, uh spokes model of uh for species, you know. Oh, that's so funny. Right. You can uh That's hilarious. Yeah, but but you do have to prepare. You do have to prepare, especially when you're with someone like as big as Lexington Steel, I would think. Well, anybody, but yeah, absolutely. Okay. These are just these these are like, you know, when you get on stage, you got to make sure you got the right coloring on and the right makeup artist. You know, with porn, you there's other things you got to you got to take into account. Now, how did you get into the whole lifting industry? because it just seems to I don't know why you would think that all porn stars would want to work out because they're being displayed. I mean, every ounce of their body is being shown on camera. You would think they would want to look like they're in shape, but a lot of them don't do it. How did you get into into the whole you working out industry? Well, health and fitness was kind of a hobby of mine for most of my life. You know, I always wanted to look good. I had my genetics can kind of make me kind of sick. So, you know, obviously being an an American woman, being slightly self-conscious became important to me. And I was in great shape when I first got in the business. Um, because I I had I had been well, when I lived in Chicago, I should say, I I rode my bike everywhere. I didn't even own a car. So, I would ride my bike 10 to 12 miles a day just getting to and from work. I I was um I worked in corporate America before I ever before I ever did porn. So um so anyhow, so I was in really good shape, but then the lifestyle of shooting all the time kind of threw me off my track. You know, you're on set Well, back then you'd be on set on these long movies, you know, for I don't know 12, 18 hours. Wow, that's craft services. Yeah, you have craft services. not, you know, eating snacks all the time, you know, and and depending on how much you work or whatever else, you know, you don't you don't really have like the same regimen as you once did. And and the lifestyle when you're well, back then especially, you know, really kind of was very close to a rockstar lifestyle. So, it it's really easy to, you know, not be in shape when you're in the business if you're working all the time. Um, but anyway, um, I digress. getting back to what I like when she was being fit in and I'm working out. When I was when I was featuring um across the country, I had met a competitor and she kind of gave me more information on the ins and outs of the business and I was able to be a spokes model at um the Arnold Classic and I believe I want to say it was 2002 or 2003. You you worked the booth. Yeah. And I tell you what, I was very amazed to see how out of shape a lot of people would get in an offseason. And that totally freaked me out. And then I learned a lot more about the supplement usage and the you know the the steroid use and everything else. And it just it really taught me a lot about the industry. But I still wanted to compete. So I was training to um to do my first competition. And then I found out I was pregnant um about five and a half six weeks out of my first show I was going to do. So, how old were you then? After I had um math is hard. Come on, man. You don't even remember. Wow. You're not that old. You're young still. Come on. You're in your 30s. I love you. Oh, yeah. Up there. Um but it was about I had to Oh, no. I I was I was I was 30 because I had her when I was 31. Yeah. So, I was 30. Um, so yeah. So, um, then after I had her, you know, I got I got back in shape and you know, I was training really special when I moved back here to Vegas. I have a fantastic trainer. Um, and one of the bodybuilders that he trained, um, who was also a trained trainer for competitors, um, he had seen me. I was I it was this past summer. I I was shooting a bunch and I I came back because I was in the gym with my trainer probably three to five days a week. And so I wasn't able to really get it in the summer. So this summer, although people were telling me how great I looked, I felt completely like a sloth because I'm so used to being in the gym. And so I was at four weeks of one of his um dynamic programs. And then the the bodybuilder was like, he's like, "Man, you need to compete." And I'm just like, "I don't know. I don't know." He's like, "Come on." I'm like, "You know what? Why not? Bucket list. I'll do it." And so then we switched my we switched my diet and we switched my my workout to the the competition diet and workout and then in four weeks I competed for the classic in Vegas and took fourth in my category. That was last year the NPC Las Vegas Classic you were fourth in bikini and uh did now that the the bug has bit you so to speak I guess you're looking forward to doing it again huh? I am. I I really enjoyed it. I was I I was surprised how much I really did like it. Um the the discipline was really good for me and the regimen and the routine was really good for me and it was it was awesome for my daughter to see too, you know, to see a completion of something and she was so sweet and when I brought him the trophy, you know, she was so proud, you know, cuz when I'm when I'm on my diet too, she's so funny. She's like, "Mom, you can't have any of my snacks and how do you bring home the trophy?" And I'm like, "Okay, babe." Did you get a lot of work after you competed because you were in such good shape? Um yeah. Um I I did have a lot of requests and actually there there's a lot of there's there's a a large demand in a bunny industry for muscle girls in adult. So I had um I had shot for uh there's a she muscle and female muscle porn stars and a few other websites other response from what when in in porn what kind of like muscle girl porn and you're not a big you're not a big bodybuilder but I mean you're obviously more muscular than some of the girls. What kind of like porn like do they do for uh the fit girls? Like what is it? Fetishy type stuff or what kind of Yeah, mus mostly muscle worship stuff. Mhm. Which is which is a total new thing to me that I didn't know what. Is it good money? Let me ask you a question. I didn't even ask you is what's what's the money like in porn uh right nowadays. It can be it can be good, but it's all in how you market yourself. Did you make more when you were 23 than when you didn't when you do now? No. No. You make more now. Really? Are you can you make well I have a name now you know it's like my name has staying power you know I branded myself very well in the beginning parts of my career and created a demand for myself and in the industry there's there's there's more money in the industry um I think overall I mean it's like what like 14 billion dollar industry or something like that um although the production side of the the movies and everything else is going through huge changes right now because of the internet and um piracy and everything else. So, in a lot of cases, there's not a lot of money, but overall there's there's a grand amount. Are you are you making are you making six figures a year over that? Um, I I I don't like to say, just give me Yes. I mean, I would think you are. Yeah, I would think you definitely are. Are you rich? I mean, do you do you make a million bucks a year? I mean, no. But I mean, is there propensity to do good things with your money? Absolutely. But there's there's many ways you can make money in as as metal performer from the movies you do, the appearances you make, the websites, the webcaming, you know, selling merchandise, um, appearances, you know, there's just so many different ways, you know. So, yeah, I think I'm going to hire you to be my date for the uh for the Olympia in uh in September. That's what I decided. We decided we're going to hire for now on porn stars are going to be that's dates for proms, dates for weddings, you know. That'd be great. Yeah. I'm going to make you my I'm going to hire you for you're going to be my date for the for the Olympia. I'm just going to walk around with you all weekend. You can get your press pass. Yeah, that's going to be good. Well, decided decided. Awesome. We could make some RX Muscle videos, you know, to put up a better the ones that we can put up. Not the ones we care, right? Of course. Of course. All right. So, you're you're you're you've been bitten by the bug. You love the competing. Obviously, you're you're I haven't seen your video of you on stage, but I'm assuming you're probably great on stage because you like to perform. What's what's the next I want to see you at a big show. Are you going to like try to up the ante and do like the USA or something like that? I mean, you are in Vegas, right? I would love to. Yeah, I would love to. Obviously, I need I need to qualify. I wasn't far off from qualifying when I did the Vegas. Mhm. Classic. Um because like I said fourth, not third, right? But that's okay. I'm hoping it's the next one. I'm hoping to pick my category next time. When is the next show you're going to be on stage at? I'm thinking I have to look at the dates, but um the shows um over the summer and I'm thinking um I'm thinking June or July and I will definitely know. Yeah, you got to keep us updated because I want I want to have the Anari Vox uh hotline here so that people can find out, you know, when you're competing, what you're doing next. You know, you got to keep us updated on this. Absolutely. I'll I'll call you every week. That's it. That's fine with me. I'm good. I'm good with that. You you I don't mind getting phone calls from. There's a couple people that that kind of annoy me, but you definitely wouldn't know. What What does your daughter think about the whole porn thing? she is she old enough to understand what's going on? No, she does not. Um I have a very G-rated Disney home and I keep it that way, you know. Um it will be challenging, you know, at the at at the moment when she does find out, you know, and someone, you know, people around her find out or to find out or tell her or whatever. I would like to be the one to tell her when she gets old enough to figure it out, you know, but you know, and a lot of people ask and I'm like, honestly, I I have no control over how it's going to affect her or how her emotions are going to feel. I would just like to think that, you know, I raised her with enough um understanding to not be judgmental, you know, but I have a wonderful relationship with my daughter and I just I have a very hard time believing that she's going to, you know, judge me or hold it against me, you know, but you never know what teenagers are going to do. True. True. But, you know, she's got the Barbie probably all the Barbie dolls that she could possibly want. And, you know, and that that, you know, she she goes to a wonderful private school. You know, she gets a great education. She, you know, she's she's got a good life. No question. You know, our job as parents is to make our children have, you know, better lives than what we had. And I've I've done that. And I'm I'm very proud of her. I'm She's very smart. She's very She's very creative, you know. She's and and I I know all parents say that, but I base this upon how she acts with other people and what other people tell me about my daughter. You know, she's going to test me all day long as she's supposed to. But, you know, she's, you know, she's she's awesome. I'm I'm the luckiest mom. That's great. I mean, it's good that you have a good relationship with your daughter, obviously. Uh yeah. Now, you're uh what made you settle in Vegas? Are you in there? because that's where the business is pretty much. Well, honestly, when I when I took my break and I I was with my second husband at the time, um we had gotten involved in several different businesses of of several different industries and mostly in entertainment, but um we had started a a minor record label and there um a very huge um local scene out in music and indie music and such like that. I'm plus two. Um I um um I work at the parent right now out here. Oh, you do? I was gonna ask you that. I was gonna ask you that. You do dance there. Yeah. It's the It's the only club I've ever I would ever call my home as a home club cuz I didn't dance before I did movies. Like I said, I worked corporate America. I did movies. The first time I ever um I ever stepped on the stage, I was headlining as a feature entertainer on the East Coast um in Rhode Island. So that was kind of weird. You know, most girls, you know, start off, you know, with strip clubs when they're 17, 18, 19 years old. I mean, for me, I was a patron. So, for most of my career, I was a patron of dream clubs longer than I ever danced in them. Wow. That's good. I like that. What What did you uh What do you get for like AI mean, because most girls get 20 bucks for lap dance. Do you have like a higher number because of your fame and fortune in the industry? Well, when I feature when I feature around the country, absolutely, because, you know, I'm I'm the special entertainer. here in Vegas. No, I just want to stick to the guidelines of the club. Really? No. Okay. So, if anyone wants to get the dances for me, they can come down to Spearman Rhino and uh and see what days you know what it varies to be honest with you. Um a couple nights a week I I pretty much can come and go when I want to. So, I try to tweet it though when I'm there. Cool. Or or if I know that I have people in town, you know, that you know, want to go to the club, then, you know, I definitely make it a point to go. you know, we set them up with um a complimentary limo and VIP insurance. And how do uh how do fans get in touch with you? Let's say people want to hire you to do something or they want to maybe some some nutrition companies want to hire you to be representative or work at a booth for for them. What's the best way to get in touch with the Nari Vox? Um honestly, I I I do have representatives that, you know, kind of feel through a lot of things, but people hit me up on Twitter all the time or um or email. I I love Twitter, though. There's even Facebook. My Twitter is um real in box. R E A L I N A R I B A C HS. My Facebook is in box. Okay. You answer your own Facebook stuff? Yes. Okay. Generally from my phone. I'm sure it's going to be blown up after the show. You're going to get a lot of people probably a lot of fans out there. I hope so. But I I would definitely love to do more with, you know, the the sports ind, you know, industry and, you know, getting sponsorships and doing things with supplement companies and stuff. That would be awesome. Well, you definitely can. You can definitely advertise some sex products. You know, these uh these uh you know, there's a lot of these uh libido products on the market. How to raise sex drive testosterone enhancers. You know, this I would definitely see you in a for those. I'd like I'd like to see I'd like to see the research on those because I I don't I don't necessarily buy it that those work andor maybe you should develop one and sell it on your own. That there you go. Do some R&D. You should do some R&D. You can do some firsthand experience. You can show all the research, you know, right on on on the net somewhere. Show videos all your research, your market research you've done. Oh, that's hilarious. Um, go ahead. Go ahead. I don't I was just going to say with the with the uses and such like that. So, um I don't really use any enhancement um drugs. I try to keep it all natural. You know, I might have some amino acids or, you know, an occasional, you know, fat burner or something depending if I cut or like a watermel or something, but I'm not big on taking all that stuff. Are you a healthy eater? Do you live a healthy lifestyle? Yeah, I do. Are you a health market shopper? Um, well, I can, you know, but I I eat pretty clean. I mean, not not because not as is as clean as some people where they're um where they make sure everything is completely organic and all that. I mean, I try to when I can't, but I just I I don't have a lot of gluten in my diet, you know? I I just try to keep it really simple. I I love cupcakes. So, cupcakes that might have some gluten in it. I have a question. I have a question. the the male performers in the in the porn industry, do they use Viagra, Seialis? Uh yeah, a lot of them do now. Um and it's so funny cuz back in my day um um they didn't really there's only like a couple performers that did and it was like all pretty mental, but nowadays it's all over the place and kind of saddens me cuz once you're on it, um you got to get off it. you can't drop it. You know, it's like you're dependent on it forever. Ron Jeremy said that he never uses any stuff because he says then it's going to screw him up. Then he's like you said, it's going to become dependent on it. Now, um I find that if I do take a sealis, the brief few times I've used it, it makes it harder to have an orgasm, you can stay hard, erect longer, I would imagine that's probably not good for your industry, huh? No. No. and and and it it it prolongs the moment because the job the job is based the project can is going to fall on the guy you know whether or not it's going to fail or not because if the guy can't perform or if he can't um finish as it were you know it's you know dollars are lost so it's not the hardest job for anybody in the industry is on the mail yeah I would think so there's a lot of pressure I I'm not a good pressure performer I can't even pee in front of people I have to like go into a stall when I'm in a public restroom. So, I probably would be a terrible porn star, you know. You got to like to be watched, you know. Yeah. Yeah. I'm a very private person. I uh I I I don't do well when other people are watching me, you know, pee or something like that. It's too much pressure. I put a lot of pressure on myself. I sensitize yourself a little to it to be a porn star. Yeah. It It's definitely in your head. And and the thing is that the thing is that the second you start putting pressure on yourself, you're done. You're done. Yeah. You're done. Because you can't it's very hard to get yourself out of it. You know, I know I've seen guys, you know, have a hard time on set. And then then they have so much self-doubt and they're trying too hard. And once once you go down that road, there's no coming back. Are you good since you've been in the industry for a while, are you good at relaxing guys, like new guys to the industry? Do you do you break in a lot of people? No, I don't really like to because I like to make sure that the person is there. I'm not trying to hold anybody's hand, you know, and I don't really I think that half the people that are in the business now probably shouldn't be really. Um, yes. And I think there should be an age limit on when you can begin. Interesting. because I don't I don't think that mentally a lot of them are prepared to to handle it, you know, or or to handle the repercussions of how it's going to affect them later, you know, and I think that and I think that in in in the dancing industry as well. Do people do a lot of drugs because of that to try to like, you know, numb themselves to what they're actually doing? No, I don't I don't I didn't really see that, but it's hard to see what people do in their personal life, you know? I mean, people numb themselves from life in general. Do you do you ever drink? Do you guys drink when you're on the porn set or no? On set? No. No. No. No. It's a very professional uh atmosphere. Yeah. Absolutely. I mean, and now everything is high depth. Yeah. You can see, right? You can see everything. Probably not a good thing for the porn industry actually because some of these people do you have professional makeup artists doing all your makeup and that stuff when you do these things? I mean, not all the time, but absolutely. There's some amazing makeup artists that are in our business, you know, and that all comes down to the budget, you know. Fortunately, I've, you know, I I do quite well and I have makeup, too. So, yeah. But I don't I don't need one, but I like one. I like to have them. Why not? But sometimes, but it's Yeah. You know, but the thing is is that when you get a new makeup artist, they don't the first time that they do you is not necessarily the best because they don't really know your face yet. Yeah. You know, do you have a regular you use? Um, it depends on the production because the production will hire the makeup artist. So, um, there are a few that I see often yet. Okay. I don't have a personal one, per se. I am looking forward to seeing you compete now because now I'm going to be looking out for you and hopefully I will see you at the USA Championships because that'll be a lot of fun. We can do a lot of good videos with you out there if you're up for it, you know. Oh, that would be fantastic. You want to make it out to Vegas? Yeah, of course I do. Many times a year. Uh, we have a lot of shows there. I'd like to come out there maybe a little early, but if you do the USA and we could do some like a day in the life of an Ari Vox. I think that would be a great video. That would be awesome. We can follow you around and trail you, stalk you for a day and uh see what you do. Please, please. And now I feel like I'm in a movie all of a sudden. But uh I want to thank you for being so candid and honest and open with us. I think our listeners are really going to enjoy your story and I think that they're now going to watch your and follow your not only your your porn career but your fitness career or your bikini career I should say and uh hopefully you'll be one of our pros in the next year or so. That would that would be awesome. That would be great and I appreciate your support and you know your your your interest in my story. Thank you very much. and we will follow Anari Vox uh at the 2012 NPC uh Vegas Classic and then hopefully on into the USA. Thank you, babe. Have a great day.