Do you ever you ever on a movie because you're a funny guy on a movie set. Do you ever like happen to like maybe like one of the stars says like who is this guy? Where did we find this guy? Like cuz you know most of the people who are like extras or who are minor parts are usually very quiet and they don't say anything. You obviously have a personality. You like to entertain everyone. So does it ever come up like they're like where did we find this guy? You know, mate, it comes up all the time. I've been so fortunate from the lackey. Uh, every movie I've done, they've been speak by part and I've been in the next sequel. So, for instance, when I was on um Isabella, John Love's turned up on set. Everyone's excited about one thing I've learned about celebrities. One is don't don't go up and and put them on a pedestal cuz they're so used to that and they look at you as a fan. I want you to look at me as another man. I'll give you your respect, but man, man, and you know, you're still back who you are. I'm giving you your respect, but I'm not running. Oh my god. Oh god. I'll give you a quick story that'll explain this. I was, you know, Rowdy Rody Piper, the the WWE wrestler. Total legend. This is my fight manager, Rick Baston. If you're out there, Rick, much love. Um, and he he was also Ry's um Ry's man. Wait, I'm talking about Piper's manager. And Rowdy's got everyone around him. Everyone. And Rick's like, "Let's go meet him." I said, "Bro, I don't want to go and bug him." I said, "No, no, he wants to meet you." And I said, "Okay, cool." We walked up and I shook his hand. I said, "Rowdy, I am a huge fan of yours. You got nothing but my respect. Listen, I don't want to be one of those [\h__\h] that stand here and just take up all your time. I I just want to let you know I respect you." So, I walk away. 2 minutes later, he walks up to me, goes, "No one has ever done that to me." And then I'm like, "No, bro. Of course, of course." So, we like talking and then other people then people would walk up to him and start talking to him. And then I said, "Listen, Rowdy, you don't know them. You don't want to talk to them. just keep looking at me. So, he or he touch his pen. I'd actually walk up and I'd say, "Hey, listen. Rowdy's got an important I don't mean to be rude, but Rowdy's got an important interview to do." And I I couldn't believe he didn't have someone. Yeah. No handler. He had no handler there. Yeah. Yeah. Cuz he was mate, he was like so professional talking to every So, so when I see John Love on set, you know, the way I look, I'm a mean looking. My character's a mean looking guy. We're outside. I'm on the cell phone talking to someone and John Lover is walking up and I'm on the cell to one of my homies going, "Fuck, bro. John Love has just walked out of his trailer." But I'm like, I've got to act cool. I've got to act cool. So I'm I just look at him and he looks at me and he keeps looking at me. We're in the we're in the in the backstaging area. So we're alone. And he just goes he goes, "How you doing?" So I just give him a nod and then we then the next time I see him, we're about to walk in on set. I walk in in my big black overcoat and everything and he looks at me, he goes, "Oh, [\h__\h] hell. I thought you were I thought you were coming to kill me. Oh, he was he got nervous. He thought you were like trying to Yeah. He go maybe he owes money to someone. He thought you were going to come maybe. And he's like, I thought you were God. And that's what he goes. Where did they find you? He said that. He goes, "Where did they find you? I thought you were someone's bodyguard or something." And we got on really well that we're just hanging out and he was a funny guy. And there's actually a scene in the movie before I killed someone where John finishes his talking cuz he's Jewish. And they've got this thing where they go oi and I didn't realize it. Yes. And he goes he just says this cuz we cuz John's really into comedy and I love improv. Yeah. So he just goes my name was Greg I think in this movie and he just looks at me and he goes oy and I go oi oi oi. And he goes and they printed it and they go that's in the movie. That's great. Now when's this Isabella movie coming out? When can we see this thing mate? I'm waiting on the information. They're actually thinking of retitling the movie. So I as soon as I get any information, you know what? I'd love to come back on your show and give you an update on when anything's going if I if Grundy is deemed worthy for the world of Dave Palumbo. I would love to. Absolutely. Well, I got a lot more stories because I know you got a lot more stuff to tell us about Venice Gold and a lot more stuff going on. I know you've been doing a lot of commercials, too. And people don't understand, they think, you know, they think commercials is like the lowest part of acting you can possibly do, but the commercials pay. You know, they you can make money with commercials. There's a lot of residual income there. How many you got running right now? I've got a total of seven nationals going, mate. And like you said, national commercials are your bread and butter. Yeah. Um I'll make uh for instance probably on average 20 grand I'll make on a on a national. That's what I tell people. You can make good money on those things. Yeah. I've known people that made up to 150. All it just really depends on how much you get run, right? And the coolest ones I've got going on. I'm the Fosters Beer guys. Like and these are some we got to get together for all these stories, but I'll give it a rundown. I'm the Fosters Beer. I've got four with them. And then I was also with Tika Doo, a mate of mine and a professional fighter. I broke his rib during the filming of this one and he gave me a concussion. It was a boxing one. We beat the [\h__\h] out of each other at Warner Brothers. God, it was fun, bro. That must have been. And then um I've got another AT&T commercial as a bodybuilder. When I had the long hair, people thought it was GA. I'm like, that's me. God damn it. That's great. I didn't know that was you. That that was you in that commercial, huh? Yeah. Yeah. Everyone thought it was G. I took it as a compliment. I said, "Damn, I must have looked big." And the coolest one I got going, I guess the funniest one is, and I think it's still running right now, is with Ron Carrie from Sons of Anaki. He's a real He's a He's a badass. I I love Sons of Anaki. One of my favorite shows. And we did a national Elmo commercial together. Oh, that must have been fun. Is he a good guy? You know, two badasses working with a little Elmo doll. It was pretty It was pretty special. Is that on? Is that running currently? I believe it is, mate. I believe it is. If you wanted links to anything, I can you know if you wanted to put them up on your website or anything. Yeah, send me the links. I'll put them on the radio show thread so people can see these commercials you're in. Guy, you're a you're a terrific personality in our industry. You're you're good for the sport. You speak your That's the kind of guy I like to hang out with. And we're going to have you back here again and you'll keep us updated. We'll get more stories about people you've beaten up and guys you want to beat up and people you might beat up in the future. But uh for now, we're out of time here. Uh what's your website so people can uh check it out? Mate, thanks for that. Yeah, that would be just uh guyundy.com. And if you guys just get in contact with me there, I'm on big on the Facebook thing or you can just Google guy Grundy or um and also I really I'm really interested in what Erico has got to say about this. Like if he wants to even question it because I know he loves his bodybuilding, but he's definitely here about this. So, all I've got to say to Eric, hey, Eric, I'm I can be the best friend in the entire world or the worst enemy, and you're fighting out both. So, sometimes you [\h__\h] with the wrong person, homeboy, and I'm the one you did. I'm going to I'm going to get Aaron Chewbacca Singerman to get on this story because this I want to find out all the details behind the Eric Deluro call out at Gold Jim. I didn't know about this. And and no matter what he says, u Julian stood there, right, and watched the whole thing. And this is Julian, who's a good fighter, by the way. Yeah, it happens. I'm all angry and I walk up to him and I go, Julian, I'm sorry that I did that in front of you and Julian's word were pretty looking fitness. He goes, "Fuck that. I can't believe you didn't do anything." The one and only Guy Grundy. Doesn't get better than that, guy. Thanks for calling, man. Great, Dave. Thank you everyone there. Much love. Thank you. That was the one and only Guy Grundy. What a personality this guy is. I I I could have talked to him all night actually to tell you the truth. He has got such good stories and he doesn't pull any punches and you can bet your bottom dollar that every word out of the guy's mouth is true. He's just one of these guys that has this, you know, that street respect thing. He doesn't need to lie. You know, he's lived a hard life and I'm glad to see he's doing so well. And uh I we got to get him to write a column for RX Muscle because this guy has got some phenomenal stories and I'd love to hear what Eric Delora has to say about what happened. Oh my god. Uh it's pretty crazy. But this uh this coming weekend we have the Arnold uh fitness weekend coming up and we have so much to do, so much going on. Don't forget we have a the RX Muscle meetup 6:00 p.m. at the Hyatt Regency in downtown Columbus. Make sure you guys show up and we'll have a few drinks and a few laughs and take some pictures and hopefully put them up on the board and uh all those good things. And then obviously stay tuned all weekend long for the RX Muscle coverage. Uh Christ the technician Aceto will be there. I will be there. Aaron Jbaka Singerman will be there as well as the RX Muscle crew reporting live from the event. Uh all the great stuff that's going on this entire weekend which I will not rehash one more time. But for now we are out of time and I'd like to thank Guy Grundy for stopping by. Until next week, remember with Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. Heavy Muscle Radio is a presentation of rxmuscle.com, the truth in bodybuilding. Tune in next week at the same time for another round with Dave Palumbo only on Heavy Muscle Radio.