Heavy Muscle Radio. Our next guest is many things to many people in the bodybuilding industry. He's diet coach. He's a trainer. He's a mentalist. He has worked with the likes of Kai Green, Desmond Miller, among many others. It's my pleasure to welcome to the show Oscar Arden. Hey Dave, thank you for having me. I appreciate it. Well, thanks for calling in. And uh you were the trainer responsible for almost all the the best competitors at the New York Metropolitans uh at last night's show. George Peterson, the light heavyweight and overall champion was your guy. Marvin Elliot, the super heavyweight champion, was your guy. And probably the one of the most impressive people on the show, Glenise Marx, who won the women's bodybuilding event, was also a result of your training. Um talk to me. Let's let's take the uh let's move away from the obvious. Let's move to the un the the the the the thing that no one really expected. Women's bodybuilding they say is dead, but it is it really because I see Glenise Marx and I see a champion. I see a future pro written all over her. How did you get uh wrapped up in her? Cuz I remember last year or was it maybe the year before that I spoke to her about the fact that she was never going to do well in figure and that she should do bodybuilding and she really kind of resisted that. Um how did you get in touch with her and start working with her? Actually, I know good for years off and on. would train similar gyms. And um it wasn't until after the Eastern USA this past year when I prepped um a competitor named John Kapuchi who won the um heavyweight open um she approached me backstage again and uh she wanted to prepare uh for the for the following year 2012 and um she was thinking about u figure but she was excited about this new um division the woman physique and so we began preparing to compete in women's physique. However, as the um professional women's physique were going on, we got to see that, you know, the standard for what they wanted as a female was definitely beneath what Denise was developing like to be. She was, you know, conditioned, muscularity, not well at the time, not not bad of a bodybuilder, but a lot more than a physique competitor. So, we were kind of on the fence on what she was going to do. It wasn't until the actual morning of the show that uh we decided to switch over to uh bodybuilding. So, I had I had to teach her a few uh poses, especially in practice, like I think in physique, you do a few like four or five poses, but um in bodybuilding, she had to do a last breath. It was all kind of last minute, but it all came together. I'm really proud of her, you know. Yeah, she looked uh I was very very impressive. I'm not impressed with many people, but she really stood out and uh you know, it gave hope to the division. That's what the division should be about. I mean, it should be I like that look. That's a good look. I wish that they would make that about women's physique, but obviously that they don't want the women's physique competitors that hard. Will you move her right to the USA or the national level uh to see if she can get a pro card? Absolutely. Our our next step is actually either the unit USA or take some time off and do the USA in a few months. Um I mean this is all new. We're talking about it now to see what the best course of action to take. um because she's excited, she's motivated, and um I mean, last time she competed at Eastern USA, it was 2008, and I think she took third in um in figure, and and now she won women's bodybuilding. So, she's excited, motivated. Well, it must be, you know, she's an athlete. When I talked to her in the interview, she told me that she's always been athletic. So, for her, it's got to be frustrating as a figure competitor when you can't actually work out in the gym. You know what I mean? You have to almost like find things to do that are athletic, but that that that are not going to build muscle. I mean, it's it's almost anticlimatic as as as a physique athlete. I would imagine it is. You're 100% right. You know, that's the reason, you know, when she heard a woman's physique, she like, "Wow, I can train and I can diet and that's great." And naturally, her body just got harder with the diet and the cardio just got better and better. And I I remember seeing her about maybe three or four weeks before the show and like, "Oh my god, the girl can step in the show and win right now." you know, she was about four pounds away from competition and I'm like, "Wow, maybe in my head I'm thinking she might be too much for women's physique, you know. Let's see what happens." I tried to trim her down some more, she just getting harder and harder. So, I'm like, "Uh, I don't know." Uh, so at the end, you know, we made the right decision, you know, cuz if she had entered women physique, I don't think she would have done so well. No, the funny thing is that you decided Saturday morning. I mean, you must have seen her Saturday morning. I mean, she was ridiculously shredded. It wasn't like, you know, there would be no way she could have, you know, done well in women's physique. I mean, she was so bodybuilder, you know, ready. Uh, it's funny. Let's talk about George Peterson for a minute. Uh, light heavyweight champion. The guy has got one of the best upper bodies in the sport that I've seen in a very long time. It's so impressive that, you know, his legs are not bad, but you kind of his legs kind of pale by of that upper body. Um, is it true that this guy really just got into the sport recently? Yeah. You know what? I wasn't preparing him. I was preparing the super heavyweight winner, Marvin Elliott. And about two years ago, I told Marvin, you know, listen, I need to get a good training partner because of the type of training that I need you to do. I need you to have somebody that has a similar mindset, a similar belief, and you know, maybe it doesn't have to be a competitor, but somebody that can push your training higher. So he they funed me to a friend and they connected with George and they trained, they clicked and they trained together and they were going to compete together last year Eastern USA. But when I saw them, I know they needed more work to do. So we decided to do the um the the this past. But when I began working with George, uh, probably last September, you know, I I saw that, you know, his legs going to come up, but he had such a like a strong work ethic, you know, and then just for time to jump, he'll say how high he's just like an ideal athlete to work with, you know, plus Marvin and George trade together, you know, so it's it's a great it's a great combination. And George is a great athlete and has a lot more potential. This is this is the first time he's competed, you know, at this level and with his legs coming up some more and just filling in some other areas, he'll be a lot more dominant in the future. Now, uh the heavyweight winner, Anthony Champa, has to have been the favorite, I would think, going into this show. He's been a top five uh national competitor uh at several shows. He's got that Victor Martinez looking physique. Uh, a lot of people thought there was a foregone conclusion that he was going to come in here and win this. When I, especially when I saw him at the prejudging, I I assumed that maybe he took the show too lightly because, you know, he was so dominant at that prejudging, although I didn't really like the dream tan he was wearing. Uh, I know you prepped these guys, not only nutritionally speaking and and and training wise in the gym, but you also prepped him mentally. Talk to me about a little of the stuff you did with George to help him keep that mindset that he did indeed have a chance to beat Antil in that overall because he projected himself as the winner. People just he looked like the winner, you know, mentally in that in that lineup. And uh what are some of the techniques you use on these guys? Well, you know, first of all, what happened last night? You know, we visualized with Lenise, with George, with Marvin, and once I knew Neil was going to enter, I figured he probably go was going to win the heavyweight. I had Marvin super heavy. I had George and light heavy. And I knew they were going to go for the overall. So, we talked about it and visualized. And there's a technique called NLP, neural linguistic programming. Yeah. where I mean there's such untapped potential to the human being. There's so much that we can do when it comes to nutrition and how much protein we can eat, how many hours we can sleep, how hard we train or recover or whatever supplements we use. But the most important untapped aspect that I that separates me from anybody else in this industry is the ability to tap into the psyche, into the mindset of the athlete. And once I do that and they believe and once there is no doubt cuz doubt destroys any type of belief once you believe. I mean I mean you you can go and be a radical and strap out backpack of dynamite in your back and believe that by floating in a bus you're going to go to a paradise. That's a belief. Maybe it's a wrong for us to say you know that's a wrong belief but for him his mind she think it's going to Allah. Well, you know, everybody has their belief, whether it's Buddhists, Christians, you know, um, Judaism. When it comes to uh, bodybuilding, you know, what made Arnold great, what made Dorian great, the ability to tap into the innerves, into that part of the psyche, the mind that creates no doubt that creates only victory at the end result. And that's what it prepped them to be. It didn't matter who was competing, Neil, not Neil. I prepared them for that night as well as Neil. I mean, as well as um Denise, right? And it happened just the way we talked about it 10 weeks before the show. So, you had these guys already convinced that they had won the show. You you you had them programmed, so to speak, in their mind. Yeah. See, in some aspects, you know, when you say it like that, it sounds like, you know, like how do you do that? You know, um sometimes when you're about to embark in a goal, you don't know all the steps you're going to take to get there. I mean, when 50 Cents was in the hood selling CDs out of his car, you know, didn't project what steps he was going to take to get out of those projects and to be a multi-millionaire the way he is now, selling records and having businesses. He had to envision that goal. He had to meet people. He had to take whatever steps, but it all had to happen internally. And anybody that has come from nothing to amass great success had to develop something in their inner self to change. You can't allow your current conditions to determine what success you're going to have. If you're fatting out of shape and you think that's your that's how you are, then that's what you always become. But if you believe that you whatever you're doing the end result is going to be this then you're going to take whatever steps are necessary to achieve that goal. I mean there are different techniques I'm privy that I do with them in the morning and at night visualizing writing that helps the subconscious mind have more of a stronger belief. I I think that you're on to something. And it's funny because read about in and you know taking courses about neural linguistic training and I've also read about it a lot of these pickup artist guys the guys that like try to pick up women they they study that because they that's also programming and how people think and and learning how to to get certain reactions out of certain things you say to people. And uh I guess by you employing this you're getting people to believe in themselves because bodybuilders do doubt. As much as we think that bodybuilds are very cocky, they they're very insecure people by nature because they never think they look good enough. And I think that's what drives us to constantly make ourselves better obviously, but it also could be uh something that also makes us fail when we're trying to uh win shows or accomplish goals, get contracts and stuff like that. Um do you find that that to be true that bodybuilders tend to be uh doubters? Absolutely. you, man. I mean, that's this is a very I mean, we as as bodybuilders, they carry the sport wherever they go. It's not like they can leave at home, you know, and as they see theelves in the mirror or or they see somebody that may look better that they're competing against or maybe their their body is not getting conditioned in time or whatever may happen that causes them to doubt. Once the doubt creeps in, if it's not taken care of or addressed, that doubt will be the undoing when it comes to the day of the show. You know, you have to have, you know, a belief and belief comes from confidence. But confidence comes from doing. Doesn't come from just visualizing. Visualizing is just one of the steps in believing. But you if you stay at home and believe and believe, nothing's going to happen. You have to put actions behind that and confident actions and when you are confident and confidence comes from doing and you keep doing it on a daily basis something great is going to amass but you cannot have a possibility of failure that cannot enter your mind. I mean even you Dave when you um were no longer working with MD and you started your own thing you know it was going to make it or break I mean you did whatever you had to you do and look at you now 3 years later the tremendous success you know that's the prime example I'm not talking about it and you did it you know maybe not knowing or knowing you you know you made this a success out of a time that it could have been really negative really bad you know no job you know no what do you do something you created something great and that's exactly you're a prime example of what I'm talking about. I have more awareness now about doing stuff like that than I did when when I was competing. I don't think I had that awareness level and I think that might have hurt me in a sense. Maybe it didn't allow me to win the big show that I needed to win. And you're right, the bodybuilders are doubters by nature. Let me ask you a question. You worked with Kai Green longer than any person around who's who's dealt with Kai Green. You know his mindset better than anyone. Do you think that he has a mental block, a degree of doubt about the Olympia? because for some reason he cannot nail his conditioning for that one show yet countless other ones. Well, I know that initially when I worked with Kai back in 2006, I was prepping Desmond for the Nationals and um when I saw what he looked like then, I mean, Desmond loo looked like a pro and even though Kai Green was a pro back then, he looked like an amateur. He was his body didn't was not just developed as it is now. And when we began talking uh about what shows to do or what to prepare for, you know, his belief in himself was a lot less where he was telling me, you know, Oscar, you want to make it to the top 15 so I can do my posting routine. I'm like, what top 15? I said, listen, if we got to work together, you know, let's let's try to make it to the top five. And then he's like, you know, I really don't see myself, you know, standing next to like Darren Charles or David Henry or or Branch. those guys are so far, you know, that's that, you know, he he had that belief because of the past experiences where he competed. He was taking in the last call out or 19th place. So mentally he he was allowing circumstances to condition his mind that that's all he was good for, just opposing routine. Mhm. And when I began working with him, I had to he had like a lot a lot of past stuff in his mind that we had to try to I guess suppress uh and try to and clear out and put good positive thoughts. We began by reading and showing him some videos and then writing in a journal and started reprogramming his mind. And then what his body began to change, he began to believe. And the more his body began to change and the more he began writing his journal and drawing and he he became a true believer, you know, I mean before his first pro wins, he had no contract and before like 12 weeks before the show, you know, we visualized, you know, his supplement contract, a magazine contract. And right after the show, he got a magazine contract and he never and and a supplement contract with chemistry was now debunked, but um, you know, at that time, you know, he was like, "Wow, this stuff works, you know, and he began utilizing them more and more and that's how we that's how what we use, you know, uh, to win the Colorado Pro, New York Pro on the Classics." But when it comes to the Olympia, um, I don't know, man, that's a good question. you know, um I haven't spoken to Kai since the 2010 Olympia, so um I don't know where his mindset is, but I expected to be in a you know, he's doing well. I mean, he took third. I mean, anybody who takes third at the Mr. Olympia, I think he's an amazing athlete. So, come on, Oscar. You know better than anyone. I'm going to put you on the spot here. I I personally believe that Kai Green has the physique necessary at this stage of the game to be Mr. Olympia. think he can beat I don't have any doubt that he can beat uh Phil Heath if he's at his best. He obviously hasn't brought his best against Phil Heath in the last two years. So he he I mean you could say third was great, but I think it's a failure for Kai because I think Kai really wants to win the Olympia. Do you think he's got some degree of like I don't know if I can win this thing in my head because he he's failed so many times. believe I believe is a little bit of mental, you know. Um I mean at the at the uh 2009 Arnold um before I got to help him the last two weeks when he was training with Charles Glad the last two weeks I flew in and um I remember we just brought him down from 289 to about 255 and he won the Arnold and then we got ready for the Australia and I think those two shows um are the best conditioning he's ever been in. If anybody looks at pictures Australia definitely Australia Australia and Arnold yeah those two shows if he comes with that conditioning with this much size it will be very difficult for anybody I believe and I will bet my money my mortgage anything green has the potential to become Mr. Olympia. I have no doubt in my mind and once he convinces himself a thousand1% that that is a fact and that is the only thing that exists in the mind, it will happen. He'll do whatever it takes to make it happen. I agree with you 100%. Very well well said and uh because I think that he has all the tools and I think you're right. I think it's there's a little degree of doubt there maybe because he you know it didn't come that easy to him. Some of the other things came a lot easier and um this is the pinnacle of the sport. So sometimes, you know, we think we're not worthy or something like that, you know, and uh and that creeps into our head and our and our thoughts and maybe our dreams even. And uh I think you have to Yeah. How would you get rid of that? What do you do for that, Asuka? How do you deprogram that that thinking pattern out of your mind? When it comes to somebody's eye clothes, you got to work with them closely and you got to examine what they're thinking. And you got to cuz we are, you know, as far as food, we are what we eat. And as far as the way our life is, the way we live in our house, our neighbors, our our people, they are a result of our thoughts, you know, and what kind of thoughts we have on a consistent basis. And I don't know what his thought pattern is now. And I don't and and his thoughts are a thousand1% on the end result and having conviction and knowing 100% that this will happen and whatever negative thought may come or whatever doubt may come you know that has to be erased and the best way to erase any negative thought is to see yourself achieving the end result. when you when you see yourself in a state of mastery in a state of achieving the end result the negative thoughts disappear. So I mean that's one way to program yourself and if a person can do that Kai or anybody can do that the the results will be tremendous. I agree. Uh, well, Oscar, congratulations on George Peterson winning the overall, Marvin Elliot in the Super Heavies, and Glenise Marks in the women's bodybuilding. And, uh, I'm sure we got to see a lot more champions from you later this year. And, uh, thanks for taking the time to call into the show. Thank you. Thanks for having us, man. It was good to see you yesterday. You, too, as always. That was the one and only Oscar Ardan. Uh, the mentalist, I call him. I think that's my new nickname for him, the mentalist. He uh gets in people's heads and he really uh he does erase the doubt, you know, and there is a lot of doubt in the bodybuilding field. I know I was a bodybuilder. We all doubt ourselves at certain times. We look in the mirror, we don't think we look good enough. Uh we could be Mr. Olympia, Mr. Olympiaish, or we could even be Mr. Olympia for that matter and we can still doubt ourselves. And that's just comes with the territory. You know, it's a very egocentric sport. Um we push ourselves to make ourselves better because we think we're not as we're not we're never good enough. And so right there we're the whole premise of what we do is based on doubt. And I think that uh Oscar is good in that sense. And uh he's certainly someone good to have on your side and we appreciate him taking time out of his busy schedule. Uh obviously uh we had an interesting show. We had the mentalist and then we had the uh I don't even know what you would call an Ari, but she is quite an interesting character. Obviously she has no problem showing off her body uh and earning a living from it. And now she's switching gears and trying to, I guess you could say, I don't know, earn a living, but make a mark on herself with her clothes on, or some of her clothes on at least. And it'll be interesting to see how she does in the NPC bikini division. Will she get her pro card? And uh that'll be uh fun to track and to watch. And I'm looking forward to going out to Las Vegas and following her around cuz I'd love to see what she does on a 24-hour basis. You know, her life's got to be a hell of a lot more interesting than mine is, that's for sure. Uh, so I'd like to thank both of them for stopping by this week. Until next week, remember with Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. Heavy Muscle Radio is a presentation of rxmuscle.com, the truth in bodybuilding. Tune in next week at the same time for another round with Dave Palumbo only on Heavy Muscle Radio Heel.