V Muscle Radio. Our next guest needs really no introduction. He's been here many times before. He'll be back here many times again. He goes by three letters, BSA. Big Sean Allen. Welcome back. What's up, buddy? Thanks for having me back. It's always a pleasure. Yeah. Well, now you're back as an IFBB pro. This is the second time we've had you, I think, as a pro on the show, and uh it must feel good. But now you got 39 days till your very first uh foray into the pro ranks of the IFBB. Yeah, a dream come true, man. But like I said, uh I can't look too ahead. I take it one day at a time. And I'm just patiently waiting. Just patiently waiting. But I'm excited, man. It's like, you know, I've been going to the New York Pro for years and years and years. And the um the love and the atmosphere and just the the energy is is mindboggling. But just to know that now finally your dream has been accomplished and they will be able to see you in posing trunks instead of you know always being told you should be on that stage you should be on that stage you know and just to know that Steve told me last year that he asked me in front of everybody will I be on that stage next year you know and guess what I'm going to be in there you delivered you certainly delivered now you know a lot of people say that you know you have to visualize your goals and never lose track of that that visualization and that eventually you know, the universe will give you what you envision. And it took you a little longer than some of the other people, but you did accomplish that. Did you always see yourself as a pro? I mean, from I mean, if you think back to when I first came on the scene, it was probably like 2000 2000, I believe, 99. And um when I did that uh that um big big old arrogant whatever whatever it was at the press conference and everybody took it out and blew it out of that was the main event and that's what started my career. But you know from that point on you know like Steve Jim and them you know Steve had me turning pro within 3 years early in my career but you know I just never delivered because I was you know always in and out of things learning the procedures learning the game not knowing how my body works and you know just you can have all the potential in the world but until you put all the pieces together it's un it's unfinished business. You know only a few can come through this sport genetically gifted and just come through one shot deal boom and I'm a pro. you know, it's only it's only very few and that that's the ones that's doing pretty good right now, you know. Well, you predicted victory at that press conference. I mean, you predicted you were going to be a pro and you were going to beat all these people at one of the Olympia press conferences back in the day. And then obviously, like you said, you didn't deliver, but once again, last year, and you had humbled yourself after that last year when you came on, we did an interview with me, I believe a week or two before the Masters North American Championships. You promised victory like Joe Nameoth did in Super Bowl 3. You've delivered. You promised victory, you delivered. You beat all your your arch nemesis who had beaten you at the masses national, Drew Jamat. And uh you know what gave you the gumption, the confidence to to predict that victory? Well, number one, it was uh we started at the Masters Nationals in Pittsburgh and um me and Drew went headto head and I mean in our eyes we was backstage talking and you know one of us was turning pro that day you know and you know in his mind he thought it was going to be him. In my mind, I thought it was gonna be me, you know, but regardless, it's a, you know, it's a it was a friendly battle. You know, we've been we both same age. We've been doing this the same amount of years, you know, he been in the top five numerous times at the nationals, but never could get close enough to get to that next level, but he's been knocking at the door, but not knocking where he can kick the door in. You know what I mean? Just been close enough. So, to make a long story short, we lost. I lost to him. I took second place and uh he went on to the overall but unfortunately things didn't go his way. So which to make a long story short that battle is going to have to continue. So North Americans was coming up within two weeks after that or sometimes some short time notice after that. And um I knew I wasn't going to accept second place cuz my goal was to win that show and then do that Connecticut pro show right after that as my first as my debut. That was my goal, you know, was traveling distance. I didn't have to travel. That was in my heart. So when I took second place, that was a tough that was that was that was hard for me to swallow. But as a man and as a competitor, what did I do? I embraced him. I gave him credit. Hugged him. Embraced him. You know, and that takes pride. You know me. I don't I don't like to do that. You know what I mean? I don't [\h__\h] like doing that. Excuse my language, but you know, it just it lights a fire in me. But you know what? I ate it like a man. Second place, Sean Allen. Damn. Closer. No cigar. Okay. Boom. You lost. I don't I don't take second place as no pat on the back like, "Oh, wow. Oh, you're getting there closer." No, I lost. That's like 15th to me. So, you know what I'm saying? So, I'm pissed off or whatever. So, went back to the drawing boards. I was like, you know, what made you become so beneficent and and and hug him and give him the the credit he deserved on that one? You know why? Because, like I said, I'm always the one that's always more the aggressive in the sport. Everybody else is more they scared to be theel. They, you know, they want to pretend to be other other than you know me. I'm me. You know, I'm not going to go backstage and pretend to be not. When I'm a competitor, when I'm there to work, it's me against everybody in that building. You know what I mean? It's I'm not there to be buddy buddy, but at the same time, we respect each other's passion. We're all there for the same purpose. So, you know, it's just it's just a hidden desire to just continue to be the best. And when you got two people like that, you know, we from Jersey, you know, you don't want our animosity. You know, we was on the same flight. We talked, you know what I mean? It's respect, but it's a it's and deep down inside, come on, man. We're chasing the dream. mess balls to the walls, you know what I mean? Only one man can go. This ain't like boxing where I can dictate. Go out here and knock this month out and I'm the champ. Nah, I got to play my cards right. I got to watch him closely. You know, I got to study his body. How can I knock him out? You know, obviously the judges didn't like his look cuz they didn't reward him that pro card. So, right there gave me confidence. Okay, so guess what? Redemption is crazy. Now we going to have to I'm going to have to meet this man again. And I saw him at the airport and I was like, "Wow, here we go again. Round two." And I told him it ain't going to repeat itself. You're going to be on the other side this time, buddy. What do you say when you said that to him? It just had that look like, wow. I mean, he already saw it. You know, it was like, damn, he definitely looked harder. It looked like, you know, you could tell when somebody got that glowing. It's just like when you see the news, right? And you see this guy just killed someone, right? Like that that Trayvon Martin case and you can just look at a killer and you don't see no innocence in them, you know? You can see that devilish look. You know what I mean? like a competitor. You can see that that look when they come in, they sucked up. He's hard. He's vascular. He's dry. You can see that fire in his look. And that's that fire that I got. When people see that fire, that's the one you got to watch out for cuz them people, they did their homework. They on. They ready to compete. Did he uh congratulate you when you won? Oh, no. It was, you know, like I said, that's why I was pissed off, you know, and and you know, because it it's it's a two-way street, man. You know what I mean? We're growing men, you know what I mean? only, you know, you can't dictate who's gonna win, but at the end of the day, give credit where it's due. Yeah. Well, you were jumping all over the stage, so he might not have been, he might have been afraid he was going to get hit by one of your limbs that was flood fluttering around all over the place. No, but at the end of the day, man, like I said, I'm sure I see him in New York. I see him everywhere, you know, and we're slapped hands and and the story goes on, you know. It just so happened that it was just us being him. And, you know, I wasn't I wasn't taking no loss. I predicted and I meant it. I did my homework and I I was confident I was going to do and all I had to do was put it in judges hands and like I said every time that I shown up in my best shape on my game they rewarded me. You know what I mean? Every time. It ain't never been a time in my career. Yeah. You know because sometimes I come in I'm at 80%. If they see me at 100% guess what they're going to knock me back down to 70 cuz they saw me at my best. They're not going to accept that 80%. But in our mind we think we got the judges. We got them figured out. You don't never know what they're thinking. You have to bring it every time, you know, and sometimes you just be lazy like, "Oh, everybody telling you I'm full. You look good." You could, you know, nah, don't change nothing up. So, you play them little mind games and you keep tagging along, but as things go along, things start shifting up. The body starts responding differently and things start happening and you think you're looking better, but dramatically taking a turn for the worse. Now, I made a statement on on the radio after you won your program. I said Sean Allen should retire now because this is like the pinnacle of of he's at the top of his game right now. Tell you this, buddy. base for that cuz from that moment on you just lit a fire in me. Don't never tell me to stop. I don't never stop. I I wait all this or I put all this time and effort in there and then I'm going to quit it and and and be a spectator. Isn't this a lot of pressure though for you? You you just won your pro card. You're on top of the world. You get the interview. You know, you got all the pictures, everyone talking about you. Now you got to go back to the drawing board. You got to compete against all these guys that have beaten you. Now is does it is it intimidating for you? I know you're the biggest guy on stage, but it's got to be a little intimidating going back to the uh now into the pro ranks for the first time. To be honest, to be honest, I'm going be honest with you. I'm not woring about nobody cuz like I said, nobody can beat me when I'm about my best period. You know what I mean? Study the people in the sport. Tony Freeman, look at Shan Allen. Look at Ed Nun. Look at Shan Allen. You put us all, you know what I mean? Like I can stand on stage with the best of the best. This is not the NBC. We're professionals now. You saw me on the NBC and I still look like a professional. Wait till you see me May 19th. I guarantee you you'll see something that you never seen before. And I don't talk it. You know when I say something, I bring it and I mean it. I don't care who coming into the show. No disrespect to nobody, but don't count me out. I'm far from done, man. I get better every time. I love this. It's a passion. It's a passion. My biggest victory is against myself. If I can beat what I did the last, I'm going to be rewarded. I'm not worrying about none of them other guys. Guess what, man? I'm going to be 280 something pounds. What? 240 pounds. You know what they gonna look like? Then the same the way they look. Everybody else look next to me tiny. They gonna say, "Oh, you got legs." My legs is shredded, man. My legs just all over the place. Come on, man. I've been seeing pictures. You do look pretty good. I got to be honest with you. No one will be bigger than you on that stage. At 280 lbs, you know, at what are you, 6'6? Come on, man. There you go again. Boosting it up, man. You know damn well. 6'3, man. 63, 64, something like that. But I know 65. 66. You get taller as you get older. You're the only guy who still grows when he's in his 40s. Yeah, I grow but not taller. You said that right. I do grow but not taller. How's all your uh your injuries and everything? You feel good. You've been training hard in the gym. Yeah, man. I mean, you see the pictures. I mean, if I wasn't training hard, you know, you think I that I would have lost some thickness. That thickness would be sticking out like that. I'll be sucked out and more shredded. I'm still going, you know. I ain't never I never even stopped training. You know, I'm not at full force like balls to the wall where I was strong as I was before, but I'm up there. You know what I mean? I'm right back where I was. Now, am I the only one getting these pictures or you send me one, man? You don't You know, man, this is this is a friendship thing that we've been doing for years. You know what I mean? I know you got Juan. I know you got the other competitors. Guess what? I'm still giving you pitches. I don't care. It'll be interesting work cuz I'm going to do mine. It's interesting because Juan won the North American and then you won the Masters. So, it be like And I wish I would have did both of them because like I said, I I would have made that history just like Mark did and won both of them cuz like I said, when I'm on I'm on. I don't care. I just took the easy way. I said, "You know what? I ain't going to try to get because it could come back to haunt me when you try to do too much. Concentrate on, you know, your game plan. You said you was going to do masters." That's what I concentrated on. Drew tried to do both. But what do you benefit by doing both, you know what I mean? You burn yourself out before you even get to the other one. And then you're not going to do good there. And then by the time you get to the other one, you're already flattened out. You can't fit. You know what I mean? You got to you got to play your cards right. You can't just do both, you know? And I decided to just do one. But now it's the time. I never competed against one, you know what I mean? But I'm looking forward to it. I mean, he's coming in there. This is the backyard. He's with Flex. He's excited. You got Steve, another good guy. You know, he's looking forward to coming in here and, you know, be the next big thing. You know, young. He's hungry. You know, congratulations to him. And then you got veterans that you don't nobody got to list yet. You know, nobody knows who's going to be anywhere. Kevin English I hear is doing the you got, you know, jumping up and he's always a threat. You know, that's a 212 champion. And then, you know, I'm sure he's he's hungry for another big win, you know, and um and the list goes on, man. And uh I'm just I'm just thankful and blessed that I'm given the opportunity. And I will not let the people that believe in me down, and I will not let myself down. When you see me on stage May 19th, I will look every bit of a professional. You may compare me to Paul Delet. You may compare me to Arnold, but guess what? There's only one BSA, and you would not ignore me that day. That I couldn't say it better myself. There is only one BSA. That's for sure. Now, uh I had Triple H on the radio show a couple weeks ago and he was telling me that his new role in the WWE now is his talent to discover new talent and I guess they're launching a website where you can upload pictures and videos of yourself because they're they're looking for new talent. And I had mentioned to him that what they seem to be missing in the WWE nowadays is big guys. There's no big giant guys anymore that that are, you know, impressively muscular uh and tall and you got all these short guys that do all these flips and and back hand somersaults and stuff like that. And I brought your name up to him and after the show he said to me, you know, you're right. The guy what we're looking for is guys that have a good mouthpiece and and no one has a better mouthpiece than BSA as far as I'm concerned. Is that something that interests you? to be honest, man. I've been watching and following the WWF before it became a WWE was WWF. And um I've been watching and studying that for years. And you know, it it it's funny that you ask that because like I said, I actually have one of um Triple H's uh pictures in my living room autographed that my girl got for one of my kids at one of the Arnolds like I think two years ago, you know, and and and he's our icon of the sport, man. He loves bodybuilding. He's a taller athlete like me, you know, and when I see these type of guys, people don't understand wrestling is a demanding sport. But you know what? It's more personality. It's not like high school where you got to have you got to be a technician. You got to know this tilt. You got to know this cradle, you got to know this move, you got to know that. Wrestling is all pizzazz, personality, and energy. You understand? It don't take it don't take someone like me who's very athletic with the energy and fire that I got. that would be something that I would excel in. Unfortunately, I just think, you know, I don't I don't I don't have that that that's revolving door allowing me to jump into everything that I'm capable of doing, embracing and things of that nature, you know. But if that opportunity ever came in, I I'm athletic, man. I think you missed your call. I think you're uh you're wasting your talent. I think you would be perfect in the WWE. I think I think like I said, I think I would have been a much better wrestler than I am about it. I don't know about that, but you but you know what? You don't even need a script. Imagine if they gave you What I'm saying is this though, Dave, you know, you know how I am, man. I'm a fire plug. You know what I mean? I'm a people's person, but you know, if you cross that line, you going to get it. That's what wrestlers are. You know what I mean? They they know how to It's like a light switch. They know how to turn it on and off, but it's very demanding. Wrestlers ain't no punk. They're tough guys. They take a beating day in and day out. You don't know what their backs feel like. You don't know what them falls like day in and day out them hitting them ropes that it takes a man. You know what I mean? Triple Triple H said he goes, "I don't know what's worse, knowing you're going to be hit or not knowing you're going to be hit, you know, which would be in a regular fight. You wouldn't know if you're going to hit, but if you know you're going to be hit, it's just as bad. It might be worse." Exactly. Because you don't know what's coming. You know what I mean? You think it's scripted, but you know, you might come one way and you know, he's a little aggressive. You know, things happen. But again, I've watched wrestling growing up. I mean, Rocky D Rock Johnson, that's his dad was Rocky Johnson. You know, he was one of the best. You got Tony Atlas, another bodybuilder who was, you know, looked incredible. You know what I mean? Look at me. Can you imagine me in my I mean my uh posing trunks with some some nice routine character coming down in front of 80,000 pack people. Come on, man. Could you understand what I would do in front of that limelight, that atmosphere? You already got the name. They don't even need to change the name. BSA is fine. You don't even have to, you know, and it I have I have what it takes, you know, like so if you know if that opportunity if they got a website or something and we got to make a video. We got we got to do something, you know, because uh I got it, you know. I'm strong. I can slam people all day long. I've been doing that my whole life, you know, for fun. We got to get like some uh some lackey, some bodybuilding lackey you can slam and throw over your head and we could do some video of it maybe and have you talk some smack. Yeah, knowing you. You probably have me come down to the studio. You get your little [\h__\h] 2in pool and you'll be like I'll build a ring in there just to get just to audition you so we can set up the whole thing. Oh, that's that'd be hilarious. But uh then then we would then people would be asking you I'd be calling you up and asking you for tickets and stuff like that to get me into the event. So you'd be traveling. But just I mean like look look like you said all the wrestlers today. I mean why you think they bring Rock back? Because they was missing that energy. They missing I know. I know. That's the reason they they don't have any superstars anymore. You know, it ain't got nothing to do with his name. They got to do with that fire, that energy. When he comes in the building, it's energy. He's going to give the fans what they came to see. May 19th, I'm going to give the fans what they came to see cuz they like freaks and I'm coming in as a freak. Are you uh you preparing any kind of special routine or anything like that? Dave, first things first, you know, this is a this is a jam-packed uh lineup, buddy. I I mean I don't know the names but you know New York they bring them man. Come on. You know you Ronnie Rockel can show up. You got I'm saying are you going to are you going to prepare my routine? I got to get through prejudging. I got to get through prejudging man. I don't look ahead to you know what I mean? That's what people's feelings get hurt. This sport is unpredictable. You don't know which way it's going to go. You think I'm going to spend all my energy worrying about a routine that's not guaranteed. Yeah. You you come to entertain my friend. You always have a great routine. Well, like I said to be continued. We get through the first part of the show and I'm in the then you'll see New York will be on his feet. Ain't nobody going to outpose me. I know that. I'm an entertainer. I'm ready for it. Trust me, it's all queued up and ready to go. You're not going to let anyone push you around on that stage if someone tries to elbow you out. You know, you know what? You know what Mr. Rockel is going to have to tell him? He going to have to guy. Can you give give each other a room? Move over. Slide down something. Sean, slide down. You know, cuz I'm a wide lord. I take up two spots. I've seen you push people out of the way who try to get in your way. So these guys better stay away from pushing nobody around. But you know, you know, I got to I got to get my shine. You know, I I take up a lot of room. So, are you bringing the whole uh the whole tribe? All your kids, are they coming to watch? I mean, I got I got AI got a big entourage. It's going to be, you know, I mean, I'm a local man, you know. I mean, you got your New Yorkers. You got your New Yorkers coming in there with their fans. You got New Jersey. I'm bringing New Jersey into the building. You know, you got your your everyday schmos coming, you know. You know, Steve brings them, man. I am so I am so excited, man. I can't wait, you know, and that's why, like, why would I not send you pictures, man? I've been doing that [\h__\h] for years. You always send me pictures. You always honest with me. I'm not doing that as no smack in the face or be like, "Oh, look at me." You know what I mean? I'm showing you I'm working. You know, we got a we got a friendship here. You know what I mean? If if if you look at my pictures and you say if I say, "D, what you think?" You always going to tell me. You know, you always have the hardest [\h__\h] to get anything out of. I think you look good. But I do think you look good. I got a question here because there's something interesting. At the end of the year in dece from what I understand around December time, they're going to be holding the Masters Mr. Olympia. They're bringing it back. They're holding it in Prague, Czech Republic. Uh they're giving away I think like over well $200,000 with something like $300,000 in prizes. I mean, it's a huge purse. Is that something that you'd want to get yourself into? I could see that right up your alley. I tell you this again. I I tried to reach out to what what's the young lady. Yeah. And she refused me, man. Really? Yes, she did. You know, I mean, I've been in this sport for years. She doesn't know who you are. That's why I wrote her I wrote her a nice warm welcome, you know, asking for the invite and she said, "Unfortunately, she's not taking no more competitors. Maybe next year." What competitors does she have right now? Like I said, I could have I would have blended into that lineup. Perfect. I'm 40 years old, man. You know what I mean? Oh, you would have been wrong. Ain't nobody would have argued that. You know what I mean? But this is what I'm saying. When you finally earn your credentials, people think that the doors open and life just becomes blossom. Everything just becomes greener. Guess what? It's still the same, man. You know what I mean? You got to work in life to get what you want. Ain't nothing handed to you. They think cuz you a pro card. Oh, you're going to be a millionaire. You're going to get the next big [\h__\h] sponsorship. You're going to do this. Ain't nothing change. Only thing changing is my body. Well, I think Jaca may reconsider after the New York Pro if you go there and do some damage. You know, like I said, that would be that would I that would be definitely something I would definitely if if I had the opportunity to do that, the Masters Olympia, I look forward to that. I'd bring Big Sean Allen in for the Masters Olympia. I mean, that that's you're sell tickets. That that's for sure. You might not win, but you'll sell tickets in Phil. Hey, hey, hey, come on, man. Tell you about that. You know how many times you done did this, man? Should we go back to Junior Nationals? You still doubting me, man. I don't doubt you, but I'm just saying you you f I'm not going to win, man. You understand? I will make you a believer, man. That's just me. I'm telling you. Don't I know you don't like when I talk negative. You don't like when I talk negative. I mean, I like it. You You speak your mind, but I'm just telling you, you you know, I'm not that one. I will make you a believer. I I'd love to see I'd love to see nothing better than to see Big Sean Allen standing between Tony Freeman and Dexter Jackson in that first call out. Believe me. Oh my god. You know what I mean? But see, again, this is what I'm saying about judging. The same thing is going to happen in New York. You got guys that's 58, 240. You got guys over six foot, over 270. You know, first call out say they're looking for English in the middle. You know what they're going to do? They're going to line up people that resemble his look. I'd put you in the middle just even if you didn't deserve it. I'd put you in the middle of New York just to get the fans. I like that because this is the way it works. You know what I mean? They're not going to put a bigger guy like like Tony Freeman. That's where he always get messed up because they all got guys similar. They all look alike where he's dwarfing them, but they got their mind made up for that certain look. So, the bigger guy is going to fall out of the mix. So, I'm just excited to see how this going to fall out. All All I'm looking for is a fair opportunity. They always have been real with me. You know, it's You got over 40, you got Tony Freeman over 40. I'm in my prime. I feel like I'm just starting my career now. It's just starting. I've learned so much about the sport. You know, I'm passionate about the sport and it's a dream come true. I'm not going on stage as just a like as just this be a journey. You know what I mean? I'm not just going there like it's just an honor to be here. If I place top 15, I'm just excited. You know me, every show I enter, I'm there to win. I'm there to win. I remember when Louis Farigno made his comeback at the Olympia and and they I think one of the last the last call out was Lou Ferraro, uh Paul Dlette and Dorian Yates because the crowd demanded it and it was a great call out. I thought I think that they should do the same thing. I want to see Big Sean Allen in the middle. First call out New York Pro. The fans will go nuts. You know that, right? And you know that. But like I said, I don't want them if I don't belong there, right? But I think if you look good, don't go with this. Don't go with this. You know what I mean? Okay. Well, you know what I mean? He's the youngest one. He's some Come on, man. Just be honest. This is New York. They like freaks. Judge it and call it the way you see it. You know, you never know. You got BA. You got all these different guys that can come out of nowhere. Kevin English, Big Sean Allen, uh Steve Klo, and Juan Morell. First call out right there. But let's get it on. That's a great call out. That sounds about accurate. Accurate as can be, too. But Dave, let me just tell you this, buddy. In no shape, you know, I know, again, we were supposed to do this interview before. You know me. I do not come on the radio to disrespect anyone. I come on the radio because I'm loyal to you, buddy. You understand? And you didn't want to come on. You were insulted that I I I pull you off for two weeks. Yeah, I just didn't have it. That's the [\h__\h] in me. You know how I get, man. You know, you know, you know I'm dieting when I start acting cool down for a day. But no, overall we always had that friendship, man. You know, and I always appreciate it, you know. But regardless of what, at the end of the day, I only roll with RX Muscle, man, because you you've been there. Remember, do you remember when we made that turnaround? I said, I got to start my career over. Yeah. When you won the we won the Atlantic State. Atlantic State. You won the junior nationals. Come on. And you've been with me since, man. You know what I mean? I believe in you, man. Come on, man. And that's what it's all about, you know, and and I just want you to know that I appreciate that. You know, I appreciate you uh you being exclusive to us through our friendship. And like I said, I I truly believe that you are one of the genuine talents in our sport, not as only as a bodybuilder, but as a personality, and I think that that goes a long way to helping the sport have get public acceptance. I mean, that's what it's about. I mean, if you you see me walking down New York down Chamber Street and Jim Man is walking by, when Jim sees me, man, his life, his eyes light up. You understand? He don't look at me like, "Oh, here come Sean. Here come Big Sean. Here come Trouble." They know who I am, man. I respect those who respect me. It's just these stupid internet Mike Tyson internet talks on there, you know? They just want to just constantly run their trap and they get me in trouble because you know me, I can't just keep them out. You know, it's like regardless, I don't know who they are, but I just can't let somebody just exploit me all over the internet. You know what I mean? So then I'm on attack mode. Then next thing you know, it's all blown out of proportion. But nowadays, my dream is accomplished. I'm a professional. I don't got to answer to no one. My dream has been accomplished. Big Sean Allen will be on stage May 19th in New York City at the Tribeca Performing Arts Center. That's 39 days from today. Making his pro debut. Big Sean, keep us updated. I'll be rooting for you and we'll be there covering you. Oh, and I you forgot I forgot to let you know too. Um remember I was talking to you about the guest post and I I'll be um the Lone Star in June 16 in um in Texas. Wow. Harrison show. I think I'm the one who recommended you for that, believe it or not. See that? I think I told Prince Harrison to get big Sean Allen. He said he put on a great act, great show. I appreciate that, buddy. Cuz I'm going and you know this is my first one and I'm looking forward to it. Yeah, people should more I'm surprised more promoters don't hire you for guest posings because you're very reliable. You do, you know, you talk a lot, but you you show up. You're very you're very good with the fans around. People want to see that. People don't just want to see a guy, you know, they want to see a freak, you know, and and that's what I am. I'm a freak of nature. I talk to the fans. I get a fan. I can pose my [\h__\h] But, you know, I got to set my I just got to, you know, take care of business May 19th and open some doors and then go from there. But June 16th, I'll be in Texas. And thank you to you for everything you've done, buddy. Enjoy the weekend. And I know you probably getting ready to go down to LA. Yes, I am. Good luck. Get it done, my man. and we'll be in touch when you get back in. I'll have some new updates for you. All right, big Sean Allen, that's all she wrote. Uh, great show. Brad Craig, 30th anniversary of the NPC Emerald Cup coming up this Friday and Saturday. I will be out in Seattle, Washington covering the entire event for rxmuscle.com. Uh, you guys will get up totheminute uh stuff of what's going on out there. There's over 500 competitors, so you got to be a little uh I'm going to be the only one out there, so you have to be a little patient with the results, of course, but we'll have them up. Also, Big Sean Allen, BSA, looking for that WWE contract, and he's also looking for a win at the New York Pro, his pro debut. Can he do it? Big Shawn Allen, never count him out. For now though, we are out of time. I got some uh working out to do. Got to get back in the swing of things. It was a long weekend for me and I got to leave Thursday for Seattle. Uh, I want to thank Sean Allen and Brad Craig for stopping by. Until next week, remember with Heavy Muscle Radio, the truth hurts. Heavy Muscle Radio is a presentation of rxmuscle.com, the truth in bodybuilding. Tune in next week at the same time for another round with Dave Palumbo only on Heavy Muscle Radio.