He is a sixthderee belt holder in the sport of karate and he's been many years again contributing to the Arnold weekend in every possible way and this is one great addition to our weekend. Bob, we thank you Arnold and I for your great support and your founding and leadership of the International Sports Hall of Fame. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Jim. And we have a few extra seats in the front here. So, some of you in the back so you can see better because we know we have a ton of media in between you. So, why don't some of you people come in and take some of the row in the back there? We only need the first two rows a little bit empty. So, please feel free to move forward. We'd like to thank you for showing up. We have people who have come from all over the world. As you know, the Arnold Sports Festival is the largest sports festival in the world. It is truly a remarkable weekend for me. It's the most important weekend of my life for the year to get to see all of our friends, our colleagues, people we've grown up with, our mentors, people we have idolized, people who have taught us so much and inspired us so strongly. The International Sports Hall of Fame was founded in order to honor these great athletes. It's a nonprofit. You notice you don't see any commercial aspect whatsoever. Today is all about these amazing people, only about them. There's nothing commercial associated. It's completely funded separately by myself. uh and we do this because this is these are the leaders who really inspire the children and the other sports people around the world by their actions as an athlete. But the other component of becoming a member of the International Sports Hall of Fame is that you also have to give back to society. That's what's so critical and that's what these people have done. not only by their actions as amazing athletes and world champions and groundbreaking sports people, but the other part of what they've been able to do is they also lead the young people by being great mentors, examples, charitable work, and so on. So, out of the hundreds of athletes that we look at every year, we only pick five to six athletes every year. You could be the greatest NBA NFL ball player in the world. We're only going to pick one NFL guy, one NFL guy once every two to three years. As a bodybuilder once every two or three years. So, there are very few people that actually have this honor of being inducted. We went through a lot of care in order to put this together. As you can see, these are the 2 and 12 lb 18 karat gold medallions that were all done by hand. We created these so that it shows the Olympic ideals as well as all six continents. And I think these are the largest one too. And we uh we also upgraded it. Now we have these custommade rosewood cases with brass lots. Look real pretty on your desk. In addition, each of the inductees will also receive some other items. What we did is we know that you can't walk around and carry that with you. So we had these custom made up for your desk. So we had these heavy sets also done by hand. 18 karat gold for your desk. Make sure no one steals them. And finally for and since it's such a great dress crowd, we have gold cufflings for you and medallions and a and a gold pin. So you're all good to go. Now I'd like to I'd like to thank the global you know you can't do this alone and we have a a remarkable global advisory board that without this I could not pull this thing off and these guys really dedicate their time and efforts connections with athletes not only in the sports world but in the Hollywood world in order to enhance the combination of people that we have we have a few global advisory board members here today I'd like to recognize Dr. Nick Denubi who is the NBA team doc for the 76ers. Mark Henry who is in the class of 2012 world one of the world's strongest men. Mark you can stand up. Randy Couture UFC world champion. Thank you Randy. Also class of 212 Dan Ali head professional boxing wrestler is head of my security. He's about 66 in the back. Uh Dr. Terry Todd Dr. Jan Todd, both world champion weightlifterss. They're taking care of the strong men. And they also started the Stark Center Museum. All of the things that we do here are archived permanently in perpetuity at the Stark Center Museum at University of Texas Austin. It's the largest physical culture museum in the world. Like myself and Mark Henry were there. We had a 200 was a 280 lb dumbbell that I I I curled like 10 times. You couldn't pick it up. Is that actually he picked it up and I couldn't even get my hands around it. uh Dr. Raphael Santoka who is the IFBB president, Jim Manion who's NPC president as well as IFBB ProLeague president, Master Alan Goldberg who runs one of the largest martial arts events in the world, Dr. Tom Los Angeles who's in 217 Dr. Tom and I'm going to introduce him a little bit later. Uh Rob Fletcher, America's Next Great Trainer and Onal Sports Festival TV. Jim Lmer, who is in our first class of 212. Beautiful gym. And they've just uh developed this suite here, the Lmer suite here at the Exposition Center, and I can't hardly wait to see it. It's supposed to be really remarkable. Uh Arnold Schwarzenegger will be here shortly, who is also a 212 inductee into the International Sports Hall of Fame. And finally, my senior global adviser is Fairfax Hackley, who has dedicated tremendous amount of time. We speak almost every day trying to make this happen. And Fairfax, thank you so much for your great work. We're ready to get started and give these guys their hardware. And again, we really thank you guys for for coming out. We know your schedules are so busy and and there are so many different people want to make awards to you, but this is a little different because today is 100% about you. And you if you just look at the field here, you have a world champion skater, world's strongest man, educator, professor who's graduated thousands of trainers, one of the greatest bodybuilders, movie star in history, and Hershel Walker, the greatest college football player in history, Heisman Trophy winner. Look at this amazing combination of people you have here. You don't see this in other sports hall of fames. These are all world-class people, but not just for what they've done in sport. Also, what they have done in their life postport career. All of these people give back. All of these people are always trying to help others. That's why you come over, hey, can I have a picture with you? They are there to mentor these kids because just those few seconds that you guys give to those kids changes their lives because they could be the next Hersel or Lou or Bill or Apollo. And that's and you guys are not only my idol and the idol of all the people here, but you guys are an example of what it means to be a champion. So, we want to thank you. Let's give these guys a big round of applause. Uh, our first inductee, Apollo Ono. Really, you know, I've gotten to know Apollo over the last few years. Really a truly remarkable individual in so many areas. Bright, bright, skilled as an athlete, skilled in business, skilled in the world, and always giving back to society. He was the American short track speed skating competitor, eight time medalist in the Olympics. Eight medals. At age at age 14, he became the youngest national champion and then went on to be reigning champion from 2001 to 2009 with a total of 12 championships. He also became the first to win the World Cup event title, the American Cup, and he won it again in 2001, 2003, and 2005, and then won his first overall world championship in 208. He's has so many accolades in the area of sport. Was chosen as the speed skating athlete of the year, as athlete of the month through the Olympic groups. He was a finalist for multiple times for the Sullivan Award. And most importantly to the women out there, he won Dancing with the Stars in 2007. So, let's let's give it up for Apollo. Now we do is we make them wear it for the whole session. So coming out half take this off. You can feel the weight of this now. Serious. Thank you. Uh thank you Bob. You know this is a this is a complete honor for me. I had the pleasure of coming here last year and and seeing several fellow athletes and like these guys you know I I I grew up watching many of them throughout film throughout training. Uh sport is so special. Um you know thank you Bob for what everything you do for this organization and so many others. Um, thank you to Arnold who obviously has been the the real pillar behind kind of sports and fitness all across the world. And his contributions back to society, his ability to transform beyond just bodybuilding into so many different areas into politics, into life for me was incredibly inspiring and one I think we've all grown up looking and and and watching. You know, two champions here, Ronnie and Jay. Um, you know, watching guys from all different types of walks of life. And for me to be inducted into such a great group and class of individuals who've excelled at such a high level in sport is is humbling. Um, and I'm I'm incredibly blessed to have a great long career and kind of still walking with no really bad injuries. So, you know, I I think I just wanted to speak a they only give me a couple minutes, but I think the reason why I I love sport so much is really because of the lessons that that it teaches us all, right? um regardless of skill set, regardless of people uh reaching the Olympic status or world champion status or even world's strongest man. Um you unfortunately there's only sometimes a podium for for three people, you know, gold, silver, and bronze. And for many sports, even like Randy, it's either you win or you lose, right? There's no there's no silver medal for for MMA. uh you know I was lucky enough to win many many medals in my career but it was really the lessons that I learned throughout that process the discipline the hard work the understanding of oneself the ability to transcend beyond what you've previously physically thought that you could do and it's these types of I think lessons that we bring with us and we hope to pass on to the younger generation the next generation the the Instagram generation the Snapchat generation the Facebook generation those who live in a different world than perhaps we grew up in. And it's still those fundamental values I think that we hold near and dear to our hearts, which is hard work, which is dedication, which is sacrifice, which is giving back to the community and living a life of true fulfillment. Um, regardless of the wealth that one creates, if you've not lived a incredibly fulfilled life, you're still a very, very poor man. And you know, luckily for me, my father was a huge pillar in my life to always push me and to seek something beyond just what I thought was incredible within sport. Um, and I and I encourage everyone to always do the same. So again, you know, we live in an era where the world is changing. I think we here in this country are a time in which we need to come together more than any other time in the history of our country. And sport is one of those very special things that we can always cheer for one team and whether that's team USA or whatever you are doing sport has a unification period and throughout the resonation and the ability to resonate the types of energy like last night the after school all our allstars program and seeing that you know Arnold and other abil other people who have the ability to transcend beyond just sport and make significant positive impacts in our communities makes me feel like no matter what hardships I'm going through, no matter what challenges that I'm facing, sport is still and has the ability to transcend beyond all of these challenges. So, Fairfax, thank you so much. I know that you uh were one of the pioneers to kind of help bring this through and invite me to something of a great organization like this. Bob, we've spent many, many times having great conversations. and to all of these incredible champions who I've grown up looking and watching before I ever saw an Olympic race, before I ever decided to become an Olympic athlete. Uh it was your stories that propelled me and your ability to transcend beyond that TV screen which really inspired me to go and try to do something great within my own specific career. So, thank all of you for coming. Uh thank you very much for this medal. Uh I hold it near and dear and thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Did Good job. Thank you. Did uh Did Arnold get in the back there yet? Is Arnold here yet? Nope. Not here. Okay. Um All right. Our next inductee, Bill Casmir. When first time I saw Bill, I thought I was seeing a mountain. Bill, one of the strongest men in the world, and by some people's measure, well, Mark Henry and Bill, two strongest men in the world are in this room today. During the 1970s and 1980s, he set numerous powerlifting and strongman world records and won numerous world strongman titles. uh just a remarkable all-around athlete because not only as a world champion powerlifter, world champion strongman and professional wrestler. This guy is out there preaching to young kids and educating them on healthy lifestyle and how to stay motivated and improve their lives. In fact, when we met the other day, he said he just finished doing 27 seminars for young people. If we could have it quiet in the back there, otherwise you guys will have to split. Okay, can we can we have quiet back there? have respect for the winners here. He's he's one of the all-time greatest competitors in the strength games. He's the first human to bench press over 660 pounds. And in the powerlifting meet, his total was over,00 kg, 2,45 lbs. Enormous amount of weight. He also had the deadlift record, 886 pounds. And then he went on to the strongman competitions. was in fact at the museum at the Stark Center Museum in University of Texas Austin's this huge picture of Bill in his kilt throwing another Eugina and me and Mark were there took a picture in front of we both looked a little small next to the picture but I think it was a little larger than life in addition he won the world's strongest man compass and dominated the strong man competitions in 1981 1980 1981 and 1982 by a very very large margin. So what we're looking at here is one of the one of the world's strongest men in history. And that's a really kind of unique title to say, you know what, I'm the strongest person that was ever bu born on this planet. Bill Casmir. Yes. Now I know like Mark Henry put on your Where are my notes? I lost my notes. What am I going to do? Well, what an incredible honor and an afternoon for me. Of course, with a big show coming up this afternoon and this evening, my mind could quite possibly be somewhere else. Thinking about Brian Shaw and Heftler Bjornson and a few of the other athletes along with what they're going to do on that stage with Mark Henry and I in just a few minutes. They said we'd get there by 145, so I'm going to keep this really short and thank you so much and congratulate all the other inductees. Uh, such a tough act to follow as far as uh an acceptance speech. I'd simply like to say that I had a lot of motiv motivation through my life also uh by support and family except when your father was so encouraging. My father told me that I would be horshit and nothing else but. So I was able to overcome that the negative reinforcement. I've had a few heroes in my life that have really influenced me lately. He's sitting in the front row in the far left. Ronnie Coleman was because I feel like pretty remarkable man. When I so many times when I met him in his career and when he was at his peak I was just I had to gasp. He was that big. But the measure of a man is how you react on a bad day. And many of us will fall and look for pity. Maybe not get back up. Maybe have people walk all over us. But a true champion will pop back up and overcome. So many times in my career, take for instance 81 World's Strongest Man when I bent a steel bar and tore my pectoral deltoid and bicep off. I left parts of my body on the field of battle. My doctor said, "We got to go to the hospital." I said, "I can't go yet. I got four events and my title, my trophy, and my check is still here and I'm not leaving till I take it." Out of out of those four events, I took two first, a second, a third, and a fourth. many many times in the world's strongest man. I tore both hamstrings once with an 870 pound squat. I wrapped it and went 950 and tore the other one. Okay. After squatting, I had to deadlift. We know what muscles Eddie Conn, greatest powerlifter ever, front row, former inductee. We know what muscles are used in deadlift. I couldn't bend my legs. The first lift was 700 lb. I went then 700 800 900 9 2550 5050 75,000,000 25,00050 with two torn hamstrings to become the strongest man in the world again the measure of a man is how do you react on a bad day one of my friends is here and I really have to have a shout out to Tom Hanrath when we were 10 years old I haven't seen him in 53 years I just saw him yesterday and he's here in the third row Tom when you jumped out of perfectly good airplanes into the water and then swam a mile underwater and did your missions and all that all over the You really inspired me as I was growing up. As I was doing my strongman stuff, you were out fighting wars and protecting us and keeping us free. You're now 110 lbs. I'm 330 lbs. You're the measure of a man is not the size of his body, it's the size of his heart. And Tom Henrath, thank you for all you did, not only in the military and keeping us all safe, but also what you did after, which was saving lives, working in the military, and now helping all the veterans with what they're doing as they've come back. I've got a Thank you. Thank Fairfax told me I had 35 minutes, I believe. Was it three? Three to five. Yeah. Uh well, then one other hero before I thank the the the people in my history that really have helped me a lot. Uh Stevie. We're going to see Stevie to compete tomorrow. I met him in England about a month ago. What a remarkable guy. Flipping tires, uh, doing a log press, all the strongman events, really has overcome adversity. Stevie, fantastic guy. With his prosthetics, he stands about this tall. Without him, he stands about this tall. One of the toughest guys I ever met, but lost both legs over in England in uh in some fighting, lost many of his fingers. Uh, the measure of a man is how do you react on a bad day? The three guys in my life that have really influenced me the most when I go way back it's going to have been the great Carlile Indian Jim Thorp Native American excuse me he won the pentathlon a decathlon and uh was a football player and a baseball player he really motivated me to do the things that I did as I grew up to become a decathlete of strength hersel you would know Dick Kazmire 1951 Princeton University he overcame adversity in that he was rather small he didn't quite know what to do against most of the other teams in the Ivy League. So, he scrambled all over as a halfback. He threw the ball which was unusual and then he did a quick kick and for that they gave him the wonderful bronze trophy. Last but not least is guys who have really motivated me, the guy that gave me many pearls of knowledge in my life as I try to go into schools and talk to kids and give them these pearls of knowledge. I got many of mine from a guy who stood on stage with Arnold and Lou and Franco and Frank. And at 53 years old, he looked magnificent. He looked like a mountain of a man, extremely muscular. At 53, Bill Pearl. He gave me the keys to the inner universe that helped me in the physical culture and I try to share it with others wherever I go in every community. So, thank you so much for this award. Congratulations to other inductees. Thank you, Bob. Thank you, Fairfax. Let's give it up for Governor Schwasenegger is in the house. Thank you. Thank you. Well, you know, now now we're ready to really get this ceremony started. I was waiting for you, Governor, so I can introduce our former champions or in the audience here. We have some great there's so many champions in this room, but I just want to go through a few people in the front. Ronnie Coleman, last year's inductee. Thank you, Ronnie. We have Mr. Olympia multi missile Jay Cutler. We got Ralph Ralph Mueller who in 19 in uh 8 1986 we were doing the dope control for the Mr. Universe and we come in and there like 30 Japanese in white coats and Ralph walks in they drop all their test tubes and jump on him for a picture. I've never seen anything like it in my life. It's amazing. Ralph Mueller Ed Cohen 70 world powerlifting record. Stand up Eddie also inducting into the International Sports Hall of Fame. Franco Columbo inducting into the International Sports Hall of Fame. Mr. Olympia, Grandmaster Quac has come in from Europe. Grandmaster Quac, stand up, please. He studied under Itman. Cynthia Rothrock inductee into the International Sports Hall of Fame. Chuck Zto, my my personal bodyguard. Don't get him mad. Master Alan Goldberg, largest sports event in the world. Master Steven Hayes, Grandmaster Steven Hayes, Ninja Time. Got Randy Couture, UFC World Champion, inductee in 212. And my little younger brother, Mark Henry, world's strongest man like Bill. Okay, we're ready to go to the next inductee. Now, Dr. Tom Sandwich, I've known since I was a kid. He was a mentor of mine along with Ben Weider and Arnold Jack Lane. He started the world's largest and finest university in sports education 43 years ago and they're the number one university in the world in terms of sports medicine. He also was a coach and trained and educated and mentored a number of great world champions. One of them being Bob Matias who was an Olympic champion and world record holder. What's really remarkable about Tom is that he he take he founded things that have grown into what are considered now real institutions. And not only did he do this in the education arena, but Tom also did this in the area of art and sport art. Starting out with just a few pieces of sport art, the U. US Sports Academy now has the largest sport art collection in the world valued over $12 million over,900 pieces that he's put together. The the campus is remarkable because everywhere you look there's sports art and there are students from over 60 countries. So in 1972 this man started an institution that has changed thousands and thousands of sports leaders lives and then after that these sports leaders went out and changed so many other lives. Let's give it up for Dr. Thomas Randic. You can do it. You can do it. Thank you, Bob. Arnold, it's good to see you again. Uh, ladies and gentlemen, honores, distinguished guests. I'm delighted to be here as a sport educator. When I founded the academy, we were sort of one of a kind. It is still the only freestanding accredited school of sport uh in this country. Since that time, there are now more than 800 colleges and universities that do what we do uh in probably better in in many ways. two great ones in this state alone. Ohio University, which is an outstanding program at the master's level, and Ohio State University just added coaching a couple of weeks ago to their curriculum. So, the basis of what we initially did has grown throughout the country and that is very very important. We remain as the largest graduate school of sport in probably in the world and that's at the doctoral level at the master's level and it's people like Bob here that have helped us many many people u played a role in in doing what we do. Uh much of this happened when I served as a national coach of Indonesia in track and field. I have two daughters out there born in that country and I actually have two sons that uh are here for this event along with other family members. It's a very special day, a very special award and I'm most appreciative. We by the way have an academy awards a sport. It's called the artist and the athlete hence a very large art collection. But one of our best honores was Arnold Schwarzenegger. I know you know a lot about this this very talented man. I would rather suspect many of you do not know that he was appointed by the president of the United States as the executive director of the president's council on physical fitness. Uh and made a commitment to teach young people in every state in the union. Uh he I saw him travel to two uh and watched him like the pie piper bringing out the children in fitness. It was he was the very very best as the executive director of this very important organization founded by President Eisenhower in the late mid 1950s. uh and he has now gone on to build the largest sports festival uh in the country and I'm simply not surprised by that. Again, I'm honored to be here. I thank you all for uh this award. Uh and I congratulate you once again, Arnold. Uh thank you very much, Rob. Thank you, Dr. Asandis. Ne the next inductee is somebody I know since I was a kid because we're both both from Brooklyn. Uh Lou Furigno. Lou Furigno. Louie is got so many talents in so many different areas. I mean, we all knew him as the Hulk or bodybuilder, but Louie is in so many diverse areas in in Hollywood as an actor. He was even involved with the police as um honorary policeman. Um he won the IFBB Mr. America title, two conse consecutive IFBB Mr. Universe titles, top placings at the Olympia, and he was with Arnold in the movie Pumping Iron, which really introduced the whole world to bodybuilding. I mean, that was really what you guys did back then was with Butler was so landmark. I mean, it changed the whole landscape. I remember watching it as a kid. It was like, "Wow, I want to be like these guys." But I knew you from Brooklyn, but I said, "I'm never going to be like Lou." and forget it. Nobody could ever be like Arnold because there's only one Arnold. So, uh, you it would so many groundworking things. Even Louis even went out to play. He was playing some heavy league Canadian football as well in between there. He even competed in the world's strong man, strongest man competition in 77 with a high placing. But the thing that really set him apart and what really gave him this world recognition is everybody you say Louis Fno, they go the Hulk. And even though there have been other Hulks after, there's really one real Hulk in our mind and that's Lou Farerigno. Let's give Louie a big round of applause for doing that cuz not cuz not only the Hulk, he went on to a whole series of TV shows and movies and so many other areas in the Hollywood arena. And Lou, this is the best I've seen you look in years. You look great, man. Congratulations. Really? I'll pay you later. Okay. Okay, Luc. Thank you. Don't mess up my tie. No, no, I won't. How are you everyone? Thank you all for coming. Um, I'm happy to be here because I just finished an action film in San Francisco. I'm glad to be able to attend this uh great sports festival. The first person I want to thank is Fairfax Hackley and I hope you smile. Thank God. and Bob Goldman for thinking of me, nominating me, bringing me here. Thank you very much. You know, my hearing may not be as perfect as yours, but in my life, I've learned to maximize what I've done in my life, my personal power, because as a kid, many years ago, I had to overcome it virtually. Boy, 60ome years ago, this little kid couldn't speak, hard of hearing, and has severe speech impediment. And you know what saved my life? Bodybuilding. When I was a kid, I was so obsessed with power. I used to read comic books like The Incredible Hulk, Superman, Spider-Man. But you know, children do not have the psychological defenses to defend themsel. So I would ridicule as a kid. They used to call me names like death l death mu. So I would think about trying to be strong and powerful because I had a love and hate relationship with my father. So I'll never forget one time I used to trade a lot of comic book. So my dad took me to a comic book store and I see this magazine and there's a guy in the cover straight day draper doing a chess pole and I'm saying to myself, my god this is Mr. Universe because at the time I used to watch TV. I had to watch Miss Universe, Miss America, but I never thought there'd be a competition like Mr. Universe. I took the magazine home. I read it from page to page. I probably took all the print off. I learned everything I can about bodybuilding. So, as a kid, you know, being very poor, I couldn't uh buy barbells or what I've done. I used to take cement pills. I went to a junkyard. I had six cement to men pill and I was feel maybe one third halfway and full and thick a broomstick. I made my own barbell. I'll never forget when I first lifted it. I said to myself, "This feels so good. I like this so much because back then people were saying lose lifting weights. All he's done is think about barbells and dumbbells. You know what about education? He's never going to make a living." But that's all he talked about. So I realized that this is my passion like every one of you have a passion embrace it. If I didn't embrace uh this passion I wouldn't be what I am today because of all the negativity. I mean look where it's taken me I mean 50 some years ago you know like being here it's like being home. I'm here with all my great friends my peers all the champion. It couldn't be a better day. So fast forward many years later and I got to the point that all my dreams came true because bodybuilding taught me the discipline, the determination to be successful and I just kept competing, kept winning competition and eventually um got to the point that u movies done television. I came back to competition in 1992 to compete after 17 year layoff because when after pumping iron I felt of me was like unfinished business because I only trained like 10 weeks for the competition and I remember competing again at the age of 42. I got my body weight up to 330 and I just wanted to place high in the competition because I love competing on myself and I was able to place high and come second in the the match of the Olympia because to me it's not about the winning. It was about the satisfaction of me getting out to win. But in life I have to tell you you know my greatest achievement is being married for 37 years to a beautiful woman having three great kids. best achievement I've ever done. So, you know, in life, I want to give back. So, 10 years ago, I went through the uh sheriff's academy. I became a certified deputy sheriff. You know, of course, my father was the lieutenant. That might be the only thing he would be proud of me doing today. So, during all that, giving back, I still have this passion. I just love bodybuilding. So one day my son came to me he said with a friend of his named Chris minutes he said why not have a competition called the furnal legacy. I said okay I can't run a competition myself. So we united and we formed the call the furnal legacy. We have now the best and the biggest show in the west coast. This year we're taking over the Palm Stream Convention Center and we can have three to 400 booth and I have a lot of support and respect for you know the sports festival because they have to support each other and to me that's my passion. Now I was thinking of something before I leave the stage. I have a funny story to tell you. A long time ago you talk about determination. I was 21. I was training for the Mr. Universe competition. I needed to get a stunt hand. And at that time I was driving a green Volkswagen. People thought I took the front seat. I sat in the back seat. I'm like 280 pound. So I'm driving down to the beach. It was like cheap bay. I'm driving around. I can't find a parking spot. And I'm looking at the watch like, you know, it's like 12:00. I need to get a suntan. I'm driving around. I see a small car like a dazz B210. So I'm looking around. Nobody's around. So I park my car. I go in front of this car. I lifted like a foot in the air towards the middle of the street. And then I left the back of the car to eventually the car was the middle of the street. And then I took my Volkswagen and just push it right in the spot. And then I see some guy a rabbi with hair down cheek come screaming out top of his lung screaming foam coming out of his mouth. Then I see a police car coming around and I'm saying to myself, I'm screwed. So the cop gets out of the car. He sees me and these little rabbi screaming at me and the guy end up getting a ticket for double parking. He got a second ticket for assaulting a police officer and the third one for the peak. Guess what? I got my son T. Every one of you embrace your passion. I don't care what it is. Love yourself, respect yourself, help each other, just be nice. And thank you so much for coming and myself being here. I God bless you all. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you, Luke. And really, this is what it's all about. And this is what's so important. You see, each of these world champion, worldclass people have stories to tell about the people they mentored uh rabbis that they disoriented and uh and but all of these people have amazing life journeys that have changed the lives of so many others. So again, this giving back and this mentoring is so very very important. I was so excited when Hershel Walker was able to fit this into his schedule. I remember the Sports Illustrated story with you, Hersel, when talked about you just doing calisthenics because a bunch of my world records were in calisthenics and I go, "Wow, and I'm going to get to meet the man finally because this is a" and Terry Todd with our strongman group. He wrote the article, the cover story, the cover story of Sports Illustrated on Hershel and it was a remarkable story on a truly truly remarkable athlete. This is somebody who's not only one of the greatest football players in history, but he's an Olympic bobsplitter, a splinter, an undefeated mixed martial artist. I mean, this guy does it all. I mean, and he's still in a phenomenal phenomenal shape. He he won he had he won the consensus for all American artist three times and was a 1982 Heisman Trophy winner. He played pro football in the NFL for the Dallas Cowboys, Minnesota Vikings, Philadelphia Eagles, New York Giants, and even with the United States Football League, the New Jersey Generals. As a running back, he was the most soughtafter football high school football player in the nation. So many records this guy has in football. In professional football, he had the single season rushing with 2,411 yards in 1985. His combined rushing numbers for the United States Football League and the NFL, 13,787 yards would place him fifth all time on the NFL rushing list. But wait a second, that's nothing. He continued allpurpose yards for for both leagues. 25,283 yards would place him as the first all-time on the NFL list. Number one as a rusher. In 12 seasons, he gained 8,225 rushing yards, 480 thou 4,859 receiving yards, on and on. He's he's one of the only players that has broken so many of these records in so many areas. It's really truly remarkable. And then on top of it, each of the different networks and groups rate him as the best college football player in history. One of the greatest ball players in history. And not only that, again, remember this guy was on the Olympic bobsledding team. He was a sprinter and a mixed martial artist and retired undefeated in that area. So, how many people could say that they were such a world a world champion in so many different areas? Hershel Walker Thank you. First of all, I always acknowledge my Lord Jesus Christ cuz he said if you don't acknowledge him, he's not going to acknowledge you. And when I come knocking on, he'll let me in. You know, I always tell everyone, everyone know my glory. Everyone know my glory, but they don't know my story. because, you know, starting out as this poor black kid in uh South Georgia in Writesville, Georgia, I tell everyone it's not the end of the world, but you can see it from there. And uh I always tell everyone the story about the man that had these two little twin boys. One little boy is always positive in life. No matter what he did in life, he was positive about it. But this other little kid was always negative. No matter whatever was going on in this kid's life, he was negative about everything. And the father don't know what's going on with these kids cuz they're twins, but they're so opposite. So around Christmas time, he tried this little experiment. He put this negative little kid in his room and nothing but brand new toys. But he put this positive little kid in his room, nothing but horse manure. And after an hour or so, he looked in on this negative little kid and he was complaining, "I don't want this. I want that. I don't like this. I like this." And the father knew that this kid is never going to amount to anything cuz nothing ever makes him happy. But he looks in on the kid that's in the room with the horse manure. He's got a shovel. He's shoving this horse horse horse man reneur over his shoulder. He's laughing and singing and having a good time. First thing the father think of this kid is crazy. But he asked me said, "Son, what's going on? What's going on?" The little boy looked at his dad and said, "You know, dad, as much as is in this room, there must be a pony at the bottom of it. And the reason I tell you all that in life, guys, we all have a pony. But sometime we worry about the crap around us. But I'm living proof and I think the people up on this stage is living proof that if you grab a shovel every day, you can find your pony. And I'm so happy that I heard from a great man that when you take something out of society to put something back in. So there's always time that we reach back whether you have a kid or you know a kid to hug that kid and give him positive reinforcement because there's a lot of negative thing in this world that they don't need to know. So, we need to give them positive reinforcement. And I also want to acknowledge the reason the United States of America is the best country in the world is because we got the best military in the world. So, I thank you. This is this is so humbling to me because when you stand up on stage accepting an award, you know, I didn't get here by myself. And so, it is embarrassing for me to stand and give you a speech as I have done this. Thank you, Bob Arnold, Fairfax, and all the distinguished guests here. It is humbling to me because I have my fiance, Julie, who's traveled with me all over the country, and I had to have that knowledge heard. My brother, and he's truly my brother, Frank and Jan, who's here with me. They've traveled all over me. But one thing you don't know about Hershel Walker, you know, I grew up in South Georgia with a speech impediment. I grew up a little bit overweight. And my mom made me feel good cuz she told me I was big bone. And all the kids said, "You're fat." But what was strange about it, what happened in my life in the last day of school in 8th grade, I got beat up. And he didn't just beat me up, but he woke me up. He woke me up to grab my shovel. And I grabbed that shovel and I started working out. So I'm here to tell you that if you believe it, you can achieve it. But it's not going to be easy. But as long as you put the work to it, you can do whatever you want to do. So don't let anyone don't let anyone tell you you can't. And don't let in don't never tell a kid he can't. And from the great doctor Rick Flair from WWF, we're all twisting steel in sex appeal. We had a DNA of our Lord Jesus Christ. So we can do whatever we want to do. Again, I thank you. I'm honored and it's a pleasure. Thank you. God bless you. Thank you, Hersel. Thank you so much. You know, we work all year and and there's a reason I work so hard and Fairfax does and our whole advisory board. It's because this man right over here, Arnold Schwasenegger, the governor, has been an inspiration to myself since I was a kid. Uh, in fact, the first time I met him, he threw me out of his movie trailer when you were doing Raw Deal in Chicago. Uh, Sven, Sven threw me out. You didn't throw me out. Arnold is truly a historical figure. And I, you know, I say this every year, but I really, there's nothing could be truer because there are very few people born on the planet who have given back and done the things. And anything that this man goes after, he wins. He is the epitome of someone who can make anything happen. It doesn't matter what it is. He sets his mind to it as a bodybuilder, as a politician, as a businessman. There is nothing that this person couldn't do. And look what he's done with the Arnold Sports Festival. It is now on six continents around the world, the largest sports festival in the world. What he has done is beyond remarkable. And he just continues to amaze and inspire all of us. Those of us that know him for so many years, we still want our picture taken with every time. I mean, how many people I mean, you know, when I travel overseas, I got a thousand Chinese lined up to get a picture with me, and they bring you a frame with you pictured in it later. So, I have all these frames. I don't know what to do them. I just put them in the back room. But Arnold is so different than than than really anyone I've met in my life. I mean, it really is it's an honor every time you're with us and and and we get to do things with you and and that's the reason this takes place here and and the reason we're going to do this every year at the Arnold Sports Festival. it is the place to be because you're our hero and we so much appreciate all the great work you're doing and the work that you continue to do. Thank you so much. Well, thank you very much, Bob. Um, this is not just one person's doing to do the Arnold Classic every year. If I wouldn't have Jim Laura as a partner for the last 41 years, this wouldn't have happened. And if I wouldn't have had friends like Bob Goldman that have been there from day one and they've helped and we would if we wouldn't have had all the volunteers here in Columbus, we're talking about thousands of volunteers, none of this would have happened. So, thank you very much for having your hall of fame of what ceremony every year here. We really appreciate having you. And uh what is so great is is that you're really celebrating great people. people that have contributed so much to society to the world. I mean if you think about uh Lufarigno I mean Lufarigno you know this man here is not a only a very talented man in so many different areas but what I love about Lufer INA is that he is a workhorse. That man never has shied away from working no matter what it is. If it is on a movie set or if I have seen him in the gym working out or if it is training someone else or having his mail order business or taking care of his family, it doesn't matter what it is. He is never shy of working. He's never been lazy. And that's what I love about him. And I always tell bodybuilders around the world, I said, "Don't just think about your body. think about going beyond that and all the things that you can accomplish and all the things that you can contribute to the world and Lou is a perfect example of that. So let's give him a big hand for the great work that he's been doing really and if it is Bill Casmire who I have admired for many many years. I always was dreaming about having the strength of Bill Catmire, but it was always just a dream, but what the hell? It was just great to see actually someone doing it for real and also having had such an impact and inspired so many uh people. And Dr. Tom Rosantage, I mean, thank you very much for all the great work that you have done. You're an extraordinary human being and you always have promoted sports and fitness around the world and you've done it your way, which was an extraordinary way. So thank you very much for the great contributions that you have made. Thank you. And Paulo owner, thank you very much for I mean I still remember watching you winning those medals and doing your performance. I mean uh I think in bodybuilding we wish we have this kind of grace and this kind of moves that you guys have. I mean but uh but we don't. But I mean that's what makes you great in in what you do. So thank you very much and being such a great inspiration also. and Hershel Walker. I mean, what can I say about the guy that is that strong, that fit, that fast, that coordinated and everything? I mean, that you are an outstanding athlete, one of the the supreme athletes of all times. And so, it's great to sit next to you here and to sit next to such a great great man and such a great figure and someone that is also again so inspirational to so many people. And I think this is what this is all about is sports is about after you gone through your trip about being the best. We have the responsibility to go now and inspire others because everyone that is up here I guarantee you and as Lou Faringer already said he was inspired by picking up a magazine and seeing this great physique on a magazine. I was inspired by having Rege Park on the cover of a magazine and I saw this magazine in a store and I picked it up and I read through it and I said that's the kind of life that I want to have and be a champion and all of those things. So I think we have the responsibility to go out and inspire others. That's what it's all about because an and remember we are not going to be judged by how much we make but by how much we give. So it's always about not me but we thank you very much. Thank you all. You always do your arm like a UFC arm there. four decades. called the biggest franchise in the world. Therefore, two posters and two play cards. Thanks so much, H. Hey, you got to get Montana this year, okay? I want you guys.