Happy Monday here at Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. Make your mark. I'm Dave Palumbo and today is Monday, August 14th, 2017. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's Monday and that can only mean one thing. It's International Chess Day. And if you just so happened to hit the gym somewhere down in South Florida this morning and found yourself wondering where the hell all the 45 pound plates went, well, you can go ahead and blame Dallas Macccarver and Josh Lonardoitz. Earlier this morning, some new video surfaced of Lonardoitz and Macccarver absolutely obliterating a ridiculous chest training workout as the Aussie big man gears up for another strong Olympia run. Rumor has it that Lenarditz might be planning to spend the last few weeks of his prep stateside training right here alongside Macarver and 212 Olympia champ Flex Lewis. And if that turns out to be true, I fully expect to see the best version of Josh Lonardoitz we've ever seen come out and wreak havoc on the Olympia stage. Speaking of King Flex, all systems seem to be a go for the baddest man in the 212 division. Over the weekend, some new training footage dropped showing Lewis hammering out a few reps during a recent arm session as he starts to kick things up into fifth gear for the home stretch of his latest Olympia run. Throughout his entire prep, Lewis has really been pulling out all the stops, recruiting all sorts of elite athletes to come in and push him into uncharted territory. in pursuit of an unprecedented sixth straight 212 Olympia title. The way I see it right now, Flex Lewis might have already solidified himself as one of the top 10 or 12 bodybuilders of all time, but if he keeps this run going and rises past that magical eight Olympia threshold, we might have to start asking about whether or not he deserves his own spot on bodybuilding's Mount Rushmore. After you spend enough time voicing your opinion for a living, you start to learn that sometimes you need to learn to just shut up and let the photos do the talking. And this is one of those times. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we're just under five weeks out from Chenique Grant making her long overdue first appearance on the Olympia stage. And all of a sudden, things are really starting to get interesting. The latest photos and video coming from team Grant are nothing short of breathtaking as the 21-year-old superstar continues to make the sort of improvements that should be giving everyone in the women's physique division nightmares right about now. I won't say who, but over the weekend I had a conversation with someone who told me that Grant had one of those 1998 Ronnie Colemanesque auras surrounding her right now. And if that person happens to be right, we could all be about to witness the beginning of one of the most truly historic runs that the bodybuilding world has ever seen. On paper, this year's 212 Olympia lineup looks like it's going to be an allout dog fight for those top eight slots. And it seems to me that secondyear standout Ricardo Koreah looks like he's going to be ready for the challenge. Since he locked up his invite with that monster win at the Chicago Pro a few weeks ago, the former UK national champ has been training like an absolute animal. And right now, the results speak for themselves. The progress photos we've seen coming from the Koreah camp over the last few weeks show a guy who looks an awful lot like someone who's capable of doing some serious damage. And the fact that he's already beaten some of these guys in the lineup has to give him some sort of a mental edge. As long as his conditioning is on point, Ricardo Koreah is someone who could easily wind up being a top seven or eight finisher. But if someone slips up and leaves the door open, who knows how high this guy might climb. I'm about to let you in on a little secret. If you ever want to be an elite athlete in any sport, especially bodybuilding, you have to have just the right amount of FU coursing through your system. But you don't have to tell that to reigning classic physique champ Danny Hester. Late last week, Hester was spotted putting himself through the paces of another intense training session as he prepares to put his title on the line for the first time a little over a month from now. From what I've heard, confidence is riding pretty high out in the Hester camp these days. And if Danny Hester can come in and duplicate what he brought to the table last year, it'll make it awfully tough for the judges to take the title out of his hands.