 If you want to know how to build the most muscle in your mass building phase with growth hormone, stay tuned, because I'm going to tell you. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Steve Steve Steve Of course, with a week off the Olympia, Dave and I will be there midweek. So we will be shooting a lot of pre-Olympia content from Las Vegas. I'm sure enough, we're going to be joining up with Chris Tocito as well. And then you never know who we're going to bump into. So if you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. So you're not going to miss anything leading into the Olympia and then on Olympia weekend. Let's go right into the questions. The first two questions on this show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. First question, I guess is a request for you to do a video on a bulking diet. Maybe answer some frequently asked questions. You see like how many pounds should you be gaining a week? When you should, I think this may be a bit of a Google Translate question. So bear with me, you know, how much more you should be eating based off your mass gain diet. And when to back off with questions like how many pounds should you be up on average in a given month? We know you have to eat enough to grow, but what is quote unquote enough and what's too much? We're bulking. Again, this is sort of a request if you want to do a bulking diet video. Look, I would love to see you gain a pound a day. But if you get fat for me gaining a pound a day, that's not good, right? The, you know, average is so different for every person. I know guys I'm working with, if I'm lucky, if I can get them to gain one pound a week, their metabolisms are crazy. I'm feeding them like crazy amounts of food. I'm giving them a burger and fries every day. And they're, and they're lucky if they gain a pound, pound and a half a week. Now, the good news is with those people, usually whatever they gain is solid weight, you know, so that's good. I mean, that's, it's mostly muscle. Then I have other guys that they can gain three, four pounds a week. And I can tell you that not all four of those pounds is solid muscle. That's for sure. They're just easy gainers, but they get fat easy too. So you got to kind of keep an eye on them. I got to give them some cardio. Everyone's body is really different. Some people need a ton of food. Some people don't need much food at all. And you have to ascertain who you're working with and what their metabolic needs are. Because not everyone is the same. You just can't, I can't give you a formula that's going to work for everyone. Now, you go into the app, which is what these questions are from, the Day Plum Experience app, which is $29 a month. You get me as a coach in your back pocket. Get all my videos, all the writings I've ever done. We do a Q&A video exclusively for the app members every week. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum there. I put all my protocols up. Diets, keto diet, off-season diets, rotation diets. I do all the drug cycles, off-season, pre-contest, men, women, all that stuff. It's all up there, right? But you can copy the mass phase diet. And you might get great results. You might be like, this is, it was like it was written for me. And then I have other people who are basically starving to death on it. And they're in the losing weight. And they need to eat more food. And then I have people that get fat on that diet. So it's not one size fits all. What I've found is the common denominator is find out how much protein and fat you need, which is about a pound and a half of protein per, excuse me, a gram and a half of protein per pound that you weigh. Figure out how much fat you need, which for men is usually about a half to three quarters of a gram of fat per pound that you weigh. Okay. So that's probably significantly more fat than most people eat in their diet. And then the carbs, I usually start guys off on one gram per pound. So if you're 250 pounds, I start you on 250 grams of carbs. Most guys need more that size. A lot of guys need less. And so the carbohydrate intake is what will vary. Okay. The protein and fat is usually pretty stationary. It's a pretty set number to gain muscle because remember fat and protein are the building blocks of muscle. When you break down muscle tissue in the gym, you need to repair the internal components, which are made of protein and the external components are the cell membrane of the cells that are all made of essential fats and some saturated fats in there. So you need fat in your diet. You need protein, but you need carbs to use as a fuel source. Because if you don't take enough carbs in, your body will use some of that protein and fat as fuel. And then obviously you don't have enough of that to build muscle. Likewise, if you take in too much fuel, okay, the extra will spill over into fat storage. So you've got to figure out what the ideal amount of carbs is. And that is what makes, you know, the off-season diet successful or a failure. Too much or too little carbs will either make you fat or not allow you to grow enough. And the reason is because, remember, either you're taking in too much nutrition or too many calories, specifically carbs, and then converting the fat, or you're not taking enough in and then you're using up your resources that you should be using for building muscle to use as a fuel source. And that's also what you don't want. That's why a lot of guys say to me, hey, can I gain muscle on a keto diet during the off-season? I love the way I feel. You could, but it's going to be harder because your body's using some of that protein and fat for fuel, which means there's not enough around, you know, for building muscle. So you're going to have to eat an extraordinary high amount of protein and fat to try to still gain on that type of a diet. That's why it's always good to put some carbs in to use as the fuel source. Second question, again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. I'm planning on doing your mass phase PED protocol in the near future. I've saved up six kits of 100 IU H8. That's about 30 IU per week for 20 weeks. I've read so many different dosing strategies, taking it for five days and two days off to offset insulin resistance or EOD dosing or two days on, one day off, et cetera. What would you say is the best? I mean, he draws out a few different scenarios, four different scenarios. One would be six IU. Let me give you my – let me give you my – because this is what I have found works best. Your body likes consistency. It likes hormonal consistency. So to do extraordinary high amounts of GH on some days and then take nothing on the other days is not going to necessarily give you more benefits. Okay, it's not going to benefit you. Remember, when you take growth hormone, your liver responds to the growth hormone by releasing IGF-1, which is the muscle-building hormone. Okay, so if you go some days with taking no GH, okay, you're not producing a lot of IGF-1 those days. If you go some days where you're taking massive amounts of GH, eight, ten IUs a day, your liver is only limited by how much IGF-1 it can produce. So you might be not – you might be taking more GH than you really need because you can't produce enough IGF in response to it. So my experience has always been – and this is where I got the best results. I did it myself. I do it with my clients. Lower dose every single day. So three to four IUs daily. Now, the problem with that is, you know, some people would say, well, what if I get insulin resistant? You're going to be insulin resistant no matter what, even if you take a day off here and there at the GH. So if you get insulin resistant and you start waking up with higher fasting blood sugars like over 90, you have to take a long-acting insulin. And the long-acting insulin will nullify the insulin resistance. And it's not really insulin resistance. What it is is that the GH works antagonistically to insulin. So there's not enough insulin around to do its job. So you're going to boost that amount by taking a long-acting insulin. If that doesn't work and you're still not gaining, you might need to add also a fast-acting insulin a couple times a day. But usually, in my experience, with the people I've worked with, I never did this back in the day because we didn't know about long-acting insulin. But with the people I've worked with, taking a long-acting insulin seems to fix the problem with GH. So take your GH, four IUs per day, which would give you 28 IUs per week. You said you have 30 a week to take available. And then if you need it, by testing your fasting blood sugars if you're over 90, add in a long-acting insulin. If you want something easy to get and cheap, you can go to Walmart. There's no prescription necessary. You can get nobialin N, and you can take that twice a day, start 10 IUs twice a day. And that will yield you the best results in terms of building muscle with GH. It'll also result in a lot less side effects because even though you might be taking GH every other day, 8 IUs produces a lot more side effects in terms of fluid retention, numbness in the fingers and hands and stuff like that. So less is better over a longer period of time. Before we go to the rest of our questions, let's bring in our friends from Titan Medical. They have their sale of the week. Red at True Tried, which has sort of become one of the trendy peptides that has been going around. Obviously, Nick Walker mentioned it at length about what it has done for him, in particular for his midsection. Well, they have a starter package starting at a lot less than half the price than what it usually is. And then they have other discounts on all the other packages as well. So a sale, Dave, centered around Red at True Tried. Yeah, and it's a really simple little consult you do. It's not like if you're trying to go on testosterone or anything. So it's a pretty quick process if you're looking to get it. And, you know, a lot of people don't realize it's very hard to get these peptides now that is GLP-1 agonists like Red at True Tried or Chirazapetide, which is Monjaro. They're not readily available because the pharmacies are out of them because every Tom, Dick, and Harry who wants to lose a few pounds is on them nowadays. So they're also really expensive from the pharmacy. The only people who get it covered by insurance are people who have severe blood sugar, you know, control issues. And most bodybuilders are not in that category. So obviously Titan offers a much more, I guess you could say, palatable price on this stuff. It's significantly lower than you'd pay in a pharmacy. It's a simple process to get it. If you think that you're a candidate for it, you know, absolutely contact them. They're really good at explaining how this stuff works, the nuances. Obviously the Red at True Tried is three drugs in one. The Chirazapetide is two drugs in one. I happen to like the Chirazapetide. I haven't used any of it personally because I obviously have no body fat. But in the clients I've used, it seems to work a little better. But the Red at True Tried has got a lot of good data with that third, you know, glucagon agonist in it. So I think either one of them would work tremendously well. Even the original Ozepic works really good, which is just one drug. The GLP stimulation, okay, or agonism as we call it. Is really what's controlling appetite. And that's what's causing a lot of the weight loss. Now some of the other stuff, which, you know, enhances the actions of insulin. And the other one, which increases glucagon release. They seem to add to it and give better results. But I find with bodybuilders, the main thing that we're looking for. Because we're eating five, six times a day, even on these substances. We're not looking to just starve ourselves. Is appetite control between meals. So any of those products work. So if, like, you don't want to spend the money on Red at True Tried, you can use the, you know, the Ozepic version, which is just one drug. It's a lot cheaper. And it will probably accomplish exactly the same thing. So, but regardless, contact TitanMedicalCenter.com. Tell them Dave Palumbo RX Muscle sent you. Whatever therapy you get, you're going to save a significant amount of money. And especially this week. So, again, go to TitanMedicalCenter.com. Give them a call or shoot them a message. And mention Dave Palumbo RX Muscle. And they will give you the royal hookup. We go to the rest of the questions. Our questions are from our social media platforms. And in particular, our YouTube community page. So if you're not already interacting with us there. That is the primary place we're pulling questions for this show. Tyler Smith. Did you ever have sleep apnea? Do you think there's anything that can be done or you absolutely need a CPAP machine? I'm convinced I probably had sleep apnea before we knew what sleep apnea was. I, you know, I never was like, I don't think I was ever like a terrible, terrible sleep apnea person. Like I know people that wake up like, you know, a thousand times a minute, you know. I was never that bad. But I'm sure I could have benefited when I was at my biggest from an apnea machine. I will tell you this, even now, it's like 205 pounds, whatever I weigh right now. If I sleep on my back exclusively, I do sometimes wake up like, I do sometimes snore a little bit or wake up like a little, you know, air gasty. Like, you know, like, oh my, like I was, but if I lay on my side, if I sleep on my side, I seem to breathe perfectly. I don't snore. So I try to sleep on my side more. As a big bodybuilder, if you get one of these chiropractic pillows that are kind of low in the middle and then they kind of come up on the sides and they're rigid. And when you turn to the side, you lay on that rigid side. It keeps your head propped up, especially, you know, if you've got a big head like I do. And if you're 250 plus pounds, everyone's got a big head and swollen head. It'll support your head and keep your airway open better. And what you'll find is that you can breathe better. Because a lot of guys don't like those machines. They're uncomfortable. The machine itself makes sleeping a miserable experience. Some people love them. Some people hate them. If you don't like the machine, try getting a chiropractic pillow, which you probably should have in any way. And sleep on your side. I promise you, breathe better. You probably won't even snore. Alexander ruined training. Two questions for one. Is Trend Ace more of a cosmetic or performance compound before a competition? Any kind of Tremblone is a performance, you know, drug. It builds muscle. It's a high androgen. It makes you aggressive. It makes you store glycogen better. It makes the body look better. Any form of Tremblone will do that. And there's nothing cosmetic about it. Like you might say Anivar is cosmetic, right? You might get a little bit of hardness from it, probably not even worth the money that you're spending on it, unless you're a woman. Tremblone is a very strong compound. So like off-season and pre-conscious, you're going to get really good results from that. The difference or I guess the drawback to Tremblone is that if you take too much of it, it can affect your sleep patterns. Some people have digestion issues with it. Some people even get hiccups with it, chronic hiccups with it. Some people get – they can't control their temper. So you've got to be careful. Less is better with Tremblone, I find. And with the Trent acetate, usually 50 milligrams three times a week or every other day is sufficient. With the Trent enanthate, the longer acting 100 milligrams twice a week is more than adequate. If you do more than that, you're just going to get more side effects. And then the other question that Alexander Rune had was – what screen did I pull up there? It's so weird. About quinine in tonic water. Yes. What is it about quinine that helps with cramps? Yeah. It just – the methylquinine in the tonic water, you should get diatonic water so it's sugar-free because the regular tonic water has a lot of sugar in it, just like regular soda would. The diatonic water has the methylquinine in there will actually inhibit the cramping process. So if your electrolytes are off, that's not good because it kind of masks the fact that you're cramping. But in situations where you're taking clambuterol, clambuterol is not causing you to cramp because of an electrolyte imbalance. It just makes the muscle contract harder. So in those situations where you're getting clambuterol cramps, taking tonic water will inhibit that cramping process. If your electrolytes are messed up because you're taking laxatives or you're throwing up or you don't take in enough salt, that's not a good – in that situation, you wouldn't want to mask it with quinine. You want to figure out what am I doing that's wrong or add some salt to your diet. So for clambuterol cramps, I'm all in favor of tonic water. And like I said, it just – the mechanism is a magnesium mechanism. But what it does is it just – it relaxes the muscle a little bit, doesn't allow it to contract as hard, and it prevents the cramp from happening. A question about V-mineralize. You talked about the new reformulated V-mineralize. What changes can users expect in the new V-mineralize? Yeah, I haven't released that yet because we're still going through our old inventory. Yeah, we're going to be putting methylated folic acid in there. Right now we have methylated B. Whenever you hear this Gary Brecker guy, who's a pretty smart dude, wouldn't mind interviewing him. Whenever he talks about methylated B vitamins, he's really – there's only two that he's talking about. It's methylcobalamin, which is methyl B12, okay, which is in V-mineralize already. And then there's methylfolate or methylated folic acid, which is not currently – and I'm going to be putting that in there. This way both B vitamins will be methylated. So that's one of the main changes. I'm going to be increasing the amount of vitamin D in there. Right now we have 2,000 IUs, which at the time when I formulated it was usually the preferred dosage. I feel like 5,000 is more – is sufficient – is a better dosage, excuse me, daily. So we're going to be upping that. We're going to be changing a few other things. We're going to be adding some K2 in there, which is important for directing calcium away from the blood vessel walls. It's going to have a few modifications that are just going to make it a little better. And, you know, I'm always trying to improve the products that I make. And, you know, if I can improve something that I have out there and so that I can continue to say it's the best, that's what I'm going to do. But that, yeah, I'm fully transparent. That's what we're going to be doing moving forward probably over the next – maybe in 2026, first or second quarter, we should have it. Thoughts on poppy soda. It's a prebiotic soda that's allegedly good for your digestive health, only has five grams of sugar, 35 calories per can. Seems like it's one of those drinks that kind of curbs the cravings for sugar. I'm not too familiar with prebiotic soda. Just want to know what your thoughts are and the products that you do see it a lot at Target. I've noticed that. And it is pretty expensive. So your thoughts on a prebiotic soda? I think it's very gimmicky. You know, I haven't tried it myself, but it's very gimmicky. Look, prebiotics, probiotics, right? I mean, take Fibrolize. There's your prebiotics. What a prebiotic is, it's the food source for the probiotic, which is the bacteria in your gut, right? So you could take probiotics, which would be you're actually taking, you know, actual bacteria and putting them into your body, which would be like in a product like – I talked about Natrin has some probiotics. Also, if you take our protein pudding, protolyse, it has seven strains of probiotics in there, where you're actually getting the good bacteria you're putting and reseeding your colon with it. However, the prebiotic – the term prebiotic is the food source. It's soluble fiber. It's this food source that the bacteria will use for energy and fuel. What they do is they ferment it in the gut. So Fibrolize is probably the best prebiotic that you could possibly put into your body because soluble fiber coming from psyllium, especially high-swell rate psyllium, is the preferred fuel source. That's why not only does Fibrolize train the colon and make the colon stronger, but it refortifies all those good bacteria that surround the colonic wall because it gives them a food source. And when you feed these bacteria, they grow and divide and they become stronger. So, you know, you're not going to get any significant amount of prebiotic fiber from a soda, okay? It's just not going to happen. It's a good selling point for the soda, right? It's a good, you know, marketing ploy, but you're really getting no significant effect from it, unfortunately. Let's go to – it's quite another – you talked about IGF-1 earlier on in the show. Will IGF-1 raise your fasting glucose level as mine seems to go up the next morning after taking it? Well, IGF-1 should do the opposite of that. IGF-1 lowers blood sugar. That's why it's called insulin-like growth factor. It has an insulin-like effect. So when you take it, it drives glucose and amino acids into the cells via insulin receptors. So basically IGF-1 has two effects. One is the effect we want of it, right? It takes – stimulates IGF-1 receptors on muscle and causes, you know, muscle growth and repair. The other effect is that it can actually bind to insulin receptors because it looks like insulin. So it tricks the body, and a lot of times it will bind to insulin receptors and drive nutrients into the cells. That's not its main effect. It just has that as a side effect because it's insulin-like. It has a very similar configuration to insulin. So in all effects, in all reality, it will lower blood sugar. Okay? So I don't know why you're waking up. You just might have a fasting blood sugar issue, you know, that you wake up a little high the next day. It's certainly not from the IGF-1. A question about maybe not DNP, but a DNP alternative, I guess. Will there ever be a better pure fat-only burner like DNP that happens to be safe? Yeah. You know, I had a – well, Lipolize kind of works similar to DNP. It weighs calories. That's what – and in a non-stimulant, you know, formula. So there's no stimulants in Lipolize. The way it burns calories is twofold. Number one, it inhibits appetite by increasing leptin sensitivity. So we produce a hormone in the body called leptin. Leptin inhibits appetite. In a lot of people, they don't have any leptin sensitivity because they don't have enough leptin receptors. Lipolize increases leptin receptors and thus makes you more sensitive to leptin, takes away your appetite. But the other effect is that it actually wastes calories. So we're normally inside the mitochondria when fats are oxidized and they're turned into ATP, just like DNP does. It disconnects that process and allows the ATP, instead of being produced, to be released as heat. So you feel warm when you're taking Lipolize. So it's like a DNP junior with no side effects, you know. And unfortunately, when you start raising the effects of how effective these uncoupling agents are, the DNP is so strong that it's uncontrollable. And the problem with DNP is that the effective dose of it is too close to the lethal dose of it. So it's very easy to go over the edge and have a problem with it. And that's why it's not a safe compound to take. The way it burns calories is phenomenal. It's an uncoupling agent. We love it. It's safe. There's no stimulation. The problem is that the effective dose is too close to the dangerous dose. So it's just not a drug that you can safely use. And that's why I've never, ever suggested it. And I tell people all the time, stay away from this very dangerous. But there are, like, supplements out there that work similar by uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation. But they're just not going to be as effective. But it does work by that mechanism. And that's why a lot of people love Lipo-Lysin while we sell so much because it does burn calories. And there are no stimulants in there. So people have high blood pressure, anxiety, you know, high heart rate. It's not going to cause any problems for them. And that's one of the reasons I released it. I really made it for myself. So I always try to gear all my supplements. If you notice, everything in the species line of products is something that I made really for myself because that's the principles that I believed in. And then I released it to the public for everyone else to enjoy it. Training-related question about an upright row. Is it considered a, quote, vertical pull? I understand the targets, the lateral delts, a narrow grip targets, the upper mid traps. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you're pulling upward. So, yeah, I would say, I mean, going up with it. You're not going outward with it. You're coming straight up with the upright row. So for some people, it bothers their shoulders. You know, I prefer women using that movement than do direct shrugs because I don't think thick, thick traps looks good on a woman. So upright row seems to give the upper traps a little bit of shape to them but while also still popping those delts because, you know, cap delts looks really good on a woman with, you know, traps that are below that. To have those big high traps on a woman is just not very feminine looking. And so you don't want to, you know, do direct shrugs. And so I think upright rows works well for women. I think for men it can be dangerous because guys have to go super heavy on that and that usually leaves the shoulders, you know, very vulnerable to injury. So I don't recommend that guys go heavy. If you want to use, do the movement just to feel it, go a little lighter and just kind of do it by feel. A question about injection size or ejecting rather. 1 by 23 gauge needle long enough for a 3 ml lat injection. Was 23 gauge what? 1.1? It's like 23. Yeah, 1 by 23. 23 gauge 1 inch? Is that what he said? I think so. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. I'm reading it's like very small. Yeah, 1 inch. Yeah, 23. Yeah, I mean that should be fine. Assuming you don't have a lot of fat on your lats. I mean for me it would be fine. But the lat is such a thick muscle and it's so dense. You can really go inch and a half and make sure it gets buried nice and deep into that lat. You know, but you can get away with 1 inch, but I think 1.5 inch would put it in a better place. But, you know, it's up to you. Some guys prefer the shorter. I always like to go as deep as possible when I was injecting intramusculate just because I don't want it bubbling out under the skin, you know, and causing problems. A lot of times guys have to get infections that way. But, you know, theoretically it would work either way. We have another question relating to, I guess, different, you know, lat pulls and vertical pulls. But this is more about, I guess, you know, hand positions. If you can explain how different hand positions affect the back muscles, say, on a horizontal and on a vertical pulling exercise. I'm not really getting what they're asking. So, I guess. On pull downs, you think they're, are they? Yeah, for vertical and for lat pull downs. Vertical and horizontal pull downs. I mean, I always like to put the hands over. I never like to put the hands under because when the hands are under, I feel like the biceps are too vulnerable. And I don't want to see anyone tear a bicep. You know, say they even would bend over rows. You know, Doreen used to do the underhanded rows. But, you know, sometimes you feel a little more on your back, but your biceps are vulnerable. That's how Doreen tore his biceps. So, I always go under, overhand. I don't think, I think it's just a safer movement. It takes that bicep out of the movement. After all, we're not really trying to work the biceps. We're trying to work the lats. So, I'm always over, over. Now, I don't, also, Doreen also said, you know, hand position a little closer, it makes you stronger. When you come away from your body, you become weaker. And he's 100% right. So, if you're trying to build lat size, you know, you're better off staying here, a little wider than the shoulder width, not out here. The wider you grip doesn't mean you're going to bring your lats out more. That's the oldest wide tail of the book, okay? Otherwise, guys would be holding the bar out here. It doesn't matter where you pull from. You're not going to make your lats wider just by having your hands wider. So, you're better off keeping a better, closer to the body grip so that you're stronger. And that, I always listen to Doreen on that, and I think he's 100% right. A question about Trenesters. Let me pull it up real quick. Which is the best Trenbolone ester for fat loss and for muscle building? Or is it best to just use a mix and ingest less frequently at a lower dosage, maybe? I don't think that Trenbolone burns fat. I always said the steroids don't burn fat. They build and repair muscle. And I think that Tren does a really good job of that, probably better than any other drug aside from testosterone. The Tren acetate seems to be a preferred drug pre-contest because it seems to work faster and show results better. And it's because of that fast-acting action of it. You seem to load glycogen more efficiently. There are some nuances between the long-acting and the short-acting. And it does seem like the fast-acting Tren acetate seems to give a cosmetic advantage over the longer-acting. But when we're in an off-season scenario where you're trying to build muscle, they both seem to work just as effectively. So maybe it is that on a leaner body that has less body fat, we look cosmetically better on Tren acetate because it is a better drug at loading glycogen. So you can have a couple small carb meals and they just load right into the muscle because we know high androgens increase glycogen storage. And so I think that the leaner body notices the Tren acetate more effectively than the longer-acting Tren ester. But if you can't get Tren acetate, they both will ultimately work just as effectively. So pre-contest, by convention, I always usually recommend the Tren acetate. Off-season, I usually recommend the Tren enanthate because it has less side effects. We'll take one more. DHEA for PCT, do you recommend? No. You know what? If you're going to go off the drugs, I would say just stay off everything at this point. Because even DHEA, a small percentage, that can convert to testosterone too. Just let your angina receptors clean out. Now, if you're on a hormone replacement type protocol and you've been taking DHEA and maybe you just decided, hey, I'm going to boost up what I'm taking. I'm going to take a little Decker or I'm going to take a little EQ or something like that. When you clean out, in that instance, you could probably stay on DHEA. But I wouldn't say, oh, I'm so neurotic because I just went off a massive cycle. And Dave said to clean out. He's right. I'm cleaning out. I've got to take something. I'm going to take some DHEA. At that point, I would just leave it out. I mean, come on. You can't go eight weeks off nothing. I promise you, eight weeks off of everything will yield you such great results when you go back on. It's worth every day. And you know what? Eight weeks goes like this because the first three to four weeks, all the drugs that are in your system are still in there. They don't leave right away. By four weeks after your last shot, that's when you start really feeling, quote, clean. Then you only got another three weeks to go. So it's not a big deal. Stay off. That's going to do it for this episode of Ask the Reminder right now on the channel. All new episodes of Heavy Muscle Radio. Yesterday's After Hours. And, of course, last week's episode of Iron Bait. We're going to ramp up things with our contest coverage, our Olympia coverage, as the Olympia is now three and a half weeks out. And, of course, we're going to be there. Dave, myself, Chris Aceto. All the big names that you're familiar with, all the wrap-ups and everything, and you never know who we're going to run into. And we're going to try to document it all for you on this channel, as, of course, on our Instagram official, underscore, rxmuscle. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadiq Faruqi. We'll see you next time.