Do oral anabolic steroids like debball and anadrol are they less toxic if you take them sublingually? Stay tuned. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution RXVision, rxmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Whatever is on your mind, be it bodybuilding or non-bodybuilding, it is all on the table. I'm your host Sadiq Farooqi. So glad you could join us on this the th the 23rd day of July in the year 2025. We're going to go right into the first two questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. First question, your opinion on taking oral sublingually to mitigate the toxicity on the liver. Does it really make a difference? >> You know, it it sounds good in theory, right? You put the oral under your tongue, you let it dissolve, and it goes into the bloodstream through the this this capillary circulation under your tongue and thus avoids that first pass. When we talk about first pass, when we talk about liver toxicity, when you take anything orally, it has to be digested. It has to go through your intestinal tract and the liver has to break it down the first time and then it gets a second breakdown once it's in the bloodstream. Theoretically, if you can get it into the bloodstream directly, you're missing the first pass. It becomes less toxic. The problem with with anything sublingual, especially when you just put like a pill under your tongue, is that probably, you know, maybe three to 5% gets absorbed. It's a very small percentage that will get absorbed. 97% of it is getting absorbed because you're swallowing the stuff that's dissolved under your tongue. And that goes that goes with anything. I know guys that like put like a sealis under their tongue thinking it's going to hit them faster. And the truth is probably 98% of the seialis is going into their stomach and that's where they're absorbing it. So I mean to me most of those orals taste horrendous and they will, you know, numb and and sting your mouth. It's not just not worth it. If you're going to use the orals, just swallow it. really doesn't make a big difference. >> Second question, again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo experience app in your offseason cycle that's available on the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Are the PEDs amounts valid for a 60year-old person? And I guess beyond that, just as far as a general age range that you feel as if your cycles would apply to, >> right? Yeah. I mean, some of the cycles that I have on the uh Dave Home Experience app. But by the way, if you guys don't know what we're talking about, I have an app you can download at your iTunes store, Android store. It's $29 a month. You get access to everything I've ever written, all my videos. I do a Q&A video every week exclusively for the app members, like an extra ask Dave. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum. Uh, everyone gets to see everyone's questions and answers. It's a real great learning experience. We put up workouts every week. And I also have all my protocols in this, all my diets, offseason, pre-contest, my keto diet, and all the cycles, beginners and advanced, men, women. So, what he's referring to is the advanced, I guess, men's cycle that's in there, which is pretty much the the cap on what I would recommend ever doing. I would never go over that. So, if you're 60, you know, you probably won't want to go to that level. You probably would come back a little bit. When I tell guys over age 40, 45, I'm like, you know, probably not a great idea to be putting orals and toxic compounds into your body because you don't handle them as well. When you're in your 20s and early 30s, it's kind of a little easier to for your body to break that stuff down. Like I I try to like tell guys, don't use anadrol and dianol, all those orals. And even the trenacetate, you know, take it easy on that as well because it raises blood pressure and when you're you're older, your blood pressure control is not quite as good because the elasticity of the blood vessel walls is not as good. So it's stiffer. You know, that's we call that, you know, arterial sclerosis, the stiffening of the blood vessel walls. That just happens with age. So we really don't want to do anything that's going to really whack the body out at that age. Especially at 60, I would probably stick to the long acting injectables like, you know, testosterone and anthocate cipionate, deca, durabin, you know, the longer acting one. Trenmbbolone, maybe an nanate if you're going to use a trendone and not use too much of it. Uh stuff like um Equipoise I really like a lot of, you know, a little Masteron too, the long acting one. I think those are really safe. So, I I but I would stay away from the orals and the super high dosages, you know. Um once again, if you're a competitive guy who's like I've seen I was at Mast's Nationals this past weekend and there are some 60-year-old guys that are really super competitive. You know, they're still competing at a high level. They're going to do pro shows after they get their pro card. Those guys are going to going to push the envelope a little bit more. But still, I would still stay away from the short acting stuff and the toxic stuff. Uh and anything that's going to raise blood pressure too high. So again, these first two questions from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Before we go to the rest of our questions, our good friends at Titan Medical have a sale going for this week. Let me pull up the image real quick for you all to see. There we go. So, four new Titan therapies um that are available to the Titan Medical Center family. Again, if you go to the website, we'll explain a little bit more about these therapies, but if you go to the website, um, last week we announced that they're going to now have their blood work, their blood panels available for purchase online, which is >> and it's up there. It's up there. Sorry. >> There you go. So, there you go. That's live. Um, they have, by the way, said they have the best pricing on blood work I've ever seen for the stuff that they like if you go for a testosterone test and you pay out of pocket, it's over a hundred bucks for one test. Okay? Just one testosterone test. They're doing like I think for men hundred when they do their blood work sale it's like 120 bucks and you get everything tested. It's it's unbelievable. And now you can sign up right on the website. You don't even have to call them but these new therapies put the put that graphic up again. They're offering nowone if you have joint problems. So if you have orthopedic issues where you have sore joints, knees, you know, shoulders, whatever, you can get nandrallone which is decadent of course. Um melanotan which if you want to put get some color into your body that I mean they have that available now. So there's no reason why you guys are past tasty white before you get tan. Now the five amino mq is actually something that raises NAD+ in the body. So I take injectable NAD+. This actually is something that will actually increase your natural indogenous NAD+. You can take both or one or the other. Try that out. And and and the as well as the CAX is is another really interesting compound because it actually raises cognitive function. It makes you think better. It's it's a r It was a Russian drug originally developed for people who were like losing their you know memory and it's supposed to give you co I haven't tried it yet but it's supposed to give you some very good cognitive uh clarity when you take it. So great great new therapies. >> So again if you go to titanmedicalcenter.com uh we will confirm as far as purchasing blood work online if our active our promo code is active or promo codes apply to that but we'll figure that out. Nonetheless, call them up, go to the website, hit the contact form, mention Dave Palumbo, mention RX Muscle, and they will hook you up as we go to the rest of our questions. Um, how do I know it's time to up my dosage while on a cycle? And ideally, by how much should one increase these compounds? uh you know I I'm assuming he's asking you meaning if he's a beginner or maybe a guy who's starting out he's not using a high dosage because I think at some point there's a threshold amount that's ideal. So if you're at a level where you're not a beginner you know and you've been doing this for a year or two or more. I like I said ideally to put on maximum muscle with minimal you know with mitigating side effects as much as possible. I like a thousand milligrams of testosterone a week. I think that works ideally to build maximum muscle but without excessive side effects. And I like to combine it with a an anabolic, you know, and usually I change the anabolic every six to eight weeks. So it might start out at Deca for four or 500 milligrams a week. Then it might go to EQ, you know, four to five to 600 Trenanate, you know, 200 milligrams per week. And I'll kind of rotate through that. Some people who can't do trend, I might use Masteron even in an offseason scenario because I do like that as well. Maybe 400 milligrams a week. So I that's kind of what I find is ideal and if you can throw some growth hormone, if you can afford some growth hormone on top of that, two to four IUs a day, to me that's an ideal cycle. You're going to put on some really nice mass with that. Um, and the trick is once you've been doing it a while, there's no reason to start off at 500 milligrams a week and build up because these compounds are long acting anyway. Just start at whatever the dosage is. So if you're on a thousand tests, start at 1,000 tests a week. If you're at, you know, 500 EQ, then start it at 500 EQ a week. Now, if you're just starting out and you're a beginner and you're going to be like, you know what, I did a cycle of Anavar and Winstrol, now I want to move up to EQ and and and Deca, you know, you might, you know, do twound milligrams of each or two 300 milligrams of each a week and and and build up that way. But once you're established and you're using cycles, there's no reason to like say, "Okay, you know what? I'm going to start at 500, then I'm going to jump because you you're you're wasting time when you're on the 500." At this point, you want to have the maximum effective dosages and go at that for whatever it is, 16, 18, 24 weeks. >> So, last week we did um we released the episode with Dr. Todd Lee, episode of Guru Talk, uh which got a great reception, great positive reviews. So, we will be doing more of episodes with Dr. Todd Lee, but then also more guru talk episodes. We know how much you all enjoy these conversations that Dave has with some of the, you know, brightest minds in all bodybuilding, discussing the deep science and everything. So, we'll certainly be doing a lot more of that. So, the question uh based out of the episode is that uh Dr. Todd Lee said that subcutaneous injections are for wusses. Does that apply to GLP-1 medication as well? Would GLP1s be more effective intramuscular or subcutaneous in your in your call? >> Well, I think he was what he was referring to is the fact that um uh oilbased anabolic steroid should not be injected subcutaneously. And I've been saying that for years, too. I think what it seems like every so many years people try to reinvent the wheel. And who would want to be injecting all that oil under your skin? You want it in the muscle. You know, if you're doing like if you're micro doing like, you know, 10 units on an insulin syringe, you can do that under the skin. It's not going to make a big difference. I still wouldn't do it. I would still do it in my shoulder. But regardless, it's it's it's easy. But if you're taking three cc's of like, you know, two a cc of test and a cc of EQ and a cc of something, you got to put it into the muscle. I mean, or it's going to have these huge lumpy welts under the skin. and it takes a while for that stuff to get absorbed. So, I don't know why anyone would do that. So, I completely agree with him on the fact that um that you don't want to be injecting, you know, oil-based anabolic steroids or water-based anabolic steroids under the skin, definitely it's bad idea. However, waterbased stuff that's not not even water-based drugs, protein hormones that are in water, which basically look like water when they're mixed, HCG, GH, IGF-1, insulin, the the you know the the GLP-1 agonist like semiglutide and you know retratits of of water you're basically injecting and you can do those into the muscle, you can do those under the skin. It doesn't matter. the absorption rate is exactly the same and there's nothing wrong with that because it's water. So water is basically just getting absorbed and it's very very quick whether you do it subcutaneously or you do it intramuscularly it's really up to you. So no he wasn't referring to I think he was just referring to the anabolic steroid injections themselves. >> Question about fat loss. Uh, what is the average optimum amount of fat loss per week that a natural athlete or someone in the general population should be aiming for while prepping or dieting down? >> Yeah, it it's a good question because when you first start out the first two to three weeks, sometimes you can lose a lot of weight because there's a lot of water weight loss and as you deplete glycogen, remember carbs are stored as glycogen but with water. So when you start reducing the glycogen stores in the muscles and the liver, you lose a lot of water with it. So I've had guys lose 15 20 pounds the first two weeks and you know sometimes if they don't know better because they haven't done this before they freak out. But it's that's just normal. But once that water weight is gone, usually two to three pounds a week, you know, I would say one to three pounds per week is is is ideal. Um two to three is great. three is is like rockstar status that you're you're really burning fat at a really good rate. And it really also depends on how fat you are. So if you're like really grossly overweight and I look I have a lot of bodybuilders come to me they have a lot of body fat and they're going to lose faster than the three pounds per week usually. They might do four four and a half pounds a week, five pounds initially until their body weight gets down to like a normal body fat and then it slows down. That's just normal. I mean that's just expected you know. So, usually, like I said, two to three pounds is is is the average. And that usually means that if you're doing that on a regular basis, you're probably losing zero muscle. You know, you're sometimes you might actually be gaining muscle. And that that sometimes will affect the scale weight because think about it. If you gain a pound of muscle during the course of a week and you lose three pounds of fat, it would only really the scale would only shift two pounds. So sometimes you're actually increasing muscle mass, especially if you've been off cycle or maybe you had an injury and you couldn't train the way you wanted to. But I always tell people one to three pounds per week is ideal. We're not machines, so you have to take this into account. You're not going to lose the same amount every single week. Although I've had people I've worked with are very consistent and they do lose, you know, the same, but usually on a regular some weeks you lose more, some weeks you lose a little less. It averages out to about two to three pounds a week. >> Another GLP related question. Um there are some warnings about GLP-1 slowing absorption of meds. So things like uh pill HRT are affected. Would this also affect blood pressure medications uh and any kind of orals or supplements that you're while you while on them? So I guess GLP-1 slowing down absorption. >> Well, yeah, GLP-1 slow the the transit of the digestive tract. So, anything that you orally absor, you know, ingest will potentially be absorbed at a slower rate than it normally is. Doesn't mean it's not going to be absorbed. It just means it's going to be slower. Okay? Um, if you're taking a an injection, however, of something, it's not going to slow how that drug works. So, think about it. If you're injecting a GLP-1 agonist like Mjaro, okay, it's in the bloodstream. It has nothing to do with your digestive tract. However, if you're taking a blood pressure medication, you know, thinking that normally it takes, you know, 20 minutes and then it kicks in and your blood pressure goes down, maybe it takes an hour now for it to kick in and go down because your your digestive tract is moving at a slower pace. And that's why every single person who takes a GLP-1 agonist should be on fiber. This this I hate to throw, you know, give myself a plug, but absolutely I've seen enough people now contact me who who aren't even clients of mine who say, "I can't go to the bathroom on this stuff. what do I do? And I put them on fiber. Or they call me and they say, "Fiber saved my life because I couldn't go to the bathroom on these GLP1s." And I love them because I lo I'm losing weight. I feel better. My blood sugars are good. But I could not I could not go to the bathroom. And I tried everything. I tried stool softeners. I tried Metamucil. Nothing worked. Fiber worked like a charm. I do it twice a day. I love it. And I'm like, great. That that's phenomenal. And I said, you know, that's exactly what you know. So really the the advent of GLP-1 agonist said really helped sales with fiberiz because people now really need it. Uh but I have to thank my number one fiber advocate out there guyino. There's no one who's been more more loyal to the fiberiz brand than Guy Cistanino. I mean he started out years ago as a species athlete. He's been using it since then and the guy buys it by the case. He's he's and he always advocates it and I I want to thank him for that because I do appreciate his friendship. Uh we got a similar question last week as far as some what you know I guess stack somebody was taking but they're not seeing gains. Well, this is a little bit more specific. They're saying they're on 250 uh deca from the pharmacy. So it's real stuff. 300 test uh pure from the pharmacy. So it's real stuff. Haven't seen much in terms of gains in about eight weeks. I'm I'm trained properly. Heavy weights, full range of motion, low volume. My nutrition is 95% on point. Uh, what can you possibly point out, I guess, without really seeing them in person? >> Yeah, I mean, it's I mean, everyone tells me they train, right? And I watch them train and they don't really train so good. Um, usually if you're eating enough food, he's obviously taking enough drugs that he should be growing, right? And assuming he's taking the right supplements, you know, he's get make sure he's getting all his vitamins and minerals and essential fatty acids. You know, I would advocate demineralize and omegaize assuming he's getting that because those remember all those vitamins and essential fats are necessary co-actors in all the chemical reactions and the essential fats are actually necessary for muscle re repairing muscle. So a lot of people tell me that oh you know I eat 350 400 grams of protein a day. How come I'm not growing? And then they're eating no no essential fats. You know remember the muscle cell is made up of muscle protein predominantly but the the coat that surrounds it or the cell membrane is made up of fats. So when you break down a muscle cell, you're breaking down the protein component and the fat component. So if you don't consume these essential fats on a regular basis, which is what's contained in omega, then you're you're you're not going to repair muscle adequately. And then that's going to be the limiting factor. You never want to have a lack of a nutrient because if there's a lack of a raw material, then your body will is only as good as as the smallest, you know, raw material. So if you're if you're lacking essential fats, your body can only build so much muscle as it has essential fats. If you're lacking protein, it can almost build it can only build as much muscle as it has, you know, dietary protein to make it from. So, you can't leave anything out. Now, I don't know. I'm not I'm not analyzing that. This person didn't give us his diet. You know, he just said, "I'm eating enough." But usually, when people say, "I eat enough," it means they eat enough protein. So, I would bump the fat up a little bit and see how that works out. Throw a cheeseburger in here and there, too, because saturated fats are important, too, not just essential fats. And a lot of times that will kickstart the muscle gains. >> Uh this one you might have to go a little bit deep into the bag of tricks. So so many different drugs, possible accommodations out there, but in your opinion, what would be the quote unquote ultimate bodybuilding stack if you can only pick one? >> Pick one drug or one stack? >> I stack. >> I mean, I kind of said it before. I kind of keep things really simple because simple works. Uh my one of my my favorites, you know, look, my favorite combo and and this is probably not the healthiest thing if you if you used it all the time, but I always said I believe that you could probably look just as good on stage if you only used testosterone, trendbolone acetate, and GH as if you used 25 other drugs on top of that because I think those are the most potent because we need testosterone for building ma muscle mass and maintaining, you know, dense muscle. Trenolone makes you crazy strong. It makes you look really good because you store glycogen at accelerated rate. It really causes no fluid retention and it makes you aggressive in the gym. And GH is like is like the lighter fluid on the fire. It makes it burn hotter. So you you burn more fat. You repair muscle better. You grow new mus you turn new uh satellite cells into new new or stem cells into new muscle fibers. So you got everything you need right there. If those were the only three drugs available to bodybuilders, I don't think they would look any different than they do right now. In other words, you would say, "Oh, what about old master and this one and that one and that, I don't think it matters. The problem is trembolone raises blood pressure and it creates anxiety and raises heart rate." So, you really don't want to stay on that all the time. It's not that good for you. But, I'm just saying in if I had to pick three drugs that that was the only drugs that I could possibly use. I think if we pick those if we put everyone on those three drugs, everyone would look exactly the same as they did now. question about Vmineraliz. Did the formula in Vmineraliz change? The last two bottles that I've received of Vmineraliz has had a very quote strong odor. >> No, you know, it's I mean I I didn't know I haven't noticed that, but I mean all these vitamins I mean think about how much how many vitamins are in that formula. Vitamins smell like very strong. Okay, that's that's a normal thing. If you ever go to like a manufacturing facility, I'm like AI'm like really weird. I love the smell of vitamins. I love the smell of flavoring systems. Like my like my like my kids like to go to Disneyland. I like to go to manufacturing facilities and and walk through it and look at all the ingredients they they got laying around on all the shelves and seeing look at the mixers and see how I love that smell. That smell like gets me like high almost because that's what I'm passionate about. But yeah, the the Vmineraliz because there's so much in there. I mean, there's think about there's blueberry extract, lycopine, all the the B vitamins and C vitamins, they they have a really strong strong smell. And you put all those together, a new bottle, when you pop it open, especially because it's summer now, it probably has a stronger smell because it's it's summer. In the in the winter when it's cooler out, you don't quite get the smell as much, but you definitely smell it more, the vitamin smell when the when the bottles are warm. And uh that's that's to be expected. Now, the new formula, there is a new formula going to be coming out probably next, you know, in early 2026 once we go through the the inventory we have, and I've talked about that and teased it. It's going to be an even greater formula, but right now, we're not ready for that. So, I'm not going to tease it too much. >> Question about blood thinners. How can having how rather how can being on blood thinners affect your training? Uh his question specifically, are you more susceptible to tearing fibers more easily while on blood thinners? >> Um no, you're not you're not going to tear muscle, but you could bruise more easily because remember if you're on a blood thinner, it means you're you're not clotting as well. So if you if you bruise yourself or you you bump into something that would normally would, you know, instantly clot, you know, and wouldn't even you wouldn't even notice it, you might get a bruise. So people do definitely notice more bruising when they're on blood thinners. It happens all the time. Um because once again, the clotting, you know, process is not completely inhibited, but it's blunted because they don't want you throwing clots in your bloodstream. So it kind of like blocks a little bit. Same thing with taking a lot of fish oil. Like when I take um when I'm on my Omega and I'm on all that vitamin E that's in in Bmineralized too. Um I I don't I have to literally you have to stop those vitamins before you get surgery because you'll actually bleed. They they inhibit the clotting process. And that's why when a lot of these doctors they tell you, okay, I want you to take a baby aspirin and and I want you to take this this blood thinner and that blood. You know, a lot of times they tell guys, you know, check your PT and INR times. That's your bleeding times. When I'm on these vitamins, my INR and and and PT time, which is how fast your blood clots are very high, which means that you don't clot very easily. Um, when your INR and PT times are short or or low, that means you you have a much higher propensity for clotting. So before these doctors start putting everyone on all these blood thinners, I think it's a better it would be a good idea for them to check the PT and INR times which they never do and just to get an idea of what the status is of the person's clotting because sometimes you can put them on too many anti-coagulants and that's not good either. Take a couple of more questions. This one is about lipol life specifically, but I'm asking this because I do want you to um extrapolate across the product line in terms of your logic behind dosing because the question is this. If you double the dose for lipolyze, >> will you burn more fat? So I I if you want to answer that but then also kind of go into the logic behind the dosing of lipolyze in terms of the fat burning mechanisms you want the body to achieve. >> Yeah. with, you know, with certain fat burners that are stimulant based. If you've increased the dosage too much, obviously you overstimulate your body, people can't sleep, they get anxiety, they get heart. There's no there's no stimulants in lipolyze. It just kind of wastes calories is one of the mechanisms of what it works by. So, it releases these calories as heat. So, if you take more, you'll release more, you'll waste more calories and you'll notice you get hotter, you know, on the stuff. And that's how it works by one. The other mechanism is it inhibits appetite by sensitizing leptin uh receptors in the body. Now leptin is the hormone your body releases to tell your body it's not hungry anymore. But a lot of times people have enough leptin but they don't have enough leptin receptors in their body. So they don't respond to excuse me. So they always feel hungry. By taking lipolyze it it creates more leptin uh receptivity by increasing receptor numbers and then your body senses that and it feels satiated or your appetite disappears. So more lipolyze less appetite and more calorie wasting. Now to a certain degree I know people that have taken 10 pills a day. I don't usually recommend it because I don't think it's necessary but I usually re I usually start people off at one pill three times a day with meals and work them up to five pills a day. But in extreme situations where you have, you know, maybe a week or two left for a show, you can definitely use more. But on a regular basis, I don't think it's necessary. >> Take one more. May sound simplistic, but again, people have questions about HGH and the best applications of HGH. HGH for bulking or cutting, which would you get the most bang for your buck? >> You know, I think you I think you get bang for your buck in in both situations. I always tell people in my in my mind GH is not the greatest fat burner. Like I know a lot of people say taking growth home because I want to get leaner. I said well if you really want to get leaner and you're picking something I would take clenbuterol andor T3. It's a lot cheaper number one than GH is really expensive and it works a lot better than than GH at burning fat. Now GH does have a fat burning effect. It directly mobilizes fat, but it's not it's not like, "Oh my god, I'm so lean." Clenbuterol and T3 are, "Oh my god, I'm I'm getting so much leader." Those work by that mechanism. And so, you don't get a lot of bang for your buck. Now, you do grow better, but the thing about GH, I've been saying this for years, and I think a lot of people just don't get it, is that it's it's a longterm commitment drug. Meaning that I I see these guys, you know, and even Dr. Todd, I don't agree with him and you sorry I didn't agree with him. You know, they're into like taking 12, 20 IUs of GH. First of all, I don't know anyone who can afford to take 20 IUs of GH a day. And if you can, all you're doing is creating more insulin sensitivity, excuse me, more insulin resistance in your body, okay? Uh because it works antagonistic to insulin. So, you're going to have high blood sugars. You're going to get much more bloating, numb hands. You're going to get a lot more side effects because your body can only release so much IGF-1 in response to taking GH. So, while GH is a great recovery tool, it it it definitely will increase muscle mass and the potential of more muscle because it it it activates stem cells and turns them into new muscle fibers. It's more of a long-term thing, you know, type of thing. It doesn't happen in two weeks. It doesn't happen in six weeks. The longer you're on it, the better your results. So, that's why I've always advocated lower dose over longer duration. So rather than take 10 IUs a day, take three or four IUs a day and take it every single day for for a year and you'll see with your anabolics, you'll see you'll see growth and recovery and you'll see tremendous benefits from it. The guys that take 20 IUs for eight weeks or 10 weeks or 12 weeks, that's all they can afford. They get really big real quick because it's because it it look they look like they're bigger because they're bloated out of their mind. and then when they go off it, they they lose all that water weight and they realize they didn't really gain that much and they and they took a lot of drugs. So, I'm not a big advocator of of high dose GH. I'm more of an advocator of moderate dose GH over a long period of time. If you're looking for fat burning, however, it's too much. It's too expensive to get you what you're looking for. You're not going to you're going to be very disappointed. >> That's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. Reminder, all new episodes of Heavy Muscle Radio, Dave and Chris Aceto live together in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania after pretty much an entire week there with the 2025 Teen Collegiate Masters National Championship, which again, congratulations to Fared Fared Muhammad Aceto, Christo's son, sweeping the Teen Classic physique overall as well as the teen bodybuilding overall. And of course a big shout out to our guy John Hansen at the age of 62 winning his pro card. So a great week and obviously uh if you catch up on our Instagram you see Dave, you see Chris and just about you know everybody big notable names there obviously. So again check that out. Coverage of the uh 2025 Masters Nationals team nationals is on the channel as well as well as yesterday's episode of the after hours podcast. And then again I'll put the tag up here for the Dr. Todd Lee Guru talk from last week. Very popular episode. Go check it out. Wealth of knowledge between Dave and Todd. So we'll do future episodes with him and then future episodes of Guru Talk as well. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadi Farooqi. We'll see you next time.