Welcome back to RX Muscles Road to the Arnold Classic 2017 brought to you by Quest Nutrition. Visit questnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and today we have IFBB Pro Heday Yamagishi, the defending Arnold Classic 212 champion on the line. Welcome, man. Thank you, Dave. Thank you, Johnny. Honor to be here. RX Muscle. Now, you're uh you're the defending Arnold 212 champion. you defeated uh Jose Raymond last year in a nailbiter right down to the last uh I guess you could say call out there and that was the biggest win of your career. Tell us about what that win meant to you especially the fact that you got to stand up on stage there with Arnold Schwarzenegger. Well, it's you know was dream come dream dream came true obviously and uh you know I've been pro since uh 2005 so it's it's been a long way you know uh it was my actually third third win and I finally uh took the Arnold title so uh I'm not going to you know give give it away to anyone I'm going to repeat it for sure then uh you know just uh start from there to the Olympia Heday, what do you think it was that that clinched that win for you last year? What did you have that maybe Jose didn't have last year? Well, you know, the everybody say my posing, you know, posing. Obviously, they start scoring posing round round three. So, uh it was my advantage and it's going to be my advantage, you know, too this year. But, uh truth is I I beat Jose the every round. So, uh you know, physique wise, I I was better. I was was better than him last year. So, uh this year I'm going to do the same and uh I you know the every guy is coming in in shape. So, I'm going to be better you know this time and then I am right now 10 days out. So, uh let's let's you know let's see what happened. Uh actually I I I'm kind of surprised now Dave you say that and I was you know it was my best condition. I I uh I kind of agree but you know I was in that kind of condition or I was even shredded probably like 2012 when I was in open but this time you know I kind of I mean last time last year I know I kind of uh finally start knowing how to manage my weight under 212 then uh conditioning and fullness you know it's it's not easy you know you you probably think you just come down 212 get shredded but it's it's not the case you know for me I actually right now I'm around 212 218 220 range but already you know same kind of condition so it's it's for me it it is big deal to get down to 12 in last 10 days from now you have to weigh in the day before the event you only have less than 24 hours to fill up. Is that correct? Correct. So, waiting is Thursday night and the patch is Friday morning. So, less than Yeah. 12 12 hours. Now, the Olympia, you have two days almost to fill out, which obviously is an advantage to the bigger guys like yourself and to Flex Lewis. What do you think happened at the Olympia to you? because we were everyone was expecting that Arnold Classic Heedday to show up. Um and then at the Olympia you wound up falling to sixth place. Tell us what happened. Uh only reason I could think of was my uh I came a little bigger cuz you know the obviously we had caroning for two days. So I came in little bigger than Arnold. Then uh uh it cost me probably I I put little uh weight on my waist. That's the feedback I got from the judges. One of the I s we thought my condition was actually better than Arnold. But you know the total package I I got to keep my waist tight. So uh this time around I don't you know it's it's hard to you know put on some weight only less than 12 hours. So we don't really think about the size. We we going to bring our my uh small tight waste that the package we we going to shooting for. So you think almost the fact that you didn't you couldn't carve up as much for the Arnold actually works to your advantage because you came in drier and harder and obviously the judges seem to like that better about you. Uh I think so. I agree with that. you know, you know, always think, you know, we think bigger is better, but uh 212 and my uh frame is not the case. If I do open, that's a diff different story. I can compete around 220. So, I can, you know, the my waist is my shoulder is more lot more flow. So, it's not the case. But this time around, I got to really, you know, watch my waist tight. right now. Um, you've been a sponsored athlete with Gaspari Nutrition for many years now. You have Gasp Nutrition behind you. Um, you're one of the athletes that actually makes money in this industry and and that's a rarity. Um, why do you think that your your sponsors are so loyal to you? Do you I mean, what do you do for them that that really makes them believe in you? I mean uh we have great relationship uh rich guest party and gas Michael and we've been together since as for party 2009 and gasp around the same time and I I you know I honestly say I work hard you know like it's not that easy to just you know the the going to overseas going to a lot of funerals every week But I never say no. And uh I always really happy to work for them. And uh I I I try to think like a CEO like you, you know, you like you guys, you know. I don't think like athletes. I want to think like you guys. So I try to understand what you guys want us to do. I think that's the reason why. Yeah. And you're always available for interviews for us. you market yourself very well, unlike some of the other competitors that kind of hide away a lot and they don't really they're not looking for any kind of uh PR so to speak. And I think that's a mistake that a lot of athletes make out there. They they think that their bodies will do the talking. But in today's uh age of social media, you really got to put your face out there, don't you? Uh when I signed 2009 with this party, it wasn't like this. you know social media was maybe only was Facebook but that that wasn't so big like this and now Instagram Snapchat everything else so big so uh we have to you know we it's like a training you know YouTube it's like kind of training you have to do it you know if you do like okay tomorrow tomorrow like next week it's not going to happen you got to do it like training on nutrition that's the way I I I take all all the social media yeah everyone Everyone pretty much out there knows that you and Iris Kyle 10 time Miss Olympia own the Body Cafe at the City Athletic Club in uh on Sahara in Las Vegas, Nevada. Amazing gym. You got a great little uh business there in the gym where you make shakes and you sell supplements. How's that business been going for you? It's been busy. You know, this is a time uh you have to be busy in this business like beginning of the year. Then summer is coming up. So uh we are growing and uh of course uh the smoothie and supplements we are limited you know we are small store but uh you know we trying to introduce more stuff you know to customers the best in the industry so uh I need to talk to you about the species nutrition too. I'm I'm waiting for three years already for you to bring it in there. I sent Iris a huge package of stuff and she used it all. She didn't put it in the store. She she by herself not for us but but you know I I actually honestly you know your your your products are really good. Thank you. I qu great reputation. So I need to talk to you. Okay. We'll we'll talk we'll talk after the show. Uh talk to me a little bit about your training. Are you still training with Iris or are you training on your own now? Uh yes, I training with Iris and uh but I we have a coach Patrick tour to he's in Switzerland. So he's he's sending us you know all the program nutrition and training we just do. But Iris is always pushing me hard and I need her you know somebody push me that that work for me. So we train together. Yes. Are you amazed at how hard Iris trains? Because she's been doing this for 25 years. I mean, and she's still training like it's her first day in the gym. I don't know how she keeps that enthusiasm going. Well, she trained actually hard and a smart that that's the reason, you know, she can last so long. Gota. She of course she she trained heavy, but she never train like a maniac, you know. She train really smart. Then she always control the weight and uh that's what I have to run and I've been training long too but you know she's been top than an Olympia 10 times so uh you know there are much more to learn you know I I got to learn from her. Yeah. Yeah. Well you know you also have a great environment there because that city athletic club has got the best equipment. You your business is right there. It's like you don't even have to leave the the gym. You can stay there all day and get everything you need accomplished. It's amazing. One one shop one-stop shopping so to speak, right? You're actually right. But you know what the like uh this close to the show sometimes you know the lots of not distraction but a lot things to do. You know how it is. You know if you come to the company lots to do you know there are lots to do. So uh I kind of you know try to avoid the you know the the daytime and I train in the morning or night time. So, you know, focus more on show, but you know, like a couple weeks before show, but other than that, it's the best, you know, environment. Like you say, you I agree with that. Uh, I want to ask you about one more person. Uh, obviously, we know Jose Raymond is coming back with a vengeance this year. He wants his title back. He wants to take it back from you. He's mad about losing last year. But we also have our second place finisher at the Mr. Olympia going to be in the lineup. uh the surprise of last year. Ahmad Ash Kenazi Kanani uh how do you think you'll stack up against him and why will you beat him? So he he's he's a freak, you know, like his height and he's he he looks like his height and width is same, you know. So like Jose is freak and everybody is different physique, you know. I'm more taller than I have larger the the structure. So that's my advantage. But you know what the end of the day the the best guy will win. So I just bring my best and you know I never really think about other guys. It's not disrespect you know everybody think that way and no one come to be second everyone wants the biggest check so that's me I want I want a number one I want the biggest check and uh you know second place first place is I don't know how much but how much difference but big different so all we are all professional we make money from this so uh you know I'm going to bring my best and I hope everybody's you know come in best shape and uh judges is going to decide who the best. Well, you were very impressive last year. You shocked the world. You won the title. You're the defending champion. We're looking forward to seeing you back up on that stage in less than two weeks from today. Good luck with your last minute preparations. Thank you, Dave. Thank you, Jeremy. Appreciate you guys help. And thank you for coming on the show today. And we'll see you in less than a week. And that will bring us to the end of another episode of the RX Muscle Road to the Arnold Classic 2017 brought to you by Quest Nutrition. Visit questnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo and we'll see you real soon.