Heat. Hey, welcome to the 2015 Arnold Classic preview show. We are here in the RX Muscle Studios in Westbury, New York, live. Uh I'm sitting here with Sadiq Farooqi, my co-host. And of course a little later on the show we'll have Lonnie the Swami Teeper calling in or skyping in as I should say in the new age or our new modern digital age and we'll be doing a little preview show. Now Chris Aceto was supposed to be here with us but uh he got stuck in an airport in Washington DC. The weather is just not agreeing with Chris Aceto this week. So uh we got a lot to talk about. We have the Arnold Classic coming up this weekend. Uh it's an exciting lineup. We have two new divisions. men's physique and women's physique this year. For the first time uh ever last year, as you guys might remember, women's bodybuilding removed from the program, and a lot of people were upset with that, but we got women's physique now this year with the men's physique division added. And we're going to have a lot of rematches of of sorts from the Olympia battles that are going to be waged up on the stage uh in front of Arnold Schwarzenegger. Uh you know, I've been going to the Arnold Schwarzenegger Classic since 1994. And so this would make, you know, my 21st year. And I got to tell you, every year gets bigger and better. And, you know, a lot of people don't realize, you know, this is bigger than the Olympics. That's right. The Olympic Games are not as big as the Arnold Sports Festival. And that that's how much excitement goes down. There's four days of non-stop action. And you know what? It's actually impossible to go to all the different events. You know, like in years past when I would make a a viewing of everything, you have to kind of pick and choose what you cover. But we are going to be there in full force. We'll be doing our live pregame show on Thursday night from the venue. Uh on Saturday, we'll be live streaming the Bob Goldman International Sports Hall of Fame uh ceremony where Triple H will be inducted, Lender Murray will be inducted, Michael J. White will be inducted, Evander Holyfield will be inducted. It's going to be a real exciting night. Then of course, we'll be doing live playbyplay on Friday and Saturday from the show. Sunday, we're going to do a special uh edition of Ask Dave from the Species Nutrition booth. And Sid, I believe the Species Nutrition booth will be what? Booth 709. It is 709 as you see on the top right corner of your screen. Booth 709. And as Dave said, uh, Sunday, I believe we're shooting for 1:30 in the afternoon. We're going to have a live version of Ask Dave. Again, Ask Dave 30 minute question and answer show that has received rave reviews so far on rxmuscle.com. And it's all because of you, the RXMuscle community, of course, all the fans on the Muscle Central forum. But Dave, again, uh it's it's going to be a very lively atmosphere as you said, especially uh where we're going to be at the Species Nutrition booth. I know you're going to be running around muscle one day, species one day, but we have a lot planned. We have uh a lot of different interactive elements planned. So, for our athletes, Akeem Williams, we're going to have the Akeem Williams push-up competition. So, can Aake do push-ups? I know he can bench press like 500 lb, but can he do push-ups? He says he's okay at them, but you know, knowing him, we could have some fun with it. We could stack some You You brought this idea up on a previous episode. We We stack some girls up on his back, see how many girls That's fun. That That's going to be fun. So, we're going to have competitors come to the booth and uh you know, test their strength in the push-up push-up forum. Uh Anna Elise, our new one of our newest athletes, she's going to be coming on putting on a stretching exposition. Um so, we have a lot planned. I'd like to participate in the stretching expedition because I'll tell you something, Sid, I actually am very flexible, believe it or not. A lot of people don't realize that because I'm I was so big for many years, but I I could do splits and I just happen to be very flexible. So, I want to see how flexible I am compared to her. Now, I've watched some of her pole dancing uh and full fitness routines that she does. She's almost can, I think, ever herself into a pretzel, which I don't think I can do. It's amazing uh with Anna Elise Bowman. And of course, uh, as we announced yesterday, I'm forgetting what day it is. Today is Monday night. Last night, Sunday night, uh, we did announce that we have, in fact, Species Nutrition has in fact signed Sarah LeBlanc as a allnew, uh, elite sponsored athlete. She's going to be competing in the Bikini International. I've always been a fan of of Sarah's physique. I think that, you know, she is one of the most under even though she's won four shows last year, she's still underrated. She's kind of off the radar and a lot of people don't realize that, but I think that Sarah uh could be the surprise of this show. A lot of people are obviously talking about reigning Miss Olympia, Ashley Coltwer, India Paulina who's been a veteran of the bikini division, but I think Sarah's momentum is really rising and I I think we're going to see a top three finish from her and that's super exciting. We're going to get her on the show. We're going to get her response in a little bit. But right now, I understand we have Jason Poston on the line. One of my favorite men's physique competitors in the lineup. Uh, I have to believe that he is one of the favorites here. Jason, welcome to the show. What's up, Dave? I know you're my favorite. I thought I was a favorite. Well, you're my favorite. I don't know if you are the favorite, but you're my favorite in the lineup. And I'm friends with Sadique, too. But I, you know, you know, I really like your physique. I love your work ethic. I think you got a great look for men's physique. I think that you you're differentiated enough from the bodybuilding division, and I think a lot of people can relate to your physique. Do you think that you have the momentum going into this show or does Sadi have it given the fact that he was second at the Olympia? I mean, can you really get momentum by placing second somewhere? I mean, you get momentum by winning, you know? I mean, I'm just shooting you guys straight because it's peak week. So, you know, I'm I'm grumpy, tired, but the truth is, you know, I've never finished second at a show and felt like I gained a lot of momentum um going into uh another show. Now, he did, you know, he was he was placed better and and the judges scored him better. But, you know, I still like my momentum being the fact that I was one of the only guys out of state and even from Texas to go into to New York and and win right in his hometown and um in front of a whole New York crowd. I mean, the top five, everyone was from New York. So, I was and that was my third show in a row three weeks in a row. So, you know, we look at like accomplishment. We look at momentum and it truly doesn't it doesn't really matter. I think it's all comes down to this Friday. Plus, it's 2015 now. There really is no momentum because no one has competed this year. First show of the year. This is the show that sets the I guess you could say the standard for the rest of the year. A lot of people believe that the Arnold Classic champion is usually the guy who will win, you know, the Olympia later in the year because of the momentum buildup that they do get from this show. Obviously, the Arnold stage probably being, you know, aside from the Olympia, the number one venue to to showcase yourself. A lot of guys like doing the Arnold better than the Olympia because they want to get their hand raised by Arnold Schwarzenegger. What would it mean to you to get your hand raised up and to get the medal from Arnold and to have him interview you on stage like he does for all the champions? I think it would be if it would be the most epic moment of my life. And um you know the the Olympia is the Super Bowl. It's a championship, but um a lot of times things mean thing um a lot to an athletes heart and um you know there's some there's sometimes people just absolutely love you know competing at home in front of their family or in front of where they grew up and with Arnold it's just about competing at the guy who who really paved the way for us. So, you know, to be on a prestigious stage, invite only, only 11 dudes in the world. Um, it's it's definitely has a lot of hype going into it and it has I have a lot of respect for this show and and that's why I put more work in this show and everything I've learned over the past three years. I've just put more in this show than ever before, you know. And also, let's not forget, you know, people who might not know who you are, although I think everyone in the in our industry knows who you are by now. You know, you're a type 1 diabetic. You know, obviously, it's a lot more difficult for you to have to diet and prepare and peak yourself for these shows. Um, it's got to be a great success story if you win this first Arnold Schwarzenegger Classic. I h I have to believe that that newspapers and magazines and and TV media will pick this story up. Um, what does it mean to you to be representing, you know, that community of type 1 diabetics, you know, that you do so well? You know, it means a lot because the way that I've managed it and the way that I monitor my blood sugar, it's just so stable. It's it's really unheard of as far as the the clients that I work with and the clients that my diabetes coach, Colette Nelson, works with. And it's just all about a system. So the point is is the way that I diet and prep for these shows um about you know half and half 50/50 you can you can basically uh take that on and carry it on into your normal everyday life and control you know diabetes. And so it's it's something that's preventable. And so that's why I love competing is because I I it's my chance to be on a on a stage for for many different reasons. And one reason is to show diabetics that you know you can do whatever you want. you just need to monitor your blood sugar and uh you know watch your carbs and you need to really you know just uh test often and so it's an honor to to represent people who I know struggle you know every day and um and also just everyone else who struggles with all their problems in life as well. I mean everyone's got some type of you know issue everyone's got hard times you know it's just a matter of what do you do when those hard times hit. So, you know, I I kind of uh like to think that the past 3 years competing has helped me manage the diabetes. Now, when Arnold asks you, uh, let me ask you, Jason, when you uh when you train for the show, uh, what kind of diet do you eat? Will you will you bring up the fact that you're a type 1 diabetic and that you don't eat carbs? I mean, I I don't want to argue back and forth with Arnold about my diet, but I have to do what I have to do. And um, it, you know, it's worth Will you bring it up? Will you bring it up, though? that you you're well you mentioned that since you have a you you basically have the world stage at your beck and call right there. Uh obviously that would be a great way to you know present to the community you know what you've done and what you've overcome and accomplished. You know, I I would like to think that'd be a great time, but I probably wouldn't uh bring it up on stage or, you know, if I had a a time away and Arnold was asking me questions, but I'm not the type to sit there and really talk about myself and tell the ins and outs of my diet and all that stuff, especially with a champion like like Arnold. um you know if he asks me questions I'll happen to bring up some stuff but you know for the most part um this is something that I'm really trying to strategically build and and so that I can affect the diabetic community correctly not not just when I'm on my you know get a trophy you know I we've got an ebook and um you know some articles coming out with some different websites and uh you know I'll continue to update my social media and then a website on the way so you know the time will be right soon But uh I'll probably I'll probably just be, you know, if I could walk away an Arnold champion, um I think I'd be thinking more about just that that moment and not necessarily uh necessarily the struggles I've gone through, you know. Well, that'll be uh I'm looking forward to hopefully seeing you in that winner circle. Now, let me before I let you go, I I know you have limited time and we have a lot of guests to get to. I want to see a front double bicep pose because I always brag to everyone about what a great front double buy you got if you were ever a bodybuilder. I said this guy would be a champion even in the bodybuilding division. Man, today is super. You know, you know how Colette has taught us to do our diet. Today is no carbs, no fat. Yesterday was no carbs. You want me You're shredded. Come on. Let's see. Can we Can we uh Can we do a back double bicep? Can I Well, give us the front first, then you can do the back, and then we'll And then we'll just let you go. How about that? All right. Okay. All right. I'm going to get my client from Romania. He's right here. And I'm going to have him hold up the camera. Say what's up, Alex. Hey, what's up, Alex? Another good looking guy. Romanian see men's physique, too. Look at that. Holy man. Alex, you hold up this camera for me. Hold up. Hold it up right there. Just from behind. There you go. It up. Would you look at that guy? This guy, I'm telling you, bodybuilding champion right there if you wanted to. All right, I'm going to do that, too. Here we go. I'd like to see him and Sadik go front and rear double bicep on stage. I bet you that would be way more exciting. Look at that back. You don't even need the carb up. He's shredded. Wow. I'm impressed, Jason. And you got good hair, too. Well, it was great talking to you. Good luck at the Arnold. We will see you there on Friday up on stage uh in the expo hall. And uh I hope you come home uh with the championship. Me too, Dave. I look forward to talking to you behind the scenes, too. All right, that was Jason Poston. All right, guys. Now, Sid, we uh we have Lonnie Teeper now who is going to Skype in next and we're going to do the preview show because a lot of people like predictions and a lot of the people in the press are afraid to give their predictions because they're friends with this guy or that guy. And you know, Lonnie Teper and I are not afraid to throw it on the line. Chris Aceto for that matter too. But Chris is in an airport someplace in Dallas, Dallasos airport, Washington DC. So let's get the Swami on the line. Johnny Styles and uh Sid, I want to say something to you. You know, uh a lot of people um always ask me, you know, who's going to win a show? And the truth of the matter is we really can't make good predictions in bodybuilding because the best guys sometimes don't show up in shape. And if they don't show up in shape, all the predictions are out the window. So I always go with the the person who's the most consistent. The most consistent person in the lineup is Dexter Jackson. Dexter Jackson, okay, has won four Arnold Classics. He's tied for the record with Flex Wheeler. He arguably could win five this time around. If if I was a betting man, I had to throw my money on it, I would put it on Dexter Jackson, even though there's guys in the lineup who can certainly beat him just because of consistency. Oh, they call him the Ageless wonder. Again, name of the game is consistency. This is one thing that I've learned about this sport now having been in it for about a year or so. You can't go off what somebody did few months ago. You can't go off, well, they're I mean, again, it's easy to say they're riding momentum coming into a show. Now, granted, that's going to be in the eyes of judges, the eyes of the, you know, the the fans of the public. But as for what they're going to bring on a stage, I mean, this is what I've learned from you. This is, what I've learned from Lonnie Terra, who's going to be on in a couple of minutes, what I've learned from Chris Aceto. Somebody could show up in the afternoon session looking one way and come in in the evening session looking completely different. Absolutely. So, I mean, again, it's just a matter of do you have it at that moment and do the judges see it? Well, you know, the way I see it, Justin Compton impressed the hell out of me last year when he won the Orlando uh show of champions and I really feel that he has to be one of the favorites going to the show. Also, Cedric McMillan, who was third here last year, uh was super impressive. And between the two of them and Dexter Jackson, I to me that's my top three. Now, we're going to get Lonnie on and I want to see what Lonnie's uh impression is of the whole thing. But I bet you Lonnie is going to be mentioning the name Dexter Jackson. Dexter not only being a four-time Aral Classic champion, but also winning the Olympia in 2008. A lot of people don't realize that people love to ri and make fun of Dexter. And Dexter always throws it right in people's face. I'm Mr. Olympia and I will always be a Mr. Olympia. Well, that is one thing that I have learned about Dexter Jackson. He's very opinionated and especially when it comes to, you know, again, proving people wrong, right? Because he's when you show that Super Bowl ring, you won the Super Bowl. He won the Olympia. You can't take that away from him. But we had uh Sean Rhoden Flexatron on a couple of weeks ago in Iron Debate and and what did he say? Who is it going to come down to? He said it's going to come down to Dexter. Yeah. Dexter and Cedric. That's what he thought. But he was giving the edge to Dexter. Yeah. I'm I'm giving a little more credit to Justin Compton. We're going to talk about that a little bit in a minute, but I want to just talk about the uh species nutrition booth for a minute because I know you have a whole itinerary of stuff that's going to be going on there. We're going to be sampling the new Proalyze cookies and cream pudding the whole weekend. So, people will be able to taste that. I have a feeling we have like hundreds of pounds of stuff we brought. I have a feeling we're going to run out after probably Saturday. We I hope we have enough for Sunday because there's so much pudding we're bringing and there's so many people who go through the Arnold Classic that that you know, you never know what's going to happen at this thing. Well, I will say this much. I know Lonnie Terra is on the line now, but the the couple of new flavors that we've brought out, Cinnamon Donut and Cookies and Cream, have been absolute hits. And when we've told people that they're going to have a chance to sample the cookies and cream at the show, I mean, that in of itself is worth the trip. again uh with the booth that we have species nutrition. Again, it's going to be very interactive. We we we've got a sound system there. We're going to have Ask Dave Live and we're going to be giving away Now, I don't know if they know about this. I didn't know about this. What are we giving away? We're going to be giving away bracelets. I thought we were giving it away with a date with Sarah Leblanc. No, that sounds a lot more interesting. Yeah, but they'll have to Sarah's married. We can't do that. Yeah, they will they'll have to settle for bracelets. They're going to be species nutrition bracelet. Oh, you did get the bracelet. Yes. So, we have really cool looking. So to the first thousand that come to the species nutrition booth booth 709 and sign up for the mailing list they're going to get a and these are a thick 1inch bracelet. That's it. A lot of people don't like mailing list but I'm going to tell you we're I'm going to be doing a tip of the day. Yes or tip of the week or we haven't figured out if you guys sign up for the mailing list you're going to get a lot of good information from me and that and that's something I know that a lot of people want. They want information. People are knowledgeable knowledge thirsty. But let's get to the Swami himself. He's on the line now. Lonnie Teper calling in from California. How's it going? What's up? Sit back a little, Lonnie. I'd like to see a little bit more of your face. There you go. You see my Arnold jacket, baby? Stand up a little bit. Let me see it. Got my Arnold jacket. Let me see. A little lower. There it is. I saw it. It's I think Leon Brown has that same jacket. Arnold gave it to him, right? Yeah, I got one free, too. So, you know, now it's for free. It's for LT Lonnie. Everyone knows that when it comes to predictions, you are the swami. You probably have the the most winningest prediction record of anyone in the industry. I'm probably on the bottom. I I always get it wrong. You seem to do a little better than I do. You do a little bit more research. I think I got the LT point that that Puerto Rican guy's trying to steal. Yeah. Yeah. Johnny Styles 15 years ago. 15 years ago. Lonnie, that's right. Johnny St has stolen your your picture pointing when you point. Oh, many times imitated, never duplicated. I guess that's the best form of flattery, right? When people Puerto Rico. All right, let's talk about the lineup. Lonnie, obviously a a deep lineup at this year's Arnold Classic. Cedric McMillan, Justin Compton, Dexter Jackson, he um uh Ry Winkler in that lineup. Evans sent the ponti. Who do you like? Who does the Swami think is going to win this event and why? Well, you know, this show is Dexter Jackson's Delose. Uh, coming off a great performance at the Olympia. He was fifth place. The guy's 45 years old. He never seems to age. And if he wins this one, he breaks Wheeler's all-time record. They're tied with four wins a piece. This gives him the all-time record. So, in addition to the 130K to stick in his bank account, he's got an all-time record that I don't think will ever be shattered, at least in our lifetime. It's pretty incredible when you think about it that Dexter is going for number five at 45 years of age. And he's still as dominant as he ever been. And you know, you're right, he is the favorite because he's the most consistent bodybuilder. I was mentioning this to Sid a little earlier in the show. The problem is there might be some guys with better talent in the lineup. Maybe Cedric McMillan, maybe Justin Compton, but no one has the track record of consistently coming in at their best as as Dexter Jackson has. And I think that you're right, that's got to make him the favorite. Well, Dave, look at this statistic. I'm not sure if it's exactly 100% correct, but it's something like in his last 72 pro shows and his I think the last 72 he's been in the top five in 65 of them. Wow. and another one he was sixth at the Olympia. Who has the most wins, Lonnie? Is Is Dexter there yet? Uh, I don't know. I think uh Coleman had like 22. Dexter's got to be close. A bunch of Masters victories. I think he had tw Leavone. Taylor had in the early 20s. I think Leavone had 20. I think Coleman's in the 20s. I think that Dexter's right behind Coleman at this point. And you know what? Another win here would certainly put him Let me ask you this question. If Dexter wins this Arnold and gets the five wins, sets the record plus the one Olympia win. Does he become one of the most impressive bodybuilders in the history of the sport? I've already uh said that in my column, my news and views column in Iron Man magazine. I said it two years ago and I reiterated it again last year when he was my bodybuilder of the year. He is probably the most underappreciated superstar of all time. Uh this guy is just under 5'7. He went to high school with me. You know, he claims to be 248 pounds and he's like 223 pounds. And you know, the guy is just he's just phenomenal. He's he's old. He's short. He he's theoretically kind of small. Even though you see him in person, his arms look like they're 20 in. Uh the guy just has overcome unbelievable odds. I remember when he was a bantamweight when he started his career. You know what the funny thing is, Lonnie, though? You look at his physique and he doesn't have like damaged looking body parts. You know how like a lot of these guys when they get older like they the legs come down. He kind of looks the same as he did when he when he was competing 10 years ago. Yeah. I think he looks better. I think he's bigger. I may actually believe him now when he says he's near 230 pounds on stage. Crazy. Incredible. Let's talk about Justin Compton, the young rookie since he's not even a rookie anymore, but last year was his rookie season. He won the Orlando Show of Champions in a splendid fashion. I mean, he really dominated that event. He impressed the hell out of us early in the year and then he kind of just shut it down. Didn't do the Olympia. Worked on putting more size on gunning towards this Arnold Classic. This is all he's got in his sights. He's the youngest guy in the lineup at under 30 years of age. I mean, is this a guy who could win this event, Lonnie? You know, I don't know if he can win it. I IMC a contest up in Sacramento on November 1st and he was the guest poser. The kid is absolutely huge and he's got pretty uh darn good symmetry for a guy that size. He's got a lot of beef, but you know what? He hasn't been in this field before. And Dexter's gone against the best of all time and held up, right? So these other people, do they have the ability to win this show? Sure. Particularly if Dexter Jackson's off. I think the key is if Dexter Jackson is spot on, can anybody beat him regardless of what they look like? I I don't That's a good question, Lonnie. And you know, the question comes down to is Compton Compton's size and nasty conditioning that we know he can get going to be enough to beat Dexter. I I think it might be. I don't know if if Justin, you know, he hasn't done that many shows, can consistently bring the look that he brought last year in, that's going to be up for grabs. But I think if Justin Compton personally is at his best, I don't think Dexter can beat him. Well, you know, I hear what you're saying when you're comparing, you know, the whole package, but Dexter's proven it to me over and over and over again, and Justin hasn't. He's new to the game. You know, I'm seeing pictures of Evans Aani who looks huge. Yeah. You know, and I don't know if he could dial it in, but what if he, you know, we it sounds like you have Compton no worse than second. I'm not so sure that's a done deal. I have confident in the top three. My my my other guy who I think is in the top three is going to be Cedric McMillan who was third last year. Arguably could have been second last year or higher. I mean, he's the biggest guy in the lineup. Structurally, he's the most impressive. I think Arnold himself gave him the compliment of saying that he's the only guy that he really loves to watch pose. Uh he's a true, you know, artistic poser. Uh, I think if Cedric comes in at at 100%, it's his show to lose because structurally he's better than Dexter. Um, I don't know if conditioning wise he can match Dexter. Yeah. Uh, you know, he's a great bodybuilder. When I saw him, you know, I hosted the Nationals when he won four or five years ago, right? And I thought, you know, this guy's going to be in the top five in the Olympia very first year. He's got a confidence problem. He doesn't believe in himself. A few times that I talk with him, got a tremendous physique. He's 6'1, maybe 61 and a half. Carries about 260 265 pounds, really balanced, and you know, some people called him the next Lee Haney. And uh, of course, he's a lot bigger than Lee was. And if he nails his condition, this is going to be a very interesting battle. As you mentioned earlier, the the depth of this lineup is outstanding. This is really, even though Dexter has to be the odds on favorite going in, right? This is a show where three or four different guys could win this thing and I wouldn't call it a major upset. Top if you got the these guys that we just mentioned in this top three, Cedric McMillan, Dexter Jackson, Justin Compton, all at their best, which we know never happens. Um, if they're all at their best, who do you think wins in that? Uh, I'm still going with Dexter. You will? Okay. I I I say Cedric McMillan wins if he's at his best. He's a lot bigger. He's a lot bigger. He He could definitely overpower him. That there's no question. I just think that he's probably the biggest wild card as to whether he'll be at his best. That that's the problem. I think that Compton will be hard as nails. Will he be too flat or too or full enough? That's a question that we don't know. We know Dexter will be at 100%. He always is at 100%. Well, let me ask you this question, Jumbo. You know, a guy that we kind of all wrote off came back last year and was sixth at the Olympia, Branch War. He's won this contest a couple times. He won the most muscular four times in a row when they used to have that. Is is are people overlooking him or is this just too much to ask for him to battle for the title again? People always overlook Branch Warren and that's when he does his best. I mean when he came back after 6 months after a quad tear and won his second Arnold Classic title. No one could argue with the fact that he deserved to win because everyone came in off. So Dex I mean Branch is similar to Dexter in that respect. When guys are off, Branch gobbles them up and eats them for lunch because he just comes in with that gnarly conditioning and he he's got the dense muscle. He might not have the greatest shape, but when the shape guys are not at their best, Branch beats him. And uh you know, he's going to be waiting in the wings for these guys just like he always is. And I can tell you if Compton's off or Cedric's off, Branch will pass these guys and he'll reel them in. Well, and Senapani, don't forget him. You know, guy's a big guy. a lot of muscle, probably 5'11, near six foot, 260, 265 pounds. Again, I've been seeing pictures of him on the internet, which doesn't really mean a hell of a lot. You know, everybody looks good in the gym except me. And uh you know, the guy's just a monster. He's he's huge. He's got the greatest upper body you could ever ask for. He's got amazing calves. His back and chest have come up tremendously. But, you know, the pictures that I've seen, he's always wearing these long shorts covering those thighs. You know, while he's got good front quads, his inner thighs, his glutes and hams have always been his weakness. You know, even when he first turned pro, they just never were a strong body part from him. And because his calves are so huge and his upper body is so impressive, we want to see more leg in there. And I think that he's going to have trouble against guys like Compton with the big meaty quads and trouble against Cedric with the big quads. Rule Winkler, who we haven't talked about yet. Uh, a and you know, Evan will will do well in a lineup where guys are a little off because we know he'll be peeled to the bone. He always is. I think, you know, we're going to need to find out whether his legs did come up. He's been training with Oscar Arden the last six months and I know he's been driving down to Brooklyn to Oscar's little dungeon gym and Oscar's been putting them through the paces, you know, with the leg workouts. So, it'll be interesting to see. I haven't seen his legs. I don't know if they're purposely keeping them covered up. Um, here's a little impromptu posing that Johnny Styles found. And uh, Lonnie, look at him. I know you can't see it, but his quads look good, but to me, his uh, his inner thighs are not what they probably need to be, but his legs have definitely improved. You know, he's good. You know, I I don't want to count this guy out. There's five or six people here who, you know, you mentioned Ry Winkler. Guys, is anybody gonna have more muscle pound-for-pound than Winkler? What if he nails his conditioning? Right. Right. True. Uh, were you impressed with the Winkler we saw at the Olympia? Because I felt that he was a little almost too full. His stomach was a little bloated. He seemed to get better at the shows after the Olympia, the European tour. But, uh, I felt that Winkler was better last year than he was this year. No, he definitely was better the year before. I knew he was in trouble when I saw him at the buffet line with me at the hotel. No, I'm just kidding. He wasn't there. But, uh, he was at the sushi. He was too heavy last year and the stomach was sticking out. He he does have that problem. He packs so much muscle and the guy's pretty short. I don't think he's over 5'6. Yeah, I don't think so either. And he he gets kind of out of whack when he puts on too much weight. And he's a former Arnold amateur winner. So, he turned pro on the same stage that he'll be competing on. Actually, the stage will be different, Lonnie, because they moved the venue because the Veterans Memorial this year is closed and they've shut it down and they're making condos there. And now, I guess the new venue is inside the convention center. Is that correct? Right. the Grand Patel and uh you know it's going to be interesting to see it's gonna be hard to match the the ambiencece of the old stadium you know the old auditorium right but nobody was using it as Jim Lurmer told me the only time it was rented out was basically for the Arnold Fitness Sports Fest weekend so you know they they couldn't justify keeping it alive and I don't know if we're going to have the same ambience um I hope so I I'll find out what will you be what will you be MCing this coming weekend, Lonnie. Well, I haven't been officially told, but I usually do the same thing every year. It should be the men's 212 and under on Friday night, the Bikini International on Saturday night, and the Arnold Classic on Saturday night. All right. Well, we're looking forward to seeing you up on that stage with the MC. Mike, let's talk about the 212 division, Lonnie. Uh Eduardo Koreah, second at the Olympia, will be battling it against Jose Raymond, who was third at the Olympia. Flex Lewis not in the lineup. These two guys have to be considered the favorites. Um, who do you like? Uh, I'm going to go with Korea. The guy was was shredded at the Olympia. I actually thought he should have won the Olympia to be honest. He might have. Jose Raymond looked terrific, too. And, you know, they have to be one two going in. But I tell you, uh, a guy I'm not sure Aaron Clark was very good last year. I like him. And I'm wondering about the Asian creation, Hidata Yamagishi. You know, if he comes in at his best, can he battle these guys? I don't know if he could beat uh Eduardo Korea. And Joseé Raymond to me is looking absolutely insane. He's posted pictures. He's going to actually call in a little later in the show. His legs are are ridiculous. He's full. He's vascular. This could be a big show for Jose if he can come home with the title here. and it should certainly give him a ton of momentum going into the Olympia. Um to me, you know, Eduardo from behind is a little is maybe a little better, but Jose's got those great wheels. Yeah, he's you know, he's a phenomenal bodybuilder. He has been for many many years. Um another unappreciated guy. He's he's he's a terrific bodybuilder. And if the guy won this contest, it would be no surprise to me. What about Charles Dixon? I've seen some wacky wacky training footage of Charles Dixon. He's just looking ridiculous is the only way I could I could put it. I mean, I don't know if you remember last year's show. Uh I introduced him at 5 foot3 and he came off the stage and he said some change. So 53 and some change. The guy is terrific and I definitely have him in the top five. But you know it's going to be tough with Korea and Jose Raymond, Aaron Clark, Yamagishi. This is not a weak lineup. Yeah. No, I I think that, you know, we have never seen Dixon at his best on stage and I think that if he can, you know, whenever I see guys posting footage on like Facebook and stuff like that and on the message boards, I get nervous when they look too good, Milani. Especially when it's a few weeks out because it usually means they're going to screw it up somehow when they get up on stage. But Dixon at a week out or two weeks out looked like he could he owned the show. Um, how he shows up in Columbus is anyone's, you know, is anyone's I don't think anyone's, not even Raymond's probably gonna have more muscle than this guy. This guy really is phenomenal. He is phenomenal. Um, so who's Give me your top three in the uh 212. I'm going to go with Koreah, Raymond, and Clark. One, two, three. Okay. I'm going to go Raymond, Koreah, and put Dixon in there. Dixon. I'll put Dixon. I'm gonna go Dixon third. Give me your top three for the men's open in order. Uh Dexter Jackson, Cedric McMillan, and Justin Compton. I am going to go Cedric McMillan, Justin Compton, Dexter Jackson. How about that? The blade is rusty, baby. With um with Ry Winkler fourth and Evans at the Ponty fifth, Branch Warren sixth. That's my my guess. Well, fourth, fifth, and sixth sounds okay. Uh, you know, I'll you need to meditate a little bit tonight. Is it still cold back there or what's going on? Let's see. You need to loosen up, man. I can't go with your predictions. I got to go against your burritos back there. I got to go against you. All right, let let's We had Jason posting on a little earlier in the show. We got Sadi Hodzik calling in. Even though Sadi lives around the corner from us here, he's going to call in a little later. Skype in a little later. Who do you like in the men's physique division? Sadi Hodzik was second at the Olympia. Uh Jason Poston was third, but Jason beat Sadi at the New York Pro earlier in 2014. This has got to be the rematch of rematches. Who do you like for the championship? Well, I'm a little biased because uh next month you will see in the cover of Iron Man magazine, I wrote a cover story on Jason Poston. Oh, really? Man Mag under the new ownership of Benise and Katpovich. Matter of fact, they're having their relaunch party tonight, which I'm probably going to pass on. So, I got to teach early in the morning. But, uh, so I'm biased towards Jason because I know him. I got to know him a lot better when I interviewed him. But, this Sadique guy, he's got a tremendous physique, man. You know, it's a tossup between those two guys. Yeah. Just Johnny playing some Olympia footage. We haven't gotten to Sadique or Jason yet, but, you know, Jason is to me got the classic men's physique looking physique. Uh, Sadi is so good that he almost looks bodybuilder-ish. Like he I see him more as a bodybuilder. I like both of them because I'm the bodybuilder's bodybuilder obviously. Um, I I can't even decide between the two of them because they actually have different structures and different physiques. What do you think the judges are looking for? Are they looking for more of a bodybuilder-ish physique or are they looking for more of like a mainstream body? And what do you think? Well, that's a good that's a good question, Jumbo, because one of the one of the questions when I was talking with Jason, I said, "Anything you'd like to see changed?" Yeah. In the men's Z, he goes, "Yeah, I wish they'd let us like squeeze hard one pose, you know, and and really, you talked about Sadi, but I think Jason looks like a bodybuilder as well." Yeah. And uh it's kind of gone to that to where I describe men's physique as a smaller version of a bodybuilder. Yeah, I guess you could say that. I mean, I'm we're looking at the footage of of Sadique right now up on the screen and uh you know, Sadi has got a tiny waist. He's got those great capped wide delts. Uh I'm going to make him hit a pose for us, too. But I made Jason post and hit a front and rear double bicep post. And I'm telling you, looking at that upper body, you would say, "Here's a guy who can win the nationals, you know? Um I mean, that's how good his upper body was. Here he is walking out on screen now. I mean, these guys got great chest, delt, arms, all the showy muscles they got there. And I know if these guys really train legs because they were scored, those would look great, too. Yeah, that that's like you say, this is a great battle. Uh there's a couple other pretty good guys in that lineup, too, though, that aren't ready to throw in the towel and say, "Hey, it's only between those two guys." No, of course we have Anthony won the first Olympia, and he's got something to prove because he was six last year in Las Vegas. I was going to bring that up. Is Mark Anthony washed up or is you think he's going to come back better than ever and reclaim the title that he lost? I don't know if washed up would be the correct term. Uh the the question is since they went to a more muscular look last year, is he as good as those guys under that criterion? Was Mark Anthony downsizing himself purposely because that was the look they were looking for? Now he had six months since the Olympia to pack on some size, come in harder. You know, does he have what it takes to to knock these guys off given the new standard? Uh, you know, I don't know. I haven't seen him bigger. I know Sadique and Jason are very muscular and, you know, the small waist and, you know, the round round muscles. It's going to be tough. I'm still going to have to put those guys one two. Yeah, me too. All right, let's talk about women's physique. We're going to have a rematch of the Olympia. Dana Lin Bailey, the former Miss Olympia, was unseated by Juliana Malikarnney uh this past September. They will be battling it out at the first ever women's physique international uh on Friday night or Friday late afternoon, I should say, early evening. And uh Lonnie, the question remains, can Dana Lyn Bailey regain or defeat Juliana now that Juliana is the reigning Miss Olympia? Well, it depends on what the standards are. You know, when they first started women's physique, they talked about a much smaller version of of a bodybuilder, and Dana Lynn looked like she had that. Now, uh, Juliana, of course, has a marvelous physique, a much more powerful physique, more muscular. If they go route that route and she shows up in prime time condition, I think it's a dead lock. Uh, I can't see anybody beating her. But, you know, it's still kind of new and and I don't know exactly what they're looking for. But, uh, the way Juliana looked at the Olympia, I I don't know how anyone's going to touch her. Ironic, she's top shape. If she's in top shape, ironically, Lonnie, when you when you talk to Juliana, she actually weighs less than Dana does. She's only 120 pounds. It's all an illusion. Yeah. And, uh, you know, Juliana turned pro at winning the World Championships in body fitness, which was really figure essentially. So, she never was a bodybuilder. A lot of people don't realize that. She just has a lot of muscle and and she has a lot of muscle maturity. She's not 25 years old. She's been training for a long time. She's got the great Brazilian butt and and glutes and hamstrings and all that stuff. And I think that, you know, I I just like that. I think she flows better than Dana. Dana's got a terrific physique. And, you know, we're cutting we're basically, you know, trying to dissect the atom here because they're both so close. It's really personal preference at this point. Well, how about Ty Coppet? I think she's really good, too. She structurally might be better than both of them. I don't know. Yeah. I mean, could she battle for this title? I think we're going to see a battle between Dana and Juliana. That's what the fans want. The judges have been, you know, obviously pitting them against each other at the Olympia. And the question remains, Lonnie, who do you predict? Uh, I'm going to go with uh Mel McCarnney without question. Uh, was cop at third at the Olympia last year? I'm trying to remember. I'm going to go for an upset and put CPAT in second. Wow. Okay. The Swami has spoken. Who do you got in third? I got Dana in third. And fourth. Uh let me look at that lineup. I I kind of like uh Karina. Who did you say? She's good. Karina. Karina Nasnto. Yes. She was fourth at the Olympia. And then Jillian Rell coming off her uh starring role on Deadly Sins, which I appeared on as well. She played the role of Kelly Ryan on Deadly Sins last week. Were you in that movie? Yes, I was. I was interviewed. One of the people interviewed. I didn't know that. Okay. Yeah, it was uh cable TV. I thought you were the one of the firemen who put out the fire on the car. I did that, too. I was there, too. Let's talk about the Bikini International. Ashley Cwer, Miss Olympia. uh coming back to defend her title. I think I believe she's the only bikini competitor to ever win the international and the Olympia in the same year. She's coming back to defend the title. Lonnie, uh obviously she's got India Paulino. She's got a surging Sarah LeBlanc. Uh there's a whole host of gorgeous bikini women that want that title. Will she be defeated? Uh I don't think it's impossible. She's got to rate the favorite, but I love Janet Le, former national champion who was who moved up uh to second at the Olympia last year. She was eighth at the Arnold uh I think a year ago and then she went all the way to second at the Olympia. Just an absolutely stunning look. Uh Colt Waser, you know, she's on a roll and if they say you got to knock out the champion, I don't know if she can be knocked out. She's an Ohio gal. Yeah. And I didn't know that. I wouldn't be shocked if Janet beats her. I wouldn't be. Okay. Well, you want to go on record and give me your top three? I'll go with Colasser first, Le second, and third. Um, this is going to be tough. There's a lot of good ones in there. Uh, you like Leblanc? I like Sarah Leblanc, especially since we just uh we signed her for species nutrition. So, I'm going to Well, then I'll put her out of the top 10. What about India? I'll go with Leblanc in third. All right. I I I'm gonna I don't like to agree with the Swami, but I think that he's got this one right. Uh Cult was a first, Lig second, and uh and Leblanc third with India Paulino a close fourth. Uh which Oh, let's talk about figure now, Lonnie, because we got a great rematch. Candace Keane coming off the win last year. Uh and of course, our very own Heather De's. uh she is going to be challenging uh Candace for this title. They were one-two last year. Um will they be one-tw again this year and which order will they appear in? Well, I tell you what, uh I really like Ant Tony. She's got a tremendous physique. She does. And uh you know, Ant Tonyy's liable to beat them both. I'm not saying she will, but she's getting better with every show. I think she's about 38 years old and she's gotten better with age. And could there be an upset in figure here? Well, you got Candace Lewis also in this lineup. Lewis is tremendous. A beautiful physique. We got We got some heavy hitters this are great. Uh to Tony's great. I think Watts is terrific. Dez is terrific. It's a loaded lineup. Boy, this thing is it's going to be tough. They go the regular way on past performances. Yeah. You got the two favorites battling out, but you know, can Taton sneak up there? Well, you know, Latoya Watts really shocked everyone. She won the uh uh the Tampa show last year, went into the Olympia, was top five in her first Olympia. Um she's probably got the smallest waist in the lineup, very impressive physique. I I I think we're going to see her move up in that into that maybe top three. Uh obviously, Heather D is sitting out the Olympia, coming back here, saving it up for the Arnold. She's got to be fresh and ready to go. Candace Keane is always consistently up there. I think she's got to be the favorite to beat. And of course, Candace Lewis always very dangerous as well as Ant Tony. So, you got a a top a tough top five. You want to give me a uh your top five predictions? Woo. It's going to be tough here. I'm going to go with a huge upset. I'm going with Watts. Whoa. Okay. Going with Watts. I'm going with Candace Keen second. Heather D's third to Tony fourth. And who did I leave out here? Candace Lewis. Candace Lewis is awful good. Uh, I'll go with or Camela Rodriguez. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I'll go with Lewis in fifth. Okay. I am going to go with um I think Candace King can't be beat here. I think she's too dominant and I think she's too consistent. I put her first. I'm going to go Heather D second. Ltoria Watts third. Um, fourth, Antonyi. Fifth, I don't know. This is a tough one. Probably Candace Lewis. And then maybe sixth place, um, Camela Rodriguez. So, that's my predictions. Uh, yeah, that's going to be, uh, that's another one. If somebody if anybody other than the favorite wins, it won't surprise me at all. I think this is really close between the top five or six competitors, I think it's really close. Candace Kane very dominant though in that figure division. Last class Lonnie and then we're going to let you go. Uh fitness Oxana Gracina finally wins the Olympia. She won here last year at the fitness international. She's without a doubt the most dominant fitness competitor I think of all time. maybe, you know, ranks up there with Susie Curry. I think she's better routine-wise. Um maybe not physique-wise, but I think her I like her physique. Um can she be beaten in this lineup and will she be beaten? She won't be beat. Uh if she's in shape, this routine is just stunning. It always brings down the house. She's a beautiful lady. She's got the whole package. Uh unless she stumbles, I I can't see her be beaten. I've never seen her stumble. Never seen her stumble in a routine. Do you think she'll be doing that pole fitness type of of fitness routine like she did last year? People loved it. I mean, she brought the house. I hope she does for where I'm at at the podium. Yeah, there you go. It's a She's She's a phenomenal athlete. Uh she's got the whole package. She's got the look. She's got the great routine. I think her physique I agree with you, Dave. I think her physique has fewer holes in it than people say it does. I don't know how she doesn't make the top five call out sometimes. you know, it's almost baffling to me. It's fine. And I think she's going to be, you know, Tangi Johnson's always a threat, right? She's getting up there in years, but she's great year after year. Um, and I like Sisterino. Bethany Sisterino's terrific. And, uh, you know, you got some and Trish Warren. I put Trish Warren up there, the top three or four. I think that Bethy's sister Nino, not Sister Reno, but I I hate to correct you, Lonnie, but you know, I feel obligated to. Oh, Sister Nino. Yeah, I I I believe she'll be third. I think Tangi will be second, but I think Oxanna will easily win this event, and I'm looking forward to seeing that great routine up on the main stage there Friday night. Lonnie, it'll be a pleasure obviously to see you again. It's been a whole year. Well, it's been since 2014 we haven't seen you. And hopefully you'll be stopping by our pregame show on Thursday night as we do live every year from the uh venue. And uh you know, I'm looking forward to seeing you up in that MC uh podium. What What time is that? That pregame. 7:30. Lonnie, I may stop by and say hello. I'm I'm due to land at 4:45. All right. Well, that's Lonnie the Swami Teper. Give it his predictions. Let's see how right he is. And you know what? We're gonna take a quick commercial break. Uh Sid, when we come back, I believe we have the lovely Sarah LeBlanc on the phone. Yeah. Okay. Johnny Styles, take us out to the commercial. Um, Sid, one more thing I want to say before we do go to commercial. However, um, you know, there's so many talented people and so much, um, I guess you could say celebrity pizzazz at the Arnold every year. I'm really excited to say that my good friend Triple H will be inducted into the Hall of Fame. Not only will they be inducted into the Hall of Fame, but they are holding a WWE experience. They're bringing the the guys that they're grooming to be future WWE stars. They're going to run them through all the drills they do up on the main expo stage all day Saturday after after the uh strongman is over with. And I know Triple H is planning on interviewing Arnold up there. And hopefully we get to get Triple H by the Species Nutrition booth. Well, you had him stop by last year as well. Yeah, I wasn't there at first. Right. But uh you you know we posted a picture of his appearance at the species booth as brief as it was. And I mean you know our Instagram page completely blew up. People are like no way that Triple H triple H. And um you know look we teased that he may stop by again this year at the species nutrition booth 709. Right. Well you know he loved the ISO bag that we sell the species nutrition ISO bag. It's all green and you know no one at the booth gave him one. I'm like why didn't you guys give him an ISO bag? He held the bag up and they actually take a picture. I don't know. Johnny's not he posted on Instagram. So, you know, I w up sending him an ISO bag. I know he loves it because he likes to pack his meals with him, especially when he's on the road and, you know, he's he's following a very strict diet uh laid out by myself uh because he's got Wrestlemania coming up in the beginning of April and that's a big event for him and he's he always wrestles there every year. He doesn't really wrestle much of else to the year rest of the year, but he does do something at WrestleMania. So, he wants to look his best and uh I'm looking forward to seeing him. It's always fun. Like I said, you never know, you know, he's he has not shy. He likes to talk bodybuilding. You know, I might even get him into the final wrap-up on Saturday night after the men's event's over if we can convince him to stay and do the wrap-up with this because no one knows bodybuilding more than he does. But right now, guys, we got to take a quick commercial break. We're going to reload everything up. When we come back, Sarah Leblanc, we still have Sadique Hazik and Jose Raymond. Stay tuned. We got a nice little care package from Quest Nutrition. There better be some apple pie in this. I've seen apple pie at all. All right, what up? It's Gilbert Mendes, chilling with my Quest bar here. First and foremost, most importantly, they're delicious. Uh, but it's good to have a good protein bar before training. Gluten-free, you got to love it. And it tastes good and it feels like it's doing the trick. I listen to my body and uh it says yes to this. So, give it a shot. They taste great. They're awesome. They um they allow me to feel like I have a little treat while I'm still eating real strict for my training camp and everything. So, I'm super excited. Off the top of my head, I have to say the cinnamon roll, the apple pie, and probably the lemon, but I haven't had one yet that I don't like. Heat. Heat. I have before Kim Williams. What species are you? Heat. All right, we are back and We are here in the RX Muscle Studios live in Westbury, New York and we are doing our Arnold pregame show here. We had Jason Poston, men's physique superstar on a little earlier. We had Lonnie the Swami tap run. Him and I broke down all the different divisions and we made predictions as to who we thought would win. Lonnie, of course, and I hardly ever agree. Uh which is always fun. He's usually right though. Uh I'm usually wrong, but uh there's always, you know, there's always next year as they say. Uh obviously we have a couple more superstars coming up. I understand right now Sid, we have uh on the line Sarah LeBlanc who is our uh new species nutrition athlete and IFBB bikini pro superstar. She had four victories last year in the pro ranks. She's got a ton of momentum. She's absolutely beautiful and uh I I have to believe she's one of the favorites here in uh in Columbus, Ohio going into the event now. I think we're having some technical difficulties. Sadik. Oh, you got Sadique. You know what? I'm getting mixed signals here from Johnny Styles. Let's Sadique certainly doesn't look like Sarah Leblanc, that's for sure. Uh, let's get him on here. Even though he's around the corner skyping us. Uh, Sadi, welcome to the show. Hey, what's up, Dave? Thanks for having me back, bro. You You couldn't come around the corner and come into the studio. You live down the block. Hey, man. You know how it is, man. Things get crazy this time. Is this been the most difficult diet that you've done uh going into a show? Because it seems like you've been the most grumpy this time around. You know, the most irritable. No, this has been the best diet. This has been the best prep. I'm the most happiest I've been. Everything's been great. Injuryfree. So, I'm not irritable at all. What do I know? Anyway, I noticed that your hair grew back a little bit. What What's going on? Are you going back for the longer hair look? No, I actually cut it. I'm not irritable and my hair is shorter than ever. No, it's not. That's where you get any information from, Dave. It was way, way shorter at the Olympia. I don't agree with you. You're lying. No, I'm not lying, man. You'll see me next week. He's going to go get a haircut after this event. Sadique, you were second at the Olympia. A lot of people felt that you should have emerged from Las Vegas as the Mr. Olympia. I know you put a lot of effort. You put a lot of energy into it, a lot of passion into preparing for this event. It was arguably the best you've ever looked. Um, were you disappoint How disappointed? I You have to be disappointed when you don't win a show, obviously. How disappointed were you? And how did you recover mentally from that to start focusing on this Arnold Classic? Uh, to be honest with you, Dave, it's not that bad. Uh, I go into the gym and people congratulate me and they uh they say, "Congratulations, Mr. Olympia." And then, uh, I start to laugh and, you know, they don't know why I'm laughing is because they can't believe that I lost, you know. So, uh, you know, it's really easy for me to deal with because, you know, in the eyes of hundreds and thousands of people, you know, I haven't lost. And, uh, in my own eyes, I haven't lost either. So, only thing I could do is keep my head down, keep on grinding, keep on dieting, keep improving show to show, and uh, one day will be my time. Yeah. you know, you are definitely the people's champion because I think a lot of people felt that after the show that you did deserve the title and of course you got that gives you a lot of momentum going into this event. Um, Sadiq, you know, your physique looks so good to me at this point in time. How do you go about looking at yourself in the mirror and saying, I need to change this or I need to change that because I look at you and I'm like, he doesn't need to change anything. you know, what have you done differently from the Olympia going into this first Arnold Classic Men's Physique International? Well, going into this Arnold Classic, um, really I asked myself the same question. I said, what do I improve on? You know, this is the best I've been. What can I do different? And, uh, I thought I was going to bring the same package. I'll be honest with you guys. I thought I was capable of bringing in the same package and doing well, but I I'm not able to bring in the same package. I'm bringing in a better package. And I thought I was going to be less conditioned. I'm more conditioned. I thought I was going to be less hard and full. I'm more hard and full. So, I mean, I'm blessed that, you know, my body is still responding after doing so many shows. And I'm actually getting better the more and more shows I do, which to me, I'm mind, you know, and uh cuz you know how it is. You know, you do a lot of shows, you don't look as good, you don't look as crisp, but just the opposite has been going on with me. and I feel very fortunate and uh this will be my best package uh to date. Now, obviously, this is the first men's physique international up in the Arnold Classic stage. Uh the winners notoriously always get interviewed by Arnold. Um what does that mean to you? What will that mean to you if you emerge victorious here in Columbus, Ohio? To have Arnold, you know, asking you questions in front of, you know, millions of people who are watching at home and of course the thousands of people that will be in attendance. It means everything to me. Um, to win the Arnold, like you said, puts you in contention for the title in the Mr. Olympia. So, winning the Arnold is a is a huge step in my career to getting myself closer to my goal of being Mr. Olympia. But with that being said, it is awesome to meet Arnold Schwarzenegger. I mean, this is a guy that I watched on TV, you know, as a kid, and I would look at this guy and uh, you know, idolize him. So, to me, it's like meeting uh I don't know who's cooler than Arnold. To me, it's like meeting Jesus Christ. That That's pretty important, I got to tell you. Now, uh, obviously Mark Anthony, the former Mr. Olympia, the first Mr. Olympian men's physique, will be in the lineup. uh you and Jason Poston kind of pushed him behind you this Olympia. Obviously the judges going for a bigger, harder look, which obviously guys like myself like and and and appreciate more. I know obviously that's the look you're going for. Uh Jason Poston was on the show a little earlier in the broadcast and he felt that, you know, despite the fact that he you beat him at the Olympia, he felt that he still had the edge because he took you out in New York in your own backyard. Do you feel that Jason has any chance against you here at the Arnold? Well, in five days, we're just going to have to see what Jason Poston can bring on that stage because I know what I'm bringing. So, we'll see. Uh, I don't like to talk. You know, Jason's a big talker. He likes to, you know, stick his chest out and say things uh out of line. But me, you know how I am. I show up. I'm conditioned. I'm ready, you know, and uh all I have to do is execute my game plan regardless of who shows up or who says what because like I said, talk is she. I'm going to bring it on Friday and I want Jason to bring his best and Mark to bring his best as well as the other 10 competitors and I only want to stand next to the best. So, I encourage all competition. So, please bring it, Jason. Very wise words from a wise man. you you always have in the past let your physique do the talking and I think that obviously you have that planned come this Friday early evening now uh before I let you go Sadi because I know you got a lot of stuff for packing and and getting ready to leave um I made Jason post and hit a front double bicep pose for me uh because I always brag about you and him and I say that you know what these guys are men's physique competitors but they truly train like bodybuilders and they have great bodybuilding physiques so do give our fans a little a little tempting taste Give me a front double bicep before I let you go. How about that? Are you serious? Yeah. Come on. You guys love it. I know you guys love to hit poses. Roll those sleeves up on us. I know. Can you keep the gat shirt on? Give me the sleeves. All right. There we go. Look at that arm. I mean, that's a bodybuilder. This guy would be a pro bodybuilder whether he had men if whether men's physique was a division or not. I truly believe that. Sadique. Good luck. Best of luck up on stage. Um, I hope you come home with the title. uh you've worked hard and you're representing Long Island. Thank you. Thank you for having me on. Uh it was a pleasure and I'll see everyone Ohio. Have a safe trip. All right. Thank you, Sadik Hodzik. All right. Well, Sid, that was Sadi Hodzik. Uh you know, calling in from around the corner. Uh and uh he's looking ready. I got to tell you, this is going to be a battle of battles between Jason Poston and Sadique Hodzic in the men's physique division. First ever at the Arnold Classic Championships. And you know, I I think that uh I I can't even make a prediction. I know I said I I thought I gave Jason the edge a little bit, but you know what? Sadique looks amazing. He looks big. He looks full. He looks hard. And he's ready mentally. And I think mentally sometimes that's the most important aspect. Well, you think about both competitors and they that's what they are. They're competitors. You could tell in their work ethic, in the way that they prepare, in the way that they talk. And really, you know, we talk we call Sadik Kazik the people's champ, right? You look at him, you look at Jason, both so popular in this industry, but you look at both of their profiles going into this competition. Both have a chip on their shoulder. Sadi with a chip on his shoulder from what happened at the Olympia. Jason with the, you know, with a perception of, well, maybe he does take a backseat to Sadi because he finished second at the Olympia despite the fact that he beat them beat him at the New York Pro last year in Sadi's backyard. So, I think both of them have a lot a lot on the line here, a lot riding on this. But then you mentioned it, Mark Anthony, it's almost as if he's a forgotten man. He could come in and surprise a lot of people, you know. So, uh, who do we have on the phone now, John? All right, we finally have the girl of the hour. 48 hours. That's right. Our very own new species nutrition athlete and IFBB bikini pro Sarah LeBlanc calling in from, I believe, Louisiana. Or are you in Columbus yet? Nope. Johnny's still calling. Yeah, she's in uh Bayou Blue, Louisiana. Really? Is that a real city? That is a real city. Wow. I thought that was made up. Real name, right? It is. I like it. Bayou Blue. That's a good name to I might name my kid that. Bayou Blue Palumbo. Yeah, but it's too close to Shawn Ray's daughter's name, which is There she is. Sarah Leblanc, the one and only. H Sarah, how come you always look perfect? You're always perfectly made up. Your hair is always done. Do you do you wake up in the morning like that? No. Maybe not. I guess she can't hear us. Hey, now I can. I could at first. I said, Sarah, you always look perfect. It look It looks I mean, your hair is done. Your makeup is always perfect. Do you wake up in the morning looking like that? Not at all. No, I'd have to be honest. Um, you know, it it doesn't take me very long, but uh I'm a hair stylist and makeup artist. So, um, I get dressed every day, do my hair and makeup. So, I'm a glam girl that goes to the gym. You You have the glam part down, Pat. Now, you had four wins in 2014. uh you have to have, you know, probably maybe the best momentum aside from Ashley Cultwe who won the Olympia going into the 2015 season. Um do you feel confident going into your first Arnold Classic? Yeah, I do. You know, I've been hitting hard since the first of the year just dialing into the show and um had a little break with my physique. Um and you know, I think that's very important. Um I don't want to look tired or worn down. I had a really busy year last year. So, I think uh just giving my body a little break and, you know, since the first I've been dialing in, hitting it hard, and I'm just real excited to show all my hard work, you know, on stage. Um so, yeah, you know, I think um I'm seeing some areas where I might have um you know, brought some changes, you know, just in a short amount of time. So, I'm excited about it. Can't wait. Now, you're one of the more muscular of the bikini competitors. You obviously wear it very well. The judges seem to really appreciate it. You also seem to do better when you come in harder as opposed to coming in a little softer. Uh, your line show up better. The judges seem to reward that more. Now, other bikini competitors when they come in a little softer seem to do better. What do you think the judges like about your physique? And why do you think that they reward that that tighter look on you? Well, you know, I think um for, you know, different people's physique, you know, it's all about just balancing it and um bringing the best for their genetic shape. So, you know, I can see where as some people, you know, a little fuller looks a little more flattering if, you know, they may be lacking a little bit muscle in that area. So, um, being that I'm a little bit more muscular, I think just kind of wrenching myself down and, um, bringing it in really tight, um, it does mold more into like that athletic bikini body. So, um, and you're right, you know, that's really what um, brought me my first places um, and when I looked my best um, was when I was my tightest. So, um, I just think that's probably more of the guidelines of what they're looking for in bikini. Now, for people who might not have se ever seen any of your insane workouts that you do, uh they could check out your Facebook page and our species nutrition page. We're going to be doing a lot of training videos with you. But, um you train hardcore, nonstop, high intensity. I mean, and I I look at the these videos and and I and I start sweating watching them. I mean, how do you get the the energy when you're dieting to do those workouts? Well, you know, you really got to dig deep. through some of them and you know just push through. Um not all of them you know are very easy to get through. You know most of them kick my butt I guess I should go ahead and say it. Um but I guess that's why I keep coming back to it because it's all about the shock to my body. You know I do some slow paced cardio. Um I do the step meal in the gym as well. But you know twice a week um I'm applying more sprint training. That's another highintensity um day as well. and um these hit training sessions, you know, I think it just, you know, we hit every body part, you know, throughout the week, but a HIT session, it's a full body shock, you know. So, I really think, you know, just to bring my myself in tighter and, you know, just burn that the rest of that fat off before I get on stage is really important to do the high intensity. Yeah. Well, you know, I I when I was looking for a bikini competitor to represent the species nutrition line, I I I really like the bikini competitors that are athletic, that do train hard, they don't necessarily have to squat, you know, 400 lb, but I want to see women that actually are athletic looking as opposed to just girls that are just thin, you know, and you really caught my eye, and we've talked before, you and I, you've done many interviews with us in the past, and I I just thought it was a perfect fit for for my mentality and what my motto is and and the species nutrition products, you know, what does it mean to you to be, you know, and what made you decide to want to sign with Species Nutrition? I think that's the question that a lot of people would like to know. Well, you know, like Species uh was always um even at the local shows um in Louisiana, I always remember their booth around. Um this is my third year in the sport. So, um they've been around just interacting um um also doing, you know, the um Skype, you know, Skyping in recently with y'all, just working together. It was it was really easy. And you know, so many people they tell me they're like, "Why aren't you sponsored by anyone?" Cuz you know, I feel like I'm doing it all backwards or, you know, just a little bit out of order. You know, most people in the amateur level really reach out and get their sponsorships. and you know here I am professional and um got a few wins under my belt and now it's finally happening for me. But I feel like I always told myself just be patient and you'll fall into the right hands. You know when the right one comes around, you know, you'll know it. And um there was just so much on the table here um to offer I feel like for both of us and I just feel like it's going to be a great partnership and I'm just super excited to work together in 2015. I think it's going to be an awesome year. I'm super stoked. Well, we're ve we're very excited to have you on board as part of the species nutrition family along with Heather De's and Akeem Williams and Lorenzo Arasco as well as the rest of our athletes. So, yeah. Will everyone be at the Arnold? We will all they will all be at the Arnold and I'm hoping we're going to be able to get you at the booth on Sunday so the the fans can come and uh get some pictures signed by you and take some photos with you. I'm looking forward to it. might have to get some flights changed, but we'll get it all squared away. I'm excited about it. We'll make it work. We'll definitely make it work. Well, good luck in that lineup. Uh Lonnie Teeper and I were doing some predictions earlier in the show, and both Lonnie and I had you in the top three. Obviously, we don't know what we don't know what's going to happen until the day of the show, but you know, uh the Swami is usually very very infrequently wrong. So, that it's good that he's got you in his top three predictions. That's awesome. Thank y'all so much. Um I can't wait. I'm looking forward to it. I really feel like I'm I'm bringing one of my best packages. So, it's going to be a great show. I'm excited. We're looking forward to it. Sarah, uh good luck and uh happy packing, as they say, and hopefully you won't hit any bad weather heading to Columbus, Ohio. Yes. Thank you so much. I appreciate it. All right. The lovely Sarah LeBlanc uh calling in. Uh she's just days away from stepping on stage at the Bikini International. Now Sid, uh this is like a starstudded show. I think we should take a quick commercial. No, no commercial breaks. I know we have one more guest who's supposed to call in. Jose Raymond. Do we have him on the line yet? Johnny Styles, you you're calling him. Okay, let's talk about Jose Raymond for a minute because we had we did an episode of Iron Debate, which is you're the host of obviously. And we uh every for those of you who don't really know what Iron Debate is, it's a show where Sid is the MC so to speak, the the commentator and Chris Aceto will debate a well-known, I guess, celebrity in our field. Jose Raymond did the show. It might have been the most watched show we ever did. Jose was drinking beers. Obviously, this was before contest prep started and it might maybe not. and he was he gave some of the best answers uh Sadiq to the questions that we received that uh I I have so many requests to get him on the show again. So, this is kind of like a little teaser maybe. No, absolutely. You know, it's funny because when you first saw Jose Raymond on the camera, he's drinking a beer. He's he's wearing sweats. He's very relaxed. So, you're thinking to yourself, "All right, this guy's clearly not taking it seriously." But then when he started answering these questions, he brought it I mean he brought a lot of just wise uh he brought experience to the table. I feel he he brought you know his experience as a professional bodybuilder to the answers. He brought a lot of depth, a lot of perspective. It it was a great episode. It was one of those episodes where you know you know we talk about runtime right? So if we have an hour episode runs an hour 15 hour and a half sometimes you feel sometimes answers drag. Sometimes someone can go on and on and on. You're just like, "Oh my god, stop talking. Stop." He gave the kind of answer you're just like, "Dude, let's keep going with this." Yeah, the show went long. It was a long show, but it was it was just great stuff, great content. Joseé Raymond, a true veteran of the bodybuilding industry and and and just like you and Lonnie said, one of the favorites uh in Columbus and really one of the true personalities. But Dave, I did want to also add um not to forget, we're going to have Heather De's uh joining us on the show as well. So Heather actually was working so she requested to be on towards the tail end of the show. So we made that accommodation. So we're going to be joined by the Boston Mass in a short while. But then we are going to be joined by IFBB Figure Pro Heather De's. Now Heather is an interesting case too because Heather skipped the Olympia this year which she hasn't done for I can't even tell you how many years. She had been as high as third place at the Olympia two years ago. She was second at the Arnold last year. She was feeling a little run down. She called me up and as a species nutrition athlete asked me if she could take off the Olympia. I said absolutely. I was an athlete. I know what it's like when your body is run down. It doesn't respond. She took off that time. Her body is looking the best we've ever seen. Um it was obviously a great move on her part and I'm excited to see her up on that stage because I've been seeing progress pictures from her husband Justin and she just looks phenomenal. But I think we have Jose Raymond on the line now. So let's get to him. This is what the fans want to see. The Boston Mass himself. He sent me his last progress picture ever and no one posted it. Welcome, Joseé Raymond. What's up, guys? Are you drinking a beer? No, not yet. Drinking a orange crush. Is that a regular or a diet? Diet. All right. Some asparagus. Chris Aceto is stuck in a airport in uh Washington DC. So, he wants me to check up on you. He said to make sure you're following the plan. Yeah, he just texted me. Poor bastard. He's been stuck all day. I know. I know. He's got the worst luck when it comes to airports, I gotta tell you. Worse than me. Yeah, me too. Now, Jose, talk to me a little bit about uh this Arnold Classic because first of all, uh coming off the Olympia, a lot of people thought that you could have won the Olympia. I was one of those people to be honest with you. I love your physique as you know. I thought Flex Lewis was a little off. Uh Eduardo looked great too. Obviously, a lot of us thought it was between you and Eduardo. I thought you have better legs than Eduardo going into this Arl. We know Flex Lewis is not in the lineup. It's you and Eduardo pretty much going to be squaring off. Why are you going to win? Tell me why you're going to win this time. Exactly what you just said. Cuz I have better legs, better arms, a little better flow, and if my condition is within 5% of his, I should beat him, you know, because his conditioning isn't normal, you know. It's it's it's there's unbelievable condition, then there's Eduardo and and and you know, you can't really compare that. So, as long as I'm 100% at my best, I should beat him. And that's all I worry about. You know, I think top to bottom, front to back, side to side, I'm more complete. If I'm in great condition, I should beat him. Now, I saw the progress pictures. I've seen, you know, Chris has been showing me. You sent me a couple. I think, you know, in the pictures, it's might be arguably the best I've ever seen you look, which is amazing to me. And I'm going to tell you why. Because you did a lot of shows last year. Uh, even the one you did at the end in Phoenix that you won at the last minute surprised the hell out of me because I thought you were resting up for the Arnold. How did you keep peing your body for all those shows, looking better and better, and now you still looked better and yet you really took no time off aside from a couple beers you might have had here and there? Well, you know, something a lot of people might not know is when I was an amateur, I competed a ton back then. You know, I averaged like four shows a year and and um it's something my body got used to. And I think you can do it if you do it the right way. if you're not, you know, pulling every magic trick out of the bag to get in shape each time and you just stay consistent, which is what, you know, that that's what I love about Chris is just, you know, he stays on top of me. We don't do anything crazy to get in shape. And, you know, when in between shows, I didn't let my body weight explode this time. I might have hit 230 for a few days and then Chris is like, "Let's reel it back in. This is too important." the Arnold Classic is going to be here before you know it. And um you know, I just think that I've been a lot more consistent. Maturity is a big part of it. You know, when I was younger, I had a lot more distractions. And um now I'm I'm 40 years old, man. I I like to go to work, come home, sit on the couch with my girl, and watch a movie. That's about as exciting as my life is. Do you think um you mentioned that you don't do anything extreme to get ready for a show? you kind of just keep it, you know, real. You obviously are not pulling magic tricks out. Do you think that's why these guys have trouble competing more than once a year because a lot of guys are just doing so much to their body to get in shape that their bodies just can't recover after that and they they need to take six months off. Yeah, I do. You know, I think some of them haven't been You look at a guy like Dexter has been competing for forever. He's not pulling any magic tricks. He just comes in looking awesome. He does what he always does and and you know he competes a hell of a lot, you know, and these younger guys that are, you know, using lots of supplements to get big and lots of supplements to get thin and lots of this for that and, you know, that catches up to you and that, you know, that wears you down. They get sick. They get tired and their immune systems are shot. You know, I've been I traveled the world and didn't get sick. I was on 50 flights and, you know, three months and and managed to to stay healthy and strong and and uh you I just I'm not doing anything crazy. I think all the muscle I have has been built over the course of many many years and now thanks to Chris, I'm not dieting it off. That's the biggest thing. People are like, "Well, how are you putting on all this muscle?" I'm not putting it on, I'm just not losing it, right? And that's the key. You know, Chris has allowed me to hold on to the muscle that I've earned rather than burning it off doing two and a half hours of cardio every day because you're out of shape. Exactly. That's smart. Now, if you win this Arnold Classic, obviously this will put you in a in a very good place uh intellectually, emotionally, uh and momentum wise. Uh, would you shut it down for the rest of the year after that till the Olympia or will we get to see you competing all throughout the year like you did last year? Well, I have a ton of guest appearances already booked. Um, so I will focus on that and focus on making whatever improvements I need to make heading into the Olympia and then I'll do the tour after the Olympia, whatever that may be. Korea, Prague. Um, I'm sure I'll do two or three shows after the Olympia. Wow. So, um, yeah, I wouldn't compete again, uh, because there's really no sense in it. Uh, I'd rather focus on, uh, Flex Lewis, the the Olympia. And, and, you know, to be honest, I I want to be, this is where I belong, Dave. This is where I feel I belong amongst the very, very best in this class. and uh you know the the window is closing for me to to to take out Flex and and to be number one. So that should be my ultimate goal, not Europas and things like that, right? Yeah. I and you've won all those already. Um moving into I guess uh the the winner circle obviously for you would have to be something special. You start I remember seeing you at the team universe I think as a bantamweight or not as a bantamweight as a welterweight back in the year or lightweight. you start. I think that was the first time you won. And you know, I always said, you know, this guy is impressive. I I never believed that you would ever get to the the level that you're at now. Did you believe that you could be at the level you're at now back then? No way. That wasn't that wasn't my goal. That wasn't uh even entering my mind. I just wanted to go to the World Championships and win that. That's all I cared about. the team universe, you know, the the um that winning the nationals and winning the USA's was just kind of uh by accident. It just happened. I actually won the USA's and nationals before I was able to win the team universe. You know, that's how challenging it was back then. You know, I know. And you the interesting thing about that is that you turned your pro card down a few times, I believe. And three times. Three time. Yeah. I mean, it was unreal because who the hell does that? I mean, guys can't get their pro card for 20 years and you're turning down your pro card. What gave you the audacity to do that? Well, looking back, you know, it's audacity, but back then there was nowhere for me to compete. Ah, so I would rather stay, you know, move up a weight class. I kind of wanted to be like the Roy Jones Jr. of bodybuilding and and take over all the all the divisions. And you know what's funny is had I not turned pro, I definitely would have won the light heavyweight class by now and maybe even the heavyweight. I'm competing at 210, you know. Um, so that would have been interesting, but I I just didn't have an outlet back then. 2001 was my first proqualifier that I won. And that was during Ronnie's reign and Jay Cutler and right all the monsters. They didn't have a a lightweight class back then. So they it really would have been silly for me to do that. And I was only 25 years old. My body was just starting to mature. And I I wanted to see what how far I could go against guys my own size, you know. Now, when you won the team universe, I did your did your brother Tito win the team universe the same year as like a middleweight or something like that? Not the same year. He had won it three years in a row right now. But um by the time I won it, he was already done competing. When Tito saw you pass him in weight and size, and now he looks at you today, is he just like baffled by like what you've come from to what you are now? Yeah. He just laughs. He looks at me and and uh he he he thinks it's awesome. He he always knew even when we were young kids, I was always built heavier than him. and and you know just a shorter, thicker version of him. And um he'S4 in taller than me, so there there was no way that I was going to be taller and more aesthetic. I was I was the big thick one. So it's it was really no surprise to him, but he he gets a kick out of it. Yeah. Uh going into this Arnold Classic, if you win, obviously Arnold will uh interview you in front of the audience, in front of the home. I guess it's going to be live streamed. What will it mean to you to be interviewed by Arnold? And have you thought about what some of the answers might be that you might give him? Yeah, I thought about it. Thought long and hard about it, you know. Um, and back in 1998, I was doing the the Musclemania shows back then, right? And, uh, I placed like fifth or something and I was bummed out. The next morning, my brother went for a photo shoot. Nobody woke me up and took me. So, I went for a long walk by myself. It was Thanksgiving that that week, so out in LA, it was kind of chilly, but for me, it was hot as hell. I took my shirt off. I was walking the bike path and Arnold stopped me on the bike path and he was like, "Wow, man." He's like, "You you look great. What are you doing? How you doing?" And I told him what I was doing out there. And he had me posing and squeezing and he poking my abs, poking my back. And it was the most amazing experience of my life. And to this day, I'll never forget it. I'll never, you know, it was kind of a crossroads then. You know, I was what, 23 years old. I I thought bodybuilding was kind of silly at the time, but I had just started getting a passion for it. And here I am doing shitty. And uh Arnold pulls me aside and tells me how great I look. So I'm like, if Arnold thinks I'm great, then I must be able to, you know, I must have a future here. So he was very uh in integ in integral in my motivation moving forward and uh you know some people will say you know Arnold motivated me inspired me well he really really inspired me. What yeah what you know I believe in meaningful coincidences and that definitely is a meaningful coincidence because uh you couldn't have timed that if you wanted to. Are you going to remind him of that when uh if he does get to interview you in the winner circle? Of course. Of course, you're talking 17 years later, I'm on the stage and he's holding my hand up. Unbelievable. I mean, what better story could there be right there, you know? How come you uh How come you never moved out to California like your brother did? How come you stayed in Boston? Cuz I'm I'm bluecollar, hardcore Boston, man. I don't I don't like LA and the [\h__\h] pretending to be someone you're not and and all that [\h__\h] you know? I went out there and visited plenty of times before I was the Boston Mass when I was just Tito's little brother. And I would meet people and I'd be like, "Hey, you know, how you doing? I'm a big fan." They'd be like, "Get lost, kid." You know, five minutes later, my brother would be like, "Oh, say hello to my brother." And they'd be like, "Oh, so great to meet you." You know, I'm like, "Bullshit. I I I can't stand those people. I wouldn't last 10 minutes living there." You know, I'd rather be in New York where people are like, "Hey, [\h__\h] you." You know, not out in LA. You know, people are nice to your face. I'd rather people be honest with me, you know? I just don't like that. I don't like all the nonsense. It's fun to visit. I like training at Venice when I'm there, but I'm all East Coast. Yeah. Plus, no one squats there. Who would you have as a as a squat partner there, you know? Yeah. My brother's the only one. You probably You're right. I I did see I actually saw him training legs. I was out there like uh about a year ago and I saw him. I said, "Wow, you still squat, Tito." He's like, "Of course." You know, Dave, he's still a beast. He He had a scheduled um meniscus surgery scope. It was scheduled the day before. He sends me a video deadlifting 550 for a triple. What? Yeah. The day before. And And I'm like, "What are you doing? you're going to surgery tomorrow. He's like, "Yeah, it's not going to get any worse." He's like, "It doesn't really hurt when I do deadlift. It just hurts when I squat." I'm like, "Okay." Who's stronger, you or your brother? I mean, ultimate weight for a single. I'm probably stronger, but he can do weird [\h__\h] He does that like hammer lock double overhand grip with 550 on on a deadlift. I could never do that. His hands are like he got monkey hands. Really strong. He's only about 180 pounds, right? Yeah. And I consistently have 40 pounds on him, you know. Wow. At all times. That's incredible. Well, Jose, uh, we I love nothing more than to interview you in that winner circle come this weekend. Uh, I got to wish you the best of luck. Uh, you're in good hands with Chris Aceto, assuming that he gets to Columbus, Ohio in the next couple days. Uh, thanks for calling in and, uh, we'll see you in Columbus. All right, guys. Thank you very much. All right, the one and only the Boston Mass, Jose Raymond, always got something interesting to say. Uh, Sid, were you shocked that Jose was so forthright with us or was that just to be I love it. I I have I have become such a fan of the Boston Mass and part of it has to do with the accent because when he gets spirited that accent comes out of course when he was talking about the difference between living on the East Coast living in Boston as opposed to going to the to LA you could tell it just it started building up. It started building and it just came out and that's what you got to love about him. He speaks from the heart. He is very bluecollar as he says and and it's fun. It's fun to root for a guy like that. Of course it is. Uh Johnny, I know we have one more guest going to be calling in for the night. You'll give me the signal when she's on, and that's Heather De's, of course. Um you know, Candace Keane used to be uh a species nutrition athlete. Uh Allmax stole her away from us a couple years ago, but I used to have Heather and and Candace together, and I loved getting them on the show together, and I'm I'm going to ask Candace if she'll come on our pregame show on Thursday night. Uh she's so sweet. She's so nice. I I'm a very big fan of Candace Keane's physique. Um, but I've seen Heather D's physique improve and improve and improve every year and I think that she's very close to Candace now and I think it's going to be a real battle up on that uh figure international stage. You know, I'll say this much about Heather, uh, having get having get gotten to know her really over the last few months and, you know, she took some time off obviously to get her body right, but the level of commitment that she has shown really over the last few months, the dedication she's shown, uh, it's really phenomenal and and you've seen some of her pictures lately, Dave. She is this is as good as she has look going into a competition. So, that's exciting. We saw that photo shoot she did and she's going to be doing a photo shoot actually out in Australia for us, too. I have a photographer who's going to be shooting her the week after the Arnold at Tony Dy's Arnold Classic Australia show. So, she's going to be all over the world. And uh you know, I what I like about Heather is that she trains hardcore, too. She trains like a bodybuilder. Obviously, her husband Justin De puts her through the the paces, so to speak. And uh you know, Justin was talking to me a little early. He said, you know, I know Heather's really, you know, suffering on this diet, but she'll never say she can't do it. You know, and I love that no die, never say I'm gonna quit attitude that she's got. You mean you can put somebody in the proper support structure again with her husband Justin, someone like yourself, but really it's end of the day, it comes down to the competitor themselves to put in that work, to put in that that sweat, the blood, sweat, and tears and the drive. And that's what she's done going into the army. Absolutely. I think we got her on the line. Heather De's, welcome to the show. Hey, thank you. It's good to be here. You're looking as beautiful as always and ready to I see that sucked out face you got going. Yeah, it's getting sucked in. That's a good sign. We know you're in shape. Now, Heather, um I wanted to ask you because a lot of people um missed you at the Olympia. You know, you were a girl who was third place in 2013. You were second at the Arnold last year. Uh you skipped the Olympia. What tell us what happened? Why did you leave? Why did you skip it? and and why uh what the mindset was uh watching the show not being in the lineup. Um the goal was to just make some improvements and I knew if I did the Olympia I wouldn't have had a good enough offseason to make the improvements necessary. Um I wanted to bring up my legs, tighten in my waist, bring my shoulders back up so I have a more streamlined physique and without the offseason I knew my body wouldn't respond as well as I wanted it to. I mean that was very brave of you to do that because you know a lot of competitors are afraid to miss the Olympia because they think they think that you know people will forget about them. So uh obviously I know you've been doing a lot of training videos and giving us a lot of species nutrition you know postings for Facebook and all the social media to kind of keep yourself relevant and I and I think that you know going into this Arnold you have to be considered one of the favorites especially coming off a second place last year. Um, what improvements do you feel you made your to your physique that will enable you to possibly push cast past Candace Keane? Well, um, I I know I'm coming in leaner than I've ever been. I have more muscle, some more symmetry, uh, bigger legs. Uh, we get a lot of feedback. I I send pictures to the judges or to u my manager JM to get some feedback from the judges. And as long as they're liking what I they're seeing, um, then I'm going to keep doing what I'm doing and show up on stage to make a statement. And I think with having that offseason is what really gave me the opportunity to show up and make a statement at this year's Arnold. It seems like some girls can compete over and over and over again and they get better and better and then some people, you know, get a little burnt out. I noticed that when I was a competitor, if I tried to do too many shows in one year, my physique got worse, and I felt when I took the time off, it it it looked fresher. The judges seem to like it better. Um, you know, you have been in the industry for a while now. Obviously, you know, you're not AI wouldn't call you a veteran yet, but you're certainly an experienced competitor. um going into a lineup that's so deep this year with the likes of, you know, Antony, uh Candace Lewis, Candace Keane, um obviously yourself, um uh you know, Latoya Watts, who was a standout from last year. Um how do you stay focused on just yourself and not getting overwhelmed by all the names in the lineup? Well, even when I did it last year and I took second place, I was like number four. So, I watched everyone walk out. And I know it's a hard job for the judges because they all have amazing physiques and I like watch them and I'm just um completely grateful to be on stage with the beautiful women that I compete against. So, what I go into it is I take the time to make improvements and look at myself and go, have I improved from last year? And then for me, that's a win. And hopefully the judges see the improvements and they like it as well. But when I walk off stage, I'm going to be or when I walk on stage, I'm going to be super happy with what I'm bringing and that brings the confidence and I'm not going to think about every other girl. I'm going to think about myself and my and my improvements. So that's how I do it. Now this year you're going to be going to Australia for the Arnold Australia Tony Dy Show the week after the Arnold Classic. Uh are you excited to be uh visiting? Is this your first time over there? No, I was there last year. I got second. Oh, that's right. I forgot about that. You see? Oh, shame, shame, shame on me. I'm not doing my homework. You interviewed me over there. I know. I did. I know. I'm I'm This This tells you this is the first signs of sility. You know, that's uh that's setting in. I I make fun of my father. I'm just as bad as he is. Now, Heather, you were very wellreceived last year in Australia. I now that I think back of it, I remember people really were like excited to see you. Um, you know, I love Australia. I'm not going to be there this year, but I love Australia because the people are really they keep it real there. They're they're passionate about bodybuilding, about the physique industry, and they really come out and support it. Um, do you feel the love when you go there? Yeah, definitely. I mean, they were amazing people. Well, it was so fun to um experience like the culture difference and like um they were everyone was just so nice and they do receive uh the bodybuilding industry well. Uh they follow it and I've I received a lot of new followers on all of my social media after I visited there last year. So, it'll be fun to see some of the people again. I've been getting like comments on different posts saying we can't wait to see you again. So, it should be really a good time. Well, we're looking forward also to having you at the Species Nutrition booth signing pictures, taking pictures with the fans on Saturday and Sunday. So, if people want to stop by booth 709, Heather De's will be there with her pictures and uh with her smiling face. Um Johnny Styles wants to see you hit a pose. I don't I don't think she has a uh t-shirt on, Johnny. She's got a little I have like a long sleeve and a jacket cuz it's like snowing, sleeping like blizzard outside right now. So, I'm getting ready to go upstairs and do cardio. I'm at the gym. So, you guys caught me right before I do cardio. I heard Justin uh your husband uh contacted Santa Claus and since uh the Christmas season is over over, he borrowed the sleigh to get you to the gym. Is that true? Yeah, that's true. Just say yes. Just say yes. I also want to thank Justin did me a favor. I I actually needed a a snake mailed to me. Justin, her husband, mailed me a snake earlier in the year, earlier later in 2014. uh he did me a favor and went to a breeder there for me. So, I want to thank him for that on the air. But, uh Heather, um we are looking forward obviously to seeing you up on that stage and I'm rooting for you. Obviously, I have a vested interest. I I've been following you for a number of years. You're a species nutrition athlete. I want to see you get that win and uh I know everyone here in the studio and the species nutrition family is rooting for you come this weekend. Thanks everybody. Thanks everyone at Species and it's great to talk to you guys again and we'll see you in a couple days. All right, the one and only Heather D's at the gym getting her last workout in. Sid, uh, it was, you know, this was a great show because I don't know how you coordinated all these athletes. I'm very impressed how you and Johnny Styles pulled this off because I really made no phone calls. Usually I'm the one stressing out of my mind, but uh, this turned out to be a superstar lineup. No, credit to our producer Johnny Styles doing an excellent job as always. I mean, that's not an easy task. um you know having to balance all those different Skype communications and then we just got Heather on via FaceTime, right? So, credit Johnny did an excellent job. But this was a lot of fun and this is just really preview for what's to come Thursday night, I believe 7:30 Eastern or 7:30 p.m. Eastern Standard. We will be doing the live pregame show from the Arnold Classic. Chris Aceto, I promise you, will be there. Lonni Teper will be there and special guest Greg Valentino, the man with the exploding arms, will be on the panel giving us his insights into the Arnold Classic. I think he might have been at the first Arnold Classic ever. So, I'm looking forward to seeing him as well as all our friends uh in in the bodybuilding industry. This is the first big show of the year. Uh we'll get to see everyone and see how they're doing in 2015. For now though, we are out of time and uh we're going to say good night for today and uh we will see you Thursday and all weekend long exclusively at rxmuscle.com. And the winner, the challenger coming into this competition. What a big day for this youngster from Austria, Arnold Watson. And what a physique he has. We'd hear more from And I remember looking out there and seeing this 5,000 people screaming out there. And still we have this great energy. We have been doing this now since 1976. We have been running Mr. Olympia competitions here. We've been running Mr. Universe competitions, Miss International, Amateur Championships, professional championships. where there's championships everywhere you look that here is a gathering of all the different sports all in one shot. So this is really great to see all those athletes from the different sports to come together here and I want to just say to all of you thank you for being here. Thank you for having been such loyal fans for so many years coming to our Arnold Classic and it is because of you that we have the most successful fitness weekend in the world right here in Columbus, Ohio. But I have very fond memories of Columbus, Ohio because this is where I won my first World Bodybuilding Championship. And this is why I wanted to build bodybuilding in this town. And since then, we've held the biggest competitions here. The biggest guys are coming to this competition. And of course when I say big, I mean big Join for the ultimate sports experience right here in Columbus, Ohio. Heat. Heat. Heat. Welcome to the island fitness festival. Fire ready. and I can't wait to see you all right here in Columbus, Ohio.