 after a PCT and clean out phase, should you go onto a bulking stage or should you start dieting, which is more effective? Stay tuned, I'll let you know. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Energy pouches are the wave of the future and underrated muscles locked in is first to bring it to you with between 50 and 100 milligrams of caffeine per pouch. You can dial in the quick clean energy and focus you need on the go. Simple, easy to use. Pop one between your cheek and gum to get you through your day, to get you through your workout. Code rx20underratedmuscle.com. Get locked in today. Alright, television rxmuscle.com. This is as Dave Christmas edition, or Christmas week edition of as Dave, I'm your host of the Farooqi this year weekly forum to ask Dave whatever's on your mind, be it bodybuilding, non bodybuilding, diet, training, supplementation, anything and everything going on in and outside of the bodybuilding world. We go right into the questions, the first two questions on the show from the Dave Plumbo experience app. First question, do you recommend cycle support supplements or would you recommend just taking something like your v mineralize I usually take both together. I've heard cycles for was crucial to keeping liver and other systems healthy. The thing that you have to remember, you know, when you're using anabolic and you're cycling is that, you know, you have to make sure that you have enough money to accomplish everything you want. Now that that means buying your food. That means taking the right supplements to support the growth and or the fat burn. If that's what you're trying to accomplish depending on what you're if you're on a bulk or you're on a cut. And then the extras, as I call them the accoutrements, though, the would be the, you know, health products that you might take that you help detoxify yourself. So, assuming you can afford everything, you'd want to take obviously getting the right food in obviously, and then you'd want to take the right minerals, vitamins, trace metals, which is a product like my B mineralized product has that all in there in the right proportions in the right amounts. And it's just a product that takes the guesswork out of everything. The new formula is will be out probably in a week and it's fortified with vitamin K2 and it has a higher dose of D3 in there. And it's got, you know, methylated, fallic acid. We, we, you know, we amped up the B mineralized to make it even better than it was before. And then you want to take your essential fatty acids. Obviously that would be a product like my omega lies, you know, omega threes omega sixes, the right to dosage, and the right proportion and ratio. Once you do that, and then you add a fiber supplement, that's pretty much what you need to support growth. Okay, in terms of will be protein synthesis reactions, all the fat burning reactions that go on in your body. Then you can say to yourself, hmm, am I going to be putting stress on my liver? Am I going to be putting stress on my kidneys? Now, it's not a bad idea to take a, you know, a liver detoxification product like TUDCA, or a proxiling liver stable, which I sell at dayplumbo.com from Bill Wellen. And that's going to keep the bile ducts flowing and get all the gunk out of the liver. You can do that throughout the entire cycle, or as an option, if you don't have a million dollars, you know, spend on supplementation, it's not an essential daily type of product, you can take it at the end of a cycle to kind of clean out, as we call it. And that's really up to you. Now, there's another product I sell called kidney stuff at dayplumbo.com. I don't make it, but I sell it. It's a tremendous product in terms of lowering creatinine level, you know, cleansing the kidneys, opening up those tubules so that they can, they can filter the blood better. That's a product that if you have high creatinine on a regular basis, you probably should take every day. If not, once again, a post cycle, clean out type product, you do it for a month or two, the clean out. So the detoxification products like liver cleansing products and the kidney cleansing products, you can take that. You don't have to do that all the time. You can do that every three months or something like that, if it's more affordable for you. But the vitamin's minerals, trace metals, essential fats and fiber should be taken every single day, just as like you take in your protein, you take your fats and your carbs. And that those are needed to assist all the reactions that go on in your body. And if you don't take those, you're really cheating yourself. Cause like I said, I've said this a million times that I don't want to, you think I have Alzheimer's because I keep repeating myself, but it's warrants repeating itself. I see guys in the gym, especially young guys using pre workouts. And I ask them if they take in a multi vitamin, multi mineral, if they take an essential fat, they don't even know what it is. And they're like, no, should I be, you know, so don't go taking what I call luxury items before taking the necessities. If you have the extra money and you can afford all of it, knock yourself out. That's great. You know, supplement companies like me love you guys because you buy everything, but not everyone can afford that. So use the essentials first, then add the luxury items. Second question again, these first two from the Dave Pullenbow experience app. I'm in PCT using your PCT protocol right now. I have four more weeks until I go back on cycle. Is it better to go into a bulk or utilize my sensitive androgen receptivity for putting on size or cut? It doesn't really matter what you do because you're going to respond well. And I just did a, I did a rant video. I don't know, it probably might be up after we launched this show, but because I'm sick of these, these lunatics online who have no educational background whatsoever who would like to wave studies that have no relevance about how they're going to respond. So the more steroids you take, the more your body responds to them. It's just, it's so idiotic and so ludicrous that my father used to hear people speak grammatically and correctly, used to drive crazy. But when I hear people speak, you know, scientifically ignorant, it drives me crazy. And so I did a video on it. But once those answers and receptors are reprimed, because you've gone off and you've done a PCT, you've cleaned out, you could really do anything and get a response from it. Obviously, if most guys who clean out at the end of the year are going into a bulking cycle, right, because they're over the winter, they're trying to put size on so they can compete in the fall, I mean, in the spring and summer. So they're going to get a better response of growth. But if you had to do a diet, because you're going to do an early show, say, and, you know, maybe April or something like that, you're going to still respond those first like six, eight weeks, you're on that cycle. Even though you're dieting, you're going to still grow, you know, you might not grow as much as if you, if you, you know, we're eating unlimited food, but you're going to grow anyway. So anything you do at a bulk cycle wise, after that off period is going to benefit you. And like I said, most people who clean out at the end of the year, like now, this time, which is why we're getting a lot of these questions, are going to go into some sort of a growth phase, whether it be for six or eight weeks or it be for six months. It's not going to matter because it's the, it's the first eight, you know, 12 weeks that you're going to get the best results from that. So I, you know, like I said, it doesn't really matter what you're doing. You're going to get a result no matter what, but that's why it's good to kind of clean out at the end of the year when you can then go on to a growing cycle and get the best benefits out of that. Before we go to the rest of the questions, our friends at Titan Medical Center have a blood work special during this Christmas week. They're encouraging people to check their home loans if they haven't already $130 for males and $200 for females. This deal is good only up until Friday. You know, I didn't realize how many people don't have health insurance in this day and age. I thought almost everyone had it, but a lot of people don't have it, especially bodybuilders, because they don't see, I don't see. Look, I did it too in the beginning of my bodybuilder. I'm like, I'm going to spend money on health insurance. I got to buy, you know, food and I got to buy supplements and all that stuff. So it's not a good idea not to have health insurance if you can afford it or if you have a job that can give it to you. But if you don't have it, this is a great deal. I'm telling you, just to get you testosterone checked can cost $130. So the fact that Titan's giving you a full workup and blood panel for $130 is a male. If you don't have insurance, I would take advantage of this, especially because a lot of guys are cleaning out right now. So this is the perfect time to get tested. Women's panel is a little more expensive because they do a little bit of, they do extra, you know, tests on progesterone, estrogen, all that kind of stuff. But even that $200 for a women's panel is really, really reasonable. If you had to go to the Quest Labs or LabCorp, you're going to pay a fortune cash out of your pocket. So I would take advantage of this. Once again, it's only till Friday. Tell them they've got a Rx muscle sent you and, you know, they'll take care of you. Plus, obviously, once you sign up with them, you can buy some of their, you know, peptides if you want or some of their, you can sign up for the hormone replacement. So once you're on the books there and you got blood work with them, you can pretty much do anything you want. And that's a huge advantage, obviously, to going outside and getting your own blood work done and then trying to get in there later. So you're kind of killing two birds with one stone. Also, I wanted to mention those two first two questions were from the Dave Loma Experience app, which is an app you can download from your iTunes store. You have an iPhone or your Android store if you have, you know, one of those systems and it's $29 a month. You get an easy coach in your back pocket. We have a huge, huge amount of people who subscribe to the app. And I want to thank you guys for the support over the last several years that we've had this app going. I was going to go to the questions from our Instagram page, our Facebook page and our YouTube community page. I had some kid ask me the other day how I'm so big, but so weak, because I don't eagle lift period. So how's that possible? I personally don't think that I'm not that I don't think I'm big, not compared to the image, I guess. But I guess it's stuck in my dysmorphic muscle. It's an interesting narrative because I think a lot of bodybuilders, you know, who don't go in there, eagle lifting or quote unquote powerlifting. Maybe there is a perception that they're just not training hard enough. What do you say to that? You know, I never worry about what people say about me in the gym. You know, I don't care. Sometimes I'm doing like bench press and I'm like, you know, I do. I come down with the bar slow. I squeeze on the way up. I don't, you know, nowadays I don't use heavy weights anymore because, you know, there's no reason to. I have shoulder replacement. But you know, I lift. It's challenging to me. And I think that you have to put that aside because people don't judge you by how much you lift. They judge you by how you look. So if you look great and you're obviously getting great results from from the way you're lifting, then that speaks volumes for itself. And you know what? Maybe more people will start emulating how you're training as opposed to the guy in the gym who's, you know, doing, you know, 100 partial reps and looks like crap and runs around the gym screaming like a maniac lifting super heavy weights. So I never really worried about what people thought about me because I know what I could, what I was feeling in the gym. And when I was first coming up and I was learning how to train and I was doing full range of motion and my strength slowly but surely started increasing. That was all the validation I needed. So I don't think you really should be worried about validation from other people or that what other people think about you. Because once you worry about what other people think about you, you're never going to make improvements to your body. You're going to wind up copying all the stupid shit that they do in the gym and that's not going to yield the results you're looking for. Good one here about just far as clenching. Now it's a topic that comes up a lot when, you know, sleeping and people use all sorts of like mouth guards or modalities. Wondering if you've heard of anyone straining their jaw or chewing muscles in their face due to heavy training. I recently had some painful teeth and X-ray show nothing wrong but the dentist said that I've been clenching while training. Yeah, you know, that's a real thing. You know, to be honest with you, when I was in prison 20 years ago, 2005, there was a dentist in there with me. It was in there because he was writing pain pill prescriptions and stuff like that. But he would all work out together and he would say, you know, you really should get a mouth guard when you're training. He goes, when your jaw is aligned, he says you actually train your strength increases. It's a known commodity. A lot of the Olympic lifts is all wear mouth guards and he said, plus it'll prevent you from, you know, grinding your teeth and breaking their teeth. Now, I thought it was crazy, you know, and I was like, I'm not going to get a mouth guard to work out with. I'm never going to use it. But I did find out later that I clenched, maybe because as you get older, you have more responsibility. So I, I, the dentist said, I'm starting to chip some of my teeth. He says, you must be grinding your teeth at night. And I got a mouth guard that I wear at night and, you know, it definitely is saving my teeth. However, if you're a lot of guys do clench in the gym, I don't do that. I know that I don't do it in the gym because I just, I'm very conscious of how I lift. But if you clench in the gym, it's probably a good idea to get a mouth guard. And according to this dentist, and I believe because he was a smart dude, it might actually benefit your lifting and make you actually strong. By aligning your jaw properly. But yeah, you don't want to, you don't want to, you know, make your teeth fall apart. Clenching can definitely cause that TMJ, where the muscle in the jaw, you know, bothers you, but it can also cause, you know, the teeth to actually start chipping and cracking. And that's not good either. So my suggestion is in your case, I would go get a mouth guard for sure and get one custom made. Don't go, you know, buy one off the shelf. Question about natural production. Does your body stop producing natural GH after you stop using it? And so how long does that last? Growth hormone doesn't work on like that simple feedback loop that like thyroid hormone works on or the testosterone works on. It's almost like insulin. It's pulsatile released throughout the day. So when blood sugar is low, your body releases GH. When you sleep, body pulses GH. I have to train me or any kind of like physical exertion, your body pulses GH. So by taking GH, you don't really shut down natural growth hormone release. Now, if you took it, I guess, theoretically, if you took it all day long, like every two hours, I mean, maybe you would shut down temporarily, shut it down. But like I said, it's like insulin. Even if you take insulin, you might not produce as much insulin as your body doesn't have the insulin requirements because you're supplementing. But you still will produce insulin. In other words, if you're sleeping in the middle of the night and you live and release glucose and you're not awake to take an insulin shot, your body is going to release insulin. So because it's it's pulse, it's pulsed out constantly throughout the day. So GH doesn't go, doesn't stop getting produced. Now, the difference between GH and insulin is as we get older, we don't produce as much GH. So that's why I think adults and, you know, people that are over the age of, you know, 21 years old usually get benefits out of taking additional GH because our GH levels are lower than when they were in our growth stage. 16, 17, 18, you know, we were pulsing GH all day long. And that's when we're, you know, making most of our growth gains. So yes, as adults, it does benefit us to take growth hormone as a kid. There's no reason to do it. We were already producing copious amounts of it. Question about, um, about having children and obviously you do get a lot of requests for your baby making protocol. We get it on our Instagram DMs as well. And we just forwarded to you and you've been very generous about sending your protocol to anybody that asked for it. I'm 34, have not had children yet. I've done two years of PEDs in my late twenties with no obvious issues, had regular checkups. I'd like to try PEDs again, but I'm fearful that it may prevent me from having children. What is the likelihood of PEDs at this stage of my life impacting my ability to have kids? In my experience, okay, and I have, I can keep saying every year that I'm alive, I have more and more experience, right? Because now I'm 57 years old. In my experience, I've never seen a single person, no matter how much they abuse steroids, no matter how long they stayed on them, not be able to have kids, okay, after, you know, deciding to have kids and using my protocol. There's not, there's not been one person, not a single person. I would have to imagine that, that if taking anabolic steroids prevented or caused an issue with having kids later in life when you decided to have them, that there would be a lot of instances of this, but I see none. I don't, I don't even see what instance is not a single instance. The only person I ever knew that they couldn't have kids is because they had testicular cancer. They had both testicles removed. They didn't have any testicles, but other than that, there's not been a single person that it hasn't worked for. And that goes for women too. And I know some women bodybuilders that really, you know, were taking some heavy duty stuff and I never thought they would be able to have kids and they had kids. So the reproductive system seems to be very fluid, very dynamic. It seems to be able to be turned on and turned off relatively easy. And because of that, I wouldn't worry that there's a lot of things to worry about when you take steroids, like liver problems, high blood pressure that can cause kidney problems, you know, high red blood cells, all that stuff. But losing fertility permanently is not one of the things that I would worry about. And it's like, when it's time for you to have kids, you follow the protocol that I put out, you can reach out to me, everyone reaches out to me, I send it to everyone for free. And you'll have kids. That's not a concern that you should have. Question about creatine. I know taking creatine will store more water into the muscle giving a fuller look, but is it okay to simultaneously take a natural diuretic to pull excess blood out? Is it okay to take a natural diuretic to pull excessive water from under the skin or is this just a contradiction? What was the last part of that question? I guess simultaneously taking a natural diuretic to pull the excessive water, but he's asking if that's a contradiction. Yeah, it's a contradiction. The whole idea behind taking creatine is that it volumizes the muscle cell, meaning that it puts fluid into the cell and makes it swell. The volumized muscle cell or a well hydrated muscle cell is a very anabolic muscle cell. Muscles like to be hydrated. When they're dehydrated, they don't grow very well and they don't perform very well. Super hydrated cells perform best and actually grow really well. So that's one of the benefits of how creatine helps you put on muscle because it hydrates the cell. Now, sometimes you get a little spillover and you can get a little bloated from creatine. If you take a diuretic, first of all, you should never take diuretics during the effort because it's going to mess up your sodium balance in your body. And a dehydrated person, like I said, is a weaker person. You're going to get headaches because you're going to feel like you have a hangover because your brain is going to get dehydrated. Don't ever take diuretics during the year. I know a lot of neurotic people that do it. It's very unhealthy for you. Your body does not like to be dehydrated. It's not good for your kidneys and it's certainly not good for muscle growth. But yes, if you're a neurotic and you think that the little bit of water you're going to be retaining from taking creatine in the offseason is going to mess with your head, don't take it. That's my suggestion. Take two more questions. Full disclosure, we're going to have a live episode of After Hours following this recording of Ask Dave. Tren. Did Tren used to be a staple steroid during the Mass Monster Aerobody Building or is it just idolized nowadays? When I started taking antibiotics in the early 1990s, there was no Tren acetate around. It was originally called Phinogen. It was a veterinary drug that I know all the guys in the late 80s talked about being a great drug. It disappeared. They got rid of it. The veterinary supply people stopped making it and it disappeared. But there was Parabol, which was a longer acting form of Tren below. Everyone was using Parabol ampules. They were 75 milligrams, 76 milligrams per ampule. We would use like two a week if you could even get them. That's what we used. It worked really well. You'd use a contest prep, you'd use an offseason a little bit. No one really abused the Tren below because it was expensive and they came in these, like I said, these single amps and sometimes you'd pay $22, $25 per amp. No one was using more than two a week at that point. Then all of a sudden they started producing something called Phinoplex, which was a pellet they were using, putting in the cows for them to gain more muscle and more beef and increase their beef output. And guys decided, figured out how to take these Phinoplex pellets and grind them down and remove the fillers and turn it back into Tren below acetate. And so then that became available in the late part of the 1990s and we started using that. And that was the only form of Phinnegette of Tren below acetate that was available. I know I had a guy who used to make it for me. And then obviously as you got into the 2000s, they started, there was a couple of companies and then the as the underground labs came about then you started getting it more available again. But that's really the symptoms. So there was a period during where the, you would call the mass monster year from the early 90s to like the late 90s where there was no Tren below acetate. Everyone just used paramol. That's Kevin LaBroni. He used three a week. He had a little more money. He had a contract. But that was it. I mean, that's what guys used. And obviously Tren below and his Tren below because guys looked amazing on it. Take one more question. This is one that's been obviously floating around now for the better part of the last three weeks. And that is the your thoughts on the rise of quote unquote PMMA cases. Again, a lot of them have been alleged. Has it been a thing before people already have a negative look in the sport being drug addicts, superficial, fake, et cetera. Now PMMAs, it brings a real light onto what fake is. No work is really done. No blood, sweat and tears or made making that progress or wherever you call it a scam, essentially. So and all kind of added to add to this question in this context, because this has been one of the things that have been bandied about during this whole PMMA. Discussion for years now, people are injecting whatever you want to call it. It has to clean via central or have you. Is there a change of hypocrisy in terms of the narrative that's going around right now that we're kind of zeroing and on one alleged usage of PMMA. What do you make of all this as far as the superficial angle of things? Yeah. Yeah, it's absolutely hypocritical because guys are spot injecting and site injecting stuff for years and from synthol to just regular ask Greg. Greg never did synthol. Greg Melty, you know, he just he shot a bottle of test appropriate to his arms every three times a week. And that's the same thing. You're volumizing a muscle with with with oil, you know, whether it be a steroid or non reactive oil like synthol, which was which that's why I always said synthol was a safer way to just site inject the body part because. If you used a good quality, you know, synthol, it was not. It was there was no bacteria in it and then it had a use in the sense that it didn't have all that drug in there. So you weren't overwhelming your body with like thousands of milligrams of drug like Greg did. It was just insane. But guys have been doing that for years. They've been using collagen as fillers in their, you know, people women use in their face, you know, people men injecting, you know, fat into their butt, you know, to do the Brazilian butt lift. So I mean, this this has been going on for years, breast implants, you know, pecking plants, you know, captain plants. This is just another level. I mean, I don't know if Rick's Piano ever used PMMA. I mean, a lot that was the story I heard some people say to you, so look up doesn't even matter at this point. But I guess he was the first one to experiment with something that was more of a permanent type of like thing that you could tell that rich's arms didn't look real. It didn't matter because that's he wasn't competing on stage so he can do whatever he wants. It was more of a, you know, a look he was looking for. But if you if the average person took PMMA and injected it into their quads or into their arms, they would look so ridiculous. You wouldn't see it in three seconds. So when I look at these some of these athletes that are being accused of using it, I don't see it. I haven't seen it in one of the people that that they have actually accused of using it. I've seen it in some like retarded people that like, you know, that look, although I know retarded is not a term that we use anymore. But in people who are ridiculously using, you know, this PMMA or motor oil or whatever they're injecting, you see these Brazilians and these other crazy, you know, South American people just injecting ridiculous amounts of oil into their arms. And they have these blown up parts that don't even look like muscle. But I have not seen it in a professional athlete. If you could, if you could get some kind of site enhancement done to yourself and no one can tell. Okay, I'm not talking about the self proclaimed Candace O and Stephen A Smith over there. You know, Matt from Muscle Discord, who thinks that he's a, you know, Sherlock Holmes and he's going to show that the volume improvements from last year and therefore, you know, she must be using that that that's BS. I'm talking looking at it as physique and saying that body part that doesn't look right because it's lumpy or it's, it's got this or got that. I don't see that she looks her physique has been improving steadily ever since she started. I think it's a disgrace that people are, you know, accusing her of doing that. I don't see it if I saw it and it looked ridiculous, because it would be very hard to make it look symmetrical and make it look like a real muscle. I'd be the first person to point it out. I've pointed out when Hottie shoulders were all messed up or Rami had some issues, you know, with some body parts. You can see that very readily if someone can do if if people are using PMA, PMA and we can't tell. Okay, then reports that they supposedly went to some clinic in Brazil to do it is not enough to penalize them. You have to be able to see that there's an issue because people use enhancements all the time in bodybuilding and to vilify people because you got some whistleblower. God knows who this person is who claims that he knows that this person went to this clinic on this day and did this procedure. I don't believe it. I don't believe it. Show me the results. Show me the physique. And if the physique doesn't look right, I'll be the first person to say that should be marked down. And that's exactly what the judges will tell you to if. And that's what they said back in the syntholia where everyone was using a lot too much synthol at some point. They said, if we can see that it looks like a fake body part, we're going to mark it down. And they still do it to this day. You see guys with lumps in their shoulders getting marked down all the time. Iris Kyle was the reigning Miss Olympia. She did the Arnold Classic. She had won that many times before and she came in with a big lump on her glutes. And you know what, they didn't even place her top five and she was the reigning Miss Olympia. So these judges have no problem marking down suspicious body parts. The thalia wasn't suspicious. And the fact that they would accuse Mr. Olympia Derek lunch for them using it is a disgrace as well. It really is what they're doing is they're trying to take away from these people's titles that they won and that's disgusting because you know what, Derek's Mr. Olympia, the thalia's Miss physique Olympia, and that's a tile that we should be celebrating not trying to vilify. And like I said, I find it disgusting. And there you go. That's going to do for this episode of as Steve a Merry Christmas. Happy holidays from our entire team to you and your families. We thank you for watching and for all your support throughout the course of the calendar year. All new episode right now on the channel, heavy muscle radio. And of course yesterday's episode of the after hours podcast. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. If you like what you're watching, hit the like button, comment below. And as always, we appreciate all of your support for Dave Blumbo. I'm Steve for rookie. We'll see you next time.