think this guy's a freak. He's a freak. You're a freak. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. This next question is about Mike Mener. Uh Ricky says he's been on a binge of Mike Mener videos. As a natural lifter, his philosophy on muscle growth and the process is very eye openening. Your take on highintensity. Also, did you know Mike any stories or takes on Mike Mener? I I've told the Mike Meners my my my one encounter in person with Mike Mener when when I told you I was it was two he was 319 pounds posing in the parking lot of Gold's Venice and Mike got out of his old Aari and uh station wagon there and he he walked past me and then he a double take and came back and he started circling me and saying holy this guy's a freak he's a freak you're a freak I said Mike I'll say I'll take that as a very very high compliment coming from you he's like I got to go train someone and he took off So that was my one encounter with Mike Menz. But Mer was it was interesting because he was very very um philosophical about training. The problem is a lot of times when you get guys that get too into their head about doing something. He reduced bodybuilding too simplistically down to basically one, right? He went from lower volume builds better muscle because you can do higher intensity. And then he said, "Well, you know what? maybe we don't maybe we don't need to do six sets. Maybe we can do one set and accomplish the same thing. And I think that's where he lost me. So I was I would read all his articles in in all the magazines and I would, you know, follow his his protocols and then I at some and I lowered my volume and I got very good results. You know, the last set is the most important set, the heaviest set. That's where you're growing from. And then he said, you know what, you don't need to do more than two exercises, one set for each exercise. So, two sets you're basically doing per body part. I couldn't wrap my my hands around that. I just it wasn't enough. I don't care how much intensity you generate on those two sets. It's just not enough. Maybe if you're at Dorian Yates level already of development, you don't really you're just maintaining. I don't think you're going to make improvements. I think he reduced it too much because he got too into his head like I can make this even more simplistic, even more simplistic, even more simplistic. And he went too much to the extreme. But the whole concept of taking that 80s, early 90s mentality of high volume, we were in the gym for three hours. I mean, Arnold used to train for five hours and saying that's overtraining. You're not allowing your body ch a chance to recover. You need to take days off during the week. Once I incorporated those those tenants of his of his training philosophy, my whole body changed. And I realized, holy you do need to take days off. You can't treat bodybuilding like a long-distance runner who never takes days off and he runs every day. And you and you have to maximize what you're doing in the gym. You can't just be I would be trained with this f my friend Frank. We would do like a whole, you know, chest workout which would be 20 sets and then he would run around and do extra set on top of that. And I would feel like, well, I'm missing something. I better do it with him. And all we were doing is just overtraining. And I was realizing I wasn't getting any bigger at all. I looked exactly a matter of fact, I might have been getting smaller. So I cut the volume back after reading Menser and I and I said, "You know what, Frank? If you want to go finish and do more, that's good. My 10 sets or 12 sets we just did, I'm fine." And I would leave the gym. And you know what? My body changed dramatically. So Menser was huge and and really popularizing lower volume, higher intensity, but I think he went too far with it. Question about electrolytes. Your thoughts on managing electrolytes. How does one assess the proper amounts and what exactly to take? Yeah. Well, the easiest thing would be to to take in an electrolyte drink. I eat an enormous amount of salt in my diet, which is really most people are sodium deficient. They're really not potassium deficient. Uh it's the sodium deficiency. And a lot of bodybuilders don't like salt. They restrict it because they think they're going to lose weight faster, which is the most the the absolute wrong thing to do. You want to eat as much salt as as you can because what that does is it makes you less sodium sensitive. The more sodium you take in, the lower your eldoststerone levels go. And aldoststerone is a hormone released from the adrenal glands that is responsible for sodium reabsorption. So if you don't eat sodium all the time, your eldoststerone levels go really high in your body. And then every time you do eat something with salt, you retain the salt in the water, which is not good. If you eat a lot of salt all the time, aldoststerone levels go super low and your body just keeps what it needs and it gets rid of the extra. So I mean that that that's the way to do it you know to now if you want to take in a little bit of extra electrolytes what I what I did was when we created amino evolved which is our our fermented amino acid product we don't use hair like most amino acid products to get the amino acids they use human hair from the Chinese barber shops we use fermented amino acids in in amino evolved and we have a tremendous flavoring system it tastes absolutely delicious we have the mango flavor excuse me we have the strawberry watermelon we have blue raspberry and we the iced tea, which is if you like iced tea, it's it's better than country time iced tea. You'd think there's sugar in there. And we put sodium and some fat. We put an electrolyte balance in there just so that when you're because a lot of people sip it while they're working out, you know, and if you do that, at least you're replacing electrolytes as you're sweating, which is a good idea. That's that's why we put it in there. There's no carbs in there, but you're getting your essential amino acids, branch chain aminos, and electrolytes. And that's why I put it in there. I think it's a a smart thing to do, especially if you're not eating enough sodium in your diet. You know, a lot of people, like I said, I have friends that just don't like the taste of salt. Now, it's interesting. I talked about the DNA panel I ran on myself, you know, that we sell from DNA Power. And one of the things I I learned about myself is that I don't taste salt like other people do. So, in other words, what tastes salty to another person might taste a little bland to me. So, I tend to overs salt my food probably because I don't have I don't taste salt as as as uh I guess as sensitively as maybe you might. So, which is good for bodybuilding, right? Because because I make sure I get enough sodium in my diet because I can never salt my food enough. Whereas other people are very salt sensitive. They they they taste salt very well. So, for them, they don't want to put salt in their food because it it might taste too salty to them. So, a lot of times those bodybuilders have hydration issues and they they can't get pumped in the gym and they feel dehydrated a lot because they're not taking enough salt. And in a situation like that, you want to take an electrolyte drink like like the Amino Evolve because that's the only way you're going to get enough sodium in your diet. I can't hear you, sir. Still can't hear it. He's got himself on mute. I did it again with the with the mute button. Question about hair loss on TRT and finasteride dosing. Do you feel uh 1 mg every other day is generally enough to stop DHT while on TRT? How much of a potential negative impact on hypertrophy would take place if you increase finasteride in conjunction with an increase in testosterone administration for times when you're quote unquote blasting? Yeah. When you start finasteride, if you're going to start finasteride, which is a DHT blocking agent, we talked about it earlier for hair loss, you have to stay on it. If you go off it, all the hair that you've recouped from the the from blocking the DHT production in your body, you could potentially lose again. So, you got to stay on it. So, the minimum dosage is one milligram per day. I uh started in 2000 when I first got my first hair graphs back then, and the guy he told me told me, "You got to stay on it." And so, the one milligram was wasn't really being effective for me and I and I and probably one milligram for an average person who doesn't take steroids would work but I was taking you know I was on steroid cycles I was competing back then so I decided because after discussing it with someone else who also was going through the same thing that 2.5 milligrams would be ideal now the advantage of that is you can get a prescription that your insurance company will cover for for procar is like for for prostate enlargement so if the doctor writes you a 5 milligram Proscar prescription and you crack them in half and you take two and a half milligrams every day, you're going to get good protection and that your insurance will pay for it. If you do the Propecia, which is the one milligram dosage, that's considered cosmetic and insurance won't cover that. So, you're better off getting the five milligram pills and just cracking them in half every day because it'll be a lot cheaper. And uh I found that once again, the 2.5 milligram dosage is really what I need. I take 2.5 milligrams even when I'm not on anything. Like when I was trying to do my baby making protocol and have my three kids, I still stayed on the 2.5 milligrams because I'm a very high DHT converter. And so when I would go for blood work and I would test my DHT levels and I was on no steroids and no HRT, I still was just in the normal range with 2.5 milligrams of finasteride. Once again, it depends on how much you convert, but I would, if you're going to do it for hair loss, I would try 2.5 milligrams, especially if you're going to be on a cycle.