 what's the ideal minimal amount of steroid you have to take to actually get good muscle gains versus HRT dosages? You want to know the answer to that question? Stay tuned. I created STEECES NUTRITION with one mission in mind. To provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work, I put my name and reputation on every bottle of STEECES NUTRITION product. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. RxTelevisionRxMuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly 30-minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. I'm your host, Sathit Farooqi. Glad you can join us on this fifth day of November in the year 2025. We're going to go right into the questions. The first two questions on this show from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Have you ever experienced with a first-time client a quote unexpected result in a good way that actually surprised you with the result? Or do you think you kind of always know how they're going to look for a first show? It's a good question because usually I think that I know how they're going to look usually. There have been people that have surprised the crap out of me. When I first started working with them, I'm like, I'll get them in the best shape possible and we'll do our best. I get anyone in shape. I can get anyone in contest shape if they're willing to work hard. Some people have never competed. They don't even know what they have under there. I've worked with men and women. Their bodies transform miraculously when all that body fat came off their midsection and lower back. I've had men and women both win shows, like overalls, and I couldn't have predicted it in a million years prior to starting with them because you just couldn't see it. I don't think they saw it themselves. You never know. I always tell people you never know what your potential is until you start. If I look back at pictures of myself when I first started after getting out of running, I was lean and everything like that, but I never could have ever suspected that I could have been as big as I was. You just don't know what your potential is until you actually try. When people come to me and say, everyone told me I don't have potential to be a pro, this and that, I mean, guys, sister, you know what told me that. All these coaches said I don't have potential to be a pro. I said, why are you listening to what anyone else says? I said, do you feel you can do it inside? He goes, yeah, I said then you can do it. And any obviously achieved it was a very good pro. So don't ever judge a book by its cover until you figure out what's inside. Second question again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. I work out five days a week during your training guide and the rest on the weekend for two days. Do you feel like the body recovers better taking time off during the week one day or the two days in a row method like I've been doing my life schedule doesn't give me any time to be able to work out on the weekends? Or does it truly matter as long as you're getting adequate rest? You know, I've done it both ways. And I think when I was in at my peak of my power, so to speak, and I was lifting as heavy as I was, I think that the three days on one day off two days on one day off probably worked better for me. But to tell you the truth, you know, it's nice to have two days in a row off and you really do recover really well, especially given week body part, you can train that week body part after the two days off and you get a really good work out of it. So there are benefits to both ways. If your schedule doesn't allow, and you have to take the two week day weekends off, and then that's the answer to your question. It's fine. You know, it's sometimes it's just hard to do five days in a row. So try to do your weaker body parts earlier in the week and the body parts that are better, you know, later in the week, because they don't need as much energy, so to speak, because you're, you know, you're obviously there to get to body part that grows in response. I haven't found a problem doing either way. I always find that whenever my schedule allows like nowadays I just kind of go by my schedule sometimes I take, you know, my kids over the weekend I have two days in a row off. If I don't have my kids that weekend I probably I'll take days off interspersed. And so I do a both ways. One week I do it one way one week I do the next day and you know what, sometimes that works well too because it's like your body never knows when it's getting a day off and never knows when it's working out and that seems to, you know, sometimes shock the body in a positive way. By the way, questions. Yeah, by the way, these questions. Yeah, yeah, yeah, these questions were from the day plumber experience app. If you want to download it, it's on the iTunes store and the Android store. $29 a month you get day plumber me in your back pocket as a coach. All my writings, all my videos are on there all my protocols drug protocols offseason pre-conscious beginner advanced women men detoxifications. I answer everyone's questions in an open forum so you see everyone's questions and answers. It's a really good learning experience and I do a Q and a video every single week for the app members. So that's an extra ask Dave you get as an app member. Plus we put up a workout every week. It's a really, really good learning experience. It's like I said it's like having like a little library in your back pocket of all the great information and if you don't know some of you can just ask me a question and I'll answer it. So it's a great thing. The holidays are coming up. If you're looking for good stocking stuff or to buy for someone for $29 a month, get along. Thank you for all the support. Safe questions from our YouTube community page. Natural protocols for drying out before a competition instead of diuretics. Is there any that come to mind or have been researched? I usually use herbal diuretics for the natural guys or women. You know there's a probably the most potent herbal diuretic is called uber ursi. It's an herb. It works really well. You know I wouldn't say it's as potent as diazide but it's pretty close. You can overdo this stuff. But what I usually do is I usually do about 800 milligrams of uber ursi with each meal the day before the show. So if the show's on Saturday morning on Friday every meal I take 800 milligrams with that. And I usually cut fluids maybe around 630 to 730 the night before the show and go down to six at that point so the person dries that it works really well. You don't have to take it up. Never take these even the herbal diures. Don't take them for a whole week. You're going to dehydrate the crap out of yourself. You're going to have a headache which is basically you having a hangover. Not good. It's unnecessary. The herbals work. You just need a little bit more of them. But you still do it just the day before the show. And if you do it, if you try it, I think you'll get some good results. Like I said, the reason I like diazide is because it's more predictable. Because you take 25 milligrams. I know how it works. I know on most people it's going to work pretty much the same. And if it doesn't, and I know how long it takes to work. So you can make adjustments. With the herbals, it's kind of sometimes it's like a crapshoot. You have to kind of just give the 800 milligrams per meal and hope that the person dries out of it. But usually it does work pretty well. Also Sid, I think we need to bring up the Titan medical sale. Yeah, give me one second. Let me pull it up. You texted me a little while ago. So Titan medical are good friends at Titan medical center.com. They have BPC for $250 instead of 300 or BPC and TB, TB-500 paired for together for 475 instead of 600. So again, you have a discount on BPC and BPC and TB-500 paired together. Discounts on both. If you go to their website, Titan medical center.com, whatever your order form is, type in either D-palumbo or Rx muscle or mention that over the phone, they will give you the royal treatment on this and any other treatments or any other therapies. Yeah, this is my, those are my two favorite peptides. Everyone always asks me, what peptides do you like? There's a million peptides out there. There's very few that I use on a regular basis. These are two that I use because they're healing peptides. I've told you this before, you know, because I had thyroid cancer. I don't ever use GH because I'm just paranoid that, you know, there's any lingering around someplace. So for me, GH was a great recovery tool that you could use and I'm not using it anymore. So to have a peptide that I actually think since I've been using the TB-500 and BPC-157, I actually feel like it heals better than GH. GH is obviously a better muscle builder because these other peptides don't build muscle, but for healing tissue and stuff like that and reducing inflammation, they were really, really good. And this is a huge sale. So, you know, if I were you, I'd get in there right now and take advantage of it because that's a big savings, especially if you buy the combination. I use the combination pretty much almost every month. I at least use the BPC every month, but I usually when sales come up like this, I'll throw the TB-500 in there as well, kind of as a dual thing. And let's face it, we're always a little sore somewhere, you know, and so, you know, whatever body part seems to be, you know, lagging a little bit and hurting a little bit, you can put it into that area. And it's very, very noticeable. So give it a shot. I think you'll be very happy with the results. Your thoughts on testosterone gel, but specifically for women. You know, I'm not a big testosterone for women, you know, person. And the reason is because the stuff can cause side effects. And I know that the dosages, they give women are low. And, you know, but what happens is, you know, when you take testosterone directly, okay, as opposed to in women's bodies, they normally produce a hormone known as DHEA and their adrenal glands and then their body converts what it needs to test the testosterone. Okay. Once you directly take testosterone, you're forcing your body to have a certain level in your blood. Okay, which for your body might be double triple what your body normally produces. Okay, which might be too much. And the problem with testosterone is, and if you look at, I always go back and say, let's see what happens to a boy when he goes to puberty, right. So boy hits about 12 years old. He starts producing more testosterone in his body. And all of a sudden he starts changing, right. His voice can get a little deeper, raspy, whatever, and his jaw starts growing. All the side effects, all the effects male masculine secondary sex characteristics that occur with puberty. But it doesn't happen in six months. It doesn't happen in six weeks. It takes, you know, years, right, to take six years to happen. So it's a cumulative type of thing. So a woman taking testosterone replacement might feel better and everything like that, because obviously she's taking testosterone, but it might be too much for her. And usually it is. And there can be side effects that become cumulative that she doesn't realize are happening until it's too late and then she has them and then you can't reverse them. So you got to be very careful with that. I like to opt for DHA replacement for women. I have a guy that contacted their wives are, you know, you know, hitting 40, 45, 50 years old, sex drives hurt a little bit. I say give me 50 milligrams a day of DHA. You can buy it from life extension. You don't even need a prescription and stuff. See how that works. This way their body will convert what it needs into testosterone. But the body is determining that not the doctor. Likewise, if a woman wants a little boost in building muscle and immune system and maybe even a little sex drive, she could take anivar. Anivar is great because anivar has no side effects in terms of, you know, masculinizing side effects. And so I just think that's a better way to go. I think now with these clinics, they like to immediately prescribe testosterone for women because it's cheap number one. And it's, you know, it seems to be an approved type of treatment. If you're going to take testosterone, my suggestion is to take my testilize product, repills twice a day, women or men, because what it does is it reduces DHT conversion. So not to be confused with DHA. So testosterone can convert to estrogen as we know, but in a women's body, more likely it will convert to what's called DHT or dihydrotestosterone, which is that's what causes the side effects, the hair thinning, potential acne on the face and the male secondary sex characters like voice. So if you can reduce the DHT conversion, which is what testilize will do, you'll have, it'll be a safer way to take your testosterone replacement. Question about EAAs. We've talked about EAAs as well as quote unquote, luxury supplements. So he acknowledges that EAAs are somewhat of a luxury supplement, but going the route of using them, what would you recommend as far as when to take your testilize? What would you recommend as far as when to take them? Best time to take them to truly get your money's worth out of using them. We have a product obviously from a species nutrition called Amino Evolved. It's all fermented amino acids. We don't get the amino acids from barbershops in China from the human hair that they collect. It's actually made from bacteria fermenting glucose essentially, creating the amino acids. And the great thing about these aminos is that they're something that, once again, we call it a luxury item, I call it a luxury item, because it's not something you absolutely need. But if you have a little extra money and you've already bought the stuff that you do need, like the vitamins, the minerals, the essential fats and the fiber, and you got everything, you're already doing the right thing and you want to spend a little more. The best time I always felt was during your training. So in other words, if you're working out and rather than guzzling carbs, the whole workout, which you probably don't need, mix up an amino evolved and sip that throughout the workout. So you're putting branch chain amino acids into your bloodstream, which we know turn on mTOR, which is the protein synthesis machinery in the cells. So as we're working out, we're damaging cells, the cells want to start repairing themselves. You're getting those branched chain amino acids into the bloodstream rapidly. Now, granted, if you didn't take them during your workout and you just did a post-workout, you know, whey isolate shake, it would accomplish the same thing. But the branched chain amino acids will be doing, you know, if you take it during the workout, it can't hurt and it keeps you in a more anabolic state, obviously. Likewise, I keep a bottle of amino evolved around, like if I'm sitting around and I'm doing a lot of work and I just don't have time to stop and eat, I'll drink one of those shakes, just because let me put some amino acids in my body so my body doesn't start cannibalizing muscle. So between meals, it's a good way to kind of bridge the gap if you're going to be waiting maybe longer than you need to. And also, I give it to my kids, like I'd rather my kids drink that, that has no carbs in it than guzzling juice that's all sugar. So, you know, once again, I use it intro workout, and I'll use it during the day when I'm, you know, have big gaps of time that maybe I don't have time to eat. That seems to be the best. Question about longevity and the different longevity modalities that are currently available. Do you recommend cold plunges, hyperbaric chambers? Have you personally felt any benefits from these or any other of the modern longevity practice? And there is a video of you just a couple of weeks ago, I think, where you're doing the cold punch. Yeah. I'm so lazy. I have a free membership of the cold punch place. And, you know, I liked it. It felt good. You saw the video, it got like almost a million views. And it's a little shocking to your body, but you know, sometimes shocking your body is it's good, right? Because it kind of tells your body that it's just kind of like reboot itself. It's good if you're like in a depressed mood and you go in there and it like wakes you up really. I mean, I was doing swimming in a cold pool last year, which is essentially the same thing, because you're in there for like 20 minutes. It might not have been as cold as the cold punch, but it was pretty cold. The point I'm making is that I think it has a place in the recovery process. I don't know if you should be going every single day cold plunging, especially after a workout because it does reduce inflammation quite a bit. So some inflammation post-workout is good because it's a signal to your body to start rebuilding itself. So, you know, I would go for baby cold plunges on days off, or if you're really sore, I had an injury. I think that's a good way to kickstart that. Now I've also done hyperbaric chambers. If you remember, Sid, when I moved from New York to Florida, I was moving a big oxygen tank I had in my bedrooms. I had an ozone machine and I dropped it on my toe and I almost took the toe off and I had to have microsurgery on it. They wanted me to do hyperbaric chamber. I did like 15 sessions or something like that. And it's not for everyone. I'm not claustrophobic like that, but it's like being stuck in a tanning bed for like an hour straight. You can't. And then once you're in there, you can't just open the, if you're freaking out, you can't open up the thing and leave, you know, because it's your pressurized in there. I loved it. I slept the whole time and, you know, to hyperoxygenate your body like that has got to be good. You know what I mean? But it's very expensive. My insurance covered those sessions because I had an injury. Most people don't have access to a hyperbaric chamber and it is rather expensive. You had to pay for it. But I think it can only help. You know, it's one of those things. If you have access to it, you might as well use it. It can only be beneficial, but most people don't have access to one. And once again, it's very expensive, you know, versus a cold plunge that's, you know, that's pennies compared to the hyperbaric chambers. But I like alternative modalities. To be honest with you, I go for massage. I try to do once a week. That to me is the most, the recovery aspect of that is so great because it flushes lactic acid, it loosens up areas that are my body that are like maybe too tight from sitting all day, or walking too much. And that to me, it clears my mind. You know, it's to me that on a regular basis, that's probably the most important thing you can do as a bodybuilder. Good question here. And I feel like this is something that you guys can have a very elongated conversation on after hours about this. But there's a study that shows that today's 20 year olds just have less testosterone in them than their father's, grandfather's from the 80s, when they were in their 20s. We know pollution, microplastics, pesticides used on fruits and vegetables, the antibiotics and farmings are the culprit. I say this as a natural, IE clean. I just don't get bigger and stronger and still hold some fat around the midsection. I can't even grow a beer now in my 30s. Now the beer part, I guess theoretically could also be genetic, but what do you respond to that as far as all these factors being around as far as having correlation to reduce testosterone from men in the 20s and 30s today? Right. Number one, I think that when I was younger, I don't think anyone, they never tested for testosterone. Because I remember seeing these kids in school, you knew the kids that didn't have high testosterone. They were not good at sports. They were kind of like soft looking. I think that it's pretty much always been pretty much the same. I don't think testosterone levels have changed in young people. Maybe as we get older, it's changed, but I don't think young people that the testosterone levels are lower. I just think that they never bothered testing back then. And now everyone tests everything because it's more accessible. It's cheaper. We're aware that that could be a problem. Because I know guys that became bodybuilders. They looked like soft, look at Evan Centipani. He was like a soft, mushy fat kid and he started taking a cycle of steroids and all of a sudden the guy's body transformed. They probably had low testosterone too. Who knows? It's like the person who says they can't lose weight and they're depressed all the time. And then they take some T3 on their first contest diet and all of a sudden their whole body changes. And then they find out that they had a thyroid deficiency. They just never got checked for it. So I think that a lot of it was undiagnosed low testosterone in men and I don't think that they would have treated them anyway back then. I just think that that wasn't something that they do. People are more aware of it now and that's why. Because I can tell you, my son's testosterone is very highly minus. He's aggressive. He's lean. He's got muscle. He's athletically inclined. I don't have to test this to stop him. No, it's high. And mine was like that too when I was young. So I think that there's a genetic component to it. I think we're just more aware nowadays of things like that. Now, the idea that girls are going through puberty younger, I think that has more to do with like the plastics and the estrogenic compounds in the meats that we're eating and stuff like that. Because that makes more sense because estrogen can definitely induce the early onset of menstruation and stuff like that in women. But I don't necessarily know if it's suppressing men's testosterone. Now, why are men's testosterone lower in their 20s? Once again, because they're actually going and getting tested and finding this out. The good thing is that there's something we can do about it now. We can give replacement therapy and we can supplement them so they don't have to suffer, whereas maybe in the past they did. And so I think knowledge is definitely power in this circumstance and the fact that I always tell people, diagnostic testing is your best friend. Okay, don't just guess. Go and get blood work. Don't just guess if you think you have a heart issue because everyone in your family died of a heart attack. Go get a cardiac CT scan. It's so easy nowadays. You didn't have that 20, 30 years ago. We have it now. And I think that knowledge is power. In a four to six, and it says four, so I'm assuming it means four to six weeks, many cut, would you lower your GH to three IU and save the higher doses for growth phases or keep it high throughout all phases? Yeah, I only recommend three IU's of GH max for people who are dying for competitions. And you know what? I have no problem with them taking two IU's as far as males go. For females, usually one to one and a half IU's is more than adequate if they want to use GH at all. I just think that you're wasting your money if you're taking more than that on a diet type of situation. Now offseason, you can use a little more once again, but there is diminishing returns. Once again, I think four or five IU's a day is plenty. You know, I know, yeah, there's some people that do 8, 10, 12, but I don't necessarily know if those guys are actually using real GH. And if they are, I think it's overkill. I think you're wasting your money because I think your liver can only produce so much IGF one per day in response to the GH that you're taking. So if you're taking more than your liver can produce, you're wasting your money at that point, right? So if you take 12 IU's a day and you're still producing the same amount of IGF per day that you did when you were taking six IU's per day, you're wasting six IU's per day. And that's a lot of money. GH is very expensive, especially real GH. So, you know, less is better over a longer period of time. So this question is specific to barboring, but the question starts with saying that since you're a big advocate of keeping blood sugars in check, will you make a barboring supplement? I guess I'll expand that too. Is there a thought to making a supplement with any sort of herbal supplementation or anything that you feel as if would be a good addition to somebody looking to keep their blood sugars in check? Yeah, I'm not saying I would never make a blood sugar control product because I think there is a need for it out there and people want it, you know, especially for the average person. But for the bodybuilder who eats six times, and I've said this a million times, I'm going to repeat it again. So the bodybuilder eats six times a day minimum, right? Tremendous amount of protein, tremendous amount of carbs, you know, a reasonable amount of fat in their diet. Their insulin output or their insulin requirements from the pancreas is very high. Think about it. The average person eats three times a day with maybe a snack. You're eating probably double what the average person eats and you're doing it every single day. That means your pancreas has to work at least double as hard if not more than the average person on a daily basis. A lot of times the pancreas can't keep up. And so blood sugars start going up. Now think about it. Exercise, bodybuilding, which is weight training, cardio, sensitizes your insulin receptors. That means it produces more insulin receptors and makes you more receptive to your insulin. So your insulin works better than the average person. Yet, there are still bodybuilders running high blood sugars in the morning. Why is that? You would think that we would have better blood sugar control. And these are people that are not even using GH. We know GH can be antagonistic to insulin. But to get the guys, take GH out of the equation. Why are regular bodybuilders running high blood sugars in the morning when they wake up? And the reason they're doing that is because the biggest surge of sugar into the blood occurs right before you wake up. It's called the dawn phenomenon. The liver releases, tremendous amount of glucose. But why isn't the pancreas able to keep up with that? When we have the best insulin sensitivity of anyone on the planet, we have low body fat. I mean, no one's insulin sensitivity is better than bodybuilders who do cardio and workout. Yet, we're running around on high blood sugars because the pancreas can't keep up, can't produce enough insulin. There's an amount deficiency. There's a deficiency of how much. It's not a sensitivity. So now if you go and take berberine and vanaduil sulfate and chromium and you try to sensitize your insulin receptors more so that you can lower the output so that your blood sugars can go down ostensibly, most of the time, you're kind of putting a band-aid on a bleeding, gaping wound. You're not really fixing the problem. Doctors will give you metformin. And what metformin does is it just suppresses the liver from releasing glucose. So it band-aids up the fasting blood sugars in some situations. So all of a sudden you went from 110 fasting blood sugar when you should be under 90. Now you're down to like 95, okay? Because the metformin inhibits the liver from releasing glucose. It also inhibits the liver from releasing IGF-1, which is not something we want as a bodybuilder, right? So that's not solving the problem that you don't have enough insulin present. So when you start running these high-milling fasting blood sugars, my suggestion is to take it in, to supplement with a long-acting insulin. Because just like you would supplement with testosterone if your body doesn't produce enough testosterone, we want to make up for what's not there. Okay, now if you're a fat couch potato, okay, that doesn't do anything all day, and you're running high blood sugars, I'm not going to give you insulin, okay? I'm going to tell you to stop eating as much, and I'm going to change your diet. And 99% of the time that fixes a person who's overweight or obese's problem, because they have an insulin sensitivity problem and they have an overeating problem. So that's a complete, you can't equate the two people together. Likewise, there is a population of people out there that have insulin sensitivity problems. They don't work out. They're not necessarily overweight, but diabetes runs in their family, and they don't, and their blood sugar control is poor. Okay? You give those people insulin sensitizing agents like berberine, or even a little metformin, or anything else, even some of these new GLP-1 agonists like redotrutide and trisepotide, they help sensitize insulin receptors, and they actually lower blood sugars, and it actually fixes the problem. Because they don't have an insulin production problem, because they're not eating that much. They just don't have the insulin sensitivity issue. But that's not the case with bodybuilders. So when I see a bodybuilder who's running high blood sugars, I know exactly what it is. It's just not an event. Question about plateaus as far as fat burning plateaus. Trying to burn stubborn body fat, lower gut in my 40s. I train 40-5 days. I do 45 minutes cardio a day. I eat clean, high protein, low carbs. Should I just do more cardio? Cut out the calories. How do you get over those plateaus of stubborn plateaus, but trying to burn fat? I mean, if the cardio is already high, then that's probably, doing more is probably not going to necessarily be better. A lot of times when I see a person stuck, meaning that they're eating really low carbs, there aren't a lot of cardio. They're on taking tappers and then not losing, and I'm assuming they're not cheating. I can tell they're not cheating. A lot of times I'll feed them more. You do the opposite of what logic would tell you to do. So I cut their cardio back. Maybe they're doing an hour. I cut it back for like 35 minutes, and I actually give them some carb days. I start feeding them carbs. Not huge amounts, but maybe 35 grams of carbs, three, four times a day for a few days in a row, and then I might go back to a low carb for a day. And then once you do that for about a week or so, a lot of times they start losing weight when I'm feeding them more and giving them less cardio.  it's like I trick their body because their body kind of caught on to what they were doing, so it slowed down some metabolism and then I kind of trick the body by giving them this extra food and say, oh, okay, everything's cool, and it goes back to burning fat again, and then I can reduce those carbs back again and increase the cardio and then they really get lean. So sometimes you have to play little tricks with the body as well. It does happen, you know, and it doesn't happen to every, look, I've worked with people that consistently lose the whole diet and I very rarely have to change much of anything, but then there's other people's metabolism that kind of catch on and they start, you know, playing these games with them and I have to trick the metabolism. The worst thing you can do, and I had this debate with a few people now about fasting, is that for a body buildup, these intermittent fasts are the worst, or I know guys that don't eat for two days straight and they just do water diet. I said, when you do that, number one, you shut down your metabolism, you go to zero, okay, and the reason you can prove this, when you don't eat, you get cold, right? The reason you're cold is because your metabolism is zero. It's shutting itself off. Okay, when your metabolism is high, you're sweating all the time, right? So you want to be hot when you're trying to burn fat. You don't want to be freezing cold, because that's pretty much telling you that your metabolism is slow or off. So intermittent fasting and long periods of going long periods of out food is not good for bodybuilding purposes of getting lean. People think, oh, I'm going to lose weight if I don't eat. That's not the truth. Fasting is good for people who have destroyed their health over 10, 15, 20 years, and they have so unhealthy that you want to reboot the whole body. You want to get rid of the visceral body fat, the excess subcutaneous body fat, you want to clean out the liver of all the fatty liver that they got. That's what fasting does. It kind of undoes all the damage. But if you eat right on a regular basis, healthy, and you take your fiber and you take your vitamins and everything like that, there's no reason to do anything extreme like that. We know how to lose weight as body bulls, small, low carb meals, you know, several times a day. And that's the that's the formula. There's no magic behind it. The more you feed yourself, the faster your metabolism, you just don't want to eat a lot of carbs when you're trying to lose weight. I mean, it's it's it doesn't it's not rocket science here. What why are we going all of a sudden go from knowing what works eating a lot and frequently throughout the day. Now we need nothing. It's ludicrous. Take a couple more questions. The right way to bring up a symmetry, especially in the last for me, majorly, I've been doing just left arms exercises for a few months. But is that the right way to go about it? Front last spread, literally only right side visible. So your best advice in terms of improving symmetry? Now, he didn't say whether he's he has a lack of muscle on the smaller side, or if the muscles just not open, like some people just can't open up the lat properly, because they have maybe they need to get some massage, deep tissue work, because the the lat is stuck. A lot of times that's the case. Most people have good symmetry or balance symmetry, you know, one side is always a little better than the other. But if he has a noticeable, you know, lack of lat on one side, it could either be that it's not opening his lat properly, because maybe he doesn't know how to work because it's kind of glued down with scar tissue. Or there could be a nerve issue that that that he's got a pinched nerve, and it's not able to innervate that area properly. So it's not being trained. There is the last possibility, which he's suggesting is that maybe just it's just smaller, and he doesn't have any damage to anything. It's just it just happens to be a small lat. Maybe he in the past has always used the one side more and dominate. And now he realizes he's at a lack. If that's the case, yeah, I would try to do some. What I do is I would always even if you're doing like pulldowns with these two arms at the same time, always focus on the weak side. So never pull from the other side. The other side is going to work no matter what, because it's because it's the stronger side. Always focus on that. I used to do that with a leg. I had one leg that was a little bigger than the other we all do. When I would squat, I would only think about the smaller leg. I would lean into that side, push from that side. I didn't even think about the good leg, because I knew the good leg was going to work no matter why. And it's the same thing. And then at the end of your workout, if you want to hit a few extra sets just for that one side, a couple, maybe maybe an extra set of rows and extra pulldowns with one arm, that's great. But I wouldn't do like excessive amounts of sets. The key is when you're working this the side together, only think about in my muscle on the weaker side, and that's going to fix the problem. Last one about you during your prime. Do you think you ever would have had a career as a power lifter if you had shifted from bodybuilding? I know you're incredibly strong during your peak, but it's something you ever considered given that you had long arms, long legs, which can be a good trait to have as a power. But is that something that you even crossed your mind during that period of time? I was so scared when I would get under the bar with like 700 pounds squats that I would I was praying I was I was like, I was like, please just let me let me get killed. It's a very scary thing. I give power lift is huge, huge respect for what they do, because it takes a lot of balls to lift some of the weights that they're doing. I you know what my problem is, I didn't want to get hurt. So I never lifted a weight that I felt I couldn't handle. And unfortunately, in power lifting, you have to try to push weights that you're not comfortable handling, because that's how you get better. So I don't think I would have been a good powerlifter because I was too vain and I don't want to tear muscle and hurt myself. You know, and I just was strong because I was huge, you know, and I knew that if I was strong enough to lift the weight with good form, I should do it because if I don't, I'm not going to make improvements. So I always tell people I wasn't naturally a strong guy like from from the start, I know guys in high school were benched in 225. I could, you know, if I was lucky to get 135, I was, you know, I was, it was a good day, you know, once I got bigger, I got stronger, because I was very controlled with the way I lifted weights. I was I used to get more I was talking to I heard Jay Cutler talking about this recently, he said, you know, I had really loose form. And he goes, probably if I control the weight, you know, more on the negative and really focus more on my how I lifted properly, I probably would have been even bigger and would have more detail in my physique. And I believe that the negative is a huge thing. You got to control that weight. Now powerlifters do control it. But at the same time, they push ridiculous amounts of weight. And to me, that's just too scary. I completely respect watching other people do it. But that wasn't something that I was looking to do. And that's good to do for this episode of as Steve right now on the channel on new episodes of the heavy muscle radio show, as well as yesterday's episode of after hours. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below hit notification bell, you're not going to miss anything that we have upcoming on this channel. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadee Farooqi. We'll see you next time.