 It's important to be able to talk to people. If you have no one to talk to that that's that's that's not good because that can be very depressing and it doesn't allow you to release some of that stress. I have people that call me all the time to tell me the problems and then I tell them my problems and then I tell them my problems. We can and sometimes when you both have problems it's good because you can release them to each other. But I think that's something that a lot of guys have trouble with expressing themselves. I created species nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and serious athletes with no nonsense that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of species nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best join the evolution. You know, look, we do talk about the struggles of mental health in just not just bodybuilding but in life in general. And you know, look, I think it's obviously very well known, very highly publicized everything you've been going through over the years. the course of last the better part of last two years now. And look, for what it's worth, our ex muscle is still taking along species still taking along your personal businesses are still taking along so you are sort of the embodied embodiment of somebody's going through things but, you know, managing to still get their things done and just find a way so this question, and I can tell just by the emojis and by the language, you know, they're obviously going through things and we hope for the best for them. How do you personally deal with emotional pain in your life? How can you work and keep yourself healthy? Like you do relentlessly? Sometimes I feel like the bed is my only one safe place and my best friend very much. Yeah. Well, luckily, I have a show that I do called After Hours. And I we vent like a bunch of complaining old men on there. And I we release all that that. No, you know what? Humor. My father always told me. You have to find the absurdity in everything you do in life, because otherwise it will eat you for lunch and spit you out and you'll you won't be functional. So the more craziness I go through or we all go through in life, you have to find the humor in it. And so I always find the humor in everything, even though it's not there's a lot of stuff is very ugly and terrible, you know, but you can always find the humor in it. And I know that, like, you know, 10 years from now, I'll find it funny, even though maybe right now I don't. So I try to find it. I let it out because my my old way of handling stress was just to internalize it. And that's not good because then, you know, then it it blows up inside of you and then you get you get sick from that. You don't want to do that. So you got to let it out. And like I said, I love the after hour show because we all complain and and have fun. And everyone, you know, talks about all the things that annoy them about, you know, society and life. And yeah, you have to have a bunch of friends that you can do that with. If you don't have anyone to vent to or anyone that you can talk to and release that stuff, it's it's it's going to fester inside you. And also, I don't believe in failure. So it's important that, you know, very rarely do I get depressed. What I notice is the only times I will get depressed is if I don't sleep enough. So not sleeping and then going through a lot of stressful things, you can't you can't endure it. So sometimes you have to just go take a nap, you know, literally doesn't matter what's going on in your life. Just go into a into a room or go into your car and don't turn the don't don't turn the car on, you know, in the garage. That's for sure. But no, go go in. I sometimes sit in the parking lot of the gym and just close your eyes for a half hour and get a nice little nap. And you wake up and everything feels a lot better. It's like you get a reboot of your brain. But, yeah, it's important to be able to talk to people. If you have no one to talk to, that's that's not good because that could be very depressing. And it doesn't allow you to release some of that stress. I have people that call me all the time to tell me the problems. And then I tell them my problems. And sometimes when you both have problems, it's good because you can release them to each other. But I think that's something that a lot of guys have trouble with expressing themselves. And look, when I was younger, I had trouble expressing myself. I used to, like I said, bottle everything up and just think, oh, I'll bury it, deal with it another time. But it eventually does, you know, you know, it'll come up and, you know, and blast out of your head at some point. And you're going to have a breakdown if you do that. So the best thing to do is release it. Make fun of it. If you've ever seen Jimmy the Bull do his rants about his ex-wife, they're absolutely hysterical. But that's his way of releasing all of that terrible stuff that he went through for all those years. And, you know, humor is a great way to release pain and discomfort. And it allows you, once it's released, then you can go on with your life. And so, once again, you know, some guys will crumble from it. Some guys will use it as motivation to be even better than they were before. And that's, I try to do that. And hopefully that, you know, what I'm doing and how I project myself will be a role model for you guys out there who are watching, who might be going through some tough times and say, hey, if you can do it, if you can go through a divorce for two years, I can do it too. You know, if he can go through, you know, open heart surgery, have his aorta repaired, I can get through my little finger surgery that I need or my appendix taken out or, you know, the stent I have to be put in my heart. So I try to use, I try to be fully transparent and put my life on display for you guys. Not because I want to just brag about what's going on in my life, you know, because it's not always good stuff. It's because I want you to know that if I can get through it, you can do it too. And if I can show you how I get through it, then maybe that will make your life that much easier.