Nutrition Premium Quality products State of Art look uncompromised ingredient quality Our products and taste good www.nutri.com is looking for Johnny Styles rxmuscle docom here with the president, the most, the daddy of the chicks here Rafael, Dr. Rafael Santoja. Rafael, tell us how you feel once again bringing Arnold here to Spain. Once again, happy and content because it involves receiving many friends from many countries who feel the passion for the sport they enjoy. There's a great sporting atmosphere at the Casa de Campo, with more than 30 sports in bodybuilding, more than 1000 amateur athletes, athletes from more than 80 countries. It's a small Babel where everyone speaks their own language, but we all speak the same one: the passion for bodybuilding. Of course, you feel that with this great event you bring, the sport continues to grow. Bodybuilding is a sport that grows incessantly in all aspects. There are 191 countries affiliated with the international federation, with more than 2000 events a year. Five continents, activities like the European Championship, which this year had 15 participants, activities like the Arnold Classic in Madrid, which has 100 participants in bodybuilding and almost 6,000 athletes in all disciplines. Of course, it's growing, which is great. But it's also an important issue. We have received a truly magnificent sport, and we have to continue working hard to pass on the best of it, with all its values, to future generations. Of course, I have to ask this last question because otherwise I'll get crucified in the forums. Rafael Santos, the president, with all the hustle and bustle in his personal and professional life, does he have time to train and follow the Fico lifestyle? Of course, if he did n't, I would feel very unhappy. I mean, I started lifting weights when I was 15 or 16 years old. I came across, like so many millions of people, that magazine that served as inspiration, and since then, what happens to all of us happens to me: when I go more than two days without touching a weight, I get hooked. Not from the irons. The last training session today... I played truant. Today I didn't train because it was a tremendous day, but yesterday...  I got up very early and did my workout. I do n't think I'll have time tomorrow either, but on Sunday, when the fair is over, I'm going to the gym and I'm going to train really hard to commemorate the fifth edition of the Arnold Classic. You can hear it directly from President Dr. Rafael Santoja. This is Johnny stm.com