I'm standing here with the IFBB president, Raphael Santonia, and uh we just got done watching the Arnold Brazil. Raphael, you always have updates for us all the time and I know you got some juicy ones for us. What's coming up in for the IFBB and for all these great competitions that we're seeing all over the world? Well, everything is moving so fast, so quick and so well for our sport. I believe we are in the era of bodybuilding. And yes, we have very good news. Uh couple of them fantastic ones just from two weeks ago from the International Olympic Committee meeting in Turkey. I come with some great thing for us. Television Eurovision that is the largest broadcasting uh group for public television. You say Elazir. No elir. Okay. Eurovvision is the consortium of all the major largest television in Europe. BBC, right, H France television so on and they have agreement with other televisions from the continents. They are going to broadcast broadcast by satellite our major events with 15 minutes program each. For this year we are going to have we have already on duty 12 to 15 events for the GR2 on on television over satellite and they are going to offer the images to televisions worldwide to about 800 television channels worldwide. I hope we can see it in the United States at some point. Well, I am sure about that. I am very sure about this. This is going to be a growing process. At the beginning I believe 10 15% of the 800 channels will take the images but more and more because the good news is that they approach us. I don't know how you may get this stuff to happen but they approached you. You said well they approached the IFBBS that means that we are interesting for the images that means that the sport is growing and deserve the respect and the secret is very easy. We have the best thing in the world the IFBB stuff. But you know, bodybuilding is interesting. I bring like my next door neighbors to watch a bodybuilding show and they're actually entertained even if you don't know anything about bodybuilding. It's kind of, you know, unusual. You want to see it's compelling to watch and I'm glad that the television stations are going to recognize that. Now give the thing I really wanted to ask you about and everyone breaks your chops about this all the time is the Olympics. But you got good Olympic news for us. Yes, very good Olympic news. You know that the late president dream was this. We are getting closer and closer and now the international Olympic Committee through the National Association of Olympic Committees. So the 2005 Olympic Committees in the world with an agreement with the International Association of International Federation for Sport. It's a lot of federations. But yeah, but they select a few. They are launching now the war beach games and they are going to take place 207 in Abu Dhabi and Abu Dhabi or Hong Kong they still have to decide but the good news is that bodybuilding and fitness are in there going to be they are in 2019 Pan-American Games in Peru we are going to be in the in American games. Wow. So that that's kind of like a launching pad. If you can get do well there and get good feedback, can that possibly lead to maybe in the 2020s we might see bodybuilding in the Olympics finally? Well, h if we are in the beach games that are part of the Olympic program, we are in the Pan-American. We are already this year in November, we are going to be in the Asian games. Asian back in the Asian games. Yes. So that means that we are everywhere and in 2015 we are going to be in Baku in the first European games of the Olympic program. So things are moving fast and quickly. I'm impressed. I didn't I thought maybe you lost the battle, but you you fought back and it seems like we're back in the bricks again. Well, we have so many great athletes, so much inspiration by the people that are training every day and I'm making from bodybuilding their lifestyle in their hearts. That strength gave the strength to the IFBB to represent them and I am very happy because we can offer something that they fully deserve because bodybuilding and sorry to be a little bit long but I invite you for an historical trip. Go to Athens. Go to the Olympic Museum. At the entrance of the Olympic Museum, there is a big stone. And the stone is not more, not less that the bodybuilding post routine complete one sculpt in a stone. Really? Yeah. From a Olympic champion 25 centuries ago, bodybuilding was there. We are going back home. So that's bodybuilding has been Is that old? Is that old? And I invite everybody actually what I we are going to do is we have this already in the IVB website and we are going to forward to friends like J send me the video then please and you are going to be amazed. It's a complete posing routine is amazing with fantastic you should use that that evidence right there for the Olympic committee to say look the the Athen the Greeks believed it we should be in there as well. You know what we did? As soon as we saw that, we put this in the diplomas that we are giving to the top six athletes in our world championship. That's awesome. It's already there. That's awesome. Genuine words from a genuine man who's passionate about the sport of bodybuilding. I can relate to that. Raphael Santonia, our IFBB president. Thank you.