Heat. Heat. This is Dave Palumbo with rxbustle.com in the Iron Asylum with Alana Ship. We're here at Beth Francis powerhouse gym in Sioset, New York. We're going to do a little back and bicep training here. And uh I want to welcome Alana Shipp to the show. Hey Dave, how are you now? You're uh you're being a big sport because we're talking to you. You're in Israel right now and it's very late at night and you agreed to talk to us to get this interview done and I hadn't spoken to you in a while, but I want to congratulate you on your second place in the Toronto Pro bodybuilding and then you also placed fifth in Omaha. You're third in the point standing uh to go to the Olympia. It looks pretty good that you might make it there. Uh it's been a pretty whirlwind year for you, huh? It absolutely has and thanks a lot. Um um I'm still trying to adjust to what's going on. You won your pro card back at the NPC nationals and you went back to Israel back hard to hard at work and then you prepared for these pro shows this year. Um is it more difficult or less difficult training in Israel away from everyone else? Um, I think it has its pros and its cons. Um, there's a lot that I don't get that's available in the states, but at the same time, um, in a way there's less distractions and, you know, a lot less to kind of fight with or fight against the temptation. Explain to us why you're in Israel because a lot of people probably don't understand that because you're originally from Queens. Yes, that's correct. Uh my husband works for the US consulate out here in Israel. So that's why I'm here. We've been here now 5 and a half years. Now obviously there's a lot of political upheaval there, you know, with a lot of uh with the Palestinian situation. Is that make it more difficult for you to get to the gym and do your daily uh stuff or is it pretty much common game in Israel? I don't think they worry about it too much, do they? uh times when you know if they sound the alarm or something like that you try to stay stay indoors but it hasn't affected my training much if at all at this point so I hope it stays that way or it gets better. Yeah, me too. I hope so too for all you're saying. Now, you um you obviously have to watch Tampa, which is the last women's uh bodybuilding show of the year, to see who does what, who places where, because you're third in the point standings right now, which makes it look pretty good for you to qualify for the Olympia, but it's not a certainty at this point. Um how do you in your mind go about that? Are you training for the Olympia now? Are you dieting for the Olympia as if you're going to be there? Yes. Yes. I'm just preparing as if I'm going. Yes. you know, and based on how the tempo goes, if, god forbid, it doesn't work out, then I'll change my my training. But as of right now, I'm, you know, preparing just as if I was going right now. I'm watching you do some bent over rows. You you got you're doing some serious weight here. You're really, I mean, your back is has just come up tremendously over the last year or so since I saw you at the nationals. What have you been doing? I mean, it's just it's amazing how much muscle you've put on. I've just pretty much been um training everything twice a week. You know, I go as heavy as I possibly can and I bulked a little bit before um after nationals and you know, just I've just been lifting lifting and eating. Now, people don't realize you really haven't been lifting weights that long in terms of competitively speaking. What has it been now? How many years? Um less than two years. I started, you know, just training to um just to lose weight in October of 2011. And actually preparing for my first show was I believe February of 2012. So let's say about two 2 and 1/2 years that that's it. Unbelievable. What what tremendous gains. I can't even imagine what you're going to look like in another one or two years. uh with the idea behind the fact that the women's bodybuilding seems to be even though the shows seem to be the numbers seem to be okay. It seems as though like you know the Arnold Classic dropped women's bodybuilding, you know, right now this year the Olympia has it, we don't know what's going to happen in the future. Uh do you ever say since you've really just gotten into the sport, hey, maybe I might want to go down to do women's physique. Has that ever crossed your mind? you know, I wanted to compete in women's physique in the beginning, but when um I spoke with my coach Arthur Arthur Gooden, he um you know, he felt as though the best place for my body was bodybuilding. So, you know, if it ever came to it, of course, we could make the changes and try to get down to physique. But I'm enjoying being a bodybuilder now, you know. So, I'm hoping Yeah. I'm hoping that it stays. Now, when you see the the differences in in and your physique is making, the improvements it's been making, and at the at the rate it gets to, everyone in their mind has an ideal physique that they want for themselves. Where would you like to see yourself? Would you like to see yourself put more muscle on? Is this enough muscle? What what what's perfect in your mind as far as the physique of Alana Ship? Well, um, there's perfect in my mind and there's perfect in the judge's mind. So for me, I feel great the way I look right now, but I realize that, you know, to compete as a professional bodybuilder, I need some more size. So that's what I would like to see. You know, maybe another 5 to seven pounds of muscle. I think you your body can certainly hold it. How tall are you? 52, two and a half. Yes. You're one of the shorter girls up there. You're like Debbie Shepard, height. So uh you know, but you know, you you appear a lot larger than you do. And I I'm assuming that's why you did so well at these pro shows you competed in. Uh is it difficult to you know because obviously flying from Israel is is a whole game in and of itself because you got to get in there. Your body has to adjust to the flight. Uh are you planning on coming in early for the Olympia? Yes, I'd like to get there maybe two weeks or so early just to adjust to, you know, get get water dropped, get my body adjusted. And I'm understanding that the Vegas, you know, weather and climate is something that you really need to get accustomed to. So, I want to get there a little early, get train, you know, start training out there and, you know, get my mind in the right place early. And what kind of a diet do you follow getting ready for like a big show like the Olympia? What what what's the macros that your body responds to better than anything else? Um, I usually do something that's relatively low, if not um, relatively low in carbs. I realize that my body does well with some fats. I'm able to put on a little bit of muscle as I go along. If I keep the fats in there, um, if I remove the fats completely, then I start to look really flat and it looks as though I, you know, I lose some muscle. So that's what I try to focus on. Mostly the protein and having some fats in there, not so much carbs. You know, everyone's body responds differently. Obviously, that's a that I find for women, most women, that works the best usually. And I know Arthur is a big believer in my same philosophy. What about cardio? How much cardio do you find yourself having to do, you know, when you get closer to a show? Um, two hours, an hour in the morning, an hour in the evening. Um, it's pretty much it works fine for me as long as I keep it, you know, keep my heart rate up a little bit. So, you like to do a little higher intensity cardio then? Yes. What about posing practice? Who who helps you with your posing since you're in a foreign country over the G? Skype with Arthur or do you do it like Arthur and I do a lot of Skyping? Yes. And and other than that, it's just pretty much um me practicing on my own with, you know, my workout partner or something like that. And then when I get to the states, then you know Arthur and I really go at it to kind of make up for what we've what we've missed pretty much. Well, you look great. Uh I I'm hoping and praying for you that you make the Olympia. I think you will. I think you're in in a very good position. Uh you have a really the ideal physique for women's bodybuilding and the progress you've made over the last couple years is just incredible. Uh best wishes out to you uh at the for the Olympia and hopefully we'll get to see you in Las Vegas, Nevada. Thanks a lot, Dave, and thanks for having me. All right, for now we are out of time. I'm Dave Palumbo with Alana Ship in the Iron Island.