Hitec Nutrition Premium Quadri to extend a complement the chest frame before habitability 7,300 Mexico June and tell us how you feel here in Mexico. Very good, very good, very satisfied with the response from the public and the competitors who came from various countries. Here, the international dial, last year we came and thanks to you we met here for the first time and we have seen growth. It's not just you as a person personally, but also in the competitions here. What do you think has been the difference from last year to this year? Last year, and I think they didn't believe it, and this year it happened. We gave more security for people to come, and now, how do you think the bodybuilding atmosphere is here in Mexico? Excellent, excellent. Since we have focused our parameters more on the Pisces style, we have improved a lot. It is very important, and we have many people online who are very attentive to the clean judging that you so often praise, and I think it is the best thing you have done here in Latin America. Tell us a little bit about what you mean when...  It's exposed as clean, it can be clean, it's trying to do it as a movement both from us, the federation, the judges, and also for the general public who demand a clean position, so that they feel they have the right to demand that we judge well, that we stay informed, that we are present and that we know at least because many judges don't even know who the same clean person is, so that's what it refers to, it's basically nowadays you are who you are, very proud of yourself, now they have a fan, not so much in Latin America but in the USA, what message would I send from here on out, that the federation is promoting that this is just the beginning, we're not going to have many more world championships, to which, wow, when, when, what other event are we going to see, Luis Ramírez in June, soon I'm going to be at the world championship in Morelia, there's going to be a junior world championship in November, the railroad, actually more Mr. Railroad, it was for the people who are wondering, and now, well, the interview, you want to talk about yourself, how can they get you on Facebook, Roger redirects me, Brocha, one more thing, he didn't know that I hadn't been to Mexico  hahaha now they're getting shorter and shorter, drinks to Yaoundé with this data is good Richard made the vote