 E We went to Beth Francis Powerhouse Gym to speak to the man himself, INFPB head judge Steve Weinberger, and get his thoughts on this past Arnold Classic weekend. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. 2026 Arnold Classic, a week removed now. Let's reflect back on that. You see Andrew Jacked, and I spoke to you right after the show concluded. I asked you better at the Olympia, better here. You said definitely better here. What did you see out of Andrew Jacked when he was in the 2026? I thought he was fuller. More muscle mass. And I still think he could work on his posing a little bit. I think his presentation could be a little better, honestly. I still think there's a lot. I mean, as good as he is, there's a lot of improvements, which is pretty much dangerous for the other guys. Let's talk about some of the key points for Andrew Jacked. One of the most talked about elements, what Andrew brought at the Arnold Classic was the width. That's the term that we heard a lot of, the width. And his thighs, his shoulders, his chest. His arms are big. I like to see him even a little bigger. His thighs are overpowered by his inner quads. I like to see his outer sweep come in bigger. His abductors are kind of powerful. And I think he needs more sweep on his front thigh. And when he puts that together, he already is a dangerous bodybuilder, but he'll be even more dangerous and vicious. You know, we talk about Andrew and bursts onto the scene in 2022. Immediate success, Arnold UK, Texas Pro, and then in his immediate Olympia. Kind of putting bodybuilding on notice. But then it was at the 2023 Arnold Classic where I think he really announced himself. It was that first call out. It was him. It was the eventual champion, Samson. It was Nick Walker. And I think at that point, that was sort of a watershed moment. What have you seen now from Andrew as opposed to then when he was sort of really coming into his own? I also saw him in 2022 in Vegas at Flex's gym with Flex and Milos. And the first time I saw him, I thought, wow, this guy has all the makings of a champion. Like the first time I saw Rami when Dennis James brought him here. And I was right before New York Pro and I thought, I don't know who's touching this guy. And sure enough, he would want to become Mr. Olympia and a great bodybuilder. And I feel that Andrew is walking in those same footsteps. Will he go on to win the Olympia? Very possible. He reminds me a lot of when Rami first burst on the scene. You talk about his posing, and I think that is one of the criticisms of Andrew. He needs better stage presence 100%. That's something he has to work on. We see how he's bringing more of a personality, but from a posing perspective. When you're judging, you don't need personality. You want to do that during the pose down or during your routine, that's fine. But when you're competing, you need to concentrate on hitting your mandatories and hitting them correctly. Is there anything in particular that you see? He raises the roof. He does like when Ronnie walks out for a routine. He should really concentrate on posing and not so much as being flashy. That's okay during your routine, but I think when you're in the mandatories, it's a serious time to go. Is there one pose where you look at him and you're like, come on, hit that correctly? Is it from a judge's perspective when you look at anything? Not really. I think he just needs to improve. Like I said, his legs need to improve. Yeah. As big as his chest and shoulders are, a back can never be big enough. I mean, he's got a good back, but it could be bigger and it could be thicker, honestly. As big and as thick as it actually is. I mean, look, honestly, Nick hit a back double bicep and honestly, he won that pose because Andrew's back was not as good as Nick's. When we look ahead now and just, you know, doubling down on what Andrew now his prospects, because again, with this win, this being a monumental victory for him, he puts himself right into that conversation of Mr. Olympia. Absolutely. But I'm going to say this, like I say all the time, it doesn't matter whether you win the Arnold or lose the Arnold. Every show is a fresh start. You could come, you could win Prague like Martin did, not do good and end up, you know, in fourth like Martin did. Or you can come back and maybe he could win UK. I mean, it's not impossible for Martin to come back and beat Andrew. It's something that can happen. One more thing about Andrew. Again, we talk about the height. Right. And obviously he's established. For a tall guy, he's very well filled out. It's amazing how filled out he is. I think he's 6'3 and a half or something. That's what I was going to ask you. You know, we talk about the real estate that Andrew Jack has. And, you know, for a tallie, but we've seen Quinton, you know, Uria as well. Some of the challenges that a taller bodybuilder faces, Samson, you know, did admirably as well. You talk about his legs. Where else would you like to end the back? Where else would you like to end the back? Yeah. A little more arm, maybe. I mean, he's fine with the arms the way they are, but maybe a little bit. But mostly sweep on the thigh and a bigger, thicker back. In the landscape of open class right now, where would you rank his front double bicep? I mean, I don't want to rank anyone because it depends on their conditions. Is it out there? Is it amongst them? Definitely, you know, I don't want to say top three. He's in the top five. I don't want to put anybody in the top three because they're very good guys. He's definitely in the top five, you know. Let's talk about Nick. As you mentioned, again, the weight that he's brought, you know, with his back. That freak factor, I feel like he translated it into stage presence, into stage shape this year. What did you see out of Nick placing second? I thought that was the best Nick that I've seen. Better than Pittsburgh, better than New York. Honestly, I think that was the best Nick. That's saying a lot because the last time I had this conversation with you, you were talking about that Pittsburgh appearance and that when he first came out, you said that was the best Nick Walker. He faded as the day went. Right. And actually on this show, he looked better on Saturday than he did on Friday. He got tighter. What did you think of him when he came out prejudging? Did you think he kept his shape throughout prejudging? Yes. I think he also, in between poses, lets his body go. He has to stay tight the whole time. Like from, let's say, a front double bicep to a side chest. When he moves to the side, sometimes he doesn't control himself, meaning his abdominals, just everything. When you're on that stage, from the time you walk on that stage to the time you walk off that stage, you need to be on because we're watching. We look for everything. What was the one differentiating point between Andrew and Nick that gave Andrew the win? Well, honestly, from the back, I thought Nick was better. From the side, I thought Andrew was better. And I think a little bit better from the front was Andrew, and that's why he got the win. When you talk about Nick, and we always talk about what would we want to see out of Nick, right? There is no escaping. He is a freak, and that's what he brings. Yes, that's bodybuilding. Right, exactly. Open bodybuilding is the ultimate body. That is the best of the best. You're going to get mass monsters, and you're also going to get mass monsters that have beautiful shape, too. Nick doesn't have the prettiest shape, but he has very good shape. He's not, um, symmetrically, he's not that bad, honestly. He's not as symmetrical as, say, Andrew. Andrew is tall, and he flows. Nick doesn't flow like an Andrew, but he does have shape. Right. That's kind of where I wanted to go next. What's next, in your opinion, for Nick? What more can he do? And, again, we talk about, you know, beating a Pittsburgh look, which, in your estimation, was his best ever. He comes out on stage. You heard the crowd gasp. Where does Nick go from here? What more could you ask for out of him in terms of bringing him up? Well, I mean, I don't know why he didn't do the Arnold UK. He just almost beat Andrew. So why he didn't do it makes no sense to me, but I'm not in his head, so I can't answer that. But if I was Nick, and he asked me, or he asked me, and I would tell him anything, I would have said, maybe a couple of more pounds lighter, and controlling the stomach a little better. He did a great job of controlling it. He did not let it hang out. Right. But going between pose to pose, sometimes he lets it loose. And he's got to stay tight all the time. Sometimes in between poses, he relaxes his body. And when you're on that stage, you can never relax. But I think if he did that and he went to UK, I mean, Andrew better bring it, because I think Nick would be a lot for him to handle. So you don't think in terms of he has obviously masses there. Is it really just a proposition of conditioning? Yes, I think, you know, he's got great legs. I mean, he could use more sweep. But, you know, I think, honestly, he's got a very good, complete body. Could he get any bigger in your estimation and still have that, again? Well, your shoulders could get bigger, your arms could get bigger. He has to watch his waist. Sweep on the thighs, and the shoulders will make his waist look smaller. There are little things he could do to improve his shape. Let's talk a little bit more about Martin. And I don't want to go into the drama aspect. I think that's been well-documented, well-covered and everything. Yes. I agree. He's going to be doing the all-dumb pain. This is very good. I'm very happy. It's a very, yes. I'm very happy. I'm glad we were able to put a bottle on that, an envelope on that. And now. And mail it. It's done. Right, exactly. Proceed now to the bodybuilding aspect. Martin, we saw him. We've seen different chapters of Martin, I feel like, right? We saw a Prague version, which was, I mean, all-world. Awesome. Beat Sam Sandowda. You could say essentially the same what you saw at the Olympia, rather. Then there was Pittsburgh, where to his own admission he was off. And then there came pre-judging. What did you see pre-judging at the Arnold Classic? I thought he wasn't at his best, and I thought as pre-judging went on, he kind of faded. But I thought he looked a lot better on Saturday. Now, obviously, he's going to be at the Arnold UK. You're advising him physique-wise adjustments that you would like to see out of him in a couple of weeks. He just needs to come in better condition. Not more size. He has great shape. Better conditioning. When we talk about someone like a Martin, someone who, again, taking the drama aspect out of it, strictly just about bodybuilding, there is an aspect of consistency, right? Again, if we're talking about somebody who very well could be in that Mr. Olympia title conversation at a certain point, could have been in just this past Olympia. But we've seen him come in on. We've seen him come in off. Right. A little inconsistent. Right. Where is that line of delineation for a great bodybuilder, what they need to do to nail it consistently, in your opinion? That's just him dialing it in the right way. I mean, I know his coach. He's got a very good coach, and I know he's very serious. They just got to do something. I don't know if it's nerves. I don't know what it is, but something's missing that final step. They've got to figure that out. Shape-wise, size-wise, when it comes to Martin. He's very good. Yeah. He's not a masked monster. He's in very good shape. But, you know, I mean, take a guy like going back years and years ago. Lee Labrata was a little guy. He comes second to Lee Haney and pushed Lee Haney a couple of times. It's not so much, you know, you don't need to be a monster. You could, you know, a guy, you know, look, take Andrew, and on one side of him put Nick, and the other side put Martin. Three completely different bodies that are very competitive against each other. What would you like to see? We discussed what you would want to see Andrew to give him a bad shot at an Olympia title. Out of Nick, out of Martin, aside from conditioning, what more can he do in terms of that shape, in terms of the size, to put himself squarely in that Mr. Olympia title conversation? Honestly, what he looked at in Prague was awesome, you know, and if he took that Prague shape, and maybe, you know, because he had such a good shape, another one, you know, you can never have enough shoulders. Well, you could, you know, he could probably put a little more on his shoulders and maybe a little more on his thigh and his back, you know, a little bit. I'm not talking a lot, you know. That would be the improvements, you know, just a little more, you know, muscle. Not a lot. Presentation-wise? He's got a very good presentation, and he poses very well. When you look ahead... He poses himself very well. Do you see, again, we talk about this Arnold Jukai coming up, and obviously there's going to be no Nick Walker, essentially, and no Hottie. Let's actually talk a little bit more about Hottie. You talk about somebody that comes into a show with the weight of the literal world on his shoulders. Right, it's a shame. It really is, yes. It's really horrible, but that's the world we live in right now. Right. And you see the package that he brings. Yes. Your assessment, and again, we're talking about somebody that you've now seen since 2019, consistently nail it and consistently be, you know, in that top tier of the Olympia lineup. What did you see when he came out for prejudging him? Wasn't as hard as he was normally, but he picked that up right away. On Saturday, he was rock hard. He looked very good on Friday, but on Saturday, he really nailed it. Let me ask you something, and this is something like a fan discussion, an analyst perspective. I want to get the judge's perspective on this. When we are so expecting to see something out of a Hottie, right, every year we're accustomed to seeing him raise or short. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. If he's still not as good as he was, say, last year, he's not going to get penalized for that. That's what I was going to ask. He's going to get judged how he looks next to the people he's competing. He might not be at his best, but he might be good enough to win. That's all that matters. We don't say, well, you know what? He didn't look as good as last year, so we're not going to give it to him. If he's the best on stage, he's going to get it. What's next for Hottie? Because the reason, you know, we talk about there's his front, there's his back. I like to see a little work on his legs, to tell you the truth. Especially that right leg, you know. Do you see that he, because there seemed to be more of an imbalance at the Olympia. Do you feel like he... I thought maybe a little better at the Arnold, but it's still that right leg is... That's the problem? I think so. Okay. From the back, perhaps not as conditioned in the front. What did you make... His abs are crazy. Yeah. Stratus is just very impressive. He could have been harder, like I said, but Saturday he did bring it. But it was, you know, a lot to pick up on. He's not going to be doing the Arnold UK. I don't know why. It's a shame, really. Yeah. I mean, with him, again, we always talk about... His lifestyle is very rough. It could be one of many different things, right? But going forward, what would you like to see out of Hadi in terms of kind of getting himself right back into that narrative? I'd like to see... Coming out like he came out on Saturday, I'd like to see him fix that right leg. Do you think he's still right there in that Olympia-type conversation? Absolutely, yes. He's still one of the best in the world. Let's talk a little bit more about Classic. And we see Wesley reclaim the title that he won in 2024. Right. What did you see out of Wesley? Again, we're talking about what we just discussed about Martin, right? One show on. One show not there. One show on. Sometimes inconsistent, yes. Right. What did you see out of him at the Arnold Classic? He was awesome. He was a lot of muscle and very good condition. We saw him at the Olympia. We actually did some analyst work with him, and it was very noticeable that he was big. And we had the same conversation about Urs before he declared that he was going to go to the Open Classic. There was speculation, but obviously, Wesley staying in the Classic. Do you feel as if that added mass translated well in his physique? Absolutely. It really helped him. What did you see out of him this past weekend in Detroit? Do you see a consistent Arnold to Detroit? I did, yes. Aside from the size, what are you noticing, some of the bells and whistles that he brings to that package? He's bringing his condition up, too. You know, he's not lacking in condition as he has in the past. He talked about how he wanted to bring in more of a dug-in kind of a look, something that really accentuates the condition and the graininess. He had that in Detroit, actually. Yeah. If I wasn't there, I'm going to go to pictures. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, there's always going to be speculation that Detroit Pro, they have that little wrinkle at the end where it's the winner of Classic versus winner of Pro. And last year, it was William Bonac and Matt Grego, obviously two very diametrically opposed physiques. This time, you have Wesley and you have Mo Foda. And it's a fan-judge contestant, but the fans voted for Wesley. So, of course, you're going to have speculation. From your perspective, can Wesley translate as an open-class bodybuilder? I think so. Do you think he translates better as open or better as classic where he is now? Right now, he's one of the best in classics. I don't know why he'd want to leave, but I mean, I think he puts some more pounds on. He'd be great in the open. You look at his physique and what he just brought to the Arnold, would you say this is his best look yet? Yes. What would you like to see out of him, or maybe just keep it the same? I think what he just said, you know, maybe a little more grainier, you know, just improve on what he has. And that's the same thing Martin has to do in the open, improve on what he has. You know, if Martin could just get a little harder without putting on any size, he'd be fine too. With Wesley, again, we talk about celebrating. He's got a cap though. He's got to be careful. Right, right, right, right. But you look at the physique that Ramon Dino brought at this past Olympia. How does this look stack up to what we just saw out of the Olympia version of Ramon Dino? He'll be right with them. I mean, it's hard to say who would be better. Ramon is excellent. Very good. I mean, they're all good really, but Ramon is excellent. Wesley belongs right up there with him. Mike now is going to put his, you know, his stinking cap on and gets it right. He's very dangerous, got great shape. I mean, those three are, you know, probably the three best right now. We're going to see Mike at the Arnold UK. And everyone in the classic, excuse me, everyone at the classic at the Arnold was great. Right. That top six was awesome. So they're all there. I mean, you know, for me to say top three, I'm talking top three from what I saw at the Arnold and what was placed. But I mean, that could switch, you know, second place, a little more chest. You know, he's right there. You know what I mean? We saw Mathias Managata out of Brazil placing a second. I mean, again, we're talking about condition and shape. I mean, he absolutely nailed it. Just let's see a little more size on him, you know, a little more fullness. Maybe he just needed to carve up. It might not even be size. It might have been just his prep. It was a shame that we lost Gabriella Zancanelli heading in. You know, again, we're talking about a lot of top tier quality coming out of Brazil right now. There's a lot of good guys out of Brazil. Um, Wesley, and the reason that I kind of doubled on it, because again, when you win the Arnold Classic, there, it becomes an hour. Now, obviously, it's going to be New York, it's going to be Pittsburgh, and a new narrative may come out of that. But right at this very moment, when we project ahead to September, you look at Wesley and you handicap him as he is that guy right now that you look at, and aside from Mike, that gives Ramon the best shot or best run for his money. Absolutely. can you again when we talk about wesley we also get a similar conversation martin has been the inconsistency when you kind of advise a bodybuilder just have a conversation just little things that you may tell them as far as just digging into dialing consistently what would you tell them i tell them consistency is very important and worry more about getting in shape not worrying about maybe an extra three pounds maybe come in a couple of pounds later and you'll look even bigger anyway like don't be so concerned with the scale be concerned with the mirror this gym now is going to be entering or is right now in its 40th year of existence when you reflect back at the history of this gym when you think about when the gym opened did you ever think that you'd be in a place where you are today no and honestly there's a lot of people to thank i mean i have to thank bev i have to thank jim manion those two were very instrumental in bringing me to where i am what do you have planned for this 40th year celebration august 15th we're gonna have a big party at the gym and dorian will be here a lot of people will be here i don't want to i'll we'll put it all out and i'll give it to you yeah yeah you know a lot of people ronnie there's gonna be a lot of people here it's gonna be very exciting i wanted to talk to you also about the new york pro because this year you're also going to have an amateur yeah first time ever yes yeah how's the first time for that to be very it's gonna be it's gonna be nice it's the first time we've ever ran a full weekend this is gonna be saturday and sunday so the excuse me friday and zavis right so the amateur portion is gonna be friday it's gonna be mixed with the pros we'll have some pros on friday like we'll do the men's pre-judging probably on friday night oh friday night we didn't finish it yet we're just working it out now it'll be like both days it'll be it'll be nice very nice yes that's cool yes that's a cool that's a cool new wrinkle that you're adding yes it'll be it'll be nice for the amateurs to right be backstage it's pros very nice it's not going to be amateur pros it's going to be a combination right excellent tell us a little bit more about the expansion that this gym has over gone has been one end it has been like two central two phases of expansion yes so if you want to tell the audience honestly we started in 86 with 5 000 square feet and 40 years later we're at 35 000 square feet and i couldn't be happier or more proud and like i say hats off to beth hats off to jim mannion you know these people have helped me through the years been great you know and without either one of them i don't think i'd be where i am today well continued success to the gym thank you and thank you for all that you do for this uh body i love it i'm very happy with my life the i love what i do