You want to know how to add long R3 IGF-1 to your muscle building steroid cycle? Stay tuned and I'll tell you I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with nononsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution RSV rsmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Whatever is on your mind, bodybuilding, non- bodybuilding, it is all on the table. I'm your host Sadique Farooqi. So glad you could join us on this the 13th day of August in 2025. Let's go to the questions. The first two questions on this show from the Dave Palumbo experience app. First question, um, how do I use IGF-1 LR3? That's the first part of it. wants to add it to their m muscle building cycle of currently 600 test 300 deca. >> Yeah, you know, long R3 IGF-1 is a peptide hormone. Um, it's actually available of a lot of the rejuvenation clinics are selling it now because it does have regenerative abilities and I know titanmedcenter.com, you know, has it available uh if you're if your levels are low, you want to add it to your regimen. Uh, you know, it's funny, a lot of body pills do have low IGF-1 levels, which is kind of weird. You would think you would have high from training and everything like that, but some do have low. So, it's actually um it actually might not be a bad idea to supplement with it, especially because growth hormone is so expensive these days. You know, IGF-1 is much more affordable and it packs a lot of punch. But the the the issue is that and I've had a lot of conversations recently about this and I think it's important for me to keep stressing my viewpoint on it because I've had a lot of personal experience with it. So, in other words, I used it back in, you know, the 90s. uh probably was one of I might have been the first, you know, bodybuilder to actually use it or one of the first at least and had a lot of experience with it. And because of that, I'm not going to rehash the whole story because I've told the story, but the bottom line is less is better. And the reason that I've come up with the reason why less is better is because IGF-1 receptors, okay, remember steroid molecules have receptors on the DNA which is in the nucleus of the cell. Whereas protein hormones or peptides as they're known as have uh receptors on the outside, the cell membrane of the cell. So in order for IGF-1 to get into the cells to do what it has to do, it has to bind to IGF-1 receptors. If you take too much IGF and flood your system with IGF, which which is what a lot of guys do by taking 50 to 100 micrograms per day of IGF, uh, you know, what happens is the receptor numbers decrease very rapidly on the muscle cells and then what happens is you can pump as much IGF-1 as you want into your bloodstream and nothing happens because your body can't respond to it because it doesn't have enough receptors. So what I figured and what I've noticed is that if you take less 10 to 20 micrograms max max and I guarantee you there's not there's probably very few people out there who are doing those doses unless they're listening to me. If you take 10 to 20 micrograms and I think the 10 is probably better than the 20, believe it or not. You take a post-workout and you do it four weeks in a row or 30 days in a row and you take two weeks off and then you can repeat that after the two weeks. What you'll notice is that your IGF-1 receptor sensitivity is much better and you're going to get much better muscle gains from that. So, it doesn't it's counterintuitive because you would think more IGF, more growth. No, it doesn't work that way because the IGF can't get into the cell and if it doesn't get into the cell, you don't grow from it. You don't you don't get that response of turning these satellite cells, also known as stem cells, into new mature muscle fibers. So, you got to take less. Less is better. And like I said, if you're, let's if you are doing 30 days in a row, two weeks off, 30 days in a row, and you take it post-workout, on the days that you don't train, just take it, you know, when you normally would take it during the day. If you train like at 12:00 noon and you take your shot at at 1, you do it then. And that's my recommendation. And you might get different recommendations from these rejuvenation clinics because a lot of them want to sell you more of it. But I am telling you, less is better. >> Second question, again, these first two from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Uh, I'm a new member to you your app. I want to follow one of your weight loss plans. However, I am allergic to whey protein. Please recommend the next best protein shake and where I can go about finding it. >> Yeah. Um, you know, there are very few people that are legitimately allergic to whey. A lot of people are are sensitive or allergic to the lactose in way and therefore they they get stomach upset from it. But there are some people that, you know, that's why a lot of people who have lactose insensitivities do very well on isolize from species nutrition. And I I've had people come to me and say, "I can't take way." And I'm like, "Just try mine. If if you can't do it, send it back." And and they always say, "Oh, it's fine." But if this person might have a legitimate allergy or something like that, and if that's the case, I would try an egg protein because I think egg and and whey are comparable. egg doesn't taste as good because it's got a little bit of a salty taste to it. But egg protein is is a much better option. Um, you know, you don't want to go to like a plant protein because those they're incomplete and and they have very they're devoid of crash chain amino acids. So like a pea or a soy protein is not going to even be even remotely comparable. Now casein is is is is a good al alternative, but if you're allergic to whey, you're probably allergic to casein too because there's no way to separate those two. You know, remember milk is made up of casein and whey. So when you separate them, you're gonna get a little overlap of of one or the other into those products. So I would not risk using casein. If you could use casein, you can't use whey, then it's the it's it's the lactose. But you know, casein has some lactose in it, too. So my suggestion is assuming you are allergic to milk products, go with with a with an egg. And I know Gaspari has an egg protein now because I was talking to him about it. he switched to egg protein and uh he he has I don't remember what the name of it is but it seems like it's a pretty good brand so you might want to check that out. >> Let's go to the rest of our Before we do that we our friends at Titan Medical Center have a sale. Let me pull it up. It is in our text. Um they're running this week $50 to $100 off all GLP-1 semaglutide tepatide ratutide which right now is like seemingly the talk of the town when it comes to bodybuilders. We also finally have access to AOD-9604 injectable. Again, we haven't had it uh in about a year. So, $50 to $100 off, Dave, on these GL1P uh treatments. >> Yeah. You know, I'll just go on record and say that, you know, I I've never used a single GLP-1 agonist because I don't need it. I I need the opposite. I need something to help me gain weight, not lose weight. But I will say this just from the science of it and and from how I've seen it work on people. I personally think that the tzapatide or tzepide which is the mjaro you know is which is which is two drugs in one is better than the reatrite. I know a lot of people are all hot on this reatide because they think it's got three drugs in it must be better. I don't like the third edition of the glucagon agonist which makes your body produce more glucagon which mobilizes stuff. I I don't like it because it raises blood sugar. And even though you might not notice it, it's it's it's working uh the opposite of what insulin is doing. And and I don't like that. I don't think it's necessary. I think the mjaro or the uh the trozepatite burns fat just as well and it keeps your appetite down. And let's face it, these GLP-1 agonist, they're not really great fat burners. What they are is they're great appetite suppressants and they prevent you from cheating and they allow you to stick to a diet and not be hungry and that's why people lose weight on them. Okay? The fat burning effects are minimal. I can promise you that at best. Okay? And once again, I don't care which one you use. You could use the ompic which is the original and that worked really good too. Before the other ones were available, I had a lot of people on Ozmpic and they were losing weight too because it was an appetite suppressant. uh but the the Mjaro version or the like I said the zeppatide it seems to be a better uh fit for bodybuilders and people who are competing now that doesn't mean that reatrite won't work but I don't think you need it and I think that the I think you can probably get a better deal financially on the tzapatide and it's more readily available now Titan is giving ridiculously low prices they're giving$100 $100 off or something like that and their prices are way lower than what pharmacy prices are. The only way you can get your insurance to cover this is if you have a blood sugar issue and you're overweight and bodybuilders don't qualify for that unless you have like a really really terrific doctor that can play with the paperwork. You're not gonna no one's cover you're no one's covering this under insurance for for most bodybuilders. So the best way to do to get it would be to go to a clinic like you know titanmedicalcenter.com because at least you know it's being made by a real compounding pharmacy in this country. I wouldn't risk some of these, you know, you know, these peptide sites out there that are illegal and that you don't know what you're getting. So, my suggestion, the MARO, but they're all really great, great price. Titan's doing it. Awesome. Question about T3T4. Why do people randomly add T3 T4 to their cutting cycle? If thyroid function is not impaired and in the high range, why mess it up for later? >> Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. you they read these articles online written by these gurus who have don't even have a high school diploma and telling them that they need to take T4 when they're on growth hormone because their T4 levels are low. Let me explain something. When you take growth hormone, the reason why let's let's go through what thyroid hormone does first. Thyroid hormone is produced from the thyroid gland, okay? In response to a hormone known as TSH or thyroid stimulating hormone. So thyroid stimulating hormone is produced by the pituitary. It tells your thyroid produce T4 or thyroxine. Then your body takes this T4 which is inactive. It doesn't do anything and converts it to the active form known as T3 triodothyine. T3 is active thyroid hormone. When T3 levels are are at optimal levels within a certain range that shuts down the pituitary to release more TSH. So there's a feedback loop between TSH, T4, T3, and then you know feeds back to but the T3 is what dictates how much TSH or how much your thyroid gland gets stimulated. When you take growth hormone, one of the ways it helps burn fat, aside from directly mobilizing fat, is that it actually converts more T4 into T3. So you more of your inactive thyroid now goes to active thyroid. So your T3 levels go higher. Okay? Now, what is when your T3 levels go higher, your TSH is going to go down a little bit because you're not going to need as much, right? But as it still keeps your T3 in normal range, it just keeps it in a higher normal range. So on blood work, people see, oh, my T4 is low, but your T3 is is high normal. The only value that matters, okay, to function in the body is T3 because that's the active thyroid hormone. So, so the supplement with T4 is silly because you're giving your body more inactive thyroid hormone. It's not going to do anything. Your body's only going to convert what it needs. It's already converted as much as it can anyway to T3. Um, what we do when we're dieting guys or girls down and we want to get a little extra boost, we supplement with T3 to to boost metabolism because we're actually giving active thyroid hormone to them. But T4 in and of itself doesn't do anything. And there's no reason to restore or to get T4 into what quote normal range because it doesn't matter. It's not out of range. It's it's only out of range because more of it's converting to the active form, which is what we want, right, as bodybuilders. So, there really is no problem. And there's no reason to to supplement with T4 whatsoever. And there's no reason to randomly just add in thyroid hormone if you're not on a diet or cutting cycle. And uh so I don't know why people take it in the offseason. I I think >> uh question about arms and symmetry. Uh are arms better symmetrical when the bicep and tricep look a bit bigger than the delts or when the depth is a little bigger than the bice rather when the delt misspelling. Delt is a little bigger than the bicep and tricep. I feel like in today's bodybuilding that the shoulders overshadow the buys and tries and it doesn't look as pleasing as if it were the other way around. Not sure if that's a thing or maybe an old school versus a new thing. And obviously your opinion on this. >> Well, I I think I I' I I've always joke around with Chris Aceto on this. I've never heard anyone say his arms are too big, right? Big arms are they look great on stages. It's just no, you know, look at Lee Priest. I mean, come on. People love arms. I look I love to see big arms on stage. So your your arms can never be too big unless you're you know, you're putting oil in them and they look ridiculous. I'm saying, but a real arm that looks solid and and is separated and has striations and it that's impressive. So, I I'll always go with bigger arms than bigger shoulders. Um, the bigger your shoulders are obviously if you sometimes they make your arms look smaller and sometimes they they can throw you out of symmetry, but having big arms, which you would think symmetrically is not necessarily aesthetic, never looks bad as a bodybuilder. When you throw up a big pair of arms, I mean, it's like boom. It's like it's like not knocking you off your socks. I mean, look, think of Ronnie Coleman back in the day with those arms. I mean, they would just, you know, insane looking and uh, you know, it's we love arms. We love our arms. Lee Priest, like I said, another great set of arms. And there's there's a lot of guys out there. Evan Sabani had great arms. Ed, once again, I always will go with arms over shoulders. >> Question about species nutrition. I guess you could extrapolate this to other supplement companies as well. Um, and insurance. Uh, will general health and wellness species products like Omega, fiber, fiberiz, and arthritized ever be FSA or HA eligible? >> Um, I don't even know what those those organizations are to be honest with you. I'm not I don't want to like if I looked it up and for two seconds I know. But I the problem with I I it let me let me answer it in a different way. Will they ever be FDA approved? Will supplements >> No, no, no. I'm sorry. I let me just uh re reframe it. So basically is as in like if you have uh like health insurance certain health insuranceances have like an aotment for things like that that qualify that like medical Yeah. >> I don't you know I don't know what the rule it seems like to get your health it would seem like you'd have to spend a lot of money to get an insurance company to approve that. But the problem is and this goes back to what I was originally going to say the FDA doesn't approve nutritional supplements. So, no insurance company will ever, you know, reimburse you for for something that's not that's not FDA approved. And since the FDA doesn't approve these, and we don't want the FDA to have to approve these supplements because it'll be a nightmare. I mean, I wouldn't care, but it's what would happen. It was it would be much more much more costly to make these, the products would go up in price. It wouldn't be good for the end consumer. It wouldn't be bad for me because I my products are all up to snuff with everything, but it would be a very it would add a lot of cost to the consumer. And as a consu as a person who buys supplements myself, I don't want to have to pay extra money because the government's gonna FDA regulate this stuff. So because of that, I don't think the insurance companies would ever cover it. Um like you know how like with gym memberships, they'll give you like a certain amount of money that you can spend on a gym membership for a year. Um I I don't see that happening with nutritional supplements. >> Question about the impact of weed and blood sugar levels. Can weed affect blood sugar levels on stage when usually smoking every day except for show day? >> If you smoke everyday weed, you probably don't won't have any like bad response to it on stage. A matter of fact, if you smoke every day, you probably you probably should continue to smoke the day of the show, too, because you might have a withdrawal or something like that. I don't know. Uh, you know, I always tell people, do what you've been doing all along. Don't change anything at the last minute. You know, and I know it sounds it sounds crazy for me to say, "Yeah, smoke a joint before you go on stage." But if that's what you're doing every day anyway, don't change it because you could have some sort of a reaction to not doing it, like a withdrawal. Even though I know marijuana is not necessarily, you know, physically addictive, it is mentally addictive in a sense that it calms people down and it makes them feel a certain way. And so I I don't think so. Now, weed in general can raise estrogen levels in the body. In other words, it can cause more aromatization of testosterone. Um, most bodys are on aromatase inhibitors and stuff like that. So, I don't think the weed has that sort of a response in the body, but it could it could make you hold a little extra water. So, you might need a little extra diuretic with it. I'm not a proponent of it. Never liked it. I don't like the way I feel on it. But, if that's something that you do, then then don't stop it. That doesn't mean you should get baked before going on stage. It just means don't stop it in the sense where you go cold turkey. Uh, how long should your GH cycle last if you're taking I two IUs a day for joints, ligaments, tendon repair, and regeneration? Since the effects of the GH are noticeable in 6 months, should you stay on GH 6 months combined with TRT, say 80 mg a week. >> You see, GH works from the minute you start taking it. The reason we say six months and I and I think I came up with this with this this number of six months because what I noticed was if I did a GH cycle and then I stopped it. I noticed I started really noticing the growth effects from it after six months. And what I surmised from doing this is that I realized that when you take growth hormone obviously your body your liver releases IGF-1 and what IGF-1 does is it takes and I mentioned this earlier it takes what we call satellite cells that surround the muscle fibers which are really undifferentiated stem cells. just another they're they're muscle stem cells we call them which which because they're found around muscle and it tells those stem cells or satellite cells to turn into adult muscle fibers. So they be they differentiate from nothing into muscle but they're small and they're and they're they're tiny. Now you have to build these these cells have to grow. And how do these cells grow? Same way every other muscle cell grows. You train it right? you feed it and you know you take steroids if if that's what you do and that makes them grow faster but there's like a lag period. So from the first shot you take I found that six months after that is when you really start seeing the growth effects from that first shot. Okay. And then if you obviously if you're continuously taking it the whole time you're going to get overlap at some point and then it's then it seems like you're taking GH and and you're growing immediately from it. Well, you're really not. You're growing from the shot six months ago. But the shot you're taking today will then be realized in six months from now. So it it there's an overlap. So for people who've never used GH, the first six months, you might not notice that much and then all of a sudden you start getting really good results. Some guys just stop it because they're like, "Wow, I'm spending all this money. I don't even see any results from it." But meanwhile, you are getting results and you'll notice it down the road. And then what happens is they stop it and they're like, "Ah, I'm growing better now that I'm off of it." But they don't realize that they're growing because of the four months they just did of GH. It just took there was a lag period there. And so I think that that's that's the issue. Um what was I the question was anymore. >> No that >> well I mean it was uh I I guess since just the effects u I mean I guess it was a timing for the GH right that if >> I would say stay on the GH as long as you stay on the GH as long as you can afford it. In other words stopping at six months is not nec it's not like you want to stop. If you can stay on it you know continuously you're going to get better results. You know, I'm not telling you to take it all the time, but it's not one of these things you need to cycle, especially if you're not using excessive amounts of it. Like two IUs a day is very mild. You're not going to get much insulin resistance from that. So, there's really no negatives to it. You know, it's there are only positives to it. And so, in that in that essence, if you can afford it, stay on it. That's why I tell people rather than spend a ton of money and do 10 IUs a day and do cycles of it, you're better off doing two to three IUs a day and just stay on it all the time. You're going to get way better results. length of time is more important than how much you take. I I can promise you that. >> We often do get questions about when to cut certain things out pre-contest or how many days, how many weeks out from a contest? Well, this one is specific to peeds. Uh during prep, going into a show, when do you stop peeds? Before the show, h test, a week before, sooner or not at all? >> If someone's holding a lot of water from GH, it happens with some people. I stop it two weeks out. Um, sometimes I'll stop it and then put it back in the last two days because you're not going to get any fluid retention in two days, but I'll put it in like two IUs a day. And some guys I just lower it from, you know, if they're doing six IUs, I'll lower it to two IUs. Some guys I like the way they look. I don't change anything. I told you the less you change at at the end, the better off you are. If someone looks amazing, why would I cut anything out, you know? Um, so I don't do that. Usually the last testosterone shot I I tell people to take will be like the Wednesday before a Saturday show and then just just to kind of reduce the load of how many injections they're taking and then stay on all the other stuff like right up to the day of the show like trendalone and winch and stuff like that. But you know the last testosterone shot would be the Wednesday before the show and like I said I if if the GH is not causing any problems I would take it right up to the day of the show. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. keto related question. Um, does a keto diet ever need calorie adjustments and to ensure that you keep burning fat? And if so, how would one go about it? >> Yeah, I mean, let's say let's say you're 230 pounds, okay? And you start on a ketogenic diet. You're eating, you know, 45 grams of protein per meal. You're eating 25 30 grams of fat per meal. And you're losing weight really good. And you get down to 200 pounds. And now all of a sudden, you can't lose weight anymore. Well, you're you're 30 pounds less now. you don't need as much food. So, you might want to reduce protein. I wouldn't cut the fat back necessarily initially. I would cut the protein back a little bit because you might just be eating too much and then, you know, if you eat too much protein, a lot of times the protein can convert to carbohydrates um by gluconneioenesis. So, you might want to cut back to like, you know, to knock out, you know, five to 10 grams of protein per meal. And then usually what I notice when I do that is the person starts losing weight again. It's the fat you don't really want to cut if you can avoid it because that's your fuel source and you still need the fuel, but the protein amount you don't need as much because you don't have as much body to repair anymore if that makes sense. >> Um, A or B scenario. If you're on test deca 500 to 500 per week, have no issues after 12 weeks, including glu uh good uh blood work results, what would be the better choice? Adding up to the two compounds to maybe 750 750 or adding in another anabolic like tren at 200 mgs or EQ at 500 mgs. >> I would probably switch the drugs. In other words, you did 12 weeks of these two drugs. Now do testosterone and and trenbolone or then do testosterone and EQ, you know, what switch your drugs. So I switch anabolics. I usually switch them every six to eight weeks and I think that works better, you know, uh just I just, you know, because I think you're kind of hitting the androgen receptor at a slightly different angle, you know, to use it's not really a very biological term, but you're binding to the receptor differently. So it for some reason you get better growth when you do that. So while testosterone is testosterone, it doesn't matter if you use cipionate anthropenate or sustenonine, they're all the same, when you change the anabolic, they bind a little differently to all the receptors. And so, uh, it just seems like when you switch those compounds, you get better results. >> Uh, earlier we had a question about keto adjustments. Well, this one's about, I guess, carb cycling. How do you plan high carb days during carb cycling? And what kind of split would you consider? I watch um I even reference referencing another show, but I guess your general approach to planning a high carb day uh while carb cycling. >> Yeah. What I do is I I give, you know, I start guys off on like two or three days with carbs, moderate, you know, and then one day with like just protein and fat. And what I do is if I see they're too flat, and I I might change the rotation around. I might give them two days of carbs, one day of fats, one day of carbs, one day of fats. play around with that. But it get it might get to a point in the diet where I'm like, "This guy's really flat." And I'm I'm gonna give him like a high carb day. All right, I want tomorrow I want you to eat 300 grams of carb, 50 grams times six meals in addition to your protein fat day, whatever. And and and that'll fill them out. But I do it by how they look. So as a coach, you have to That's why it's important to get pictures from your people. Uh you can tell if someone's super over depleted at some point versus them just complaining that they're hungry. You know what I mean? And and you know, it usually happens the last couple weeks like when they start getting super crazy lean and I'm like, "Holy mackerel, this guy is really depleted." I'm like, "All right, you know what? Go have a burger and fries." And then the next day they're like, "I lost a pound." I'm like, "All right, tomorrow is going to be a 300 gram carb day." And then let's see what you look at the next day. And well, they filled out. Okay, good. That was great. Oh, you know what? I didn't I didn't lose any weight this time, but I didn't gain any weight either. I'm the same weight. All right, let's do another burger and fries today. So you you got to kind of go by how they look and and and and you know just respond to it. Um when that starts happening it's important that you get updates every day so you can see how their bodies are responding. You know most of the time you give them a burger and fries and it and it fixes the problem. But sometimes their metabolism is going so insane that I almost have to do it every single day. And I've wor and and this happens with women too. I have a couple women that I work with that I've had to do that with. But you have to not be afraid to pull that trigger if you need it. And I know most of the people when I tell them to do this, they start having a nervous breakdown. They love the food, but they're like, "You sure? You sure?" I'm like, "You lost weight." I said, "Obviously, it's not hurting you." And so that's you have to, like I said, you have to know how to crack the whip and make people work hard, but you have to know what to feed them, too, so that they don't go over, you know, they don't go too low. >> Um, philosophical question about muscle and diet. Does dieting get easier when you have more muscle? as far as having energy, being hungry, or is it all relative? >> Say it one more time, Chris. >> Yeah, sure. So, does dieting get easier when you have more muscle, essentially equating that to energy, being hungry, or is it all relative? >> When I was 300 lb and relatively lean, and uh you know, when I would start dieting, you know, you lose 15 20 pounds the first, you know, two weeks dieting because you're losing all the water. And now I'm down to 280 and I'm a stride of glutes already. Okay. And you think, all right, and I got six weeks left for a show. So I would at the end I was dieting for six weeks basically. Um because I didn't need to I didn't need any more time than that. And you would think, oh, the diet's not that hard if you only dieting for six weeks, right? The day I started dieting because I was so lean already. It felt like I had been dieting for 12 weeks already. So, your level of body fat really is what dictates how you feel between meals and during the day. So, if you have nothing to burn, there's no In other words, there's no there's no residuals. There's no storage of anything to burn between meals, you're going to feel like crap. It's just that's just the way it goes. Now, obviously, feeling like crap for 16 weeks is a lot worse than feeling like crap for for four weeks or six weeks. However, most people who start a diet that have body fat, they don't feel like crap in the beginning of the diet. they actually feel better that they're losing the fat. They don't they're not as heavy. They have more energy, you know. So, I think that the last four to six weeks prior to a competition, no matter when you start your diet, okay, is always terrible because your body is operating on fumes. It doesn't have enough residuals or enough storage of of energy to kind of sustain it between meals. So, you're always going to feel worse. So, it doesn't matter how much muscle you have. doesn't get easier, but I think you get used to the process so it doesn't become as bad. Like like I you know the first show I ever did I I I I wanted to quit. I said I'll never do this again. I this was miserable. But you know after a while you do it again and you kind of get used to the whole process of suffering and it's not that bad. You know what I've done worse. You know it's like when I I was telling a story about how I had to go on this zipline thing with my kids at this uh this place we went to. It's like 30 feet in the air. I'm scared out of my mind because I don't really like heights. And I had to go because my youngest, they wouldn't let her go without an adult. And I conquered my fears. And it wasn't so bad after it was all said and I was terror terror terrorized, you know, terrified when I was doing it. But after a couple times around and a couple zips around, it wasn't so bad. So I think once you get used to anything, you can it's not so bad. >> Question about the best bodybuilders to never turn pro. I recently saw a picture of Matt Meninhole in his heyday. I forgot how incredible his build was even at a young age. My question is who would you put on the Mount Rushmore of bodybuilders that never turned pro? I think you and Matt Menhal for sure. Who else? Dennis Newman maybe. >> Well, Dennis Newman turned pro. He won the USA in 85 or 95 rather. But um no, I I think um I think that Edgar Fletcher was a was a guy who should have turned pro but he could he used to cheat on his diet too much. Crazy structure. Matter of fact, one year at the USA, he would have won. However, I think he did too many diuretics and he but I had I saw pictures of him, you know, at the prejudging and he looked nutty and he he he wound up having to come off stage. He just overdid it. But he him and Mandenhal come to mind as probably the two best that never turned pro. I I you know, look, I deserved it because I should have I should have won a couple times, but I wasn't in their category of of greatness in terms of would they have been great pros? They would have been much better pros than I would. But, uh, so th those guys are the two that come to mind. I'm sure there's a couple others that that, you know, that we can come up with. I think I don't think Rory Lemire have ever termed pro. He had a great physique, too. >> One more and um, you could have some fun with this one. What if anything did you ever learn from Nasser Alson body? >> Never turn your back on Nasser because he'll he'll stab you right in the back. >> You know, Nasser was actually, you know, look, Nasser had this attit I don't think NASA had any real friends. I think he had acquaintances and I think he had people that he enjoyed spending time with. And I don't think, you know, a lot of people think he hated me. He didn't really hate me because if he didn't if he hates someone, he wouldn't have spent any time. He liked spending time with me because I think I was an intellectual challenge for him and he and there weren't many people like that. So people that he didn't respect intellectually, he would make fun of, okay, to their face almost and mock them. He didn't do that to me because he knew that I had knowledge and we would exchange ideas. But, you know, if I went to the bathroom and I was with a girl, you know, he would try to he would slip the the girl his phone number thinking that he was better than me, you know, type of thing. So, you can't turn your back on that. So, but I think we had there was a there was a respect there just intellectually that he had from me. Um, did he teach me anything? Um, I think his I kind of knew it already, but he kind of basically said that everyone's full of [\h__\h] you know, and and he said, you know, you can't trust anyone. And and unfortunately, that might have been his downfall. He was he had a very negative attitude about everyone in the sport and and you know he might be right 80% of the time. A lot of the people are full of crap but I think they're all legitimate people. I I can say that I call a bunch of people in our sport friends and I think that they're legitimate and they're people that I you know if the chips are down they're there for me. But I don't take a negative attitude on life. I'm more of an optimist when it comes to like you know I try to see the best in everyone. He didn't. He saw the worst in everyone unfortunately. And unfortunately he was right about a lot of people. Um but I think because of that negative attitude once he couldn't compete anymore once he wasn't the Nasser somebody that he was at his heyday he became very disillusioned and and negative about everything and he rather than use his celebrity status to help promote the sport and make money from the sport he kind of almost isolated himself and and kind of snubbed his nose at the sport. And you know, I I always thought that Nasser had a lot of other interests other than bodybuilding, but it appeared that he really didn't. That his whole his whole ego and his whole personality was invested in how good of a bodybuilder he was. So that when he couldn't bodybuild anymore at that high level, I think he lost the desire to live. And when people lose a desire to live or because they don't have anything that makes them feel good about themselves, they usually find a way to exit this world. And and I think that's what happened to Nasser. I think he rather than reinvent himself, he he he just couldn't and he just the negativity just destroyed him. And it's it's unfortunate because I think he, you know, I think he would have been a great great guy to have on analyst panels and and and show wrapups. He would have been phenomenal because he's funny. He had good insights and he really did see to the he he knew who people were. He can see through it and he and he had very funny insights. Even if you don't agree with him, he would have been phenomenal on social media. He probably would have had one of the best social media, you know, channels of all time, but he he he couldn't go there. He wanted to be Mr. Olympia. That's all he wanted to be. That's going to do it for this episode of Ask Dave. Reminder right now on the channel, all new episodes of the after hours podcast as well as Sunday night's heavy rather yesterday, Monday afternoon's heavy muscle radio. A full recap of this past weekend's Texas Pro and 2025 Masters Olympia. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below. Hit the notification bell so you're not going to miss any of our shows segments, anything that we have coming up on this channel. For Dave Palumbo, I'm Sadi Farooqi. We'll see you next time.