Hello everybody. This is Christian Duke for rxmuscle.com in the iron asylum at MetroFitness Worththington with IFBB Pro. Brian Balszano. Brian, welcome. How's it going? Uh, it's a pleasure to be here. Thank you for, you know, inviting me to do this. Absolutely. It's like really cool to be sitting here with the 2014 USA middleweight champion. I want to jump into the fun here. I know that uh you told me you started weight training about 4 years ago. Yeah. Which is pretty wild to me because I mean you started weight training four years ago. You did your first show in 2014 and you also turned pro in 2014. So if you could take us back to I guess what inspired you to start lifting and uh was it a magazine, a a bodybuilder, a show? What got you into the iron game? Just uh it all started back in high school is I just got I was a really tiny kid. I was 5'4, 110 lbs. I was just like basically a skeleton, right? And uh no one knew who I was. People like I was a little quiet kid. Kids always like picked on me a little bit, pushed me around. I want just want, you know, add some size on kind of like stand with the big boys, right? And then I just started and then over time, you know, just kind of it was something that helped me become a person, but then it just kind of turned into like a lifestyle and then I just I never gave up. Like I had no ever intention to be a bodybuilder, right? But it just evolved into one over time. Yeah. And it's it's it's funny too because you started like at 21. At 21, most people are like just, you know, getting to this whole thing that you can drink legally and like go out and party and like, you know, when you're in the gym, I mean, if you're going to make any uh, you know, quality muscle gains, you know, you really can't drink that much and you can't eat crap food. So, um, how soon did it take before you actually started putting on lean muscle mass and actually started seeing a transformation in your physique from when you started lifting? I'd say about a year. Like after like three months, you know, you get I got used to the feeling. But like after a year, I put on about 15 pounds of solid mass on my frame and you could actually see a good change in the mirror at that point. Okay. And I was just like, you know, I like the way it looked. I like the hard work and plus like just me like I'm a very independent person. So like I just love the sport as was, you know, it's like you had to work for what you wanted. There's there's no cheating. There's no way around it. If you don't do what you need to do, you're never going to see the success. Absolutely. Now, you're we're doing this interview in Columbus, but you're actually from Cleveland, right? Yeah. What What was the sort of the the gym vibe, the atmosphere in Cleveland when you first got started training? In Cleveland, it's uh more about trying to look good, you know? Okay. It's not really a a sport city up there. It's, you know, it's more about, you know, you train to look good to go out. Sure. And meet people, but it wasn't it's definitely not what the atmosphere is here. So, kind of like like the Jersey Shore there. Gym tan laundry kind of thing. Yeah. Name brands, all that. Hair gel. Okay. Gotcha. And then before the interview, we were talking about how you actually uh had a sort of a a really bad injury. Uh if you could talk a little bit about that cuz you were able to really overcome it. Uh whereas they were telling you that well, you could never train again. Yeah, it was uh it was in July of 2011. Okay. Uh I came back uh from France from from studying abroad. Okay. And my friends wanted to take me out to have fun because I was already like living the bodybuilding lifestyle but I never was a bodybuilder. They're like you live a very boring life. Yeah. So we he's like come on have fun for one Sunday. So we went on the lake and we went tubing and uh they fool around a little bit and my arm got ripped out. It was completely stuck in uh it it was separated 8 in. It got stuck in my right chest muscle and it was separated for over two hours. I got rushed to the hospital. By the time I got there, everything was pretty much ripped and they said that I would never lift weights again and I just don't have a shoulder anymore. But I had two surgeries, six, seven therapy sessions for months and I never gave up. And the day I started picking up ice again, the doctors were just like, "It's apparently it's stable." So, and I just I just never lost hope. That's wild. How many surgeries did you actually have? Two. You had two surgeries. Yeah. I had one on this uh on the shoulder itself to fix it and then the nerves started to die about a year after that. Okay. So then they go they had to go in again and restructure the nerves and then just I don't know what happened but everything just started to click again and I'm I feel more than blessed. Absolutely. And and that must have been like a like a real a real test on your character like on your like like your sort of your emotions and everything. I mean to have to go through that process, you know, and like multiple surgeries and and and rehabbing an injury and having doctors I don't know if doctors do it because they don't want to get people's hopes up, but to say you'll never lift weights again. You can see how that could like, you know, really break you, but it but it didn't. It made you stronger. So that's that's really cool. So in uh 2014 you actually did the uh Mike Francois like this is the first show that you ever competed in. Yeah. Uh and then shortly thereafter you go pro. Let's talk about the Mike Francois. Um why did you do that show and what was it like getting on stage and and and winning everything there? Uh well first part of it why I did it. Uh, I came to this area and I switched gyms and I started coming here and this is a great atmosphere here. Everyone's very supportive and they every now and then like someone would just walk up to me and say, "Hey, you should do a show." I was like, "Ah, I don't know." And it just it kept happening week after week. Someone knew, someone new, someone new. And then finally like I became friends some people here and they were like, "Dude, you should really do a show. You have great genetics, all that stuff." And I was like, "Fine." And I thought I got talked about, but I'm like, I'm not going to do it unless, you know, I have a coach to help Exactly. going, you know, all stuff. And so I figure, you know, my good friend, uh, named Justin Compton, really good close. I was like, if anything, I'm going to go with him. I trust him. I've known him. Yeah. He can help guide me through it. So, Sure. And then, so I got that rolling. Then, uh, the show is May 10th. We We started January 1st, 2014. And then what I had about 5 months to prep for it and uh then going to it I was nervous. I just didn't know what to expect. Then the walk out with the overall was insane. I just Yeah. I can see your smile on your face. I was I I was sleepy because it just was like Mhm. it it wasn't real. No, absolutely. And I I can if you at home could see the facial expressions, the smiles. I mean, it's genuine. But before we even uh conclude talking about that, let's go back to when you talked about, you know, moving to Columbus. You moved to Columbus for a job opportunity. You got a very good job. Um but you don't really know anybody here, right? No, I'm all alone. I came here with the injury, had to get surgery, and I I mean, being a bodybuilder and then going through rehab for that three-ear period. Yeah. I I I couldn't have time to make any friends, right? I don't really. So, it's like I, you know, I have no friends or family here. People I have friends now from the gym, whatnot, but like when I first came here, it was like for two years I I couldn't meet anyone. So, it was it was hard. I mean, that's what I was going to say. Yeah. Like, you probably have a lot more friends uh than you know of, but like, you know, when you're when you're like conceptualizing it, you feel like you're all alone because, you know, all your family and all your friends are really in Cleveland, right? So, um, so you Okay, so you win the overall and also as a middleweight cuz you, you know, important thing is that, you know, you didn't pick the middleweight for the USA's or Mike Francois strategically. This is the weight that you compete in. So, you're, you know, a middleweight. Um, so you win that contest and then you go to the USA's, but before we talk about the USA's, you were like pretty much all alone for for the Mike Francois, right? I mean like you did all this like you said you mentioned Justin Compton uh having help there but but really this was not like an effort where you have a big team you know like with you you know you don't have like a like a guy for this a guy for that and like really a very independent effort. Yeah. Okay. So then you decide you want to do the USA. Talk about doing the USA because I mean I know from what you told me Mike Franis is the biggest show in Ohio but as big as it may be the USA's has got to be like you know like a dinosaur like humongous. So, like how did you how did you go from, you know, doing your first show, winning that overall to say, "Hey, uh, I'm going to go to do the USA's." Uh, after I did that, I got talked by a lot of people who said that I should give it a shot the GoPro at my current situation instead of trying to get bigger and go light heavy. My original plan was, you know, take a year off, get some size, grow up, you know, kind of get up through like the weight classes, right? Everyone here said, I mean, you are a middleweight. why, you know, take a year off and, you know, try and get bigger when it's like when you look great as you are right now. Exactly. To stay at middleweight and go for it this year. And I was just like, I, you know, I'm I'm still new to the sport. I didn't know. And uh, a lot everyone here believed in me and so I was like, "All right, I'll give it a shot." And we chose out the the USA's and we started attacking. Yeah. I mean, because you've got to have like the shortest uh amateur career ever. You had one show. Yeah. one show and then you go to the USA and you turn pro. I mean, it's like like whenever whenever somebody asks you like down the road be like, "So, Brian, uh, what are your fondest memories from your days as an amateur?" Like, "What are you going to say? I was an amateur for like a week." You know what I mean? But, yeah. Um, all right. So, so what was the USA's like when you got to the contest? I mean, I know. Um, and I really want you to mention what you told me about the judges about the scoring, like how how close it was for you, uh, winning the middleweight. I mean, what was it like honestly at the USA's? It was very overwhelming. Yeah. I mean, like it's just being Las Vegas once again all by myself. Yeah. No one helped me out. Having to go out shopping, cook, travel. Everyone else is off their feet, you know, having like their friend, their girlfriend, you know, sit home. I'm right. You know, I'm I'm walking. I'm pounding my legs non-stop doing what I have to do to get to where I want. What had you mentioned about the legs though about staying off your legs about uh uh when you were at the USA's? Yeah. Usually uh a few days before a show or like the last week uh everyone here says like you basically you know you get off your legs to keep the inflammation down. Right. Right. Exactly. Get more detail and you know so like when you see other people like you know the girlfriend or whatever like they have one person help them out like they're cooking the food so they can sit down do other things. I was not I didn't I wasn't blessed with that to happen. I just I had no excuse. I had to you know I had to do what I had to do to get to where I wanted to be. I wanted to win. So, I had to stay on my legs 24/7. That's what I had to do. Right. And you know how earlier I asked you, you know, how close it was winning, but it wasn't close at all. Right. I mean, you basically dominated that that that class, right? In my mind, you know, I I I think it was close. I think the other competitors, a few of them, they they had more than enough there to win, right? But from what, you know, I was told, everyone said, you know, like uh you pretty much dominated the middleweights. But in my mind, I don't think that that happened. I think, you know, I worked hard, I won, but the other competitors looked great, too. And I believe that a few of them else should have won, too. Sure. Now, uh, not to name drop, but a few big names, I think you said on social media said that they actually thought you won the whole the whole show, right? Not just the class, but the whole thing. It was uh yeah a few my friends post on my wall all the the wrap-up videos and uh uh like Flex Wheeler and like Dennis James or like uh the kid dominated the middleweights and they're like we actually saw him win overall and I felt like amazed. I was like these guys that I've looked up to and follow for years and they're they're talking about me like I should be talking about them. Right. Right. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean but but again that's you know a lot of people talk about uh you know Mr. Olympia Phil Heath and like you know the uh the very decorated uh amateur uh journey that he had he was winning first places everywhere in turn pro but I think your story is even even trumps his in a way because again you only did one show also I think that uh you know you it's not like you did the Mr. Main Street, you did a really really big show in Ohio and you won the whole thing. So your your uh national qualification wasn't like by happen stance. I mean it was very much deserved. Then you go to the USA's which is I mean any bodybuilding historian will recognize that out of the four big shows um North Americans uh team universe nationals and USA. USA are the the gold standard. I mean I don't think it's even up for for debate. Uh and you won that you know your class at that show. So, I think, you know, you've got a lot of, you know, a lot of momentum going into the pros. Now, um, how you said you right now you're at what what's your body weight right now? Right now, I'm 183. But your stage weight as a middleweight would have been was uh 175. So, what I had asked you earlier uh before we did the interview is do you see yourself as a potential 212 threat? Like do you do you think if you eat enough food and get good supplements and and you know uh just really give it your all? Do you do you think like in a year or two we might see you walking around with like maybe you don't know 15 20 more pounds of muscle on you? That's that's the goal. Like uh I don't want to say like know that I see myself as a threat or not even 10 or 15. I'm like some serious mass. I'm going to work my butt off to become a threat. Okay, good stuff. So uh talking about the future um where do you see yourself? because I mean you're not like the the typical uh sort well not the typical you're not the stereotype bodybuilder that you know basically just has a gym. You have a really good job and uh you moved here from Cleveland for it. So what would you like to do in the fitness industry? Personally I do have a job what not but I love bodybuilding. This is my passion. I would love to become a sponsored athlete and go as far as I can and be as big as I can. It's just it means more to me than just a career job. It's it would be a dream. It's just it's something that I've been I can't even like you know like I have no really words for it but it's just like it was I've wanted this forever and you know it's just I'm going to work my hardest to become a true athlete to be able to support a family and become an inspiration to you know everyone. And I just I feel like, you know, it's just like it's such a big dream, but like even like right now people are saying like, you know, like my story inspires them and it's makes me feel happy inside. It makes me feel like, you know, I'm actually changing other people's lives. Cool. And so, I mean, as far as uh supplements go or uh magazines, like I mean, are there any bodybuilding magazines you read or uh are you a big proponent? Are you a big fan of uh bodybuilding supplements at all? Yeah. Uh, every day I read Flex and MD. Okay. I mean, if you're into sport. Yeah. You just got to read, you know, absolutely. It's like the Bibles. Definitely. Definitely. Got to stay on top your athletes, all that. I mean, so I read those every day. Valin supplements, of course. Got to have your protein powders, your preworkout. I don't take much of it, but every now and then, like, you know, that long day at work, you need a little kick. Absolutely. Absolutely. But uh supplements wise, I mean more than likely it's supplement the the definition it should supplement the diet, but you normally should come from your food all whole sources. Absolutely. So it it sounds like I mean if there's a a supplement company out there that like puts out a good product cuz I know like just by talking to you I know that you would never put your name behind you know some crap protein powder but if there was a company that you really believed in a product that really could stand the test I mean would you lend your name to? Would you want to be, you know, work with a company like that? Oh, yeah. Uh, any big supplement company, it's stable, that makes great quality products. Yeah. Cuz I can't tell you how. I mean, a lot of guys like I mean, even if the money's really good, if the if the product's crap, I mean, you you train at Metro Fitness Worththing. I mean, you're here like what, four or five times a week. So, if you put out if you put your name behind a crap protein, you're going to hear about it at the gym, you know, site. So, you probably want to. So, there's companies out there, and there's a lot of good companies that put out great products. I mean, and I think with, you know, all the hype you got, and it's not just hype. I mean, you know, you know, you went pro after one show. Um, and then you mentioned uh MD and and Flex. So, I mean, you you know, you're definitely in the industry, so it'd be great to see you uh maybe uh gracing the cover of Flex holding uh some kind of a protein powder, you know. Wouldn't that be cool? Yeah. All right. Well, I want to thank you very much, uh Brian, for uh taking the time to speak with us uh for Brian Bzano. I'm Christian Duke, Indiana asylum, rxmuscle.com.