All right, this is John Hansen in the Iron Asylum with bikini competitor May Galling. Now, you said uh last year that your problem was you didn't have enough muscle. So, in the offseason you tried to put on more muscle and you've put on 15 lbs. You said I put on 15 lbs. Um, and I've lost five so far since I started my prep. Okay. Yeah. So, how much more do you think you'll be this year than last year when you when you get to the show? I'm hoping to be 10 lbs heavier on stage this year. So, right now I'm just maintaining. I don't want to lose any more weight. I just want to get tighter, but maintain what I have as far as muscle goes. So, tell us how you gain the weight cuz I think that's interesting cuz a lot of bikini competitors have the uh the same problem. you know, they they need to put on more muscle. Um, some of them don't lift that heavy. So, what did you do in the offseason to put on 15 pounds? Um, I cut down my cardio. The only cardio I did was to warm up for like 5 minutes before lifting. A lot of heavy lifting. When I'm leg pressing, I'm putting on four plates on each side. Um, low reps. My rest periods are long. Okay. um food wise, a lot of carbs, a lot of proteins, a lot of good fats like avocado, um olive oil, and I make sure I eat preworkout and post-workout. What did you have pre-workout and post-workout? Um for my pre-workout, I'll more so stick to like complex carbs like brown rice, protein, and then post-workout, I'll get in that um starchy carbs like a white rice, um pasta, I'll have proteins as well. Now, you're doing shoulders today at the gym and uh I saw you started off with the standing military press. What's the what's the plan now that you're getting ready for a contest? I saw you're training a little bit faster. You're looking at your watch after every set, you know? Right. My rest periods um in the offseason is a lot longer compared to while I'm on prep. Um so, like in the offseason, I'll probably rest for 90 seconds in between sets. Right now that I'm on prep, it goes down to 60 seconds. Um, and I think it's more so a lot of um volume. My reps are higher. Um, I'm not lifting as heavy. Every now and then I will get a heavy heavy day in just to make sure I don't lose my strength. Okay. Yeah. I saw with your shoulder workout, you were probably doing all the different heads of the muscle. You know, you're choosing exercises for all front. Yeah. So, after the front presses, you did uh Arnold presses, right? Yes. Um, the arm press I love because it just works out the front part of your delts as as well as the medial. Yeah. And it's also just a little bit harder because of um the mechanism of the workout itself. Yeah. Yeah. And you did those seated. You prefer doing seated instead of standing. Yes, I do for the Arnold presses. And then you went on to do the uh side lateral raises. Yes. And they burn probably out of all the workouts. Those are probably the ones that I always feel. And I love incorporating drop sets towards my last set just to really get that burning feeling in. Yeah, we're right here. So, do you feel those more doing the Arnold presses first? I always did that. And when I did the Arnold presses because it gets the side delts and then I went to side laterals. I always felt more of a burn in the in the delts. Yeah, I for some reason I do also feel a little bit more burned with the with the lateral raises. Um I just I can't go as heavy um with my lateral raises as I can with my with my Arnold presses for some reason. Yeah. Yeah. After that, you went over and did the rear delts, right, on the PC deck machine. PC deck machine. Um, for that one, I usually try to stick to a higher rep range. It's a smaller muscle group. Um, so I really cannot go heavy. I think I was doing like 40 lbs. Um, and then my reps were anywhere from 12 12 to 15. Yeah. Were there certain parts of your physique you needed to work on after last year? Did when you talked to the judges on how you did? Um, when I did ask for a critique, what the judge had emailed me back was he said to just keep doing what I'm doing, but I think I'm a little bit harder on myself. Um, so I definitely feel like I have to work on my legs, my glutes. I have to work on getting my waist a little bit smaller. Last year when I step on stage at my last show, my waist got down to 22. But I mean, I just felt like it wasn't still small enough because my glutes were also small as opposed to if my shoulders were a little bit wider and my glutes were bigger, then my waist will even look a little bit smaller. Um, I just want to look, I guess, having that perfect aesthetic is what they say. So, so when you say work on your legs and glutes, you mean get them bigger. You mean develop them more? Develop them more. Get them toned. Um, hopefully lift my glutes up some more, too. I don't want big big quads because that's not what they look for for in bikini. They just want that nice and proportioned body. Um balanced, healthy looking. Now, you come from a Filipino background. You said your mom and dad sort of had problems with you getting up on stage. Huh. They're just very traditional. Um they do think that it's a little bit gross that I have a little bit more muscle than before. Um although they are still pretty supportive. They came and watched my first show. Um, they were there front seat. I think my jack I think my dad just had to close his eyes for a little bit when I was doing my back pose and my glutes were out there for the world to see. But I think, um, it's just not something that they're used to. So, um, what's your goal then in the sport? How far do you want to go? Do you want to get your pro card? I do want to get my pro card. Um, and hopefully grace the stages of the Arnold and the Olympia in the future. I know I have a long ways to go, but time will tell. Yeah, you're just starting off. Yes. Yes. A lot of work still has to be put in. Any sponsors you want to thank? Um, I do want to thank um DNC. They're the number one provider for Allmax here in Tampa Bay. They've been a huge help with my prep. Um, also in the offse whenever I go there, I ask tons of questions about supplements and they're just um very eager to help out. Um, I also sometimes will be at their tables at the bodybuilding shows. Um, all right, man. Well, best of luck this year and uh we'll look for you hopefully on the national stage soon. Okay, thank you so much.