I'm standing here at City Athletic Club with the owner, Jay, and uh I'm holding in my hand here a J Bell. I love this dumbbell. Ex explain to us. First of all, I want to congratulate you on this gym and all the great stuff that's been going on here this weekend. Obviously got Mr. Olympia Phil Heath here shooting. We just saw him a little while ago and he's involved in this project we're going to talk about a little bit later. But um how did this gym come about? Because it it it I mean it popped up kind of overnight a few years ago and this has become the place to go for the bodybuilders, right? So like anything else. It's an overnight success that took, you know, 10 years to happen, you know. So I've uh been a bodybuilder myself. I love the industry. When I took over this gym, it was a 24-hour fitness. I basically gutted it. And what I did was I embraced the fitness industry and most gyms have done the opposite. They've actually, you know, uh, kind of turned away, turned their backs on, they don't want bodybuilds in the gym. Well, that's where it started, you know. So, it started with this bodybuilding movement and the guys that really love fitness and and do fitness and fitness is part of their life. That's where all this started. And now the industry's gone the other way where they want to embrace people that, you know, and it's just purely monetary and it's purely financially driven, but it's about getting to as many people as possible that don't actually use the gym. I mean, that's the that's the brutal truth is most gym owners actually benefit from not the members that use the gym, but the planet fitness model. Exactly. The planet fitness model, which is the non-usage model. You know, they want to sell someone a membership and they have a statistical certainty that they're never going to show up. Exactly. Which is to me very unethical. So, I've done the exact opposite. And in doing that, I've gotten tons of trainers. Um, I have over 120 trainers in this one gym in this gym. I think I have more trainers than any other gym on the planet. I'll say that right now. And they're all busy, huh? And they're all independent is the thing. I don't employ them. They work for themselves. That's awesome. And so, they've uh become business owners. They create their own business. I don't tell them how to train, what to charge, what to wear. They're their own boss. That's the old gold gym Venice uh model from years ago. The thing is, it's nothing new. I'm not doing anything that's that smart or groundbreaking. I'm just doing it the way that I it should be done and it's done been done before and I'm trying to recapture that magic that that that Venice Golds did. And so I'm just trying to u recreate that and then those trainers in turn market themselves. And you know these days with social media anyone can become a good marketer with a zero budget zero dollar right. So it becomes this uh collective marketing uh effort that then leads to the community. It then leads to the pro bodybuilders and I have the benefit of being in this town that hosts the Mr. Olympia every year. So I'm just a mom and pop business, but I happen to be in this great town with this great event. And you got a 10 time Miss Olympia downstairs running your running a juice bar. Exactly. Yeah. Exactly. And so that so all that collectively has brought the fitness community here and it's truly my honor and it's my privilege to host all this stuff and to be a part of the community and uh to to speak with you and to share this story and just and let people know I I want it here. I want the fitness guys here. I want the bodybuilders. I want it all. And the thing is it's all or nothing. Either you embrace that fully or you don't embrace it at all. And that's what you see is either you're a hardcore gym or you're a gym for the masses. But you're a hardcore gym, but you also have MMA. It's very nice. It's airond conditioned in here. It's it's clean. And that's a gym that I look for. I don't need the hard I don't need the metroflex gyms. Maybe back when I was, you know, competing. I want to go to a gym that's that has everything. And you are everything. So, you're not just exclusively hardcore. And I think that's an important point to to differentiation for you. Yeah. I guess hardcore isn't the right term. I think the term is purposeful. Like if you're a bodybuilder, we've got exactly what you need. If you're a if you're a pro fighter, we have exactly what you need. If you're a yogi, I've got a beautiful hot yoga room. So, I try to do everything to the in tr like truly like in a pure form. I don't try to do like a 24-hour fitness version of cycling, yoga, zumba, MMA, CrossFit. Like, they have their own versions, but I have a real CrossFit. I pay CrossFit, you know, the fee every year to be real CrossFit. I've got hardcore CrossFit guys. So, maybe hardcore is not the right term, but it's it's pure. I like the purposeful title. Exactly. And you know, I might have to slip into the hot yoga class a little later to get give it a try. Now, you have this new venture. Uh well, it's not really that new, but you're really starting to really launch it worldwide. Jbells, explain where this came from, and I and explain to me how Phil Heath is involved in this. Well, you know, dumbbells have existed in the same uh design for what, three or 4 hund years. No one's ever rethought it. It's a handle. It's called a dumbbell, right? Yeah. It's not smart. Uh so, it's polarized weight distribution. There's one weight at one end and one eight weight weight at the other end. But from a physics standpoint, it makes zero sense. So from a pure physics standpoint, that moment of inertia that you have to deal with at every second of every point in the movement, people don't realize how inefficient that is. And you don't realize it until you've actually felt something that doesn't have that inertia you're dealing with. So the feedback I'm getting is that, you know, they use it and it doesn't matter if it's a curl, a fly, a press, a row, a shrug. Like when you actually reduce that moment of inertia to to near zero and the and the weight is actually balanced around your hand and your wrist actually is in a supported fashion, it completely changes how the movement feels. The the intensity of the contraction and um and the um eliminates the need for your joints, your shoulders. My shoulders don't hurt. Yeah. I I told you when I when I grab this dumbbell and I lift it up now I'm I don't feel any shoulder pain and I can't explain why other than the fact that whatever the distribution is it works. Yeah. It's just physics. Yeah. So I have a very primitive understanding of physics but just enough to know that dumbbells are not smart and that this is a better design. So that's where it came from. And I met Phil um well I've known Phil for a few years but he was here shooting last year and we talked about it and he loved it and we both believe that you know the future of free weights is going to be a more balanced device instead of dumbbells. Is this thing more expensive to make or to buy for that matter? It is. So it's a premium product. It's going to be um slightly more expensive than existing dumbbells but not much maybe 10%. Of course of course that's now because right now I'm just launching. So, I don't I haven't really achieved the efficiencies of manufacturing and all that stuff, which I'm just learning. I'm a gym owner. I don't make stuff, you know, but I'm learning how. What's the heaviest you can go up to with this and still have it be stable? Uh, there's no weight limit really. I mean, whatever. What What's out there? 200 lb. I could do a 200lb. Wow. Really? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Actually, the hard part is getting light enough because when you get down to a 5 lb dumbbell, it's a handle on it. It's a nub and it's a nub, you know. So, what can you really do? Making out of carbon fiber, man. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Right. Titanium or something. Yeah. Well, Jay, once again, thank you for opening up your gym to us and to all us bodybuilders for this Olympia weekend. Uh, I encourage anyone if you're in the Las Vegas area to come down to City Athletic Club here on Sahara and Jay's always here. You got Iris, Kyle, and Heday downstairs at the Body Cafe. And it's just it's very bodybuilding friendly here. And we love that, especially here at our as hardcore bodybuilders, we want to feel at home, and I feel totally at home here. Uh, guys, check it out. Dave Palumbo here with Jay from City Athletic Cub for rxmuscle.com.