 metformin vs insulin, which should you use? Stay tuned. I created STEECES nutrition with one mission in mind, to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of STEECES nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Energy pouches are the wave of the future and underrated muscles locked in is first to bring it to you. With between 50 and 100 milligrams of caffeine per pouch, you can dial in the quick clean energy and focus you need on the go. Simple, easy to use. Take one between your cheek and gum to get you through your day to get you through your work out. Code rx20underratedmuscle.com. Get locked in today. Alright, television, rxmuscle.com. This is Ask Dave, your weekly question and answer show with Dave Palumbo. Bodybuilding, non-bodybuilding, whether it be diet, training, supplementation or anything and everything, this is your forum to ask Dave your questions. We're going to go right into the questions. First two questions on the show, as always, from the Dave Palumbo Experience app. Good training related question to get us started and one of the old fashioned favorites, dips. Your opinion on doing dips, if you think they're a good exercise and in what order in a workout should I do them? I used to do dips a lot because I always thought that, you know, in the fact that I did them on chest day, I would lean forward into the dip and work more pack and then I would do them on tricep there where I would stand upright a little bit more to work more of the tricep. I got to a point where they were too easy for me. I realized that high reps don't build muscles. I stopped doing dips. I know guys strap weights around their waist to try to make the dips heavier, but I always felt like, you know what, the stabilization aspect in the shoulder area was just not good. When you got really heavy, I felt like there was a lot of grinding going on there just to stabilize the weight because think about it, it's not a machine and you're basically having to support your body. Now you've got like 150 pounds hanging off around your waist. It's just not good for the joints. I noticed my shoulders would get really sore after doing them, so I stopped doing them dips. So maybe when you first start out, like if young guys trying to get into working out, dips, pull-ups, that kind of stuff is good. As you get really big and you're over 240 pounds, it's going to be hard to start doing pull-ups and dips and stuff like that. Obviously pull-ups have less stress on the joint because you're not balancing on it. You're just kind of pulling your body up, but the dips seem to, like I said, cause a lot of grinding in there. So I would probably move away from dips as you got bigger. I don't think they're as good of a mass building exercise at that point, but I think when you're first starting out to get balanced to your body, to be able to just build a little bit of strength, especially for young guys, young teens and stuff like that, I think they're really good. Second question, again, these first two from the Dave Hulumbo Experience app. This is one that is a little bit more trendy, not just amongst bodybuilders, but just among people that want a better recovery. That is CPAPS sleep devices. Aside from their generally intended uses, your view on them as a tool for recovery? If you have really bad sleep apnea at night, where you're waking up a million times during the night, then obviously getting a sleep CPAP machine, which is going to enable you to sleep better, is almost like you almost have to get it. Some people have positional sleep apnea, and I think I have that. In other words, if I lay on my back for some reason, I'll wake up sometimes gasping for air, like in other words, I must be having some snoring or whatever going on. If I sleep on my side, I never wake up. I don't have any breathing. I might just break up because my shoulders are a little sore, I might have to switch sides, but I don't have any problems. If you have positional, you can just sleep in a different position. But if you snore and you have apnea, no matter which way you sleep, and you go for the sleep test, which usually is included on your insurance usually covers that, they do a sleep study that make you sleep for two hours. They watch you count how many times you stop breathing. And you're stopping every couple of seconds. You're certainly not getting a restful night's sleep and you're not recovering. And it's not good for your brain, but it's also not good for your body. So I would certainly recommend the bodybuilders that are over 250 or that anybody that has bad sleep apnea, get a machine. There's nothing, there are other devices you can use and things you can put on your nose and you can try those first. But if it doesn't work, I would go with the sleep apnea, sleep apnea shape. Now, these two questions are for the Day Palembo Experience app. It is Christmas coming up, the holidays, New Year's. You want to give your loved ones a good stocking stuffer. Twenty nine dollars a month. Download it from the Android store or the iTunes store. You get Day Palembo. Me as your coach in your back pocket, all my videos I've ever done, informational videos, that is, writings, everything is in one place, organized well. All my protocols, my keto diet, my cyclical keto diet, my offseason diets, my for men, women, drug cycles, everything's on there. I do a Q&A video every single week just for the app members. So it's an extra video every week. Plus I answer everyone's questions in an open forum. So you see everyone's questions and answers. It's a great learning experience. We put up workouts every week. It's a tremendous value for twenty nine dollars a month and it's always evolving. So it's not the same information every single week. It's always changing. So you guys have been supporting that app for over three years now. I want to thank you. It keeps growing continuously and thanks for the support. And a lot of people ask me, hey, Dave, you know, you answer everyone's questions. How I don't have, you know, eight hundred nine hundred dollars for coaching, but I'd like to support, you know, what you do. And this is a great way to do it for the day to level experience that. For good, the rest of our questions are friends, Titan Medical Center, their therapy of the week is a peptide that we discussed last week on the shows. A matter of fact, five Amino one and. Yeah, they're doing a sale on that. If you mentioned a day, Palumbo, Arx, Muscle, a lot of people, you know, seem to be trying it out. And like, you know, like I said, I don't know, you know, it's mostly increases insulin sensitivity. It's mostly helps with fat burning. I think the most potent benefit of it is that it raises, you know, NAD plus levels in the in the cells, which obviously have been shown to increase cognitive function, cellular energy output and, you know, giving you a feeling of more energy. A lot of people say, listen, I don't feel I don't have enough energy. So while it does make claims to burn fat and to increase insulin sensitivity, I haven't noticed that much in those realms, but the NAD plus increases alone may warrant using it. So this is a great opportunity to try it out. It is on sale. Check them out at Titan Medical Center dot com and mention us. Let's go to the rest of our questions. We take questions from our YouTube community page as well as our Instagram and Facebook page as well. If you're not following us there, official underscore RxMuscle on Instagram. RxMuscle, of course, on Facebook and then of course, the RxMuscle YouTube channel, which you're watching this on right now, which has become sort of our primary source for taking questions for the show. How do you know how to plan your next cycle? How long should a health phase be? I always have guys at least take eight weeks off, you know, minimum. So look, it nowadays, no one wants to take any time off. So at least do your eight weeks, four weeks of PCT, so two weeks of HGG, two weeks of clomid and ornulvidex, and then you do your four weeks off completely on nothing, you know, if you want to stay on a little growth hormone, that's fine. It's not going to affect your angiotensitivity resensitization process and the cleaning out process. So what you're basically doing is you're giving your body a chance to just detox off all the anabox in there. You're giving those angiotensitivity receptors a opportunity to reboot themselves, so to speak. And, you know, you're giving your body just a mental rest as well. And anabox kind of amp up the essential nervous system as well. So it's good to do that at least once a year. Now, if you can do longer than that, you know, you're not competing. There's no pressure to compete, you know, at a certain time period. You can do 10 or 12 weeks off. That's that's that's nice too. But for people who compete, you know, cyclically every year, usually an eight to 10 week off period at the end of the year is good. Like around this time, start up again, you know, January 1st, and then go straight through again. Do your, you know, do your offseason, do your shows and then clean out again. I like to do it that way. Now, if you're a person who's just starting and you kind of doing, you know, you're just a beginner still and you're doing 12 week cycles, you could do 12 weeks on six weeks off, 12 weeks on six weeks off, stuff like that. That that's fine because maybe you're not intending on competing right away. But if you're in a kind of like that, you know, I'm trying to get my pro card or I'm trying to do these regional shows and I got to compete every year, then you really got to give yourself the eight weeks off at the end of the year. Question about Kispeptin 10. Do you see it as a replacement for HCG in the future? No, no, it's not the same thing. HCG mimics the hormone, luteinizing hormone, which directly stimulates the testicles to produce testosterone. Kispeptin doesn't do that. The reason why they came out with the Kispeptin peptide is because for a while, HCG wasn't available generically, meaning that the parent company that makes Pregno, this is the brand name of the HCG, said, I don't know what they did. They probably paid off someone in the government to say, look, we don't want allow any of these compounding pharmacies to make a generic version of the HCG. We own the patent on it. And for a while, that was the case. So these, you know, the compounding pharmacies and the obviously the rejuvenation clinics were panicking because they, you know, HCG was something they regularly prescribed with testosterone. So they needed something else. They took Kispeptin, which is like a, which is a peptide that's further up the line. It kind of mimics the hypothalamic hormone, genetic tropical releasing hormone, but it doesn't work as effectively. And now that HCG is kind of back generically available again, no one seems to be prescribing it anymore. Question about Matt Forman. Your take on using Matt Forman for guys specifically that are endomorphic gain weight more easily, both fat and muscle. So Matt Forman for guys that tend to be more endomorphic. You know, I said, you know, you've heard me answer this question 6,000 times already, but it's worth repeating because we keep getting the question. So there must be new people that haven't heard the answer, but Matt Forman is a drug that it does one thing essentially. It reduces the output of glucose from the liver. So the liver can store glucose as glycogen and it's constantly pumping out glucose into the bloodstream when blood sugar drops a little bit. It also at night, okay, when you're sleeping right before you wake up, there's something called the dawn phenomenon where, where a massive surge of glucose is released from the liver, okay, into the bloodstream. So that when you wake up, you have energy and you don't have low blood sugar. The problem is that when people's insulin production is not optimal and that could be because you genetically don't have a ton of insulin production in your body or you get a little older and maybe your beta cell production is not quite as, you know, vigorous as it was when you were younger. Matt Forman can blunt that effect and it can, and it can, you know, keep your blood sugar as normal. The problem is it's not, it's not solving any, it's not really solving any problems. It's just masking a problem. It's like putting a bandaid over like a gaping wound you have and hoping the wound is going to heal itself when, if you don't suture that wound up, it's never going to close itself, right? So the Matt Forman solution is really just like I said, it's masking a problem that, that you're not fixing. The problem is you don't produce enough insulin. So supplementing with a long acting insulin is a better way to go if you're waking up with long, you know, fasting, high fasting blood sugars. Now, you don't have high fasting blood sugars, but you tend to get fat more often than you do. You don't have high fasting blood sugars, but you tend to get fat more easily. Taking Matt Forman is not going to help you lose weight. Okay. It doesn't, it doesn't increase insulin sensitivity. Okay. It just reduces output of glucose from the liver. The bad thing about that is that, you know, Matt Forman also inhibits the release of IGF-1 from the liver. So when you take growth hormone or your body releases growth hormone naturally, okay, the liver will release IGF-1 in response to that. Matt Forman blunts that effect. And that's why they've shown, if you've read any studies, they've shown that Matt Forman can be used in situations where people have cancer to help curtail the cancer or slow the growth of it. The reason it does that is because it reduces IGF-1 growth, you know, release from the liver. And IGF-1 is a stimulus for, you know, cells to grow. So if you have cancer, IGF-1 will make it grow faster. That's why you don't take growth hormone when, if you have any kind of cancer in your body. So Matt Forman is really not a good drug for bodybuilders today. If you want to live longer or if you have something wrong with you, not a bad idea, but it's really not, to me, it's a waste. The reason why they prescribe it so easily is because it's cheap number one. And number two is that, you know, it kind of like prevents the doctor from having to teach the patient how to take insulin, which is a pain in the neck. Question about arthrophalyze. No, we did not plant this one. Do the ingredients in arthrophalyze have any other notable general health or performance benefits to speak of besides just maintaining joint health? Well, I mean, that's what it's geared for. I mean, you know, anything that's made up of glucosamine or chondroitin or have connected tissue-wise in the body is going to heal better when you take arthrophalyze. Arthrophalyze is a very high dosage of glucosamine and MSM. MSM is a biologically available source of sulfur, which is found in very high amounts of joint and connected tissue. We don't really eat a lot of sulfur in our diet. You know, we get a little bit in eggs and stuff like that, but we don't really get a lot. So, you know, these raw materials that the body requires to repair joint and connected tissue are not something that we're eating on a regular basis. We don't eat ligaments, tendons, and cartilage. We trim that away. We eat just the flesh of the animals and fish. So that's why when your body is trying to heal joints, you know, from damage in the gym, let's face it, when you work out, you're damaging muscle, you're also damaging the ligaments, tendons, connected tissue, cartilage, you got to give the body the raw materials it needs. So, archer lice is the raw materials, and it's in a high enough dosage that it's potent enough to do something. Most joint products only put like 2,000 milligrams of glucosamine. It's not enough to initiate any kind of joint repair. Likewise, we also use a patented product known as UC2 collagen II, which is undenatured type to collagen, which exactly mimics the collagen that we find in our bodies. So when you damage a joint or connected tissue and you expose the underlying connected tissue or collagen, it's the same as this chicken collagen. And what we've found is that the immune cells in the body, okay, are not used to seeing this collagen because it's usually covered by a layer of cartilage. But if the cartilage gets damaged and then all of a sudden it gets exposed, the immune system sees this collagen as a foreign body and starts to attack it. So if you ever notice, you get an injury in a joint and it just seems to never go away, just a nagging inflammatory process. And the reason is because the immune system keeps attacking that area, thinking that it's got to kind of inflame it off from the rest of the body. The reason this is is because once again, we don't eat connective tissue, collagen, cartilage in our diet. And when we eat foods in our diet, okay, we expose the pyrus patches, which is the immune cells that surround the intestinal tract. Okay, we expose these immune cells to these foods. So if we eat beef and we eat chicken and we eat fish, the body then knows that those are not foreign bodies. But if you never eat collagen and connective tissue in your diet, a thing which we don't, right, then the immune system thinks that that stuff is a foreign body. So when you get damaged to the joint, the immune system goes after it by taking an oral, they found through experimentation by taking oral form of this collagen and connective tissue, which is what we find in this UC2 collagen. You can sensitize the immune system and the immune system now knows, wait a minute, this is not a foreign body. This is something that is being consumed orally. We have to lay off it and it will take away a lot of that chronic inflammation that occurs after an injury. And that's why this, my artylized product is so potent because it addresses the raw material issue and it addresses the immune system component. And when you do both of those things, you're going to feel tremendous relief and pain, not only pain relief, but healing of the joint area. So I always tell people, give it three weeks to work, do your five pills twice a day with food, and I guarantee you'll never stop using the product. Question about BPH, benign prosthetic hyperplasia. Is there anything that you could do for BPH besides using a urinal system in bed? I guess I'll expand into that as far as what kind of, how much does this tie into bodybuilding? How much of, as far as bodybuilders are affected by BPH? Yeah, BPH is usually initiated by the hormone dihydrotestosterone. So DHT in high levels can cause the prostate to enlarge itself, usually later in life. Because let's face it, young boys have the highest DHT levels in their body, but that's when you're young, the prostate seems to be immune to that. But as we get older, and they think because what happens as we get older is we have higher estrogen production in our body too, because we're converting more testosterone to estrogen and DHT. So number one, what I first tell people to do is if you're experiencing problems with having to pee a lot at night or you're not able to get all your pee out, first try test to lice. My testosterone boosting product that also optimizes and lowers DHT levels. So that will naturally reduce the testosterone to DHT conversion. So it won't get rid of DHT because you don't want to lower DHT too much, but it'll lower it enough that you'll probably find a lot of relief. You'll also notice your hair will thicken up a lot, because DHT over the long period tends to thin hair out as well and men and women. So I have a lot of women using the test lice for thickening up their hair as they hit menopause. A lot of men are using chrysocetitis. Chris has got a great head of hair, but he noticed a huge, huge increase in thickness of his hair he told me once he started taking the product. But same thing with prostate. You're going to feel a lot of relief. Now, if you're a person who's a super high DHT converter, it might not be enough. You might need to take like a propitia or like a low dose finasteri, whether it be one to 2.5 milligrams per day. That will give you relief because what it's going to do is it's going to lower the DHT. Now the stimulus is not there anymore to make the prostate get larger. The prostate, like any other muscle, will start to atrophy a little bit and get smaller. A lot of people find relief. Now, there are other drugs that they prescribe like Flowmax to try to open up, dilate the prostates. You can pee better at night. But I think that you should address what's causing the prostate to enlarge to begin with, which is high DHT. Once you address that and get the DHT levels under control, a lot of times that will reduce the size of the prostate and keep it smaller. And that's really what we want to do ultimately. We all want to just take once again a bandaid, to kind of bandaid the wound because the prostate is going to keep getting bigger and bigger and bigger. And eventually you're going to have to have it removed if it gets to be that kind of case. Now this is completely different than prostate cancer. So enlargement of the prostate doesn't mean you have prostate cancer. That's a different beast. And usually prostate cancer is kind of monitored through your PSA levels. So just because you have a big prostate doesn't mean you're going to have high PSA levels. So don't get all worried. Oh my God, I'm going to get prostate cancer. Now, this is a natural normal phenomenon that tends to happen in guys as they get older, but it can be managed with managing DHT. Obviously you get a ton of questions regarding fertility while staying on or fertility for bodybuilders in general. Is there a remote chance of staying fertile while on tests in a deca cycle? Would a remidex and clomid help? I don't think a remidex and clomid are going to help you stay fertile, but maybe clomid, I don't know, but probably not. Some guys just seem to be fertile on cycle. It's usually the guys that are on a heavy cycle that tend to be more fertile because as the levels get higher and higher in bloodstream, the concentration that goes through the testicles of testosterone can then restart stimulating the testicles to start producing sperm again. Whereas a lower dose or more moderate dose of anabolic tend to shut down production of testosterone because the amount of testosterone going through the testicles, the amount of testosterone through the testicles is lower in that case. Just remember, normally you produce testosterone in the testicles, which bathes the cells that make sperm, the sertolli cells. So they're directly stimulated, but if you're not making your testosterone in the testicles anymore and you're injecting it and it's being dispersed throughout your entire body, the concentration going through the testicles is low. So you're not really stimulating spermatogenesis anymore. As the levels get higher because you're taking higher and higher dosages, you can sometimes get someone pregnant. So that's why they don't prescribe testosterone as a birth control means because it's not consistent. In other words, sometimes people get pregnant even though the guys are on HRT, you can never tell. But in my experience, there's a 98% chance you're probably not going to get someone pregnant while you're on a cycle or on THT. So if you do want to get someone pregnant, my suggestion is to use my fertility protocol that I give out to everyone. It's worked on everyone. There's not one person that hasn't worked for it. And I've given it probably thousands and thousands of people have used it now. So if you reach out to me and I'll email it to you and there's not a problem with that, I don't charge any of that. I just want to help everyone out. But I wouldn't worry about if you're doing a cycle that you're going to be permanently infertile. That's not the case. It's a science experiment. You can turn yourself back on it anytime. Huge 285 at AOL.com. Question about all season food and shake consumption. During the all season, you said you were having food, a shake, food, a shake, food, alternating in that order. Was the shake just protein, protein with fat or protein with carbohydrates? Can a person that eats high protein, low carb diet achieve the same level of muscularity and fullness as someone on high carb, moderate protein diet? Well, I mean, you know, if you're eating high carbs, you're going to be fuller. Okay. Cause your glycogen stores are going to be fuller. If you're eating low carbs, the glycogen stores are not as full. The muscle is going to be a little flatter, but you might look better. You know, some people look better with less, less full. You know, sometimes too full makes you look like a bloated mess. So, so my shakes when I was offseason would usually be carbs, protein and fats. If I was post-workout, I would only do car protein and carbs. So like when I, I finish a workout now, I go and I do two scoops or scoop and a half of, of isolates with one scoop of carbolize. I mix it with my finger in a cup, legitimately, I just gulp it down after my workout. So you don't want to take that and right after a workout, you want to get those carbs and protein in quickly. My other meals, like maybe before bed, I might do a shake with, with all natural peanut butter, you know, and so it'd be low carb, higher fat, you know, my, you know, higher protein. So that, that's, you know, depends on what my goals are at the moment. When I was competing, I was blasting carbs in every shake because my body was just like an inferno and it was inferno. It was just blowing through carbs, burning them, like, like crazy. So I was doing like a hundred grams of carbs per shake. You know, I put like a scoop of ultra fuel in there. That was the carb we all used back then. There was no high molecular weight carbs like we have today. I put a scoop of ultra fuel in there to a hundred grams of carbs with like a metrics, you know, meal replacement shake, 40 grams of protein, probably at a, at another 20 grams from whey isolate or at the time it was just probably weight concentrated at that point. And I would drink that like, you know, four times a day, you know, and sometimes I would put, you know, some peanut butter in there. Sometimes I would throw like a tablespoon of olive oil or something like that. And because it was no McOil back then. And, you know, it depended on really how I felt and what a lot of times I would try to get more of my nutrition from food. But if I couldn't do it, I had to do it in a shake. I did a shake. You've heard my notorious egg shakes where I put a whole dozen eggs in the blender with oatmeal and, you know, some whey isolate and some apple juice and blend that up. So my shakes were don't go by me, you know, because I was, I was drinking a lot of, I was eating a lot of carbs, a lot of protein and a lot of fat every day because my metabolism was that fast. You know, we often get questions about overtraining and questions about the pumps. So this is fairly interrelated. If you're training too long to where you start to lose your pump, is this a sign that you're doing too much? Is this a sign of overtraining? And what are those quote unquote symptoms? Yeah, I would say, if you're, you know, you should leave the gym like wanting to do more. You shouldn't leave the gym completely depleted. That's usually too much because it means that you're probably there too long. You should, you should want to, you should, you should get to a point where you say, you know what, I really don't want to do any more sets. I'm still pumped. I can still push myself. But you know what, I think I did enough. That, that, that should be the feeling. Whereas, you know, when I first started, you know, I came from a running background where we always felt exhausted, right? After every run, I felt like I had to train at the gym for three hours until I had that depleted feeling. That's not good usually. And that usually doesn't lead to building muscle. That's a big, that's a big mistake. Control theory, we call it, you know, go in there, lift the heavy weights and get the hell out of there and eat. And that's, that's the best message for bodybuilding. Bodybuilding is not an endurance sport. It's a fast explosive sport. Go in there explosively, do your workouts, you know, use good form, full range of motion, lift heavy weights and get the heck out of there. Couple of questions about for females as far and an anivar. First question, can anivar affect a woman's fertility in the long run? Long run, no. Short run, it might take away her period. So she might not, you know, get pregnant while on it. But there have been women who were getting ready for the Olympia. I think Corey even got pregnant like during her last run, winning the Olympia. So, you know, it should, it should prevent you from getting pregnant because sometimes it messes up your cycles, but not always. It's kind of like men. You might be on testosterone, you might still get someone pregnant. So it's not, it's certainly not something that I would use as fertility, you know, an anti fertility, you know, type of situation. But in my experience, there's been nothing that I've seen women do themselves that would inhibit them from getting pregnant once they stop the drugs and they start producing their period again. It seems like the reproductive tract is very dynamic in the sense that you can inhibit it, but it always seems to come back once you take away the inhibition. And that's in men and women. And the second question was comparing anivar to testosterone gel for women? I like anivar better because it has no, it has really no side effects, you know. Low dose testosterone for women seems to, you know, work well too, but, you know, some women get hair growth from it sometimes over the long run because it's a cumulative type of thing. They can get a little deepening of their voice. It is testosterone that they're taking, even though they're taking very small amounts, it's still testosterone. So, I mean, it's a personal choice. Obviously, testosterone gels and stuff like that and small dose, even injectables are way, way cheaper usually. And a lot of times insurance covers that. So, a lot of people do that. And some women get really good results of that. If they feel good and they're not getting side effects, great. But, you know what? I worry, I worry about giving women testosterone long term because remember, puberty in men doesn't take six months. It takes, you know, six years. So, if a woman's on testosterone, you know, low dose gel therapy for six years, is she going to eventually get side effects that are going to masculinize her? It's possible. Take a couple of more questions. This question has been on the board for, I think, the last three, four episodes and I figure I will, I may as well just take it now. Get it out of the way. Is the super physiological doses of tests causing a, quote, rampant, he put in all caps, rampant, homosexuality in bodybuilding? How can we reclaim the pure masculinity in our sports? I will ask you, Dave.  ted Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor Monitor And that's just the way it goes. I don't think test, I know testosterone is not making people gay. Okay. Um, I think that it, um, it definitely increases your sexuality, meaning that you're, you have a higher sex drive and maybe you might act on an impulse that you have inside you all along, but maybe you didn't do it before you were on the testosterone, but you're either gay or you're not, you know, it's not like nothing makes you gay. One more question. And again, we did not plant this one. This was asked by a species user. Dave, this is going to make you happy. Remember a couple of months ago we did, I mean, again, just, uh, kind of a happenstance situation. We ended up having to give out a whole bunch of lipolytes. You remember that period? Yes. Well, one of the users that got a free bottle of lipolytes in his order, uh, order Omega Lysin, Fiberlyze, he says he did a three day fast after Thanksgiving and then started taking lipolytes twice a day with a cup of coffee and says that he was amazed at how it reduced his appetite done three day fast in the past and always kind of ride a wave of hunger pains. This time I didn't suffer at all. It's lipolytes and quote underrated part of the species lineup. I could be a tough critic, but I'll also give credit where I do lipolytes, 100% of health bodybuilders and athletes needing to make a weight class. Yeah, you know, it's one of the things I explained to you. Lipolytes are the non-stimulant based fat burners. So there's no stems in it whatsoever. You could take it, you know, you're not going to raise your heart rates. I'm going to raise your blood pressure. I don't have to do anything, which is good. There's a lot of people who want to lose weight, you know, have high blood pressure and other issues. One of the ways it works, which is what this person's experiencing is that we produce a hormone after we eat known as leptin. Leptin tells your body you're not hungry anymore. So if you eat, you release leptin and then you're not hungry, right? That's what, but in some people, and it's funny because the most overgrown, you know, most obese people have the highest leptin levels. And you'd say, well, why do they have high leptin levels if they're overweight? Would that stop them from eating? And the answer is no. The problem with these overweight people is that they have no leptin sensitivity. So their receptors for leptin suck. So the body keeps producing more and more of it, trying to turn their appetite off, and it's not working because they don't have enough receptors. Lipolyte has an ingredient in there that increases leptin sensitivity. It comes from the African mango. And what it does is it makes the leptin receptors more sensitive. So when you take it, all of a sudden, all this leptin you have in your body, especially if you're a person who tends to put on weight real easily, you probably have high leptin. Now all this leptin that's in your body can bind to the receptor and your appetite gets turned off. So a lot of guys love using lipolyte. I always have all my clients use it during their prep because of that fact alone, it keeps the leptin sensitivity super, super high. And so that when you eat, you feel satisfied. A lot of times when we're dieting, a lot of times because the body senses that you're burning a lot of nutrition in the body and the body fat levels are dropping, it will decrease leptin sensitivity purposely to try to make you eat more. And this kind of short circuits that by increasing leptin sensitivity so that you continue to respond to your leptin hormone in your body. And that, I did a lot of research on lipolyte. I actually have a new version, a second version coming out pretty soon too with some even more interesting compounds in it as well. Once again, non-stimulant. And I think people will get a, will really like that as well. So there is a lot of science in all the products that I put out from species nutrition. I don't just copy everyone else's and put something else out there. Everything is unique. And that's why it takes less, a long time to bring out new products because I have to really research them. I got to make sure if they are flavored, they taste good. And I got to make sure that they're carb free, you know? So unless they're, unless obviously we're using carb-alize. So I appreciate that, appreciate that great feedback. And yeah, that's if you, you know, over the Christmas break, you know, you guys should pick up some lipolytes when we do ourselves. Speciesnutrition.com, click on lipolytes. If you haven't already done so, subscribe below, hit the notification bell. If you like what you're watching, hit the like button, comment below. And as always, we appreciate all of your support, all new episode of the hour after hours podcast as well as having most radio on the channel for Dave Palumbo. I'm Siddique Furuky. We'll see you next time.