Hey, this is Christian Dick for rxmuscle.com. We're here at the natural northern USA with Mr. Universe American Gladiator Michael Hearn. Where? Where? That's you, dude. No, me. Holy snake. He's Batman. Yeah, man. That's great. I'm having fun. And you said the show, right? I like that. Yeah. Yeah, I said the show right. You know, I said a before O, you know, so that worked. Um, so you're actually like on a national tour, right? I mean, you're traveling all around the country. Yes. Where have you been and where are you going? Snikes Batman. I have been everywhere. It's uh England, Scotland, Ireland, China, um China. China, Alaska a few times, New York, Orlando, it's basically everywhere. Your favorite's got to be Cleveland, right? Uh yeah, Cleveland's badass, man. Come on. Come on. Come on. You know, it's been incredible. Um and the crowd and just doing the show here tonight was it was pretty awesome. Now, during the seminar that you gave with Nicole Wilkins, you got a lot of questions about martial arts. So, uh, actually in the martial arts hall of fame, which I think a lot of people don't know about. Uh, that happened three months ago. Yeah. You know what? I don't talk about um I really don't talk about a lot of the powerlifting and bodybuilding or the martial arts in this. Um, and so yeah, I got inducted in the Hall of Fame. I guess it's been like 2 3 months ago. Um, so that was huge cuz being in the body hall of fame is one thing and it's something I believed in. Um, but the uh the martial arts was something huge just uh cuz I started even younger in martial arts than I did in weightlifting. You know, I think it would be undeniable to to uh to, you know, miss MMA. I just want to ask, you know, cuz you know, a lot of people think MMA and uh martial arts are interchangeable. They're really not, but like what's your take on MMA as a as a sport? Uh would you ever do it? Have you done it? Um no, I trained everything. So yeah, I've done the same stuff. Um, basically I love uh the the concept of martial arts for me was an inner peace. Um, and MMA is straight up fighting. Some badass guys just getting right into it. Um, I I love both. I'm a UFC fan as you know, UFC is actually before football. So, absolutely. You know, one of the things that I really like about you and I you don't see it that much in the industry. So far, I can only see you or Rich Piana. You guys are really you're making good money. You know, you're popular. You're staying young, but you're doing it outside the box. I mean, you're really reinventing yourself every year. You're doing something new. Seems like that's a testament to your success. Yeah. I think, you know, I guess there's a quote that says, "Getting to the top is one thing. Character keeps you there." And I I pride myself on that. I pride myself on uh being something more than just the the bodybuilder, powerlifter, martial artist. So, absolutely. Absolutely. So, just to uh come full circle as we wrap up, I'm sure, you know, there's like a million people that want to meet you. Uh seriously, um what are your future plans? I mean, honestly, that's I'm finishing out the tour this year. Um the next year has been already booking up like crazy, but it's a lot more uh television, a lot more commitment to that style, that stuff. Um cuz it's it's just my passion now. Um but I'll never leave this. It's that training, that 4 a.m. stuff. I'm crazy that way. And then I got more world records. Guinness World Record again. Um we're going to go back to China and break the world record again. run through panes of glass. I'm crazy that way. And uh it just doesn't stop. I just there's so many things that are happening that are fun. It's just I think that's why like Rich Pian is the same way like we we have so much fun doing this stuff. I know this is long, guys. Thank you for watching this, man. Man, you're a star, man. They'll watch it if it's 15 minutes. I appreciate it. But, you know, I just got to say one more thing. Yes. Uh the promoter Dave Lieberman five times five times said that you got the best physique that of all the physiques, all the Mr. Olympians, you're the physique he wants to have. I mean, how does that make you feel? I think it was cool. I think I don't want to get him wrong. What he what he said is that, you know, those guys have their physiques. Um, but hearing him say that out of everybody in the industry, whose body he would want to be is mine. And that was that's a compliment, man, cuz this is an art show and everybody's different, everybody's champions. Um, but his his and and what was nice is I was voted top 12 greatest physiques of all time by Joe Weider and Robert Kennedy, the two greatest guys. And so being stated that it's, you know, I can't say anything. I just go, "Wow." Wow. Thank you guys. Great. Well, I want to thank Mike O'Harn. This is Christian Duke for rxmuscle.com. But before we stop, I want you to send this off. I want you to do something totally unique. I'm going to step back. Just send this off. You can hold the mic. Never let anyone hold the mic. No touching the mic. Um, hey guys, Michael Hearn. Uh, tag me on the Titan pose. I'll see you guys later, man. I'm out.