Scitec Nutrition. Premium [music] quality products. State-of-the-art look. Uncompromised ingredient quality. Our [music] products work and taste good. www.sitecnutrition.com. at scitecnutrition.com. You are the legend. Now we Welcome [music] inside the RX Muscle Studios in Westbury, New York for a special episode of Iron Debate on Rxmuscle.com brought to you by Scitec Nutrition tonight. Scitecline.com. Sadique Farooqi. Glad you can join us for this episode. featuring the man they call Flexatron. But first, we're going to bring in the man they call the technician joining us from Portland, Maine, Chris Aceto. Chris, you heard the news earlier in the day. Tiger Woods stepping away indefinitely from golf. He said to TMZ, "I now suck, so I need to step away." Is that uh something that we were joking around about earlier? That's not something you said to Shawn, did you? No, I I I said about Tiger, I No, I didn't say it to Sean. Tiger's problem is the minute he uh gave up banging all the chicks, his game went downhill. You can you can go back and and like make a direct 100% correlation or connection between uh uh the minute he stopped seeing all the hookers on the road uh I don't know he had a chemical issue with his brain where he can't like uh you know concentrate on his game like he used to be able to because you know he went from invincible to you know uh showing cracks in his game. It's kind of like Phil. Phil was supposedly invincible but you know you know, he's he's he's showing cracks. So, that's the theory behind Chris Aceto's or at least the theory why Tiger is on the decline that he doesn't have all those women around him. Well, we now bring in the guest of the night, the man they call Flexatron, Shawn Rhoden, IFBBodybuilding pro, joining us from Marina Delray, California. Sean, how you doing tonight? I am doing well. You look comfortable right now. Reclining. So great to listen to Chris. [laughter] Only Chris could come up with that analogy. Now Sean, [laughter] this is your first time joining Iron Debate. And I know you can't uh directly see me right now as far as what I'm about to show to the audience, but uh Johnny, our producer, if you could bring it back here in studio. What we want to show the audience is that while Shawn may be making his Iron Iron Debate debut, he has been with us in studio pretty much throughout the entire time this studio has been around. Uh if we could see behind me here, you see the rxmuscle.com backdrop. Well, what a lot of people didn't know or what they're about to find out right now that that right there, the silhouette is that of our friend Shawn Rhoden. So Sean, your silhouette has graced the walls of rxmuscle.com of our studio really since its inception. So it's a honor to have you in there. So again, you can see that that is Shawn. That is his face and those are his biceps. And it is great to have Shawn joining us tonight. We now welcome in the boss Dave Palumbo. Dave, for you in particular, this is a it's a great thing to be able to have Shawn Rhoden on the show. when we talked about, you know, the arrangements and really everything that has gone on in this industry, which has allowed some of these athletes to now be on our show, to be interviewed with by us, but above all else, you look at Shawn as a competitor, as an athlete, and for you, a real treat to be able to have him on the show tonight. Well, it it's it's nice to be able to talk to him officially on the record as opposed to unofficially off the record, which has been the case for the last number of years while he was under exclusive contract with, you know, whoever he happened to be under contract with. Uh, you know, I want to make a statement about the uh Tiger Woods. Uh, Chris, is it true that uh you and the only true guru, George Farah, are now vying for who will be coaching Tiger Woods uh in the future? No. I I I heard uh Farah is uh doing a diet for Tiger's gardener. And then that's the way he works in, you know, that he's going to have the gardener once he gets in shape, introduce him to Tiger. I also heard a rumor that that and then and then and then he's going to say and then he's going to say, I LOOK WHAT I DID FOR HIS PUTT. LOOK WHAT I DID. I THOUGHT HE WAS GOING TO I also heard he was taking over for Brian Williams on the uh Nightly News. Is that true? Um, no. He's singing backup according to our last show. Uh, backup singing with Brian Williams for who? That's Arthur. Yeah, that's Arthur. Again, if you want to join in on the conversation, there's going to be a lot to be discussed here tonight. But if you have any questions for Shawn Rooden, you're in luck. You'll have a chance to ask Flexatron any questions you want uh later in the show. You can join us on the Muscle Central forum on rxmuscle.com where you can tweet your question using #Rxdebate. And with that, we will begin tonight's iron debate. The first question for Shawn Rhoden. Shawn, right now many will say you are the number three bodybuilder on the planet. And when we talk about the bodybuilding division, the conversation seemingly always begins and ends with Phil Heath and Kai Green. So now here's the question. Is Shawn Rhoden still a threat, a viable threat to dethrone Phil Heath and Kai Green from that perch of number one and number two? Well, I've been called a lot of stuff, so you know, been called number three by the Miller at present. You know, seemed to be a good spot to be in. I' I've been told I was a one hit wonder. Um, not a threat. uh too old. Uh at one point I was too fat a couple weeks before the Olympia. So, you know, being the position that I'm at right now, it kind of take the spotlight off me so I could just focus on training. [snorts] Um that being said, I think the race is a lot closer than people actually think. And for the true bodybuilding fans that's out there that have an opportunity to actually watch um the SPAS Olympia, I think that speaks a lot for itself. So Sean, again, you mentioned all the reasons and all the reason why you're confident about your chances of being able to to knock Phil Heath and Kai Green off their perch. The whispers now have been age and and it's an unfair uh criticism, but it is one that is brought up at age 39. Do you see age as any factor in this game? [laughter] I think I'm just reaching my prime. You know, people forget I took seven years off from the sport where I didn't even set foot in in the gym. So, you know, I still feel as if I have another seven years to add on to the end when everybody call it the end for me. So, you know, I'm just enjoying myself right now. And age is but a couple of numbers people throw together in reference to bodybuilding. You know, most bodybuilder doesn't reach their prime until age 35. So, you know, I still feel as if I have a few years until I'm actually at my prime. I'm just starting to get my feet wet. Um, I've been a pro since 2009. Uh, first pro show was 2010. First Olympia was 2011, which was my third pro show. So, to be in the position that I'm at right now and I'm just getting started. Chris, we're going to go over to you now with the same set of questions. Do you view Shawn Rhoden as a threat to dethrone Phil Heath and Kai Green from that upper upper echelon of the bodybuilding division? Uh yes. What else do you need to know? I I I wouldn't be wearing this. I'm Sean. I'm wearing You see that shirt? I'm wearing your Flexatron shirt. People think I'm wearing it, you know, for the show for show, but I wear it 365 days a year. I take it off the night before the Olympia. [laughter] No, listen. the [snorts] here's the here's the truth. Um, and I've been saying it to Dave on these pre-shows and and Sean will be Mr. the way he is. He'll be he'll listen on his end and he won't say anything. He'll be humble, but I've been saying that Sean decisively wins the front double bicep. Wait, Chris, can you maybe take a step or two back so we could see the uh Flexatron shirt? There it is right there. You see? Look at that. Look, he was not joking. That is That is official right there. Please proceed. I got the Flexatron bobblehead over here too on the [laughter] uh So listen, Sean wins the front double bicep, period. You know, he wins it. He wins the ab shot. He wins the side tricep. His gut's not hanging out. Um [laughter] uh his condition is arguably this year better than everyone's. Um, you know what? You can summarize it this way. Can Can Sean win the Mr. Olympia? Yes. If you watch the wrap-up video of Jay Cutler, Dennis James, and uh, Flex Wheeler on Flex Online after the prejudgment this year. It's called the heat of the moment. These guys were like excited teenagers. could not shut their mouths about Shawn Rhoden. And that means the, you know, the feel for the prejudging this year was that Shawn could have won that show. And so I'm sure all the, you know, I'm sure George Farah is listening and, you know, all Phil's fans are listening, but that's a fact. And, you know, you can't say that Kai is invincible. We've already seen this year that he's he's he's prone to disaster. His waist is wider, his pecs are flatter, he has a hard time peaking for the Olympia every year. And Phil, while I've always said, is an absolutely fabulous bodybuilder, and I still stand by that. He wasn't fabulous this year. Um, based on his track record, most likely he'll be fabulous again. But, you know, if if recent performances are any indication of what he might look like this year, he might come in again the same way he did at prejudging this year. You know, his waist was wider. He didn't have deep muscle separation. He certainly didn't dominate much of anything other than the most muscular. Well, Chris, let's go back to Shawn Road. It goes back to Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. This is important show. It goes back to, you know, who do you look at first and last in the in the prejudgment? Meaning the first call out there this year was decisively Phil, Kai, and Shawn without D without Dennis Wolf, I might add. And when they went through their quarter turns and their their shots, you know, I would say the condition of Shawn, the the balance of Shawn, the lack of gut hanging over his trunks of Shawn, um, would at least put him in extreme solid running for first place. And I don't think anyone would have or very few people would have had Shawn Juan had a problem with him winning. So let's that's my stick on on Shawn. So let's go back to the question that we asked Shawn. Do you see age not just with Shawn but in general as a factor? And is that anything that can really dictate uh how he should be perceived say for the Olympia 2015 in the next few years? Chris, can you hear me? I can hear you. Say that again. Yeah. Again, the question was again, is age a factor as you evaluate Sean? It's only a it's only a factor if you're getting worse every year for for and if your body's beat up? I mean, you know, for Branch Warren, it's obviously a factor because his body's he's got tears and and this and that. In other words, for Dexter, it's not a factor. For Sean, it's not a factor because they don't have the injuries. So, injuries play a role as as as Sean said. uh you know he's I think his point was this that people might not have got he took seven years off you know he doesn't have you know his body's not beat down and has fatigue of training for 20 years let you know continuous that other people might have so um I mean that's the same uh I think Ben Pakowski wouldn't shut up about that fact last year I think he was out saying that um Sean was too old and you know I think Shawn blew that you uh concept out of the water the minute he came on stage this year. And you know, I'll say this too, no one's competed as a pro more than Shawn in the last three years. No one. So if age was a factor, then you would have seen him. Oh yeah, that was a show Sean got ninth at. That was a show Sean came in off at. So let's uh bring it back to Shawn. Sean, I want to put you on the spotlight here. Obviously, you're very confident about what you've done over the last few years given the seven-year layoff and your performance at the Olympia. Chris, uh, very high praise of what you've been able to do, uh, stay injuryfree and the fact that you are entering your prime. So, the question is this, can Shawn Rooden win the 2015 Olympia and why? I'm going to go to scorecards. And um at the end of the day, you know, I've always told myself this and I told Chris this, the only thing that I can the one thing that I can be as sure of is that I will bring the best possible package on stage that day. And then I'm going to leave it up to the judges. Uh I'm not a judge therefore I'm not sure what they're looking for but I know each year we're able to make improvement from show to show. Um last year Olympia 50th anniversary of Joe Weider in my opinion I thought I brought the best package and I left it at that. smiling, waving, I say thank you. You know, as an athlete, there's a competitor, the competitive fire, the competitive juice, you know, that keeps flowing after prejudge and after the finals, you know, we still have to hold our composure, you know, and thank the judges for, you know, whatever decision they made and move on, call it a day, on to the next show. But in my heart, I know exactly where my placement should have been. And that's what keep me going. That's what keep me motivated. Dave, I want to bring you in on the last word for this topic. Do you view Shawn Rhoden as a viable threat, a non-threat? And is he someone that can knock Phil Heath or Kai Green off that perch of the high echelon of the bodybuilding division? Well, I think first of all, we got to address the fact that Kai is actually older than Shawn, despite what Kai may say. So, uh, age is obviously not a factor when you're comparing Shawn to to Kai. If anything, we talked about this on Ask Dave earlier. I find that the bigger bodybuilders tend to have more problems as they get older because things don't, you know, flow as nicely. And I think Kai is having symmetry issues as he gets older. Uh, you know, the midsections looking thicker as opposed to some of the other body parts. and he's he's kind of almost it's a reminiscent look of of of Ronnie Coleman toward the end of his career where he's getting a little too thick at the midsection whereas Shawn kind of is reminds me more of a flex wheeler, a Dexter Jackson. He's got this his waist looks like it hasn't gotten any bigger. Maybe it's gotten smaller if anything and his physique is still improving as as he pointed out. So I I think that he will be more dominant more of a challenge to Phil Heath than Kai Green is moving forward in the next couple years. If Phil Heath comes off again, I don't think that the judges are going to give him reward that look anymore. I think the fact that that that um Shawn was in that top three and a lot of people thought that he might have actually won this Olympia uh is going to go a long way towards next year if he comes in better than he was this year and Kai is, you know, off as he usually is at the Olympia and Phil is just not peing him his body the way he's been doing it the last couple years. I think Sean has a very good chance of winning. So, um, and and the truth of the matter is that, you know, we really need to talk about Dennis Wolf in this in this mix, too, because Wol can also certainly pass Kai and possibly and or Phil Heath as well. So, you know, you might be looking at a future, you know, lineup, you know, Flexatron Rhoden verse, you know, Dennis Wolf for the Olympia title. Um, I think that Phil has got some problems with his physique and I think that it, you know, while he was so dominant the last couple years, it may not be so easy moving forward. And so to answer the question, is age an issue in in Sean's uh case? I think he's got at least another good five years in him. Well, Dave, I'll put you on the spot as well on this one. Can Shawn Rhoden win the 2015 Olympia? Absolutely. Yes. Okay. You're watching Iron Debate on rxmuscle.com. If you want to join on the conversation or if you have any questions for Shawn, we will have a full Q&A after the debate topics. You can tweet your questions or tweet your questions or thoughts using #Rxdebate or you can join in the conversation on the muscle central forum on rxmuscle.com. If you're not already a member, it is free to register. So now we are going to bring the conversation back to the 2014 Olympia and talk about the winner, Phil Heath. Should he have won? Chris, we're going to go back over to you for this one. Should Phil Heath have been crowned 2014 Olympia champion and why? Let let me let me break it down this way. He should have beaten Kai Green. Um and the reason he should have beaten Kai Green is because Kai's body does not uh have the flow that it needs to look like it looks like, let's say, in the gym. The point is, if you see Kai Green in the gym doing a photo shoot, I would go in and say, there's no one who's going to beat this guy because there's so much muscle there. But that's why they have a stage in little itty bitty uh colored underwear that guys have to put on and stand next to other guys so that you can draw contrasts. That said, so you know, that puts him outside. I don't think he should have beaten uh Phil. And I think that an interesting last call out would have been Phil versus Shawn. And I think if Shawn gets that opportunity, a single call out, Phil versus Shawn, Shawn will beat him. Uh that said, um I think that Phil was good enough to win, hang on to his title this year. Um I could have seen uh Shawn winning. Um, uh, I just thought that, uh, Phil had left the door open enough to, uh, let allow Shawn to, you know, pull ahead of him. Um, but I'm okay with with Phil winning, you know. I mean, he's got some he's got impressive shots. He's got uh an impressive physique. He was better for the night show, but not radically better. So, um, but I I think where he will have trouble or could have trouble um if he looks the same way he did this year is the elephant in the room is his waist is kind of wide now. The front double the the the looks like an H rather than a V. Um, the front lat looks like kind of awkward. Um, you know, the side shots are tremend I love the side chest. I love the side tricep. Um, I think his back double's great. Um, where he that's where he probably pulls ahead. Um, and is most most muscular is really impressive. So, you know what? I I can't pick on on on Phil. I wish I could because I I think he's I think he's a better bodybuilder than Kai is. That's why I pulled in Kai into the answer. Um, so did he deserve to win? Yeah, he did enough to win. I just think that, you know, compared to, let's say, two years back, he's not the same bodybuilder. I mean, two years ago, I think it was 2000, the first year he won, the second year he won, uh, the bodybuilder that was on stage last year was not the same bodybuilder. Anyone who who wants to argue it different is just a nut hugger or just delirious. Um, so the danger for Phil coming in this year is to look like he did this year. If he looks like he did this year and Shawn comes in the exact same, not even any improvements, which he will improve because I know what he looks like now, um, Sean will beat him. Sean, let's bring you in on this conversation. Do you think Phil Heath deserved the 2014 Olympia crown and why? Sean, do you hear us? And loud and clear. [laughter] So, so again, did you think uh Phil was a deserving 2014 Olympia champ? Phil left the door open for a lot of people to observe exactly the direction his physique is going in. And I I've told Chris this, you know, me and Chris talked about this a while back that the opportunity to stand next to Phil, not next to Kai, next to Phil, compare us, the aesthetics, the symmetry, so forth, and to judge us accordingly to see our flaws or difference in and you know make us who we are. I think this Olympia everyone got an eyeful of what was on stage. Does Phil deserve to win? As the reigning Mr. Olympia going in, you know, we were always told in order to be the champ, you got to knock the champ out. We did see his weakness. Everyone saw what he looks like. And uh I said yes. I'm going to say yes. I need that motivation [laughter] for this year. And again, as the reigning Mr. Olympia, you know, you have to knock the champ out. And I want to win the Olympia. Yes. But I want to win that Olympia. Whereas walking out first call out by myself, everyone could see. Oh crap. you know, there's no chance of anyone beating me. So, yes, Phil does reserve deserve to win the Olympia last year because he wasn't knocked out. Well, let me He was pushed in the corner. [laughter] He knows it. He was against the rope. You could see it in his eyes, but he wasn't knocked out. He might have been knocked out and knocked to the ground, picked himself back up, went to his room, you know, screamed and shout and cried a little bit to Hani, you know, and came back and fight a good fight and, you know, he deserved to win. Well, I'm glad you brought up the point of having to knock out the champ because I think that was really one of the underlying themes that people left Las Vegas with from that p from that weekend. Um, what Chris Can I say something real quick? Sure, absolutely. I was watching today doing the story in the 25th anniversary of the Buster Douglas, Mike Tyson fight. Ah, yes. I saw that. And you know, you saw Tyson, I mean, Floyd Douglas, but he got up and he was like, I'm going to go for him in this night round. [laughter] And he showed up. He showed up in the night round. He knocked him out in the 10th. He became the champion. That might have been his only championship, but he became the champion that moment. In order for someone to win the Olympia this year, it has to be a similar situation. You know, I sit here watching that and I was motivated because at that moment I was thinking the same thing right now. That's what need to happen at the Olympia. You know, Phil need to be knocked out, cowed out, stayed out. You need to be standing on the side going, I can't believe this happened. and that didn't happen last year. Well, let me bring something that that Chris mentioned because it's a really it's a very intriguing point and I want to see if you agree. If Phil does not improve one iota from what he brought in 2014 going into the 2015 Olympia and you come in exactly the same, forget about the improvements that Chris is uh referring to. You bring the exact same package that you brought last year. Phil brings the exact same package that he brought last year to next year. Do you beat him? There's no way he's gonna win. There's no way he's going to win. There's no way twice he could show up the same way and win cuz everybody already saw that. So, you know, coming into the fight again with the same fighting style, he's going to be like, "We saw this fight before." you know, if I should have looked the way I did, I knew leaving Vegas that that was the lasting impression in everyone that was there because, you know, again, I said at a press conference, "Thank you all for inviting us to the car and for the show cuz that's what everybody went to see." Just so happened we did our homework, showed up, and it was like, "Oh [\h__\h] Sean is here." So, everybody knew what I brought. So, if you brought the same thing again, nobody's going to be looking at him. But we never bring the same package to to every show. We always seem to make improvement one way or another, even if the show is a week apart. Let's bring Dave in on this. Dave, uh, both bringing up very compelling points. So, I'm going to bring this to you as well. Should Phil Heath have won the 2014 Olympia and why? You know, uh, the day after the show, I was at the, um, the City Athletic Club, gym, and I saw Phil Heath there. He was doing a photo shoot for Flex Magazine and I was staring at awe and um he looks so good. He looks so much better. And I even told him I said, "Phil, you look I mean, you look like no one would have beat you if you would have looked like this at the show." And he's like, "Yeah, you know," and they gave he gave me the old, you know, I don't know, something went wrong. You didn't feel good or whatever. Now, I don't know if you know, as we get a little older, sometimes the body doesn't respond like it does when you're younger. I don't know if Phil necessarily has a good formula for himself anymore. You got to remember he competes once a year. The last two years he hasn't really been at his best. Um, obviously, as Mr. Olympia, as Sean pointed out, you got to knock the champ out to to take over the title. And I've seen I saw Haney show up a couple years. He was off. Dorene wasn't as best a couple years. Um, Phil wasn't terrible at at the show. Um, obviously if he comes in off again, it's it's not going to bode well for him, but Phil still obviously has some some something in the tank. Uh, whether he just doesn't have the right formula or whatever he's doing is not working for his body anymore, that that's something that he's going to have to come to grips with. And it's a scary proposition because when you're Mr. Olympia and you got to start changing your game. And I don't want to make the analogy necessarily to Tiger Woods, but you remember Tiger Woods has changed his swing a couple of times and uh because he couldn't for some reason his game just wasn't as good. I don't know if Phil's in that stage where he's going to have to try to change his game a little bit to figure out how he can come in better. The problem is he really doesn't have any warm-up shows to do this at. So, you know, he might be vulnerable next year because of the fact that he realizes that something's got to be done differently if he comes in way off, which is always a possibility when you start making changes and Shawn comes in that much better. Um, you know, it could be a gamecher. Did uh the question though we were talking about is did Phil deserve to win this past Olympia? I think the question is I think the the answer to the question is yes. I think he deserved this past Olympia. But having said that, I think he he showed vulnerability. And I think this is the first time we've seen Phil show vulnerability to other guys. And that that next year is going to be a big big, you know, come into play because I don't think Phil's going to come in as the Mr. Invincible, Mr. Olympia anymore. It's going to come in like, well, who who could beat this guy? And and that's a very different mindset for the judges to have in their mind. And like I think Sean pointed out, uh, everyone's going to be scrutinizing him a lot more. We are going to step aside. When we return, we are going to go in on Kai Green. Is his 2014 filled with antics, a lot of odd occurrences that going to affect his 2015 performance. That and the future of the bodybuilding industry. That and you get to ask your questions for Shawn Rhoden. You can get your questions in now. tweet using #Rxdebate or you can join the discussion thread on the Muscle Central forum on rxmuscle.com. We'll be right back. Scitec Nutrition premium quality products state-of-the-art look. Uncompromised ingredient quality. Our products work and taste good. www.sitecnutrition.com [music] back here on Iron Debate on rxmuscle.com. Sadik Farooqi. Glad you can join us on this special episode. We are joined by the man they call Flexatron, Shawn Rhoden. We're going to move on now to our next topic of debate and that is Kai Green. We've discussed Phil Heath and as Shawn joked about at the end of the 2014 Olympia, him and many other competitors said, "Thank you for the invitation to the Phil and Kai show in Vegas." Well, that figures to maybe going away for 2015, but let's talk about Kai. So Chris, we're going to bring you back in on this. Kai Green, first of all, when you think back to his year, you think back to the onstage antics at the Olympia, you think about him withdrawing from the EVLs Prague, uh, rumors that he was sick and then rumors that he just didn't want to compete. What do you make of the late year antics, and do you see that affecting his performance in 2015 in any way? What do I think of his late year antics? It's ridiculous. I mean, I guess what what is the what is the question? That's pretty vague. Was he was he he here's what we know. He went to the prejudging. He he he had to have thought he won. And the reason I say that is because after prejudging, I was in this small little boutique hotel and and his main man was telling everyone he won that it wasn't even close. So clearly he was not quote sick in prejudging. If one you see him eating next to you 10 ft away 2 hours before prejudging me and Johnny Styles carbing up on you know 400,000 carbs. Uh if you're if you're sick, you can't eat 19 cups of rice at a sitting. So that negates that idea that he could be sick. two, after prejudging, you know, your quote camp comes over to me and Johnny and says, "This is the best Kai's ever looked and he's he's winning the show." To which my response is, "You you need a labbotomy, you know, cuz he was so far off." [laughter] Um, three, pulling out. I mean, you know, it Why did he pull out? Is was there ever an official statement why he pulled out of the show? I mean, [\h__\h] people don't people late for traffic and can't even make a a an an athletes meeting and they they can't do the show. He pulls out of the show. That's my answer. I mean, he's it it's like, you know, was there an that's my question on Iron Debate. Was there ever a official reason why Kai Green pulled out of the show and then, you know, if he was sick, you know, he's at the hockey game eating a hot dog within 15 hours later. Maybe Dave would know. He knows all the scuttlebutt. Why did he pull out of the show? What was the reason? What did Ron Norman say? I I don't know. I I I personally think that, you know, his his mindset was very disturbed after the Olympia. Obviously, there was that those clash they had on stage between him and Phil Heath. And I think when he got to Prague, he look, you always know as a bodybuilder when you're not your best. You could have people cheerleading you on the side telling you you're going to win and this and that. That doesn't matter. You know when you're not your best. And I really believe that Kai's head was so screwed up. It reminds me of the um Roberto Durant Sugar A Leonard fight when when Roberto R Durant just quit and said [laughter] no Moss no more of boxing an announce because you know what Roberto could have continued. Uh he didn't wasn't getting beaten up by any means. You know he he was being embarrassed I think because he didn't feel mentally right. But that's kind of what happened to Kai. Kai didn't do terrible. He was in the middle in the in the first call out. Whether we agreed with him being there or not. He probably wouldn't have placed any worse than third. he had to have dropped out because he mentally just couldn't handle the pressure anymore. Um, will that affect, you know, his performance come this year? Uh, I think it might I think it's going to be in the back of his head at every show he competes at. Sean, I I want to bring you into this conversation because again, the lasting memory for Kai Green's 2014, especially when you think about the Olympia and his onstage antics getting in the face of Phil Heath. You as a competitor, what did you make of that moment? to be honest, you know, after the press conference, everybody was kind of rolled up and, you know, it was like a boxing match. So, when that whole thing started in the stage, in the back of my mind, I was like, "Fight." [laughter] I'm like, "Hey, you know what? You guys been, you know, talking up a good fight all day, you know, for the past two days. Just get it over right here." You know, just get it over. someone get laid out and let's continue the show, you know, because I mean we're professional athlete. We're supposed to carry ourselves in a professional manner and you know the 50th anniversary of Joe Wer Olympia we have our two athletes on the stage about to fight. So you know me I'm just I'm always in the chill mode and you know I'm like if these guys can just throw one punch you know it' be good for me. [laughter] I'm like, "Hey, fight." You know, but at the end of the day, I'm like, you know, it's one thing Flex Winner told me when I turned pro. At the end of the day, no matter what's going on, you got to let [\h__\h] roll off your back. You got to grow thick skin. So, I just I try not to let anything phase me, but I mean, at this point, I wanted someone to throw at least, you know, a hellbo. Well, Sean, again, the conversation now goes to 2015. When you think about Kai Green's 2014, you think about the onstage antics at the Olympia and what we just discussed with him withdrawing in Prague. Knowing what you know about Kai Green and which stage he's at in his career, everything that just happened, do you see that having any effect on his 2015 performance and placings? I'm going to be honest um with this comment. Um I'm hoping it doesn't. Um and the reason why I'm saying this is I remember in 2012 when you know we worked our magic and you know did our homework and came in at their best and took third at the Olympia. The most disappointing thing for me was hearing everybody was saying oh this guy was off, that guy was off. And that kind of pissed me off because I'm like I work my ass off to get in this third spot, you know. So, you know, this year I'm hoping, you know, everybody bring the a game and we all go out there and, you know, being judged accordingly because, you know, I'm determined to be number 14 and I don't want anyone to say, "Well, Kai was off or Kai's being penalized or, you know, whatever it is, you know, and everybody come out and see us at their best, you know, the best athlete, best bodybuilders in the world at their best being on stage or the best package they can bring that day. Let's put it that way." and you just go out there and be judged accordingly. Um, you know, I'm confident in the improvement that we make in this offseason. And I'm determined to step out there and, you know, I told Chris if, you know, no one want to give it to me, I'm just going to take it. I'm going to take it and run, you know, plain and simple. So, I hope it doesn't have any effect on him. I mean, as an athlete, I wouldn't have pulled out for show after showing up and everything else that was going on. You know, I looked it I've done what 16 17 shows since 2012. You there shows that I'm like, "Hey, I should have won." But I didn't pull out after prejudging [clears throat] and be like, "Hey, you know what? Um, it's not going my favor today." So, hey, Chris, let's uh what can we say? I have a cramp. [laughter] you know, just go out there and, you know, you're going to get beat one day, one way or another. You know, you pulling out just because you don't want to be beat or whatever the case may be or, you know, you were sick. You know, the same way you make it through prejudging, pull yourself together and make it through the final. I mean, I've I've seen in the past bodybuilder that were cramping up in stage and got dragged off stage and they were fight tooth and nail just to get back on for the finals. Well, Dave, I want to bring you in on this. Uh, again, the the conversation has gone from what Kai Green did at on the stage at the 2014 Olympia to drawing in Prague. Sean obviously is hoping that this will not affect his 2015 performances. I want to ask you flat out with the way that 2014 ended for Kai Green, do you see it having any bearing on his 2015 performances and bear and and his placings? Um I I think if he waits all the way to the Olympia again, which he might do, I think it might have some some bearing because I think that it's way too much pressure. It's like waiting a whole year. It's like, you know how like when you when you when you're mad at someone, like it's always best if you call the person up and you get it out already and you tell them how you feel and you clear the air. It's like you can sleep better at night. I think Kai waiting all the way till next Olympia is a long way to go and that's going to really mess with his head. If I were him, I'd almost, you know, I I probably would have recommended that he do maybe the New York Pro or maybe a a show where he can reestablish himself and get himself a little momentum. he hasn't won a show in a bunch of years now. Uh and um you know just feel good about himself and know that he can nail his conditioning and and and peak his body because like every year you know your body is a little different. So uh will it screw him? I I think he's going to have some problems in 2015. I think people in the back of their head because you know I'm a Kai Green fan too. We all want to see Kai show up at his best and win the win the big show. I mean that's that we're all rooting for that. But you know what Kai is just you know you know he's like I said he's 40 years old now. He's going to be 40. He his head is not where it was, I think, when he was younger. There's a lot of pressure on him because he has never won an Olympia. And I think that that's what people expect at this point. And I think that uh you know, unless he does something to deal with this stress, it could just get worse and we could see a worse Kai Green at the Olympia. He's never peaked for the Olympia yet. And that that that says a lot for, you know, um you know, precedence. You know, pre what you do usually the year before is what happens the year after. And when you never peak for one particular show, I have to believe it's not his body, but it's his mind. You're watching Iron Debate on rxmuscle.com, brought to you tonight by scitec Nutrition. You can visit them at scitecnutrition.com. Special episode of Iron Debate with Sean Flexatron Rooden. If you want to ask Sean any questions, you can join us on the discussion thread of the Muscle Central forum on rxmuscle.com or you can tweet your questions using RX debate. So, we've talked Phil Heath, we've talked uh Kai Green, and obviously we talked about the top end of the bodybuilding division, but now we are going to talk more about the sport in general. Why? because our guest tonight is no longer a endorsed uh athlete of AMI Weider and this is a trend now in this industry. Many athletes who had media contracts uh and obviously we've talked at length about the muscular development athletes, the flex athletes, a lot of these athletes no longer have these contracts. Sean, you yourself arguably the number three bodybuilder in the world when you don't have a media endorsement contract. What does that say for the bodybuilding industry and the future that that really signals? Are tough times coming in for the industry in your opinion? Well, my case is a little bit different. I can't really go into too much detail, but um because there's some ongoing legal stuff that's going on, but uh my case is a little bit different as far as not being a weed athlete anymore. Um, but due to certain circumstances, um, you could say I was kind of pointing out because of previous monsters or certain things that was unethical that was going on and, you know, end up having to uh, pathways with uh, we um, AMI, you know, but you know, you looked at the industry, you do see a lot of changes along with supplement contract also. um you know it's not as it was in the past. you know, I don't think uh I think the sport is you have so much more u division being offered in the sport now that it's kind of spread thin when it comes to you know 280 lbs bodybuilder looking for the contract that was back in the days you know so overall you know I think the business might be you know going the direction you have more guys the physique guys that you know walk around a little bit more that just shirts off and you know that could be a little bit more mainstream and you know you're looking at paying a a top athlete you know a large sum of money and you have certain athletes that's willing to you know I don't want to say not knowing their worth but just willing to take whatever and and settle and so I think that affect the sport somewhat. Crystal, let's bring you in on this conversation. Again, with all these media contracts or these uh publications dropping their media contracts with athletes, in your opinion, does this signal a troubling time uh for the bodybuilding industry? We're on very shaky ground. Um you can't survive um professional bodybuilding cannot survive if professionals can't be professionals which means be paid well. Um everybody starts off bodybuilding with passion and drive and desire. Very few people start off with the idea of I'm going to bodybuild and I'm going to get checks and put them in the bank from bodybuilding. They start off, you know, wanting to get bigger, wanting to improve their bodies and it just snowballs from there. That said, there has to be some type of carrot at the end of the line where someone with outstanding genetic potential, a lot of passion, a lot of drive can say, "Wow, I'm going to do the nationals this year." And in the back of his mind, he might think, "I might be able to make a living at this." That latter part, I might be able to make a living at this is important because it keeps the dream alive. It keeps his training alive. It keeps him focused. And ultimately, in many cases, it should help you see uh better bodybuilders because uh you know, you you can't you you can't Dorian can't become Dorian and just get trophies and 10 grand. Coleman can't become Coleman and get trophies and make 40 grand a year. Jay Cutler or Phil, all these Mr. Olympia guys, even Haney, he can't uh train his ass off and be disciplined and sacrifice his family, his friends, his time, social life with the idea of, you know, I I'll see you at 5:00 when I get out of work and uh we'll hit back and biceps. So the demise of publishing contracts, the uh seemingly de demise of many supplement contracts is going to have I think a very negative impact on professional bodybuilding. I think I think it's it's it's I've thought of this all week. Um, I know multiple bodybuilders who I work with in the last year who have lost contracts. Um, there's no guarantees in life. It's not about guarantees. It's about trying to establish or maintain uh professional bodybuilding where where bodybuilders like golfers uh football players, basketball players make a living from the sport. When you take away the ability to make a living from the sport, you will see terrible professional bodybuilders. That's my opinion. Sean, let's bring you in back and this just given the direction in which the industry has gone and you've seen more and more athletes uh have their media contracts uh terminated, are having difficulties finding uh supplement company endorsement contracts or that or they become a lot more thin. And as Chris said, a lot of them are not livable upon anymore. Going forward, where do you see the money coming in from? If not from supplement companies, if not for these media contracts, do you see another source of revenue for a professional bodybuilder? I think at the end of the day as a professional athlete you have to make yourself marketable for yourself and start looking at other ways and means you know of you know learn and earning a living you know at the end of the day yes we all depend on hey I'm going to get the next big supplement contract next big supplement deal but you have to market yourself in a way where outside sources and I mean legitimate outside sourc sources can put you in a position to make a living. For example, social media is such a big thing now that you know market yourself the right way and get not buy followers, you know, get the true followers. You know, you're able to get um deals from, you know, different company just to mention their product line, you know, that's self- advertisement, you know. So a lot of these I talk a lot of these guys now that tell me that they want to be professional bodybuilder. You know the first thing I ask is what are you doing for yourself? You know because at the end of the day that's what it is. You have company be able to put yourself in a position to market yourself by yourself if there's no contract coming in. And you know Chris knows this. My the first show that we did together my sponsor dropped me 6 weeks before the show because afraid [laughter] they didn't want to pay me the bonus I was going to make at the Olympia. Let's put it that way. You know, I get a phone call saying, "Hey, listen. Um, we're going to send you some stuff, some subs, some some free shirt, but we have bad news. We're going to have to release you." And in my opinion, I'm thinking, why are you even sending me stuff? You're going to have to release me, but we want to use your image. And I'm like, that doesn't really make any sense. You want to use my image for the next 90 days and pay me squat, but you don't want to sponsor me, you know? So, you have to be resourceful and say, "Hey, you know what? You know, I sat down. I talked to Chris. You know, I bought her tickets for the European tour before I even went to the Olympia, you [clears throat] know, because I told myself without without a sponsor, I'm still going to be a bodybuilder. I'm still going to go out there and be on the grind." So, you know, a lot of these guys just have to put themselves in a better position, you know, well, the money that they make now, stash it away in their mattress, you know, for a rainy day and, you know, stop buying the fancy cars and 500 tennis shoes and, you know, all that crap that they don't really need, you know, and, you know, spend more time trying to market their image, you know, making themselves more marketable to outside sources, to, you know, regular sponsors. And I think that's what bodybuilders bodybuilding is missing is, you know, getting the outside revenue. You know, why can't we have a sponsorship from Nike? Why can't we have a sponsorship from Reebok? Why can't we have a sponsorship from Smart Water? Because we're not putting ourselves in a position to be seen as that kind of athlete. Dave, I want to bring you in on this because you as someone who owns a a supplement company and b run a bodybuilding media publication. What are your thoughts when you see an athlete like Shawn Rhoden, somebody really in the upper echelon of the bodybuilding scene get dropped from his media uh contract, somebody who did go a significant period of time without a supplement endorsement contract? Does this signal to you a tough incoming time for the industry? I got three words for you. Why cut back? That's it. [laughter] No, you know what? Sean made some such such vital, pertinent, accurate points that I I I I want to just say I endorse what he said and and I and I think it's true and I don't even know if he was even conscious of some of the things that he said. Um, first of all, Chris mentioned the word publishing contracts. There's no more publishing contracts because no one's publishing anymore. The magazines are done. We've said this for five years now. Now it's finally come. You know, we talked about, you know, I live on the water on in in um in Long Island and they've been talking about the storm that was going to wash us away and eventually it came two years ago. We got hit with the hurricane and everyone got flooded. This the flood has been coming here for for the bodybuilding industry for quite a while. The magazines are done. There's no more publishing contracts. There's no more publishing. And the online magazines don't warrant publishing contracts. You know why? Because these supplement companies don't want to pay anymore. And the reason they don't want to pay anymore to the bodybuilders is because the bodybuilders are dinosaurs. Now, I hate to say it because I know I love bodybuilding. Chris loves bodybuilding. Bob Cherillo loves bodybuilding. George Farah loves bodybuilding, but the public doesn't love bodybuilding. And the people who run the organization understand that concept. And now they are embracing the men's physique division, the bikini division as their future potential money-making, you know, uh, divisions. And I guarantee you, just like women's bodybuilding went the way of the dinosaur and is gone or is on the way out, so will men's bodybuilding. It's going to be turned into a sideshow, like a an afterthought. And you know what? They're gonna they're gonna champion mainstream America because mainstream America likes men's physique physiques and they like the bikini look and and Mrs. Jones would love to look like the bikini girl up there and it's much more attainable for her daughter who's watching the show. And you know what, the bodybuilders are going to be you know right up the you know what because no one wants to pay them the money that they were getting before. The only people that paid them before was the magazines and the and the and the supplement companies. And now there are no magazines. And the supplement companies are so scared to put their money behind a bodybuilder for fear that they won't look mainstream enough to the social media people on Facebook and Instagram that that that what's happening is people are afraid to support the bodybuilding. Even though the bodybuilding was the the the the foundation of what built our industry, people weren't afraid to support bodybuilding back in the day. They'll always be bodybuilding fans. You can't be everything to everyone. That's why I think the bodybuilding should be separated from the rest of the Olympia weekend. Same thing with the Arnold weekend because it's just it it's too much. You can't be everything to everyone. Put bodybuilding on its own weekend so that the bodybuilding fans will go there and support the event and the the sponsors won't feel like, oh, I I can't support bodybuilders. I got to try to cover the bikini. You could do both. And I think that that's where we're going wrong. And I think unfortunately the only people that are going to be hurt are the future bodybuilders. I think Sean is still in his time, the next five, six years, he'll still be fine. But I think from 10 years from now, I don't think bodybuilding is going to be around anymore. Chris, do you agree with that projection? Um, I you know, it it it sounds extreme, but you know, I really meant it when I said we're on shaky ground. It's it's, you know, it's uh it's, you know, it's not the same, you know, um, you know, Look, Coleman, Jay, Gunter, you know, just Wheeler, you know, just people were making really good money. Um, and that's not to say they didn't deserve it. Um, and I I I have to say this, when you say Jay, think I know who he was with before. I don't want, you know, supplement contractwise. He's got his own line now. um Coleman, you know who he was with, Gunter, they didn't just give him money to to to be fans. They made money because they were making money off them, right? You don't go out and pay a a professional bodybuilder a lot of money and uh go to your accountant and and say, "Yeah, we're paying so and so 300k a year." And some people got a lot more than that. uh and have the the the the accountant say, "Well, we made no money." You know, money's got to be pouring in. So, at some point, there was uh a very viable reason to put a professional bodybuilder under contract and and and pay him monthly. There was a benefit. You don't just pay people money for nothing. Um, and that seems to that model um is going away. And um, you know, I I don't know if if if I I agree with Dave that in 5 years or seven years, bodybuilding is going to be kaput. But at the same time, uh, I always say Dave's right. He's usually just right early. His timing is off. [laughter] So it might be it might be 10 years. The the problem is that the the supplement companies are afraid to sponsor the bodybuilders now because they're being told by the organization or shown by the organization that it's more viable to sponsor a men's physique athlete or a bikini competitor because that's what people want to see. So, it's the supplement companies are afraid. I look, I I own a company and I'm always being challenged, get a bikini person, get a men's physique person. And yeah, you need some representation, but you know what you start hearing? Well, you don't have to pay a men's physique competitor $500,000 a year like you do Phil Heath. You can get, you know, five men's physique competitors and still pay less than that. And that's going to be more mainstream and you're going to The truth of the matter is bodybuilding is never going to be mainstream. It never was. It never is. The reason why people bought the supplements that Coleman was endorsing is because they had the dream in the back of their head of putting on some muscle like like Ronnie did. Uh now with what with the way the organization is is gearing, you know, the the physique division, you know, whether it be the men's physique or the the bikini or the, you know, or figure, they're trying to say, "This is the way you should look." and and and so why is someone going to pay a bodybuilder $500,000 a year when when the organization is saying here here's our spokesperson now uh the men's physique Olympia champ and the bikini champ because that's the one who are bringing all the people into the seats and those are the ones who are signing up for all the shows you know we got you go to the NPC nationals you got 600 bikini competitors and you only have a hundred men so I mean think about it who's putting money into the pockets of the promoters the bikini and the men's physique And I think that's what's is it a bad thing? No. Because the industry still has the money. It's bad for the bodybuilder. And as a bodybuilder myself, Chris, you're a bodybuilder. Sean's a bodybuilder. We don't like that, but the industry is still making money. It's just been reaportioned. So, I think the writing is on the wall for the bodybuilder. I really I hate to say it. That's going to conclude the debate portion of the show. We're now going to go to question and answers with Shan Flexatron Rhoden. So Sean, we have a couple of questions coming in from our Twitter feed. This question from Devin Hicks atdev hick727. Sean, do you think taller bodybuilders are inferior? Most contest winners and Olympians are 5 foot 9 and shorter. What say you? That put me in a good good chance right there. I'm just right above that 5'9 and 3/4. Um I I think you know the taller body does have a little bit more you know frame to fill out. So you know it might take them a little bit while a little bit longer and you know with that being said you know have to pack on a little bit more size. But I think if you bring the right package it doesn't matter you know how big or tall you are you know as long as that muscle look good on you. Let's go to the next question. Sean, if you were offered a contract to work with a supplement company, Cutler or Heat Line, which one would you choose and why? I'd choose the fifth. [laughter] I like that. I'd choose Scitec. [laughter] Sean, why don't you tell us a little bit more about uh you signing with Scitec, what that means to you, and what opportunities that's going to open up for you. Now, it means I get to hold my own line on Scitec. Just kidding, folks. Relax. The park is already situated, saturated. Um, you know, um, I was first approached by Scitec back in 2012 at uh, Flex Pro in in LA. And um I've been in contact on and off um you know with them since then. you know, son with scitec actually I had a conversation with Jay a couple weeks ago in LA and um you know over the past few [clears throat] years I I have mad respect for Jay ever since I've turned pro because you always seem to say the right thing at the right time and it's you know he's always pointing me in the right direction with just subtle little comments you know when we sat down and we talked and you know we we talked about you the state of the industry with these you with the supplement company and you know being saturated in the US and so forth and you know I had a few offers and you know I wanted to take my time and not rush into a decision um you know site we've been going back and forth for a couple of weeks and you know they gave me a call one day and say hey we want to fly you to Hungary you know when can you come and my response is always the same when do you want me to so we could get you in the next flight. That spoke volume for me. Um they're very appealing because you know a good friend of mine Cedric McMillan is with them. you give me a chance to, you know, be a one-two punch at, you know, this coming Olympia. You know, I have a few other friends for uh as well and Brandon Curry and, you know, even though Ben Picosa said I was too old to make any change, it's it's going to be great being a teammate with him, but they're the largest uh brand currently in Europe. Um, and hopefully making a push to the state. Sorry. So, that was very appealing for me. So, let's uh move on to the next question. Sean, growing up or in the early stages of your bodybuilding career, who did you model yourself after? Who did you model your training and your overall approach after? Growing up, I didn't want to be a bodybuilder. [clears throat] I'll be honest. Growing up, I saw myself as a soccer player. But throughout the years of uh I was mentored by a [clears throat] a man by the name of Mr. Yanni Shamburgger [snorts] and he basically taught me everything I knew. The first body I actually saw was Flex Wheeler and I've always model and trained, you know, according to how Flex Wheeler look, you know, by visualizing how I wanted the muscle to look on me, you know. So growing up, that was the image that I had in my head of what a perfect athlete should look like symmetrically. You know, the aesthetics, you know, everything flow evenly. You know, I've got a knock for it over the years because, you know, I've always been told there's nothing freaky or anything that stand out about you. And I'm like, well, look at the overall picture. You know, when an artist is painting a, you know, painting his canvas, you want everything to flow evenly. you know, not one side bright red and the other side kind like what the hell is that doing over there? You know, so growing up, you know, looking at Flex Wheeler and, you know, visualizing how I wanted to look, you know, he was a big inspiration for me as a bodybuilder. So, this next question is actually for Dave and Chris. So, if we can get a quick thought from the two of you. Is Shawn the closest thing to Flex Wheeler nowadays, or is it Phil Heath? Dave, we'll start with you first. Um, I I think that he's the closest. Absolutely, without a doubt. I mean, if when I look at his physique, I really I think of Flex Wheeler back in the day, and you know, uh, I think that you can't help but make the comparison. Um, it would be awesome to have been able to see the two of them on stage against each other just to see, you know, what it would have looked like. You know, it's the old, you know, can what would Muhammad Ali and Rocky Marciano been like if they ever got a chance to fight? But yeah, I think Sean is the is the modern, you know, incarnation of Flex Wheel. Absolutely. Chris, what about you? We lost Chris. Chris, we still have you. Uh, yeah. No, I I think Sean is um very comparable to Flex Wheeler. I think uh I think um you know uh Sean has actually probably more weight and more muscle but flex has like flex has a tiny frame and t probably the smallest joints of anyone well you know who's ever been a professional with those type muscle bellies but I think the comparison is very comparable um and that's why the questioner asked it I'm sure right absolutely one more question for Sean flex Exatron wrote in Sean, what is the biggest adjustment that you're making for 2015? Well, Chris told me that to tell y'all, but surprise. Let's put it that way. Um, muscle damage. I I could only one word I could I could use to describe it. Nuclear. [laughter] Nuclear. In the words of um Mr. uh Palumbo, you know, when you hear the back of your head, nuclear, that's all that I could think of. Nuclear. [laughter] It's going to It's going to be You know what, man? Every year I tell people this and I was just asked this past weekend, you know, what body part do you need to improve on? And in my opinion, it's always everything. You know, you brought a package, they looked at it. you don't want to bring the same package again, you know, but I don't go back to the drawing board saying I'm just going to focus on my back. I train everybody part like it's my weakest. Like in this part of part weak, I need to beat the crap out of it. So, you know, with that being said, you know, it's going to be uh yeah, nuclear, right, Chris? Yeah. You know, Dave, Shawn is you got to remember that Shawn's advantage is he trains with dummy Brad. They're both dumb dummies. [laughter] They both are they're both bamboozled and suckered into the idea that I tell them I say, "You know, Sean, if you train your ass off uh every day and push your yourself physically to the limit and push yourself mentally to the limit and and don't fear nothing and when you get tired, embrace it, then you can be Mr. Olympia and Brad, you can be a great pro." And they like, "Okay, that's the formula." Well, that I have a question that my question for Sean is what kind of training do you do for your physique? And are you a guy who goes back to basics when you need to make improvements? The old squat, deadlift, bench press, bent over rows, you know. Um, the p [clears throat] in the I found out the past couple of years I've done I haven't done a lot of stuff that these guys have been doing all their life. and um coming out to LA training with Charles Glass, you know, and you know, Chris has this thing he'll text me. He goes, "I want you to go 100% today. I want you to go 90%." You know, this is what I want you to do. Talk to Charles, you know. So, with that being said, you know, lately, you know, I've been lifting a little bit heavier, a lot heavier than I used to. Um, and going back to basics, you know, going back to, you know, the heavy one- arm dumbbell row, the deadlifts, you know, all that stuff, the benching, working the different grips, you know, as far as adding more density to the muscle, you know, dumbbell shoulder press, you know, dumbbell um, dumbbell, you know, bench press and so forth, you know. So, I'm going back to basics and I'm doing this stuff that I've never done because uh some guy said this one time that you got to start doing the things that you never done to get to where you never been. I agree. I'm applying that principle to this year. You look bigger. That's why I'm asking you. You know, and I have this crazy dude that I train with that if people know this guy, if people know this kid, you know, you know, Brad is no joke. You know, people might look at him and, you know, might be a smaller version of what people expected, but I've never had a training partner that train as hard as this kid does. You know, some days I want to tell him, "Hey, you know, back it off a little bit." But he knows nothing more than going all out every day. And you know, when you have someone like that constantly pushing you, you know, it makes it so much more fun because it's like, if Brad do [clears throat] one plate, I want to do one plate. You know, Brad does two plates. I want to do two plates. You know, and you know, we challenge each other every day. Like, you know, he looked at me and say, "Oh, man. What exercise you want to do next?" You know, I'm like, "Hey, Barb." He's like, "Let's do it." You know, you know, so we going back to basics and you know, you know, just treating everything like it's the first day in the gym, you know, and you know, just looking forward to this year Olympia, you know, it's going to be a whole different look for me. You know, the way I feel right now, the weight, the weight I'm at right now, I've never been this early in the year and still be able to see my abs. [laughter] And this big and this big, you know, so it's a much it's a good look. And once Chris said, hey, you know, we want to drop a nuclear bomb in Vegas for the Olympia, I said, say no more. You already gave me the blueprint for this, so let's get at it. Well, I cut back. Sean, what did I tell you? Can you What did I tell you about about the uh the venue? What can you share with the listeners about the venue last year? I forgot I had said that to you and you had mentioned to to me two days before the show about you remember what you said to me and I said I said that [laughter] you said uh you first you said to me how many people how much how many people hold in the in the arena and uh I threw a number out at you and he goes really you're like well you know can you and you said can you imagine oh Chris said this to me folks he says can Can you imagine being the first name call out at the Olympia? And surely enough, first call out, Steve Weinberger, Sean Roden. I don't know Chris stuff now. He produced these. He's like, "Your name will be the first name call out at the Olympia, you know, for the lineup." Sean, let's talk really quickly about the upcoming Arnold Classic. You look at the field, Justin Compton, Dexter Jackson, Cedric McMillan, your friend Ben Pakowski, Branch Warren, Roly Winkler. How do you see things shaking out in Ohio in about a month? And I'm going to be a little bit biased because, you know, I it's going to be between Dexter and Cedric. Really? Okay. And, you know, I've seen, you know, pictures of Cedric and I've seen Dexter and you can't take anything away from the Blade who's been at this for so long. And I don't know how he does it, how he just keep on coming and coming like, you know, he might have a lot more gray hair, but he keeps just bringing that that package that you have to look at. He got that old man muscle, you know, working for him, [clears throat] you know. But I talked to Cedric uh yesterday and you know, and I told him, I said, "Listen, the way you're looking now with the amount of muscle that you're carrying and the hardness that you have, you still have four weeks to go." I was like, "At the end of the day, it's yours to lose, but you can't take away anything from Dexter." nothing against the other competitors, you know, but I'm just talking from my point of view, you know, and the guys that don't know I've seen Dexter every day and I know what Cedric normally looks like and how he looks now. I think he, you know, the road he's on right now, you know, you just got to keep on going and it will be his, you know, but Dexter's right there because you can never, I realize you can never count him out, you know. Look, look at Dubai, you know. You never know. You pull a fast one and come out, you know, looking like a beast, you know. Same thing in Prague, you know. So, I got to tip my hat off to him and say, you know, watch out for Dexter, but at the end of the day, I'm giving it to Cedric. All right. Very bold prediction by Sean Flexatron wrote. And Sean, it's been an absolute blast having you here on Iron Debate. Do you have a message for your fans in the RX Muscle community who were so excited when we made this announcement last night that we're going to have you on the show? Just want to say thank you guys so much for your continued support. Uh, you know, it's just it's it's good to be able to, you know, talking here with Chris. You know, I know we spent a lot of time on the road. You know, me and Chris and we have the pleasure of having Johnny with us this past year. Try to break him in. Um, and I've been friends with Dave for a while. You know, it's just such an honor to have, you know, this great wonderful fans that, you know, support me even though I was with the company and, you know, wasn't able to, you know, give you guys a piece of my mind, let you guys know how I feel about a certain situation. And I continue to follow me and in social media and Instagram at Flexatron Roden. Same thing in Twitter and Facebook and my fan page at Sean Flexitron IB Pro. You guys can also find me in Scitec um website. And the only thing I can say to you guys, the best is yet to come. Progress over perfection. Sean, did you really send a free package of supplements to to Johnny? Was that really you that I saw? Yes, I did. Johnny is my boy. [laughter] That was a nice box of J Styles right there. You've increased his productivity about 50% with all the stimulants you sent him. J Style is the man. Y'all don't forget that. [laughter] Wise words from a wise man. That is going to do it for this edition of Iron Debate. Special thanks to that man Jay Styles doing an excellent job producing the show. As always, special thanks to Chris Aceto and of course Sean Flexatron wrote in joining us for the first time. The replay is going to be available within minutes on rxmuscle.com. Reminder, tomorrow at 4:30 in the afternoon, 4:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, Heavy Muscle TV, we're going to be joined by Tracy H. We're working on a special guest. So, if we get this guest confirmed, we will make the announcement right away. We are also going to be unveiling a new species, a new species nutrition sponsored athlete live on the show. For everyone involved, Wait, what? Is that a new athlete Brad, bro? a new athlete. Brad. [laughter] Oh, exactly. You've you've got Brad Row spoiled. He he he's asking for $500,000 a year. We couldn't come up with that. That's my boy. Don't want to sold himself. I'm like, "Know your work, bro." [laughter] Again, Sean, we thank you so much for joining us tonight. We look forward to having you on future episodes. That's going to do it for Iron Debate. Have a good night. Peace.