It is Chuck Zto, the beast from the east, and you better be watching Muscle in the morning or else Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host Pet Producer and I'm here to bring you all the latest news in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's October 22nd, 2013. And on today's show, Phil Heath on TNA Wrestling, Species Nutrition Giveaway, the Big Zack Khan pushing 300 lb. Plus, stay tuned for the answer to yesterday's trivia question, only on Muscle in the Morning. This past Sunday, Mr. Olympia Phil Heath made a guest appearance on TNA Wrestling's Bound for Glory. featured with TNA tag team champions Bromance. This is another good step in aligning pro bodybuilding with more mainstream media. And as of late, it seems Phil Heath is one of the few top bodybuilders being utilized for different roles outside the bodybuilding world. Species Nutrition has a giveaway promotion going on this month with USA Muscle Foods. Here's how it works. Go on Facebook and go on Muscle Foods USA page and like and share the photo of the giveaway stack. And then a winner will be randomly selected to win a free species stack of isol, nitralize, lipolyze, and fiberize. The USA muscle foods page is facebook.com/musfoodsusa. Zack King Khan has been putting in the work this offseason as he's currently 298 lbs. Zack guest posed this past weekend at the British finals where he showed off a physique that's pushing his old size while still maintaining a reasonable body fat level. after dealing with his injuries. It also looks like he's back in the swing of things with the regained mass to his legs. Big things could be coming from Zach in the near future. Stay tuned. Now for the answer to yesterday's trivia question. The question was, Steve Mahalik was a controversial bodybuilder known for his radical training techniques and extreme approach to bodybuilding. After graduation from high school, Steve went on to pursue an academic career in which he completed two years of specialized vocational training. What was Steve's occupation during the early part of his bodybuilding career? And the answer, commercial artist. Now for today's trivia question. A pioneer and promoter of the sport, this female bodybuilder appeared in pumping iron 2 and is recognized as the first lady of bodybuilding. Arnold once called her the sexiest grandmother in the world. Who is she? Don't forget to tune in tomorrow for the answer. That does it for another edition of Muscle in the Morning brought to you by Iron Mag Labs. I'm your host Pete the producer. See you tomorrow and make sure to follow us on Twitter and Facebook.