Welcome inside the RX Muscle Studios in Westbury for Iron Debate. Long time no see. We certainly haven't done this show in quite some time. It is good to be back. We are back in the thick of the contest schedule. a lot of things to debate and we will be debating them over the next 45 minutes or so. I'm your host Sadique Farooqi. Let's bring in Dave Palumbo to introduce the new sponsor of this show, Quest Nutrition. Well, yeah, it's my pleasure actually and my uh pleasure because I love the Quest Nutrition products and I think that's uh important to understand. You know, we like to take sponsors on here at RX Muscle that we can actually, you know, promote and feel good about promoting. Uh, I've always said that Quest Nutrition has the best protein bars that I've ever tasted and that I've ever uh looked at nutritionally speaking. And matter of fact, on a lot of our their ads, they use Dave Palumbo's favorite protein bar. So, uh, when Quest, you know, really wanted to come on full-time and really support our new TV programming programming, uh, schedule. Uh, I was really excited about that because, like I said, uh, I have no problem whatsoever, you know, promoting their products. The also great thing is I'm getting a package in the mail from Quest. Uh they're sending me their new flavor bars. They're sending me the protein powders and some other goodies for us to try on the air. And hopefully we can introduce you guys to the Quest nutrition line of products. So, uh thanks guys for uh jumping on board and backing what we're doing here because without the support of the sponsors, we couldn't be giving you the programming that we're giving you. And before we introduce our two combatants for tonight, Dave, I have to bring this up because it's getting a lot of buzz right now. First of all, great coverage of the New York Pro by yourself by Johnny Styles. Uh Chris Aceto as always. Your interview, or rather should I say Cedric McMillan's interview of you and Jim Manion getting a lot of buzz seemed like a really fun moment that you had with Cedric McMillan. Well, Cedric McMillan, I told you I I've said this before, is one of the great personalities of our business. And it's a shame he doesn't get on to more uh he doesn't allow me to interview him or he can interview me more. I I told you I wanted to do a TV show called Country Wisdom with Cedric McMillan and he backed out of this thing. All of a sudden, for some reason, this weekend in New York, maybe because Scitec Nutrition was the sponsor of our coverage, he got wrapped up in uh and wanted to do interviews. He actually interviewed Max Charles. Johnny will be putting that up pretty soon. And uh that was a pretty good interview, too. And uh you know, it's funny because JM Manion uh you know, texted me after that and said, "Oh, that was a great interview. My dad, you know, had a great time doing it." And uh it's not very often that you get the president of the NPC, Jim Manion, uh on AI guess you could say wrap-up video. And the ironic thing is that after what Arnold had said about, you know, Cedric McMillan's, you know, physique and Jim Manion's, you know, being the head judge, I thought it was interesting that we were all together in one interview. And uh you know Jim Manion has been judging longer than anyone and he's got probably the best insights into the business. And I know Chris Cto said this. Jim Manion is the best judge out there. And when you get him as the head judge in the judging panel, usually the decisions come out correct. So now let's introduce our two combatants for tonight. First, the man they call the technician who jumped on last minute with us on Thursday night to preview the New York Pro. doing an excellent job as always then and during this weekend and we now bring in Chris the technician Aceto Chris how you doing tonight guys doing all right so we have Chris on board and bringing him back he was on the debut episode of Iron Debate if you remember way back when the man they call the diet coach Tad Enaway Tad how you doing tonight good good great it's great to be here again all right so we got four topics lined up all four topics are going to relate to the New York Pro and of course Dave Palumbo on the final word. So, let's get right to it. We're going to start with the men's open the men's open division, Juan Morell coming away with the victory. Many say this was arguably I mean pointwise and just by the looks this was one of the closest victories arguably in New York Pro history. Chris, what do you say about that? I mean, uh, I I I didn't think it was I I think I'm surprised that people say it was a close decision. Um, because I did have one morell winning and, uh, I texted that to, um, people who work out with Victor uh, as probably the first one and a half minutes into prejudging. And and the reason I had him winning is because um I think it's it's Juan's best, which means he's filled out his frame, which is a really challenging thing to do. And at the same time, if you take another good look at Victor, you know, Victor has got a fabulous uh body, um, which can bamboozle you because if you look at the glutes, hams, and if you look at real true, uh, muscle definition, you know, he still looked like he needed to come down and and his legs are down still. you know, his his legs, you know, while they separate nicely, they're they're not really full. And to have a crazy package on stage in the lineup, you have to have full legs. Juan Moral coming in first, Victor Martinez second, Max Charles third. Uh Tad, what did you think about Juan Morell coming out on top? Um and the perception being that this was arguably one of the closest results in New York Pro history. Well, I uh sitting there in front row and I definitely thought it was a extremely close uh battle between the two of them and uh I in my mind it really could have went either way. I was really I'll be honest, I was rooting for one because I like the conditioning. Um it's hard to get past Victor. He has a lot he's got he did look a bit thicker in some in some areas. Um but my biggest criticism for Victor was I did think that he had could have been a couple of a couple of weeks. He could have been tighter. his backside not as uh not as tight as uh as Juan's uh Juan was in incredible shape. Um and I was glad to see that Juan actually like Chris said filled out was looked full. He kind of has this tendency to fade fast and he was starting to fade a bit like he was lo he would deflate real quickly. I know it's his metabolism. I know he has to this guy's got to constantly eat. So he could it happens quickly for him and you could see it. You could literally see it on stage and I could see it. So it's really kind of a timing issue. They were really working him hard. So there could and it was it was literally that close. I mean that could and there was other one other factor I thought was really really in Victor's favor which was um Victor looked so much more confident on stage. He looked like he was the like he knew he was going to win. And you need to have that kind of confidence when you get up on stage at this level when it's really tight and close. Especially because both these guys are wellliked by the judges and both these guys are standing and they're going neck and neck and and they didn't even put anybody else in there with him. I mean, they didn't, you know, at the pre-judge, they just had them both out there. So, it was really, really, really that close. So, I think you could argue there could have been easil easy arguments on either side if either if if Victor could have won and but uh as it stands, Juan came out the winner. I don't have a big issue with that. I thought that he welldeserved, especially after last year because I really would have liked to have seen him win last year, although not against Big Ramy. Uh he got out muscled, but um this year he definitely looked he actually looked bigger. He looked much improved, fuller, and in much better shape. But I would really like to see uh it's hard for me to one of the big one of the other things I saw in the Victor, he looked like his shoulders didn't have the same fullness as he has had in the past. So, I don't think his body is quite where he was maybe six or so years ago when he was really starting to make moves in the sport as as he could have been. And I think he's maybe some of his age might be catching up with him. I don't know. Whatever the case is, it's the best I've seen him look in a few years, but not the best he could be. So, let's go to Dave Palumbo for the final word. Dave, what did you make of Juan Morell edging out Victor Martinez for the open win? Well, you know, Jim Manion said it best. Um, he said that, you know, this was the first time usually now they the way they score the pro bodybuilding is 50% is a prejudging score, 50% at the night show comparisons. They actually scored the pose down, which they never do. They scored the pose down because it was that close and they had to really, you know, decide who was the best. You know, here's here's the way I saw it. You know, at prejudging, I actually had Victor edging out Juan a little bit because I felt that that that his presentation was better and that he he won and stole some poses from Juan that he shouldn't have just because of his presentation, specifically the side tricep and the side chest. Now, had Juan executed his poses properly, it would have been a blowout, I think, to be honest with you, because I think Juan's physique was better. Uh Jim Manion said it best when I asked him why did Juan win. He said conditioning. And that's what it comes down to. Chris and I and Tad have said this over and over and over again. Conditioning wins shows. And Juan did this homework. He came in not only conditioned but with more muscle than he's had in the past. I've said this I said this on the radio. I said this to Chris before. I told been telling Juan the last couple years because you know I work with him uh from before he turned pro. I said, "One, one day you're going to fill out this frame and no one will beat you. The door will be closed." And I know he didn't want to hear it at the time because it wasn't that day that I was telling him that it was that he was closing the door. And he finished second a few times and third in a couple shows, but on Saturday night, he closed the door. He had enough muscle mass on that huge frame of his to just slam the door on on Victor Martinez, a guy who arguably should have been Mr. Olympia and who won an Arnold Classic. So that's a tremendous feather in his cap in on Victor's behalf. Victor came in off, okay? You can't leave the door open like that when you get up against a competitor like Juan Morell. You know, if Victor had come in 100% like Chris, you know, conditioned him 2003 Night of Champions, I don't think that Juan would have beat him. Even though Juan would have been bigger, I think Victor's shape and structure would have would have outclassed Wands. Um maybe don't know if Johnny has a picture of that he could put up, but uh he I mean Victor in 2003 was was mindboggling. Well Dave, let's get a quick thought on Max Charles coming in third. Uh Max was featured regularly on a muscle in the morning and you know obviously he had quite the buildup to the New York Pros. You got to look on the screen. That's the picture. Yeah. I mean it's a little blurry but uh you could just see so much detail in Victor there. But what did you make of uh there's a much better picture. Yeah. Oh wow. I mean, look at the difference. I know Chris can't I know Chris can't see it, but Chris knows what he looks like. I can remember it, though. So, crazy. But but Dave, let's get a quick word uh from you on Max Charles coming in third. Um, you know, Max Charles, I I said it even in the wrap-up with with Cedric. Max Charles has got maybe the best the best upper body in all of bodybuilding. His upper body might be better than Phil Heath's, you know, and that's that's saying a lot. The problem with Max is his legs. And you know, Cedric said an made an interesting point. You know, Cedric has his own what I call Cedricisms. And he said that, you know, Max's problem is that he is that he's quote hashtagged. And I said, "What the hell is that?" Meaning that when you see Cedric, you think hashtag legs or hashtag lack of legs. And it it that's the automatic thing you go to as soon as you see this guy on stage. Now, did his legs come up from last year? They actually did, but his upper body did, too. So, proportionally, his legs still look small. And I think from behind, you know, I know that Max did a crazy pizza, you know, Burger King carb up to fill his body out, which looked great, but I thought his glutes were a little watery from behind. I don't know, you know, something's not working exactly right there. But third place against those guys, you know, those guys aren't there. Max wins the show. So, Max is right there knocking on the door. He's definitely getting better every single show that we see him at. And you know, I don't know if he'll ever get his legs to be where they need to be, but I think he can get them good enough where he can win a pro show. You're watching Iron Debate on rxmuscle.com. If you have questions, you can tweet them using #hmtv or if you're watching on livestream.com, you can use the live chat box. Moving on now to our next topic, women's physique division. Michelle Cummings coming in first, Gloria Falls in second, and Jennifer Hernandez coming in third. Michelle Cummings uh in her previous in her amateur era finishing first at the NPC championships in the bodybuilding division and the topic of conversation coming out of the New York pro es especially when it came to the women's physique division was that the the field they look bigger and that brought up the question as to whether or not that is the direction in which this division is trending. So Tad we're going to start with you. you assess Michelle Cummings and the rest of the field. Did this signal more of a direction that this division is getting bigger? I don't know. I I wouldn't call this a signal. I think that the first I think personally I think the women's physique division that the size of the New York Pro is good. I think that that's that is that fits squarely into into this into the excitement level that a lot of the ladies who are who are actively competing in this division, that's the that's the look that they like. Um, they can no longer cuz you can't. Yeah, Tad, keep going. We're just uh showing right now Michelle Cummings uh her stage performance from this past weekend. Please proceed. Yes. So, I mean, I think that her size and her her level of muscularity is really good for the sport, is really good for this division. I don't I don't I I don't know if any any bigger. Um, but especially because women's bodybuilding is sort of uh slowly eroding, evaporating away. Um, and there's and there's not a whole lot there left for them. So, this presents a really nice uh feminine yet still muscular and muscular enough to be exciting for those women who like more muscularity, who like more definition. Um uh so I don't think that this is necessarily something that they're trying to trend these particular physiques um that happen to be at the top at the New York Pro. Uh like Michelle Cummings and like um Gloria Falls and Jennifer Hernandez, a little different because she's taller, but she those are the top three. They just tended to be the best ones of that. Um, there were several others there that were really really good, but uh uh but the but I think they just happened to be the best that day. They just happened to be a little bit more uh muscular looking at than at other shows. But you go to some other shows and I've seen other ladies look even beggar uh and you know they draw the fine line. Some of these Brazilian ladies who come in, they're just really really they can be really quite muscular looking. Maybe not necessarily big, but they look muscular. Um and so I think uh I think it's AI think that this is a good direction. I don't know if we need to go too much farther. I really wouldn't want the it to go too much farther because then it I think it would distort uh women's physique, but uh I think it's perfect where it is. And once you get too exaggerated, then it border lines on bodybuilding women what the old women's bodybuilding and then of course facial features change and it doesn't look as good. So I think it's perfect where it is. Chris, what did you make of Michelle Cummings and the physique field at the New York Pro? Was it too big uh for your taste? The field for me was a disaster. I mean, it's it's it's it's if you look at the trajectory, if Johnny had put up tonight uh a side by side of 10 of the competitors in this show and 10 who are in a woman's physique competition the first or second year, it's not night and day. It's like Mars and Earth. I can't think of a bigger contrast. And the the next step is back to female bodybuilding. And the majority of this field is beyond pushing the envelope uh of uh of what they should be doing. And you know, in in two years, if this continues, you were just going to like yawn and say it's female bodybuilding. I can't believe that anyone could Everyone looks like a female bodybuilder in this in this lineup. I mean, almost every person looks like a female bodybuilder. Um, if that's what women's physique is, then I guess that's what it is. And and you know, I'm out of touch, but um, you know, to get the edge right now in women's physique, it's not extra cardio, it's not extra weight protein, it's extra something else. someone wants to dispute that, come back in two years at this show and we'll see. Tad, let's go to the next part of this discussion and you said you were satisfied with what you saw as far as size and proportion, but you made the point as far as women's bodybuilding sort of falling by the wayside or really on a decline. Do you see future competitors shaping themselves in a mold which is again the direction that we were talking about, the bigger direction? What kind of a precedent is this setting for future physique competitors? Well, I mean, I think there's still a standard that you have to still have a certain degree of femininity and that's the kind that's the feature I think in women and in women's bodybuilding that made that that has really contributed to that sport eroding away. And so, if you if women's physique loses that component, then yes, then it could it could slowly start to erode the competitor base. But right now, the competitor base is very strong. the women like this look as long as they can you can still h have the certain degree femininity. I don't think that it's producing I don't think it's producing anything bad for the sport in terms of women's physique uh growing it because it's seems to be growing especially with with the popular with the popularity of of physique competitors like Dana Bailey who who really um a lot of women look up to in this sport really want to emulate and she's not really over overly big she's very small when you walk up on her she's very small most of these ladies really are um but when they're on stage they can look a bit exaggerated especially now they're getting really lean uh some tend to want to get this really ultra lean Um, and that's, you know, that's the part that that's up to the judges. They still have I still they still have to judge based on what they think looks the best. And so sometimes that criteria gets a little hazy because, yeah, maybe they don't want the women to be quite as big. Uh, but yet the one who is a little bit bigger tends to just look the best anyways. So, they have to give it to her because at the end of the day, it's still a judgment call based on what what who fits this criteria the best. And sometimes it means that they might be disproportionate a little bit, but they still look the best. I I want to get Chris back in this, Chris, because you didn't like what you saw out of the physique field this past weekend in the New York Pro. What does this mean for future physique competitors? Uh what kind of a precedent is this setting in your eyes? I mean, if if you take the running average of the look there, look, there's a lot of girls in the show who are just with a lot of muscle with a lot of not leanness. I I disagree with the word that Tad used leanness. I I use ripped to shredness. there were a few and uh there were a lot and and uh you know so to improve upon that you go to the next level you know I mean it's it's as simple as that that's how everything spirals out of control you know I mean yeah you still have Juliana Malik Carney and Dana Lin Bailey but putting them aside this was a a woman's physique pro show with a level of muscularity that was tenfold different than two years ago. Not a little bit more, not like, you know, kind of sort of more muscular. um you know if if that's what the women want to accomplish that's their right you know but you know where it takes the sport you know we we got you know guts and gyno in no condition now in the men's bodybuilding and and you know then the next progression is you you're chasing that condition and when you start chasing condition you start implementing into your quote training program, things that change the way you look and we have female bodybuilding gang. Let's get Dave in on this again. Dave, the conversation is about what we saw out of the women's physique division at the New York Pro, Michelle Cummings back a few years ago, winning the bodybuilding division at the NPC Championships. And again, it the talk has been whether or not physique division is going the way of bodybuilding. What did you make of it? Well, let me start off by saying I love the women bodybuilding physiques. I always liked it. I I felt like it was something cool. So, I I did I like the physiques at New York Pro? Yes. But once again, it's it's out of control. They're they're letting it they're going to have to reboot it again. They got to move backwards. I remember Chris and I sitting in the audience doing playbyplay at at women's physique shows and we're like, "Oh, she's too big. She's too hard." and and then when they made the call outs, those girls would be like in the second or third call out and they purposely marked those girls down now. It's like they're getting rewarded. So, what does that mean? That sends the message out to all the girls. And I know because I I train a lot of these women's physique competitors and they're like, "I got to get bigger now. I got to get bigger." And and and that's going to ruin the sport. And you know what? These girls come up to me and ask me what to do. I say, "Don't do anything. Don't get bigger." Because you know what? This the judges are going to have to look and they're going to have to say, "Look, we got to cut this back." And then all the girls that got huge are out of luck basically. Uh I you know Ayanna Carol won the Orlando Pro last weekend and she had a finish she finished fourth here. I would have had her probably first or second. I would have had Tammy Marie first or second here. These are girls that were winning pro shows last year and this year and now all of a sudden they can't place top three. That that's something wrong with that. You know I also liked Heather Grace's physique and Heather's came up to me backstage and said what should I do? And I said nothing. I said, ' Don't get bigger. You're perfect. And you know, so, you know, while I like I can appreciate Michelle Cummings physique and I can appreciate um Gloria Falls is amazing, you know, muscular development she made over this last year. I think she gained 10 pounds from last year. I just think it's too much. And I think that this is sending once again sending the wrong message and it's gonna causes That's Tammy Marie up there. I mean, that that to me is was should have been the winner, you know, or at least, you know, top two and she didn't place top three at this show. So, you know, and she gained 10 pounds from last year. So, you know, it's setting the wrong precedent. It's going to get out of control. They're the girls are going to be forced to use more drugs. They're going to masculinate their faces again. They're not going to be marketable. And you know what? Aside from Juliana Malik Carney having a a contract, no other women's physique athletes have big endorsement contracts. And you know why? Because the supplement companies know they're not marketable. They're not marketable, you know, and that that's a problem. Look at Ayanna Carol. I mean, that's a beautiful looking physique. That should be this the the you know, that and Juliana and and Dana should be the the standards for the class. Small waist, nice shape, good conditioning, but not ridiculous conditioning. And that's where it should stay and it shouldn't go beyond that. We're going to step aside when we return. We're going to talk about the figure division. We talk about conditioning, whether or not the figure competitors came in too conditioned. that and India Paulino and the bikini division. Where is the bikini division heading? A lot of people are asking that question after this weekend's New York Pro. That and a whole lot more. And of course your questions. So again, if you want to get your questions in, you can tweet using HMTV or use the live chat box on livestream.com. We'll be back on rxmuscle.com. Heat. Heat. I have before Kim Williams. What species are you? We got a nice little care package from Quest Nutrition. There better be some apple pie in this. I've seen apple pie at all. All right, what up? It's Gilbert Melendez chilling with my Quest bar here. First and foremost, most importantly, they're delicious. Uh, but it's good to have a good protein bar before training. Gluten-free, you got to love it. and it tastes good and it feels like it's doing the trick. I listen to my body and uh it says yes to this. So, give it a shot. They taste great. They're awesome. They um they allow me to feel like I have a little treat while I'm still eating real strict for my training camp and everything. So, I'm super excited. Off the top of my head, I have to say the cinnamon roll, the apple pie, and probably the lemon. But I haven't had one yet that I don't like. This is IBV Figure Pro Heather D and you are watching RX Television. Welcome back inside the RX Muscle Studios in Westbury, New York. Iron Debate with Species Nutrition and our newest sponsor, Quest Nutrition. Glad to have them aboard and glad to have you aboard on rxmuscle.com. A reminder, Ask Dave. An all new episode tomorrow at 400 PM right here on rxmuscle.com. If you want to start getting your questions in, go right ahead. Tweet using Askdave. We have about 35 questions from the last episode, but we will try to motor right through them. So again, Ask Dave tomorrow at 4 PM right here on rxmuscle.com. Moving on now to the figure division. Latoria Watts, who won of course the 2014 Tampa Pro, did well at the Olympia. She comes in number one at the New York Pro. Allison Fronn and Andrea Kon Canton coming in second and third. For physique, we talked about whether or not the competitors were getting too big, whether it was going the way of the bodybuilding division. Well, for figure, the topic of conversation after this weekend is whether the level of conditioning for the athletes was too much. So, Tad, we're going to start with you on that. When you assess the figure division, did you get the sense that the competitors came in overconditioned? I Well, some always do. Um, and some don't. Uh, in this particular I think overall I think that the the there were a few competitors I thought did. I thought that and some of you know I'll say I'll tell you what I tell competitors and uh because I couch this way. It's different for every competitor. Um, some competitors have to come in a little bit sharper and a little bit leaner and a little bit harder um to look their best. That's just the look that's going to be most receptive to the judges for them. Um, and some can't. They look better when they when they come in softer, a little bit softer, but yet still lean, of course. I think Latoya Watts uh definitely easily uh in my opinion was the best athlete in there and and she has a lot of very genetic gifts that just allow her to be able to rise above so many other athletes without having to have this really hard and very very very overly done look. But she does have quite a bit of muscle for figure and that would be the only the only thing that I sort of criticism that would have for her is she has quite she's quite muscular. she could easily go into physique or you know in these other uh or you know if if she really wanted to she'd probably have to fill out a couple small places but she fits perfectly I think into this into this figure camp. Um, what? But I would uh I would say that like and I I mean there are there were a few athletes that did come in a little bit like Alison Fran. I love her to death and I think she's a wonderful competitor, but she's probably on a little bit on the hard side. Uh and and she's got to come in harder and got to come in leaner, I should say, to look her best. And so, uh, and she won at the Pittsburgh show the week prior. It worked for her there. But then the game got upped a little bit because Latoya Watts came in and she has a a much genetically a much better physique than the other ladies that she was competing with in at Pittsburgh. And so she took second here and it wasn't even really that close in my mind. I thought that that Latoya Watts was a clear winner. So uh and she wasn't as hard and she wasn't nearly as conditioned. Allison was easily the best condition or the the the most condition of figure athlete in the show. Um and uh but uh it looks it actually looks good on her. So would I say would I change any would I tell her to change anything? I'd say maybe soften it up a little bit. Uh she doesn't have to be quite so hard looking. Her mus muscles quite so hard-looking. Um, but uh there were there's always some that come in harder. I don't nec I don't really like that look for figure. I I think it it steps over the bounds and then they start looking like physique competitors, you know, the conditioning levels and things like that. So, um and I think that they so I do think that that some can be a little bit harder and it could work well for them at shows because they just look better than the other athletes do. But is it the standard that every competitor should shoot for? No. Uh the standard that every competitor should shoot for is not a standard. It's a standard for themselves. Chris, let's get you in on this. Again, we're talking about the figure division, Lator Watts coming away number one, and the topic of discussion again is whether or not there was too much conditioning among the competitors in the figure field. What did you make of that? No, I I don't think there was too much condition. Um I I like the way the Figgy girls look. Um so, you know, my gut answer is no. I don't think there's too much condition. I think you're seeing a little bit more cap delts and a little bit more muscle added to the body, which I'm fine with. And then and there's a difference between adding muscle like a figure is adding to the physique and just like going for broke like the women's physique are doing. Um, I, you know, I don't think anyone really in the lineup is in danger of going over the edge, whereas, you know, I'm sure many of the competitors in in the women's physique don't think they're going over the edge, but you know what? Come back in two years and you'll get a cumulative effect where it's too late. So, I, you know, I'm totally fine with women's figure. I I like women's figure after seeing women's physique, which I loved to death up until the show. Um, you know, I'm starting to like figure more maybe. So, that probably means the figure are getting more quote muscular, but it's all in the right, as far as I'm concerned, it's all in the right places. Chris, what did you make in particular of Latoria Watts? She's probably, you know what, the first time I ever saw her, uh, I thought she was fantastic and fabulous, and it's unbelievable what she's done with her physique. Um, she's really, you know, improved it a lot. She's leaned down a lot. She used to be a little bit bottom heavy, I think. Um, for me, she's like Miss Olympia. Um, she just she's she's got the Linda Murray, you know, pat pat to all the body parts and, you know, a lay person could sit in the audience and and and say, "Wow, look at her body the minute she walks out." And and that's what a champion in this sport, you know, in any sport, in any any men's bodybuilding, woman's physique, uh, figure, that's what that that's what they got to have is, you know, when when when everyone can recognize them as as the champion. You know, someone could be never been to a bodybuilding show before. Kai Green could go out and people would, you know, the the lay person would say, "Wow, this guy's a freak." and then Phil Phil Heath would come out and they'd probably see a difference, you know. Um, and I think that's what Watts has more than everyone else is she's just genetically she's just put together really really well and um, uh, you know, she has to be a favorite to win the Miss Olympia. table. The funny thing is I was sitting here talking to to tori Watts for a couple hours in after the show after we ate dinner and stuff and she doesn't I was giving her these compliments about her physique and telling her what I saw. I remember when she won the USA's got a pro card and it was very easy and it was kind of funny because you know I look she has this surprise look on her face like really I don't need to work on anything. I said, "Well, I wouldn't say that, but but she just said she I don't know. It's kind of funny how some of these competitors with these really fantastic genetics don't always uh see themselves the same way or don't always see how good they really really are." I said, you know, I think she saw this competition a bit closer probably than it did was. But I I do have to say this one thing that in the figure class there was a there was one competitor that I really really liked that still has a little bit of work to do, but I think was for me the noticeable competitor. Her name and it was Vivian Olaf from Hungary. Do you remember her? I think she Yeah. Yeah. She's just such a cute little competitor. I just I wanted to like put her in a box and like wrap her up in like a present. I mean like that she has a really nice look and I think that we'll see a lot of her. I think what did she get? Um I don't think she placed it as well as she probably had hoped. She got like 11th I think 10th. I think 11th. Um but she was just I she's short so she's dimminionative but she has this really really really really great athletic physique. She just needs to downsize her legs a little bit, get a little bit more conditioned. Uh, and she'd be wonderful. I mean, I think she'd be winning shows, so we're pretty close to it. Dave, let's get you in on this. Again, the conversation is about the figure division, whether or not we saw too much conditioning this past weekend. Well, I'll give you a good example. If you would take this figure lineup in New York and you would put teach them how to pose for women's physique and you'd put them up against the first year's women's physique lineups that we saw, maybe even the Olympia, um, you would probably have the figure girls beating the women's physique girls. What does that mean? It means that the women's figure girls have gotten bigger. They're harder. And because they've evolved to that point, women's physique now has evolved to a bigger point. Is it good? I don't know. I like the figure look and I think, like I said, like Chris said, I think I like it because reminds me of the women's physique look. Now, um, you know, I'm a conditioning buff. I like to see the girl shredded. You know, I always I always believed in my mind, get the competitor as hard as possible. I had to change that thinking when the judges, you know, were really stringent in saying the figure girls shouldn't be too hard, the women's physique girls shouldn't be too hard or too big. And so I had to like almost drain my brain. So when I worked with athletes, I I wouldn't get them too hard or I wouldn't get them too big or or whatever the criteria was for the class. Now it's like all that's out the window. It's back to shredded and as big as possible. And I don't know, it is what it is. Steve Wenstrom, the women's historian, would say that's the sport evolving. But what happens in the women's sport is when they evolve too much, they go the way of the cuckoo bird, meaning they become extinct like women's bodybuilding is being. So, I think we have to be very careful not to cross the line. I don't think we've crossed it yet in figure, but we're we're close. Dave, what did you make of Latory Watts this past weekend finishing number one? I told her after she won the USA she's going to be Miss Olympia. That's why, you know, Species Nutrition originally signed her. I I I I think that, you know, she should have won the Olympia, you know, or at least been second this past year. Uh I would have had her winning the Arnold Classic this past year. Uh I think that, you know, the judges are letting her work her way into it. And I think people are getting more comfortable with her physique because, you know, when you first look at her, you think she's huge, but she's not huge. The reason she looks so big is because her waist is so tiny. And it's the it's the illusion it's creating. It's casting. She's not big. She's just structurally amazing and I, you know, I think Nicole Wilin should be very scared of Latoya Watts because she's a serious threat to her throne. I to be honest with you, you know, I'm a big Candace Keane, you know, fan. I think that Lori Watts is surpassed her and I don't think that I I think Candace is like an afterthought in in in or the rearview mirror of Latoya Watts at this point. I think it's really Nicole Wilkins versus Latoya Watts for the Olympia. It'll be interesting to see what happens. You're watching Iron Debate on rxmuscle.com. I'm your host, Sadique Farooqi. Reminder, Ask Dave returns tomorrow here on rxmuscle.com at 400 p.m. We go on to our final topic. Again, if you want to chime in with your questions, we're going to be taking questions after this topic of debate. You can tweet your questions using HMTV or if you're watching on livestream.com, you can use the live chat box below. Bikini, India Paulino coming in number one, Stephanie Maho and Courtney King rounding out at the top three. The conversation about India Paulino in general has been this that she looked out of the top competitors, she looked small and really in a sense the least muscular and many start to wonder again is this the direction that the bikini division is heading in or if there is a d direction at all. What is the judging criteria for the bikini division? Chris, I'll start with you on this one. I have no idea, dude. Honestly, I have no idea. And you know what? It's it's it's you know, when I hear the word bikini and muscular in the same holy [\h__\h] dude. I mean muscular and c can we make one distinction where we where we get you know strided glutes and and and aren't critical of some body fat on the you know the ass out of the the equation. I just you know it's a bikini contest. It's like you know make it you know what they should do? Make it like the suntan lotion bikini contest they used to have where you don't really need to look like you eat 75 carbs a day and do 2 hours of cardio to have a bikini body. That's I mean so what is the criteria? What's the criteria? I mean every single every single bikini competition's won by a different person anyway. So there there's no, you know, template for what you have to look like, right, Tad? What did you make of India Paulino coming in first and and what did you make of the judging criteria if there was one this past weekend? Oh, well, there's definitely judging criteria. Um, it's but again, these things are, like I said before, all judging criteria for all the divisions is there's a there's a set criteria, but they but it's up to the judges discretion to use their own subjectivity to interpret it in the way that they see it best fit. Jesus, I don't I need a thesaurus and a translator to figure that one out. Well, I mean, that's the truth. That's the way it goes. That's it's the the nature of being I know, but it's so it's not like it's not like we're it's not like we got paid. I just want I want like like third grade like ninth grade high school guy wants to know he go wants to go to a bikini contest. Who's the winner here? Well, well, I think I want to know who who who who who even like you mentioned, who would even make a comment like she was the smallest or be in as big. I mean, to me, you know what? Honestly, to me, I know nothing about bikini. I'm looking at the picture. She looks killer in a bikini. You know what I mean? She's like not lean lean lean lean lean lean. She's lean enough. She's not out of shape by any means. She looks cute. you know, her body looks great and she looks beautiful and bikini competition for for this sport. It's still a physique show. So, they still have to have a certain degree of athleticism, a certain degree of a certain kind of physique, and they have to have a certain degree of muscle so that they look healthy, but not overly muscular. So, cuz when the ladies get lean sub 10% or anywhere around that thereabouts, they lose a lot of feminine qualities. So, in order to retain those, you're going to have to put a little bit of muscle on to be able to keep the woman looking not so Awitz victim looking, you know, because the women get kind of slender. Uh, and so that's so there's a certain degree of muscle that has to be involved. Um, but not not a lot. I mean, like Courtney King was actually smaller than India. Tader Tad, why did you think India won? India Paulino came away with a victory. She came out and she was the clear-cut winner for me. Um, it was What criteria are you are you judging that on? Clear cut winner. I mean, she had the best presence. Her physique is is was tight. It was it was balanced tighter than anyone else's. Um, it was more complete. So, you look at like take for instance Courtney. Look at her. Like I said, take for instance Courtney King. It's her she's got a very youthful physique, but it's it's her waist is a little is a little wider. She's her look at her look at her arms her triceps aren't balanced with her biceps. So she has this very unbalanced look on certain angles. So I mean we're talking about cutting hairs here. It's not like these are bad competitors by any stretch of the imagination. It's just that that when you look at the whole complete thing and I'm going to tell you like when you're a judge and you're sitting there imagine myself as a judge sitting there looking you know at these competitors coming out India comes out and she's she just commands the stage. She has a really great stage presence and she doesn't have a lot of flaws in her physique. Yes, she's definitive but she doesn't have a lot of flaws in her physique when it comes to the sport. So I I had her and she was she wasn't overly lean. She wasn't uh overly muscular. So she was right there. I think with the Hold on a second. Hold on a second. Chris, you have shades on. Talk cuz I wanted earoffs and I didn't have them. So Dave, let's go over to you again. The topic of convers. It's just I I I I struggle to, you know, I strug Here's my problem. Don't struggle, Chris. I struggle to mesh together bikini like hot body with an ass and tits with spots and and then at the same time saying, "Well, her ass was a little too jiggly or her, you know, her, you know, condition wasn't that good." It's like, I don't know, just bikini. When I think of bikini, I think of uh is it Raquel? Welch, Johnny, I think she's Spanish, right? Wasn't Right. She had the best bikini body and the people today would So, uh, that's, you know, it it's it's it's just still odd to like use like women's physique and figure and, you know, criteria. We we come from bodybuilding, so when we we look at bikini bodies, I think we we we get it all screwed up. Anyway, all right, Dave, I want to go to you because we just saw something on the screen right now. We just saw uh a compilation of the different bikini competitors and we saw someone that we had here on Heavy Muscle TV last week, Yishna Ayala. And what is the difference between her coming in last and India Paulino coming in first? What did you make of the criteria? I think the criteria is India Paulino super hot and that's about it. But there's no criteria because you know what I look at Lorena Bushio who Johnny just had up on the screen and I'm like you know from a from a physique perspective I'm like what's wrong with her? She's in great shape. I I loved her physique. There she is up on stage. I mean you might say maybe she's too muscular. I don't know. But I I thought she was great. And then if you if you don't if you don't want someone who's too hard I'm talking about Lorena Bushio. You look at Yurishna from uh from Puerto Rico and and she's certainly not too hard. I would have liked to seen her a little tighter, but I mean, she's certainly gorgeous and she's got a bikini body to die for. So, to me, it's tough. And I think what happens is the judges get into a a quandry where they're they're comfortable with a certain number of competitors that have done well before and they always go back to those competitors. And it's easy to do that in bikini because you can justify anything. In bodybuilding, if someone who hasn't placed in a while comes in out of their mind conditioned and looks great, they'll move up because the judges can can quantify that. But because you can't quantify bikini because everyone looks really good usually. Uh I think what happens is the same girls keep doing well and and the ones that are not in the mix have trouble breaking into that mix. And and once again, I don't even know I don't even have a solution to the problem. It's just it is what it is, you know. So, that's going to conclude the debate portion of the show. We're now going to go to your questions. And the first question, Dave, this one relates to the 212 division and a man we spoke about or we lightly touched on uh on last week's Heavy Muscle TV where you you and Chris Aceto were previewing uh the 212 division. The name Kim Jun Ho came up. Well, Kim Junho comes in second. Uh Guy Sister Nino comes in first. Marco Rivera finishes third. We'll go around the horn. Dave first. What did you make of the 212 division? Well, you know, I thought that um guy was amazing. Obviously, he was the clear-cut winner, but this Kim Jong- Ho uh you I said it last week as a joke, you know, this guy better look really good coming all the way from Soul Korea. And you know what? He didn't disappoint anyone. There were people in the audience that thought he should have won. Uh I think the reason he didn't beat Guy is because he just was not as big as Guy and Guy had the same level of conditioning. But this guy's got a terrific physique. He's got a great future. He needs to pack on a little bit more size. To me, he looks like a young Hide Yamagishi. And I think that uh he's got a bright future in the in the division if he continues to make improvements. Tad, what did you make of the 212 division? I obviously I'm really I'm always excited about the 212 division. I liked uh I but I I I was man, as soon as uh as soon as Kim Kim walked down stage, I was impressed. I tweeted out a clip of his video cuz I was so impressed with him and I thought he did. I thought he was a little closer than probably Dave thought to uh to Guy, but I did think the guy definitely won. I thought that Marco got a little bit of a gift. I thought he was as in good a shape. I thought that uh I thought the guy that got ignored was Sean Clarita. I think that guy looked phenomenal even though he was a smaller guy. I thought that he should have moved up a little bit more. The guy was hard everywhere. He was complete. Put 15 pounds of muscle on this guy. He's he's our next giant killer. I mean, the guy's really, really that good in my opinion. Chris, what did you make of Kim Junho coming in second, guys? Suchino in first in the 212 division overall. I mean, I I agree with Dave. I thought Kim looked outstanding, spectacular. Um, and uh I thought Guy was just too, you know, Guy had a brutal look to him, which means that, you know, it's the thickest guy we've seen and his condition was really, really good. Um, and it just at the end of the day, he's just too much um for Kim. I mean, had had Kim had a few more pounds of muscle or guy had less muscle, then I think we're uh you know, the results could have been different. Um, that said, I thought Kim looked outstanding. Uh, the guys who got third and fourth to me were fat. Um, and which is surprising because uh the 212 guys are usually just just outstandingly peeled. Uh, Chris Tuttle I thought should have placed higher and Sean uh Clarita should have placed higher. Um, Sean Clarita looks like he weighs like 120 and that's not a negative. Um, it's not a negative, it's a compliment because although he looks like he weighs 120, he stood next to Guy in the lineup and, you know, he just looked like he was small but not, you know, he looks like he deserved to be in a first call out of six. And I would have I would have easily had him. I mean to me he's he represents 212 bodybuilding more than um the third and fourth place. I mean I they were just they were just like soft to me. And as you know the litmus test are these 212 guys because of they have to make a weight class you know it it's understood that you better be really really hard or you're not going to get a look. So the guys who I thought were overlooked with Tuttle and Clarita, the guys who um uh Christmas came a little bit early to were the two guys who got third and fourth. Mark on. Yeah. Where did I understand why how even Joseé Ra Sanchez Riaz, that's a let's say that 10 times fast. Um how he even made the top five. I didn't think I didn't think he should even have been in the top five. I thought she was maybe six. Suspicious lumps in his shoulder, too, that I really wasn't suspicious lumps. He had suspicious adapost tissue. Yeah, exactly. That's what I'm talking about. But Chris Tut looked really good. I I couldn't figure out why they placed him a little solidly third. Yeah, that's what I would have had, too. I I didn't think I thought when Marco first came out, actually, I was really disappointed. I was thinking he was going to look better. He had his water he looked better at night, I think, but he looked a little watery. He didn't look quite as like as good. He I could see him getting better as he posed. I don't know what happened. He was I mean, but he was getting better and better and better. So, he kind of recovered a little bit, but not not enough in my mind to uh to really be in that third place in that third place spot. But the third and fourth place, I was confused too a little bit, but uh I was really disappointed in in uh in Boya Edwards. In Boya, he should have looked better. He should have. He didn't do his homework or something. Well, the next one. Uh, this question is about Victor Martinez and he wonders whether or not the judges or rather if the judges penalize Victor for not having strided glutes. Dave, we'll start with you on this one. Well, I mean, you know, I don't know about strided glutes part per se. I think he was penalized just for not being his best. And usually strided glutes will tell you whether a guy's in his best shape or is not his best shape. But I, you know, when I used to compete, my glutes would get strided before my middle back got in shape. So, uh, stri isn't always the answer, but usually, you know, if if if a guy shows up a little off and it's a tight race, usually the most condition guy wins. And I think that's really what happened with Victor. Well, well, Chris, let's let's frame it in this way. Where do you think Victor fell short? Um, I you know, I honestly I I mean, he he it's it's not his best. You could say that. So, that's falling short. I mean, I don't think we're going to see his best. meaning I mean he's I mean there there's there's if you consider everything that he's been through um his age I mean we're not going to see you know his best um I don't think but we we are seeing the best of Juan Morell so I don't really think it's where he fell short um I thought it was a very good showing for him really I just thought that one You know, when one beats you hard on the most muscular and one, you know, beats you standing relaxed in the lineup from behind, looks like he's doing more like rows and deadlifts and all that and his legs still look good from behind, he's going to be hard to beat. You know, I just think it's more uh Juan Morell finally filling out, finally coming into his own. Um and and I think that I I don't think you know, you can read into it any more than that or need to read into it any more than that. It's it's a younger bodybuilder who's improving versus an older bodybuilder where it's hard to improve. Tad, what about you? What did you make of Victor Martinez uh coming up short in second place? Well, he he deserved second place. Um uh it was close. Uh but uh was was he penalized for not having strided glutes? uh in a manner of speaking, yeah, he was because if had he had strided glutes, I think he would have probably won. Of course, that also assumes like Dave said that the rest of his body would be at the same level too cuz his backside not so great. Uh not a lot of not a lot of stuff popping when he hit his back poses and and his lower spinal erector is not as detailed as and and you know, so had he was he penalized for struggles uh in a manner of speaking? Yeah, he was. And but like as Dave said, most athletes will be if they're not in complete shape and you got a guy you're stand next to a guy who is. So yeah, sure. Absolutely. And you know what's really not fair also said? Uh if you look at that picture that Johnny had up there, Victor looks a lot better in that picture than he did in person. That picture that picture makes Victor look like he he should have won the show. And when in in fact, you know, if you really got a closer look and you were there in person, Juan was way way harder than what's than what's being shown. That's usually the case with pictures. Pictures don't tell the whole story sometimes. Exactly. I think that the some of the comments that I got from people is, you know, oh, and these are of course all people who weren't at the show and only and only saw pictures, two twodimensional pictures of static shots, right? And we're sitting there, you know, basically front row looking at these guys hitting poses and it's a very, like you said, it's a very different story. I try to explain to people like look it's it's different when you're seeing these guys move around in this three in his three dimensions and you're right there and you can see everything popping. You can see everything working. You can see muscles and striations moving around and uh yeah and from the and but from the front in a static pose Victor looks incredible. You know it's look it's looks like it's hard to beat especially in a front double bicep. hard to h you know and then when Juan Murray hits and he still got to work on some opposing issues Juan does because you know we've talked about that earlier but uh you know yeah but uh it's that's not like you said that's not the complete story you know the complete story is how you have to sit there you have to be there and there's nothing like buying a ticket and going there and watching it yourself and then being able to make pass judgment on what the judges are actually making their decisions based on got a couple of good questions here so I'm going to go around the horn let's get a quick thought on each one could Cedric have come into the show and won easily. Dave, you first. I don't know if you could say win easily, but he certainly could have won the show if he was at his best. I think it would have been it would have been a nice battle because him and Juan are very tall. Uh I think they would have matched up well. I I think that uh you know, Cedric would have had his his work cut out for him. Juan was really good here. Although I think Cedric is, you know, his muscles are so much bigger and rounder than these other guys. I think Cedric would have emerged victorious. I think Chris probably would agree with that. Chris. Yeah, you know what? I I I going into the show, I would have thought Cedric would have, you know, easily won, but after season one, um I I think it would have been a battle. Actually, I I and I agree with Dave. I think, you know, we just discussed pictures, for example, of um uh you know, you have to be there to to actually appreciate what you see with the naked eye versus photos. Um, I think what Cedric has, and Dave would probably agree with this, is um, you know, when you see him in real life, he's he's really a lot bigger than he looks like in pictures. Um, you know, he he's, uh, he just gives you a a true 3D look, you know, because he's his his muscles are really round, you know, his back is round, his triceps are really crazy. That said, you know, it probably would have been a battle. Um, it would have been interesting because you have two tall guys and I and I think uh one of the the interesting things was one is that much taller than uh Victor, which this is the first time that's helped because one's physique is filled out. Before I thought it was a detriment. He'd have a lanky look to him. Um, and yet Cedric is actually taller than one. So, you know, I guess we'll have to see in Brazil. That answer will be uh that question will be answered in Brazil in a few weeks. Tad, what about you? Well, I think uh that would that is an interesting question. Um I think uh I think it would have instead of it being the one and Victor Martinez show, it would have been probably the one and uh Cedric McMillan show. But I still think that one probably if he if Cedric would have come in like he did at the Arnold then I think he probably still might have lost out depending on he just the one criticism I have I think Cedric has probably one of the best genetic structures out there for men's bodybuilding. He just doesn't present enough enough wow factor for me when he gets on stage. He loses his personality when he stands on stage for me. Um he doesn't he needs to animate more. He needs to do something more. I don't know what it is, but he he at least he did at this at the Arnold this year. And I I really wanted him to show me some excitement, you know, give me the energy. Uh, you know, Dexter did, uh, you know, Branch did, he didn't. And and so I think that I think that hurt him cuz I think judges and people can feel energy and they can see that and they can feel that. And even though the physique is there, you still there's those physiques are all appreciated. All these judges know these guys. So, I think um definitely he may have been able to if he would have showed up at the show like that, he easily could have I don't think anyone would argue that he could have easily been victorious. Um cuz he's definitely from a structural standpoint, I think he's better than than uh than Juan Morell's, but Juan was in great shape and I I haven't seen him look I haven't seen Cedric really look exactly like that, you know, uh quite like that and and and really want it. Although, you know, Cedric looked a little like I I really still think that Cedric looked a little he lacked a little confidence at at certain points in the, you know, when they did the post down and when they did when they were on stage when he was uh in the prejudging posing with Victor. So, uh so there's a little bit of both, but I think in the end it probably would have still come out one probably still would have won. All right. So, let's go on to the last one. And again, this is a question about someone that we saw a bit of a reprisal from kind of um making his return to the stage. someone that we've featured on Muscle in the Morning uh for the last couple of weeks. Alex Fedorov, what did the panel make of Alex Fedorov? Tad, we'll start with you. Uh I never seen this guy in person before until the New York Pro. I was really interested to see him. Uh aside from this really interesting pec tear that he's got on the right side. Um which just which really kind of he's got a weak chest and it's probably because of that. I don't know if he had to stop training his chest or something, but he's so big. Uh, and I heard the Russian contingency that probably followed him here there. Um, he's so such a big monstrous kind of guy, but he doesn't have a lot more going for him than that in my opinion. I mean, if he were to really put it together, he might do a lot more damage, but he wasn't in the best condition. Uh, he wasn't tight enough. I don't know if it was just I don't know how long he stayed and and prepared. You know, here he's got a kind of a thick waist, but he's he's so big, so he kind of makes up for some of that. I was not as impressed as I would have hoped to have been seen pictures and like you know when you see pictures I always know that sometimes people are like you know they're like Instagram heroes you know so to speak they're like you know social media heroes but when they get him get him on stage stand next to other champions all of a sudden they don't look as good he doesn't look as good that day he didn't for sure so of Alex Federov making his return really after quite some time on stage you know he he he probably needs to come likely leaner and tighter. Um, and I and I think, you know, oddly enough, his muscle's so dense, uh, and it's so big that he's probably mistaken when he looks in the mirror. I'm tight enough, which put him under the lights and you you you say, you know, I'd still like to see him tighter. So, um, you know, he has a weird weird body. It's there's a lot of them, you know, that which is good, I guess. you know, he's a lot of height, a lot of width, colossal legs and arms. You know, the pec tear is pretty noticeable, but maybe if he died it down further, it'd be less noticeable. Um, you know, it's his first show back or second show back um since retiring for a decade. So, you know, maybe maybe um you know, if he keeps dieting for 8, 10, 12 weeks, you know, he might get better and better as he goes. Dave, what do you think? It it could it could be, you know, I I think Dave said it best. If if he was peeled for this show, they would I mean, you could argue who knows how high he could have placed, you know, because what are you going to do with him? I mean, he's he's taller than Juan Morell. He's wider than Juan Juan Morell. His legs are bigger than Juan Morell. He's wider. His back's, you know, got more thickness. He's not put together like Juan Morell. But, you know, if he had Juan Morell's condition, you know, where would he have place? bed be really high. Dave, now this is someone who has been on your radar for the last few weeks just as far as having him featured on Muscle in the Morning. What did you make of Alex Federov seeing him on stage this past weekend? Well, you know, I I kind of felt bad in the sense because I wanted to see him better. You know, I was like, "Oh, if you only would have dialed it in a little bit more, a little bit more, a little tighter." Because I do think with all that mass he's got, I mean, and it's put together pretty well. You know, you could you could make a case that his waist is a little thick, but you know what? You know, Jay Cutler's waist was not that small either, but it looked small because it was so wide. If Federof was 6 lb, 7 lbs lighter in better shape with crazy strided glutes, that waist wouldn't have looked so big because his taper would have been better. Um, I think he would have been I think he would have been a solid third. And you know what? I still would have had him in that top five just because of his muscle mass. I mean, he was freaky and that counts for something. You know, I'm a conditioning guy. His glutes were not soft. They they had lines in them. They weren't as deep as I would have liked to seen him. You know, especially when you when you don't have the best structure or the best the smallest waist, you got to come and peel to the bone. Otherwise, you just given up too much. If he would have been peeled to the bone, he would have easily been third and we would have been saying, "Well, let's let's see how he goes." You got to remember this was the guy who placed third behind Ronnie Coleman and Jay Cutler at the 2003 Russian Grand Prix. and a lot of people thought he was going to be the air parent to the Olympia throne after that. Now granted, he tore the pec and he had some problems and he dropped off out of off the face of the earth, but here's a guy who who certainly might have gotten a little overlooked at this show, but once again, I have trouble, you know, saying the judges didn't do a good job when the guy's not in his best shape of his life. So, you know, did he deserve seventh? Maybe not. But it wasn't a terrible placing for him, you know. Well, that is going to do it for this episode of Iron Debate. We're going to be back next week with an allnew Heavy Muscle TV tomorrow. Tomorrow, tomorrow's Ask Dave. Next Thursday night at 8:00 p.m. Heavy Muscle TV tomorrow, Ask Dave returns on RXMuscle 400 PM. You can get your questions in for Dave on the Muscle Central forum on rxmuscle.com. Or you can tweet your questions using askdave. I'm Sadique Farooqi. Till next time, have a good night.