Welcome inside the RX Muscle Studios in Westbury, New York. I'm your host, Sadique Farooqi. Welcome to another exciting edition of Iron Debate. All debate, all disagreements, all mayhem right here on rxmuscle.com. And if you join us expecting Rich Piana, I'm here to disappoint you. Rich is nowhere to be found. We are putting out an ATP looking for Rich Piana. And we have to wonder why he didn't show up. He told us he was going to be on the show. He told us last night he was going to be on the show. So now we're starting to speculate as to why Rich Piana did not choose ultimately to join us on tonight's Iron Debate. And we wonder whether or not he was not up for the battle of challenging Chris the technician Aceto. But one man that decided last minute to stand up to the challenge. Joining us today from West Warwick, Rhode Island, the one, the only Boston Lloyd. Boston Lloyd checking in last minute here on Iron Debate. How you doing, Boston? Doing good, man. Doing good. Ready to do this? Ready to bring it? Ready to bring it. Look at that. Boston Lloyd, a real trooper out in Portland, Maine. They call him the technician. Our resident guru, Chris Aceto, joining us again on the Iron Debate. Chris, how you doing tonight? I'm doing good. I I'm worried that Rich may have chickened out. Oh, no. He's got he's got uh I think uh papers degrade. Or was that Lonnie Terra? Yeah, I think that's Professor T. Rich Rich must have taken a wrong turn in one of his Benz and or his uh Ferraris or whatever he drives and or maybe he's just mixed up with Did you you sure we told him the East Coast time or did we tell him West Coast? In every promotion that we have put out, we have put 700 p.m. EST, which means Eastern Standard Time. So, I don't know how far that excuse goes, but you have a few of your own there with the maybe he got lost in one of his benches. Maybe he didn't want to challenge you. So, we'll have to see what happens with that. But Chris, the technician of officially calling out Rich Piana. And joining us here in the RX Muscle Studios, the boss, Dave Palumbo, here to give the final word on all topics. Dave, how you doing tonight? Ready for the challenge? I'm chuckling my ass off because everyone knows I did want to get Boston Light on uh a future show to debate and when Rich didn't show up, which I was shocked because I spoke to Rich on the phone for a long time last night. He was really all in and he and we really catered the the debate topics to Rich because he wanted to do this. When he didn't call in, I I I knew the only person I can call who would who would would stand up at the last minute and argue and talk about anything pretty much is Boston Lloyd. So, I want to thank him for stopping by. And I think it's going to be it might even be a better show than we anticipated. Well, look, we like guests that are going to bring it, that are going to speak their minds, that are going to speak their opinions, and Boston Lloyd certainly a man who holds that card. We have a great show for you tonight. We're going to be talking about a lot of different topics, some controversial subjects. Uh Anthony Pasquali last year backing out last minute from the USA Championships. A lot of mysterious circumstances, a lot of rumors, some speculating as to whether or not he he crumbled under the stress, whether it was anything that he was taking that really got to him. So, we have that tattoos. How much is too much? And is it affecting performers uh competitors in the way that they're being judged, but first, we are going to talk about the threetime reigning Mr. Olympia, Phil Heath. Phil Heath posting a video much like the I guess a free agent would in any other sport saying, "Hey, listen. I'm going to be a free agent. Who's out there to get me?" Or when a free agent makes an announcement on a team that he's going to join. Well, Phil Heath announcing that he was leaving Muscle Tech to start his own line. Phil Heath not a retired bodybuilder. Phil Heath still very much in his prime. So, we're going to go to you first, Chris Aceto. Is this a good idea for Phil Heath? Going out on his own now, leaving a very lucrative deal with Muscle Tech, estimated between 400 and 500,000 a year to start his own line. No, Sadique, I don't think it's a good idea because uh we talked about on Heavy Muscle Radio, there's nothing better than passive income. Passive income is when Muscle Tech sends you a check and you say thank you and you deposit it. You know, if he's making 500K a year, it's 41 grand a month. you know, you have to sell a lot of product right out of the gate to make 41 grand a month. And if you go four months with, you know, making no money because you're trying to get the company off off the uh off the ground, so to speak, it takes a lot of months to not only get back that 41. Uh but to build up past that 41, you know, I kind of think uh it's shortsighted in the in the in in that the supply and the demand in the marketplace has never been more skewed. There's more companies than ever before fighting for more or less the same number of dollars, the same number of customers. I mean, there's tons and tons and tons of companies. And while Phil may be, you know, the premier bodybuilder in the world right now for sure and I think he's a, you know, marvelous bodybuilder, you got to think, you know, what's new that he can contribute? I mean, is there anything new products that he's coming out with that that are totally different and novel, you know, a breakthrough that uh that people haven't used or seen before? If not, it's it's just, you know, quote, more of the same. And it it may end up backfiring if it's not a success. It may actually hurt his brand. You know, it may hurt his credibility. Um, so you know, if it was uh me, you know, I'd sit back and and collect the check and uh you know, Dave and Dave can attest actually to the time it takes to run a company. So, if he's going to run it like he says he's going to run it, Jay can attest to that. You know, Jay's told me personally how many hours it's taken uh and what a toll, you know, energy-wise to to get his brand going and Coleman traveling and all these people. So Dave can tell you right here how much time it takes and that may take away from his bodybuilding which is the reason why he is where he is now. So Chris doesn't think it's a good idea for Phil Heath really in the prime of his career to leave muscle tech leave a cushy year-to-year passive income salary as he put it to go start his own line. Boston Lloyd, what say you? I mean it's it's it's could go either ways on this one. I mean, he could he could in invest all of his time and money and to, you know, make his own brand. And like Chris said, if if it's going to be the same of what's already out there, pre-workouts, protein powder, this and that, it's probably not a good idea because, you know, he's fighting for the number one spot at the Olympia. He doesn't really have time, in my opinion, to be, you know, working his ass off, trying to get his line going. It's going to take away from, you know, his actual success as a bodybuilder. So, I can go either ways. I mean, he he might come out with something new and it's going to, you know, it's going to be a lot of money that he's going to have to throw away and, you know, and hope hoping it's he's going to get that back in return in a few years because people are going to like the product. But I'm going to say I'm going to have to say no, it's not a good idea because like I said, Muscle Tech's a big company. They're paying him. He doesn't really have to do much. All he has to do is take pictures for Dan magazine saying he t he takes Celltech hardcore and that's why he's Mr. Olympia and gets paid. So, uh I mean to me it's like no, it's a it's a bad idea. But most likely, I mean, there's a very rare chance that he'll come out with something good out of this. Chris, you don't see some value in the fact that again, he is in his prime of his career. He is the most celebrated bodybuilder at the moment I in trying to capitalize upon that in starting his own brand. Obviously, there's a lot of work to it, but clearly he's going to have people around him to do a lot of the day-to-day business work. He is a name. He is a brand. Why not strike when the iron's hot? Because for the same reason that Michael Jordan collects the checks and he doesn't start his own sneaker company. Meaning you you let the people who know how to do what they do best do what they do best. You know that that might be let's say you know you let Jack OAC at VPX come out with the products. You let people at Muscle Tech develop and market the products and you lend your name and credibility to the product. You don't try to uh like I said, Michael Jordan doesn't start a sneaker company or he does he endorses Cadillac. He doesn't come out and start making Cadillac Cadillacs or cars similar to. So, you know, it's it's it's you know, you don't need to reinvent the wheel. You you should copy or or model the people who have came before you in other sports. Um I mean, there's a lot of risk involved. Um and uh you know while you know his rise in the sport has been for bodybuilding competition has been beyond meteoric. It's it's it's been uh like a rocket. Um that might not translate into sales of of product. Uh and if you're not sure there are people we don't even know who run some of these you know esoteric companies and who who do a lot of sales and they have no bodybuilding background. So just because you're a great bodybuilder does not translate into sales of a product. So well Boston let me ask you this again considering his name considering the brand and considering his reach right now couldn't you make the argument that if he waited till later waited till a point where again it was expected that his star was going to fade a little bit and that's when he was going to get into the supplement game that he'd just be better off now when he is a big name. Yeah, I I would say he'd be better off like, you know, like Ronnie Coleman did. Already done with his career, completely done. Uh, you know, then then there's less stress because he doesn't have to be the top of the world anymore. He already has his name out. He's already Mr. Olympia, you know, and then everything's done and all from there. He just uses his name. He uses all of the time he has. He doesn't have to train, you know, twice a day, do cardio, you know, and all that stuff. And basically just takes the stress. So if he was in like Ronniey's position where he's already done competing, that's fine. But right now, Phil Heath to me is in his prime. Meaning, he could still take three, four more Mr. Olympians if he can if he brings the same package he did last year, just because that that illusion he has, nobody's really going to touch him at this point. Uh, so saying that, I I would say he would be smarter off just go just putting his name on a company like Chris said, and letting them do all the marketing, letting them most bodybuilders are very stupid. Let let's let's be real here. They don't know they don't know how to market themselves. like they're they're pretty dumb, you know? They just know how to pump stuff and train and eat seven times a day and tell what they have the genetics. Their guru tells them what to do. They follow what their guru tells them to do. And you know, their genetics bring, you know, bring them to where they're going to be. So saying that, you know, Phil Heath, he he seems like one of the smarter ones actually, but still he's at that point where he needs to really step back and look at the bigger picture. Uh, so it it could affect, you know, hurt his Olympia placing by doing something like this with all the travel and stuff like that. Well, Boston, I'll follow up with that. It just given this turn of direction. Does this signal that all right, maybe he is going to be focusing more of his his attention to the supplement line going forward and maybe not so much as a bodybuilder? I mean, if he did that, that'd be very dumb. You know, I I if you win the Mr. Olympia, you get I think it's $250,000 a year. um your name. I mean, I don't know. I think he could at least win three or four more um from where he's going right now. But I I think that would just be very dumb if he was if he was like dying out. Like I think right now I you know I want to say Kai Green is still in his prime, but I I don't see him taking out Phil Heath. Maybe somebody like Kai Green coming out with a line that would be a little bit smarter. But somebody who is Phil Heath's you know he's he's coming in everyone thinks all right Phil Heath's going to win. Who's second? Um I would definitely wouldn't make that move. Honestly, I wouldn't. All right, so we're going to go to Dave Palumbo for the final award. Both Chris and Boston in complete agreement on that, which is kind of rare on this show. Both agreeing on this subject. Uh both think it's a bad idea. Dave, what say you? Well, you know, I was thinking about this earlier. You know, Phil usually gets I think Muscle Tech usually matches his prize money. Uh I wonder who's going to match that $200,000 he's going to win for the Olympia this year. You he certainly is not going to match his own money. But you know what? I'm going to take a different approach. I I think that it might not be a bad idea for Phil. I think it might be actually a good idea. I have to imagine that Phil is a smart dude and he's not going to just jump into this blind. If he is, then he's going to he's going to lose his shirt because I know this industry. It's a tough industry to make a buck in. But I have a feeling that he's got a, you know, a heavy investor behind him. And I think if if he has the heavy investor, I'm assuming he's probably taking a salary for himself as part of the as part of the line. Now, that being said, I'm sure that's going to take a lot of the profits away from him. So it might take him, you know, 2 3 years to make the company profitable, but if he's still drawing a high salary and he owns more than 50% of the company, you know, by the time, you know, he's ready to retire, the company could be doing very well and he might not have really given up any money. So this could be a brilliant move on his part. We don't know the details behind the scenes. So Dave Palumbo chiming in with the final word. Again, someone in his position, in Phil Heath's position, you have to imagine there are going to be very smart people approaching him with that idea, giving him a foundation, giving him a plan. He's not going to dive into that head first. Our next topic, we're staying in that supplement game. So, now we're going to go on the understanding that Phil Heath is going to go in this direction. He is going to have his own supplement line. Well, he's not the only one. Jake Cutler, fourtime Mr. Olympia starting up the BPI line or his signature series of the BPI line a couple of years back. So now the question is this, who is going to be more successful now and in the long run in the supplement game? Is it going to be Phil Heath or is it going to be Jay Cutler? Boston, we're going to start with you. Uh Jay Cutler 100%. 100%. Um are you do you want me to explain why? Absolutely. That is the point of this. Okay. So I you know I Jay Culler I met both guys. Jay Cutler is just more personable. He's better liked. Um but just all all over a better better guy. Um like let's say if I was a promoter for a show and I was to pick you know let's say they were Kai Green uh Jay Cutler or Phil Heath as a guest poser. I'd pick you know Jay every time because he's going to actually talk to the people. He's he's going to make everyone feel home. He's going to bring more audience obviously and stuff like that. And he's just he's a better marketer in general. Um to me he's done more in the sport of bodybuilding than Phil Heath obviously. I think how is is Jay a little bit older than Phil? Yes. Yeah. So he's he's just done a little bit more. He's been been around in it since he was like 19. He did team nationals when he was like 18. Lost to Branch Warren. He's just he has way more followers. So usually when you have way more followers, even though he's not Mr. Olympia right now, you know, when when when Jay Cutler pops up, even people who are not bodybuilders or they're not and look, they know who Jay Culler is. You know, Phil Heath, not the top, obviously the bodybuilding industry all knows Phil Heath and a couple people outside, but Jay Jay Cutler still has a way bigger fan base. Chris, what about you, Phil Heath or Jay Cutler now in the long run? Who's going to have more success in the supplement world? Well, I I think you have to go back to their to people's uh you know, who they are, their their character, so to speak. I mean, I'm not speaking against Phil's character, but I know that just from a competitive standpoint, although Jay seems like he was successful, you know, this is a guy who couldn't beat Willie Stalling at the Nationals, right, Dave? And and he meaning he lost at the Nationals, he didn't win the nationals. He lost at the first uh New York Pro that he did, which was the night of champions. He got smoked there 10th. He got second to last at his first Mr. Olympia. He got third at the first Iron Man, fourth at the first Arnold that he did. So, he's not used to winning, but he's used to persevering. And and I think in the supplement business or in any business, uh you have you you're one, you have to be driven and you have to have passion, but you have to know how to get back on your feet. And he's proven that as a bodybuilder. He lost the Mr. Olympia title. He got it back. Um I mean, this is a guy who can get a uh hypothetical sales report for the month and said we did [\h__\h] sales and you know he's going to grind it out and get the report three months later and said you know we did record-breaking sales you know he's just going to find a way to to to move the company or or business forward so you know and I think you know if talking from a business perspective you got to remember that uh this is someone who negotiated he wasn't given the highest probably the highest paying contract with uh MD. And then not only that, but think about what it took to say the second time around, "Sorry MD, goodbye." I mean, that takes balls, but it takes business sense. So, he took his brand and he went somewhere else to a different magazine. So, um I think all those cumulatively point to somebody who although has no business degree, knows how to run a business. Boston, I'm going to ask you something you alluded to in your opening statement on this subject and and that is that both these uh competitors, they are sort of at different stages of their career. How much does that play into it? Again, just given the fact that um Phil Heath is younger and really doing this in the prime of his career. Jay Cutler still has a lot in the tank, but he is older now, has a more established name. uh how much does that play into who's going to have more success long term given how competitive this industry is and given how much more competitive it's going to be in the next 5 years. Well, huge huge for Jay Culler because Jay I don't think he's really focusing on bodybuilding anymore. Um so I think he's just going to put all his time and effort in marketing his company, marketing what works um or what he feels works and just more people are going to listen to him. I think he just has a better, you know, he has a more honest approach. I think um he's even came out with video saying you know I do what it takes to win you know and he doesn't bounce around questions when people ask him about you know you know steroids or you know anything he just kind of he he in a good way he doesn't claim natural but he says I do what it takes to win and it gives people that know bodybuilding you know he doesn't need to go out there and say it like I do but he he doesn't you know give a misinterpretation I think he's just better liked so you know when somebody's better liked I'd be more intrigued to look in Jay Color's product than I will you Phil Heath product cuz I think Phil even though he's successful I don't think he's really personable. So I would way rather go to uh Jay you know if he had a line I'd go to him right away. Chris who's going to have the bigger name as far as a brand and ultimately as far as a business uh over the next five years as both these competitors progress in their supplement lines. Well, I'd ask that to Joe Weeder if he was alive and and and and the reason I say that is uh Joe put you know there was a time when the Joe used to put people bodybuilders on the cover of Muscle Fitness but it was not you know yeah it was something special and Joe picked all the covers and that's when Muscle Fitness believe me had a massive circulation and he used to put fairly regularly people know that Jay on the cover and that was before Jay was Mr. Olympia. So he put Jay on the cover because as a guy who had a magazine when he was 16, Joe Weeder, he knew a little bit about business and marketing and and what sells. You know, his gut was to put Jay on the cover when Jay hadn't even won the nationals yet. Amazing. So uh you know, I'd defer it to what Joe would do. Dave, I'm going to have let you have the final word on this subject. Jake Cutler and Phil Heath. who is going to have more success in the supplement world in the short run and in the long term. You know, conventional wisdom would say Jay Cutler. Go with Jay Cutler. And that's, you know, normally right off the top of my head, I would say Jay Cutler because I think he's a great businessman, you know, but I also know how this industry is. It's very fickle. They only know people who are relevant in the industry. And people become very irrelevant very quickly. I can talk about bodybuilders from 5 years ago and no one knows who these guys are once they stop competing. Now Jay does stay in the news, but you know in five years from now when Phil is still maybe winning the Olympia, Jay is off the radar for five or six years. He's out of competition. Maybe Phil's more relevant. I think that for Phil surviving the next 5 years in the supplement world is going to be very important to him. if he can keep his company, you know, constantly growing, even if at a small rate, I think in five years from now, he might be a major player in in the business. You know, I I I think that he's not a dumb guy. I think he's smart. I think he surrounds himself with wise, smart people around him. And I think that he might be more relevant to the upcoming kids, the kids who go into GNC and Vitamin Shop and spend a ridiculous amount of marked up money on these products. And that might be his his calling card. Oh, we want to be like Mr. Olympia. They're not gonna they're gonna just see Jay Cutler as as some guy who who's, you know, a knowledgeable bodybuilder like me. People know me more for my announcing and for my coverage of the sport than when I competed because it's not relevant anymore. It's been 10 years. Well, well, Dave, this brings up a point, a question. Is this going to be a trend going forward where you have more competitors starting to make that jump in the prime of their careers? Well, I I think for a guy like Phil Heath, who's Mr. Olympia, it's probably less risky. I think for other guys to start their own lines while they're in the prime of their career, you know, is way way more risky because, you know, at this point, you know, I don't what's their what's their gimmick or like Chris said, what what new innovative technology are they going to bring that people are going to want to jump on their bandwagon? Phil Heath is banking on the fact that Mr. Olympia is going to sell his line. That's, you know, that's the ragu of it, if you know what I mean. But, uh, you know, only time will tell. You don't want to explain that a little inside joke. No, the inside joke was that, you know, uh I guess on the website in describing Phil's new protein, they used an analogy where he he the analogy is do you want home homemade, you know, pasta sauce or do you want the store-bought kind, you know, where the homemade stuff? I don't know what that has to do with protein powders. And I don't think that Phil's mixing up the stuff in his bathtub. So, I I don't really understand. So, I kind of was a little poke of fun on my part, like the Chef Boyardi approach. You see there in the upper left corner the hash RX debate. If you want to get involved in the conversation, if you have any questions for any of our participants tonight, you tweet us at # RX debate and if the best ones, we will make sure to get them on air later tonight. Moving on to our next subject, tattoos. Now, we talked about having Rich Piana on this show. Unfortunately, he is not because this topic would have been right up his alley, but it is becoming more and more prominent in the bodybuilding industry. And that is uh competitors having more and more and more tattoos. And it's one thing to make a fashion statement, one thing to have it as a personality trait, but now there's starting to be some more discussion as far as whether or not judges are taking too kindly to it. if it is actually impacting competitors performance, the judging and again if it's something where too much can actually be to a competitor's detriment. So Chris, we're going to go to you now. Tattoos, do you see this as something that could jeopardize a a judge's perception of a competitor and if too much if we're making too much of this? as you respond to I told I told Dave Palumbo at the Orlando we sat next to each other and did the playbyplay and I said I can't take the tattoos they're so damn distracting it's ridiculous you know there Dave Kaik was a trainer guru out in California was working with the bodybuilder and he said hey Chris you got a minute I said yeah he said what you think of so and so I said dude I couldn't even get get past the tattoos the whole back I couldn't even see it so the point is you know what it people might get tattoos because you know for They're marquee. They're they may be attentive or a way to draw attention, but they're not attractive to the bodybuilder's physique. I think one the delimit test for that is, you know, people would disagree is well then just tattoo the whole entire body. You know, it's it's, you know, it's it's it's not an attractive way. It's not an attraction to the body. And I was thinking about the the question and I you know I I don't think anyone and it's a stretch but anyone who's a man or in this case a guy who's you know chasing down some hot chick you know if she's tattooed from the you know he's it's it's not something that you know is probably attractive to him. It may not be persuade him from pursuing her, but it it's not something extra that attract attracts a guy to a girl in my opinion. And when judging a physique in bodybuilding, I think it's very distractive. I mean, if you're looking for the intricate detail, striations, and some guy's got a tattoo on his tricep, you know, it takes away from the clean look to it. Boston, what say you on this subject? It is one that is starting to get some more buzz. tattoos. Is this something that could become a problem if a competitor who's serious about competing and and it's something that maybe some judges don't really have don't really take a liking to. What's your take on this subject? I mean, I don't think any competitor in their right mind when this is bodybuilding, when you're trying to show off your physique, is going to go off the deep end and do a ton of tattoos. I mean, if you look at the top five, uh, if you look at the top five Olympians, I top 10, I would say I would say if they have a tattoo, maybe it's like a little thing on their wrist or, you know, their little little arm or something small. You don't see any of the top guys with these tattoos. Now, I'm going to bring it on the other hand with females fe uh, woman's physique, bikini figure. I think I think it's kind of sexy, honestly. And you know, when a when a girl has a little bit of tattoos going maybe through her arm or maybe a little thing on her rib cage, I think it's more of like it's like a spunk factor. Like I think it looks good. Like I I don't think judges would rate that down. In fact, I think it's it brings like a personality to the person without come out on stage with a little bit of tattoos. You know, it shows maybe a little spunk to them, a little personality. Now, guys, on the other hand, when you know, we're judged on, you know, flexing and detail striations and you're covered in tat, it's definitely going to hurt. It's definitely going to hurt you cuz you can't really see anything. I have a tattoo on my uh on my left arm. And I don't regret it because the only reason I got it was to cover my scars cuz I have three scars from three incisions. And that's the only reason I got I got a tattoo is to cover those. And even now when I hit a most muscular, nothing really pops on that shoulder because it's covered with a tattoo. So it definitely does take away from the illusion uh when you hit poses. But then again, I turn it around with with female competitors. It looks pretty damn good in my opinion. Chris, you would know this better than anyone. The conversations that judges have amongst themselves as far as what they're looking for, what they will tell a competitor, what they need to work on, little things that they want to see show is are tattoos something that they actively are discussing now is something that they may negatively mark a competitor based off that kind of a look. Well, I I think I don't know the answer to that question, but I know the subliminal effect it could have. Meaning, you know, you got the body in the show, two guys, they look the exact same. You can't decide who's going to win. You know, you look okay. You defer to what? I would, if I was sitting next to Dave and I said, I I don't know who's going to win. They look so much alike. Dave would say, condition. Go with the guy with condition. I say, yeah, go with the guy. We would just we try to nail it down to the minutiae of who would have the best condition. And if the guys are still, you know, in the same level of condition, you know, I'd probably kick out the guy with the tattoo on his back, even if it was small. Versus, that's just me, you know, versus the guy without the tattoo. I'm looking for the more quote clean looking physique, clean lines, clean definition, clean flow, and that, you know, at the end of the day, if it's that close, the tattoo would negatively, whether I'm aware of it or not, impact my decision on who I would think would be the winner. So my assumption is I don't think judges talk about it in that sense but they would have it may have the same effect on them. Boston you yourself a very outspoken guy self-proclaimed you look at tattoos and why is it that a young person would get a tattoo? Why is that that an athlete would get a tattoo? Why is it that a bodybuilder will get a tattoo? It's self-exression. It's it's personality. Do you do you see this as as a bodybuilding world? If again if there is a negative perception to it, do you see this as a hindrance of of personality of sorts? Uh I mean I don't know like there like like I said everyone gets tattoos for the wrong reason but I think the majority of people get tattoos. I mean just because it's the new thing to do. Oh let me get a tattoo. You know back you know back 20 30 years nobody had tattoos but everybody's getting them now. So everyone thinks like oh let me fit in and get a tattoo. And I I I don't think it should be like that. You know maybe they're trying to be somebody they're not by these tattoos. But it definitely, like Chris says, it definitely hinders their physique. And if I was a judge and I saw somebody hit a back double and this dude had his, you know, one delt fully covered in a tat and I couldn't see everything pop and it was that close, I would skip right over to the next guy and be like, put him in first because, you know, this is bodybuilding. This is, you know, you're trying to show what you have. And by taking away with that tattoo, it's just, it's just, you know, it's I don't know. It's just kind of corny in my opinion. So again, I I guess I'm looking at this from a from a old school, new school perspective. You don't see any uh any battle in that going forward. Some of the younger competitors coming up, some of the younger as aspiring bodybuilders that they wouldn't look at that and say, "Why should I hinder myself get a tattoo or not?" I hope that judges will start to to rate that down if it gets too out of hand with crazy tattoos like physique guys and bikini figure. I think a little bit of tasks they're not going to care about. Now, if bodybuilders are starting to do a lot of it, I think they're they're definitely going to have to, you know, put the hammer down and and step that down 100%. Dave Palumbo, we go to you for the final word. Tattoos, is it too much? And is it really a hindrance to a competitor's performance and the way they're judged? Well, back in the 90s, everyone wore the hoop earring. Flex Wheel had two hoop earrings. So, if you were cool, you had two. If you weren't quite as cool, you had one. Everyone had a hoop earring, but the hoop earrings when you were when you were bored with it, you took them out and no one knew you had them. I had the hoop earrings, you know, no one could tell because I don't have, you know, there's no marks from them. Nowadays, if you don't have a sleeve or a tattoo sleeve or some cool tribal tattoos, like, you just don't fit in. Now, ironically, Boston made a good point on the men's physique guys and the bikini girls out there, even on the figure girls, because they don't really do anything on stage. They're not really hitting poses. They're kind of just looking aesthetic up there. It actually kind of looks cool like they you could actually add a little bit of cool factor to that aspect of the sport because there's no way for them to express themselves because they're not allowed to hit poses. The bikini girls could shake their butts a little bit probably and you know uh obviously the men's physique guys are trying to do anything to draw attention to themselves. So I think on a men's physique guy, you know, a little maybe a sleeve wouldn't be so bad. Obviously on bodybuilding it it's obscuring. It would kind of be like put who would put a bumper sticker on the Mona Lisa? I mean you don't do that. I mean, it doesn't make it it doesn't make it better, it makes it worse. So, yeah, I can't I I'm looking for the other side of the argument, but I can't see how tattoos can help. I know that a lot of us get tattoos for meaning meaningful purposes. I have a few on me, but I try to put the tattoos in a very discreet place like my ankles or maybe my wrists. Lee Priest obviously is is is the epitome of gone insane, you know, and he overdid it. I mean, he's starting to put them on his face and he just lost his mind, you know. So, uh, Rich Piana could do whatever he wants because he doesn't compete and he he makes that very clear. So, I think for Rich, it's more of a statusy cool look and he doesn't give a [\h__\h] because he's not getting on stage. So, um, but if I'm a top Olympian, I wouldn't be getting any obscure tattoos. That's for sure. For Rich, it helps him. Absolutely. I agree. 100%. Well, again, that that goes to the personality of Rich Piana and and and who he is. And again, we thought we were going to have him on the show. He He actually just called me. I He just called us on the phone, but uh I think we should ignore him at this point. We'll have to get him We'll have to get him on a future show. He kind of missed his uh missed his mark. Again, the hashtag is #Rxdebate. Get your questions in now. The best ones we will read on air and have the questions answered. We're going to step aside, but when we return, we've talked about supplements. We've talked about tattoos. Now, we're going to ask a question which may say seem simple, but it has some people talking. Is bodybuilding a sport? Chew over that. We'll be right back. rxmuscle.com Iron Debate. This is ISB figure pro Heather D and you are watching RX Television. Heat. Heat. We got a nice little care package from Quest Nutrition. There better be some apple pie in this. I've seen apple pie at all of them. All right, what up? It's Gilbert Melendez chilling with my Quest bar here. First and foremost, most importantly, they're delicious. Uh, but it's good to have a good protein bar before training. Gluten-free, you got to love it. And it tastes good and it feels like it's doing the trick. I listen to my body and uh it says yes to this. So, give it a shot. They taste great. They're awesome. They um they allow me to feel like I have a little treat while I'm still eating real strict for my training camp and everything. So, I'm super excited. Off the top of my head, I have to say the cinnamon roll, the apple pie, and probably the lemon. But, I haven't had one yet that I don't like. Hi, I'm Andrea Holiday and I'm an IFBB women's physique pro, but I'm also a coach and a trainer. When clients come to me for advice, I make it my business to give them the most intelligent solutions to all their problems. And I base that information on each person's specific goals. As an elite level competitor, my goal is to gain high quality muscle while maintaining a lean, ripped physique. Species Nutrition's Isolize is the purest whey isolate on the market. It has no fat, no carbs, and it tastes outrageously great. My personal favorite is chocolate peanut butter. So, next time you purchase the protein shake, remember, buy the best by Isolite. This is ISFBV Figure Pro Heather Dees and you are watching RX Television. Welcome back Iron Debate on rxmuscle.com. I'm your host Farooqi. Glad you can join us on this third episode of Iron Debate. Well, we just did hear from Rich Piana and as Dave Palumbo suspected, as we all suspected, we were joking around obviously earlier on. Rich thought we meant 7 o'clock his time, whereas in fact the show started at 7 Eastern. Dave, you're the judge here. Do we buy that? I'll buy it. I'm letting Rich off the hook. I'm already scheduling them for Wednesday, July 30th. We're going to have some seriously good topics. I'm going to work on them for the next two weeks. And I'm sure Rich will not disappoint the next time. We'll make sure we get our schedules. But we have to thank Boston. I was going to get Boston Light on the next show anyway. So, I'm glad we got him here tonight. You know, I always love to hear his opinions. They're as brutally honest probably as rich pianistas will be. No, Boston stepping in last minute and doing really a sensational job on this show to this point. Chris Aceto, the technician out in Maine doing his thing as well. We're going to have Rich on in our next show. So, definitely definitely going to stay tuned for that. We move on to our next subject now. And well, we left you with this on the break. Bodybuilding, is it a real sport? Very simple question, may seem a little complex to think about. Boston, let's go to you first. Bodybuilding, is it a real sport? This is This is funny because I've made many Facebook posts on this. Bodybuilding is not a And I love I don't I love bodybuilding as a competit as competitive bodybuilding as going out there and being very competitive and wanting to win, doing everything it takes to win and putting your mind to a goal. And basically, when you put your mind to a goal, you're, you know, you're going to achieve it. Now, as a non- bodybuilder saying, "Oh, I just want to, you know, look good for the beach." You're not going to push yourself to that limit because now, you know, you got competition and you're going to have to go up there against other people that look very good. That being said, bodybuilding is not a sport because it's not a to me, it's not a talent. Anyone could be a bodybuilder. And what separates good bodybuilders from decent bodybuilders to great bodybuilders to Mr. Olympians is all genetics and discipline. whether you could sit down and eat seven eight meals a day, whether you're, you know, whether you're able to pump yourself full of drugs or whe whether you're you're able to do whatever you want to do to big, it's all, you know what I mean? You're kind of born with the genetics. So, you know, a guy with shitty genetics could take all the drugs in the world. He could train harder than all the Olympians. He could eat properly, but he won't be the best. And it's not a matter of practice. He's just not born with the best genetics. So, to me, it's not a sport. It's more of a it's it's a hobby, but if you're at the professional level, I I I wouldn't even know what to call it, but it's definitely not a sport like I consider like football a competitive sport, like something you got to practice hours and hours and hours to become. And obviously, you know, you got to, you know, be good born with good genetics to be a football player. But, I mean, if you bust your ass from day one and you're trying to be the best at that, it's something, you know what I mean? I mean, you could push it really far as a bodybuilder. You're either born with it or you're not, you know, and you either have the discipline or you don't. All right. So Boston says bodybuilding is not a sport. Chris, let's head over to you. Is bodybuilding a sport? In terms of I I think any sport uh requires good genetics in any endeavor, anything to be successful and requires a lot of discipline. So, you know, Manuk Bull was a good basketball player because he was genetically tall, but at the same time, there's still genetically tall people with shitty basketball players. You know, you you you got to have a combination of both. And uh you know, in in terms of the you know, it's a sport. Bodybuilding is a sport. And the the way we measure success is a little bit different than of course track and field. you know, the fastest guy who who gets across this finish line first is obviously the winner. And you can obviously see who's second, third, and fourth. But bodybuilding is while still a sport, it's a little bit different the way it's measured. It's it's kind of like akin to boxing where, you know, of course you can knock someone out, and Phil Heath can knock someone out with his physique and be the clear winner, but maybe the guys second, third, fourth, and fifth uh, you know, have to be judged by people. And you know how many boxing matches have been judged by people where you know people disagree because it's a close fight. So I think of it as a sport akin to like boxing where uh you know where the methodology of measuring who's number one is always there uh you know by knockout in boxing or you know when Dorian Yates comes on stage and knocks everyone out or Coleman literally knocks everyone out with just a you know crazy combination of mass and size and condition. But after that it's a it's a judge sport. So yes, it's a sport. I consider anything where you uh you know anything what fatigues the hell out of you and makes you sore and makes you exhausted. Uh almost anything like uh that would be considered a sport. Anything that you have what any activity where you have to sp follow a very regimented lifestyle and diet translates itself into a sport. Whether it be uh you know track and field athletes have a very regimented training program, very regimented diet that affects their performance. What you eat no matter what you take you know anabolic wise what you eat has a major role in uh determining your success in this sport. So it is a sport and I I guess if it's if uh not a sport it would just be considered you have to then define it you know you know if if that's the case if it's not a sport then you have to define it as something other than a sport and I think you will struggle to find you know you can put it into pageantry which obviously it doesn't fit into um and and I think anyone who's won the Mr. Olympia title. Lee Haney, Arnold, Dorian, Jay, Phil, the whole gambit would consider it a sport. Well, well, Chris, let me jump in really quick because Boston did utter one opinion in the sense where you either have it or you don't when it comes to bodybuilding, as far as a competitor, as far as your physique, as far as whether or not you're going to have it for the sport. Now Dave Dave Palumbo has often said that he sees someone in a gym and without doing anything that guy could go up there and compete just by his physique, just by his look. Again, going off that note in the sense where from the you either have it or you don't school of thought and marry that Dude, what's that? Listen, I I'll give you I I'll blow that out of the water. I know someone who took care of Michael Jackson's property for years. He was the guy. I know him very, very, very, very well. You either have it in anything or you don't. You either have the ability to excel in something or you don't. But what makes, you know, the guy who's number one different than everyone else? It's many times his abil. Does anyone really think that Coleman didn't train the hardest? Yes, he had it. Does anyone have any doubt that that Dorian wasn't the most dedicated guy when he was winning and the in the hardest training and the strongest and everything else? Yeah, he had it. He had the genetics for it, but there's something else that sets people apart. So, in any sport, you have to quote have it or not. In swimming, you know, my brother had it. He was an Olympic athlete almost everyone else, you know. So getting back to like uh the Michael Jackson analogy, the fact is and uh the guy used to practice dancing nine 10 hours a day we days on end and you know people would say oh he's just you know of course he's got it and of course he's like freak you know the way he can dance and everything but people don't see the the extra effort that he would put in and you know I would say that's the case with uh anyone who's on top of their game really on top of their game in any sport, you would ask them, "Do you, you know, were you born, you know, with it?" They'd say, "Yes, but at the same time, I've crafted it by working, you know, my ass off to the very nth degree to be absolutely number one." Boston, Chris brings up past champions and what they had, the dedication that they had to put in to get to the top and stay at the top, and that does define this as a sport. I'm going to bring another angle into this because bodybuilding is not the only discipline in which that that topic is debated. Golf, figure skating, the these are all debated topics as to whether or not it's a sport, especially golf where again NASCAR, right, as Johnny Styles brings up. When when you have that and again some of the past bodybuilding champions, if you were to ask them, they're going to say it's a sport. What do you say to that as far as that parallel where there is that question as to whether or not it is a sport when you look at some of the other sports that are that have their legitimacy question as well? Th this is the thing I I love bodybuilding for multiple reasons. I love the chemical side. I love the training side. I love the diet side. Everything just the whole combination of just experimenting is what is what you know I like the most. But the thing is is to me if if if drugs are a variable on how you place, you know, obviously diet and training are important, but drugs are very important too. A lot of people they they like to take that off the spotlight. When when you put drugs into the the program of of how you do in a sport or if you want to call it a sport to me to me it's not then then it's not a sport because then you're putting you know you have to put stuff in your body to you know to you know possibly affect your placing possibly place how you look. You know, without the drugs, nobody's going to look like they What about baseball then with all the peed concerns in in the sport of baseball? Correct. But I I honestly don't think that that all those guys are taking [\h__\h] We all know that everyone on that Olympia stage is taking a boatload of [\h__\h] And we're not talking about growth hormone. You still got to hit a baseball. You still got to hit a baseball. Barry Bonds hit all those home runs. He still had to hit the baseball. So, in bodybuilding, it's like you, you know, we could pump all this [\h__\h] in. You know, I had freaking 15inch arms and I started pumping oil in them and now I got 20inch arms. I would still have 15inch arms if I never started loading them with oil. So, I mean, to me, it's like if you if you're bringing in sight enhancement oil, I mean, man, I've heard some horror stories about what these guys are doing. To me, it's not even a sport. It's more like an art. It's an art to me. It's not a sport. Again, if you want to chime in, this is a this is a heated debate. #Rxdebate. chime in whether or not bodybuilding is a sport. Dave Palumbo, we go to you for the final word. Is bodybuilding to you a sport? I think everything in life is a sport. I mean, cheerleading is a sport if you want to look at it. And what do they do? They're cheering for someone else who's playing another sport. So, it's like a sport within a sport. I think being a magician is a sport because it requires talent and practice. You know, they had look at this iron walk show on on on the Food Network where they have people, you know, cooking against each other. That's a sport. I mean, yeah, anything where you're pitting people against each other competitively is technically a sport as far as I'm concerned and you can rationalize them all. You know, does body do bodybuilders use performance-enhancing drugs? Absolutely. But so do they they use them in every other sport, too. Uh, you know, from not to the extent. Come on now. Well, it doesn't matter. You now you're quantifying it's still a sport, you know, just, you know, people going to use any advantage they can get in any sport they can get. And we all know that whether it it has better swimming gear, better uh um goggles to see under the water when you're swimming. I mean, they got a million different, you know, bikes now. They can't weigh under 10 pounds because then that's cheating. So, they they have a lot of different, you know, uh ramifications and qualifications of a sport. But I think everything technically is a sport if you're competitive enough. And are people I guess you could say pornography is a sport. Johnny would definitely say that. Yes. H how I like best porn star. They give porn star awards. Like it's like the Olympia like who has the biggest dick, who gives the best [\h__\h] like you could give a case for anything if you want to start saying that. And these guys are pumping, you know, [\h__\h] their dick to stay hard after three orgasms. So there you go. Enhancements. You can call anything a sport, I guess, right? Well, I mean, bodybuilding, you know, is something that you have to do repetitively to improve yourself at. Granted, it's subjectively judged. Um, but that really is not not the the fault of the sport. It's maybe the fault of how it's structured. But I think like Chris said, it when you see Mr. Olympia on stage, very rarely do people say that guy shouldn't have won, you know. It's usually pretty knock it out of the park. So, um, we could probably go back and forth and debate anything, but I I I pretty much think anyone can be anything can be defined as quote a sport, you know. Well, Dave, you know what, one of the the the the odd litmus tests for that is, you know, uh although I don't think uh Phil is as good a business as a man as Jay, uh both of them, you know, both of them have Jay and Phil to their credit, both of them have fans in other sports who consider them athletes, right? you know, whether it be football players, wrestlers, cyclists, you know, uh I've been at Jay's house and you see all the, you know, autographed uh photos from different high-profile athletes 2J, you know, you know, and there's always a reference to like some type of uh you know, brother in sport. Not always but you know they themselves consider football players you know hockey players basketball players Chris people lift weights to to get better and improve themselves. Why can't the actual weightlifting be a sport itself? I mean which is obviously powerlifting and Olympic lifting is but the the ra the results of the weightlifting what people look like is also a sport if you think about it. I mean it's still an athletic endeavor. I'll reference Joe twice in one show had he'd roll over in his grave, right? If if we if you get a commission from him. All right, so let's move on to our last subject. Again, we're talk uh Boston did bring up the inclusion of drugs and and as involved it is, we'll leave that to the individual participant. But last year, Anthony Pasquali caused some waves, backing out last minute from the USA Championships when many thought he was going to be a very strong contender to win it all. He is well rumored to be participating this year, but it really brought up a lot of discussion, a lot of um mystery as far as what happened, why did he back out? And there was a lot of speculation, a lot of innuendo. Some thought maybe he he really just cracked under the pressure and some thought that maybe some things he were taking. We talked about the drugs. Some things that he was taking got to him perhaps. And you know this brings up a bigger question. Chris, we're going to go over to you first because this is a serious topic. The stress that bodybuilders are under, show to show, season to season, training regimen to training regimen. Is it to a point where this is a legitimate concern and something that the body bodybuilding world really needs to look into as a valid concern for his competitors? I I I I don't know. I don't think they have to look into it. I think the responsibility lies on the person. And my experience is that bodybuilders um prepare for shows uh in a way which puts them they they put themselves under an enormous amount of unneeded stress. Um and it's getting worse because they're checking Instagram every two seconds to see what their comp competitor looks like. They're on Facebook to see what their competitor looks like. They're on RX Muscle to see what someone said about them. And it baffles me that one they make the mistake of doing that and two even if they do do that that it has such a internal impact on their psyche preparing for a show. So I'm not saying that's what happened to Anthony Pasquali last year and he shortcircuited and crashed and burned. But it is so common these days and uh you know in the '9s maybe you know we always talk about hey the physiques in the '9s the physiques in the '9s in the physiques in the '90s people didn't even know what each other looked like and they didn't put themselves under pressure. The pressure they put themselves on is under was you know what you know Dave Palumbo or you know Kevin Leone or Dorian or Shawn Ray may show up looking like wild this year. I have no idea what they look like, so I better button down the hatches and put the work in. Even though it's not a sport, according to some. Uh, but you know, I need to button it down. And and it just seems that people with texting and this and this person said that and that person said this. It just, you know, it's getting so far uh, you know, removed from uh, what it should be because the only stress should be the physical stress and uh, and that's it. And people put themselves under way too much stress and and and I don't know if it was something that Anthony was taking or uh, you know, I just just think that um, people should enjoy the process and it's something I harp on all the time with people. I try to make it fun to people I work with and tell them, you know, f everybody, which really means, you know, focus on yourself. I don't know if that answers the question, but you can tell by the way I raise my voice that I'm passionate about it. Absolutely. I think it's stupid that that people put themselves under under stress. Uh Boston, you've been very outspoken about this subject in particular as far as uh the the usage uh in this industry. How much do you think that plays a part in these kind of instances? Not necessarily uh saying that that is exactly what happened with Anthony Pasquali, but uh certainly this is a growing concern. How much do you see uh usage as a as a participant in this kind of an this kind of an instance for other competitors around the industry? Well, I mean, look at me. I mean, I was going to do the uh New England's in 2000 and uh well, last year and 4 days before the New England, I injected injected into the ulner nerve. Uh damaged the nerve. My hand is still numb eight months later. Um still not full function. My wrist is starting to get some strength back, but I'm still messed up. I had to back out of the show. And I know three other competitors that the same thing had happened to him. They just didn't go public with it. And I just I just really care about even getting judged. So, I I went came public with it. And I mean, like I said, he could have had a bad shot. Uh, so Boston Lloyd chiming in with his concerns. Chris, we're going to go back over to you again. This is something that obviously we know Boston uh is very passionate about uh very outspoken about as far as the drug usage, as far as the frequency of it in this industry. Do you think that is something that could be uh looked at as a factor not maybe not now but going forward as this becomes more rampant and and you said it the best the role that social media plays in uh competitors bodybuilders being so self-conscious of the way they look at all times you know listener will laugh and say I'm a liar but um you know who I work with and I'm sure people know who I've worked with the last few years and and um people scoff at it, but they're not jamming [\h__\h] left, right, and center. You know, I'm not they're no angels, but um unless they're doing it behind my back, you know, it's it's uh it's a non-issue for me. Boston, we have Boston back, you know. I mean, it's it's it's it's uh we actually we cut off. Yeah. Boston, I wanted you to finish your thought just as far as this subject and as far as again something you've been very outspoken about. Well, actually, it's funny because actually I've talked to a lot of clients of of Chris's and Chris is so minimal dose that I I actually honestly don't believe it. I I believe that he's actually putting these guys on these dosages, but do I believe that they're actually following the dosage protocols that he's putting them on? I don't. Um, back in the 90s, I would say yes because the gear was a lot better, but now you just need more of it. Um, so I know personal experience from friends that are in the bodybuilding world that they are pumping tons of [\h__\h] to win a show, which I mean like me, I get really obsessed with winning. I'm glad I had to back out of this show because of the move because I get so obsessed that I don't if I don't do everything it takes to win, I won't be satisfied. And like I'll be pumping, you know, 30 cc's, 40 cc's of synth all day on top of, you know, six cc's of gear, you know, the last eight weeks, you know, every day. and I'll just be, you know, pushing it, pushing it, and I'll feel like [\h__\h] You know, my body feels like [\h__\h] and and I won't feel good. And uh so that saying, Chris, his clients look great. Obviously, his nutrition approach is a great is great. His guys don't need that much, whatever. Great genetics. Like, I guarantee you Chris doesn't take people that don't have potential. But saying that, you know, it is, you know, you know, Chris might train the same guy who put put him on low gear. Then this same dude might go to, you know, Farah, and Farah might load him up on tons of stuff. And uh you know, so it just all depends. You know, some guys don't need that much. You know, like black guys. I I saw a black guy in the gym yesterday yesterday. I go, "Hey, man." I go, "You have serious genetics. Like you look amazing. How many times do you eat a day?" I was just wondering. Obviously this dude is only like 22. He's like, "Oh man." He's like, "I only eat like twice a day like cereal and milk in the morning." And then before I make the kids shredded. I'm like, "Let me see your midsection." Just shred it. I'm like, "This is retarded." And so some guys don't need that much, but white boys need a lot more. Chris, you want to respond? No, I I I already you know all the black dudes I work with. So, you know, we got team black, you know, I always say that. I told you I work with the black guys. Makes me look good. Great. I I I got two black guys coming to the USA. So, every time I see a dude, a black dude at a show like ser like like hard as [\h__\h] like just destroying white dudes, I go, I guarantee you he's natural, too. It's just I guarantee he's natural. I was like I saw this guy at the Connecticut show just like hamstring bellies like it's not super hard and grainy but I'm like I guarantee that dude's natural cuz their genetics are just [\h__\h] I mean they could just look at dumbbells and then grow. # RX debate again if you want to get your question or comment on it. We do have one question which we'll ask after the final word. So Dave, you got the final word on this subject. Again it is a serious one. I know we kind of had some fun with it with Anthony Pasquali uh dropping out last year before the USA Championships. Many thought he could win and a lot under a lot of mysterious circumstances withdrew from the competition. Rumor has it that he is going to enter this year. But given the rumors and given the uh innuendo that's out there, do you think this is a growing problem, the stress that some of these competitors are under and perhaps the role of what they're taking? I think there's stress in anything that we do, but I think bodybuilders in particular, and I know because I was one for many years, uh we put a like Chris said, we put a lot of stress on ourselves and we we a lot of and I see this happen a lot. I see bodybuilders quitting their jobs. I see bodybuilders giving up everything in their life for the one contest because that's the most important thing. It's a very self-centered, egotistical uh but that's what it takes to win. So when you do and you you give up everything. I remember Kai Green telling me, you know, after the New York Pro one year that he took 12th, I think he won best poser. This is right after right before he went on a tear of winning shows. He didn't even hadn't paid his cell phone bill. He hadn't paid anything. He had like like outstanding debt everywhere. And he he didn't even have money for another food meal the next day. That's how low he went. So, you know, when you put that kind of pressure on yourself and you don't come through, it it's it's traumatizing. And a lot of guys would rather sometimes back out than have to see themselves fail, you know. Now, I I was never that type of person. I'm sure Chris and and I don't think Boston is. We all like to we're gambles. We lay it on the line. If I'm going to put this much effort in something, you damn right I'm going to go through with it and see how it it pans out because I believe that there is no wrong solution or there's no bad outcome. It's just how you perceive the outcome to be. So, you know that having said that, I think that there's different personalities. Some people are very confident and sure of themselves. Some people are very uh unconfident and there's a lot of non-confident. There's a lot of bodybuilders out there that are that are unsure of themselves. Even though they're these big bulking guys, they put on that bulk because that's like a protective suit of armor for them. So I, you know, probably, and I've said this before, probably most top level bodybuilders need a real sports psychologist to to to deal with the mental issues they have because I think that's why Kai Green has never won the Olympia. I think he mentally is defeated before he gets there. And guys like Jay Cutler, guys like Phil Heath, they know how to win and they have that mindset that that there's nothing going to turn them away and they believe they're the champions. Flex Wheeler. You never thought he go. Yeah, that's So guys, again, before we go to our FaceTime segment, we did open up the Twitter hashtag RX debate, we do have a question, Dave, I'm going to direct this question to you. It is from Robert Salazar, Robert Salazar 3, and he asks, "Will Zack King Khan ever make it to an Olympia stage? # I hope so." Well, you know, I saw Zach with a when I was in, I believe it was Brazil, and you know, Zach had torn his quads, both quadricep muscles a number of years back, and he had, not only did he tear them, have them repaired, but he had to have them redone. I thought I had it bad. He had two of them redone. And I saw his legs and he flexed them for me at this Brazilian Arnold Classic Expo, and I was actually really surprised how good they looked. And I believe that Zach could get himself into good shape. I think he might have the potential to win a pro show at this point in time. I think he's making more money by not competing. He walks around like a freak. He's huge in Europe. He works for New Trex. He sells a lot of product for them. He probably makes a very nice salary for himself. And maybe the people at News are telling him, you know what, you don't need to compete. Be a big freak. Sell product for us and we're happy. Might be the best thing he does. If he gets on the stage and he doesn't do well, what happens? his stock might go down. He's a freak in the gym and just falls apart on stage. We've never really seen him on a stage at 100% either. So, Chris, you want to chime in real quick? No, I I think he uh I I'm shocked the way his legs have come back and um I I I think that, you know, he did compete last year and he was very very competitive. I think he made top 10 at a very deep maybe it was a year and a half ago one of the Europa shows but that's when his legs I mean his legs have improved since then. So um I I think he can I'm not sure if he can win a pro show but he can be like in a Europa for sure top three. He just needs to continue to bring the legs up and they they have improved and I agree with I saw them also and you know they've come a long way. Again, the hashtag to participate in our conversations for future shows #Rxdebate. We thank all that tweeted at us tonight. Well, that brings us now to our FaceTime segment of this show. Each of our participants have prepared a minute, a little bit longer rant, something that they're passionate about, something that they have a pet peeve, something that they just wanted to get off their chest. So, first time participant Boston Lloyd, we go to you first for the FaceTime. All right. So, I'm going to piss a lot of people off as I usually do on Facebook with this. And uh I you know, people are going to probably be like all these little freaking science mad scientists that look like [\h__\h] are going to start start ranting. But so I'm going I'm going to talk about if it fits your macros. And uh a lot of this thing is scientific, you know, science-based. So basically, they're saying it's science, so it has to work. But it's funny because all these kids on my page that are like it's it works this and that. They look like skinny fat like like gardeners. like skinny fat, like Hispanics, like like just like that whole like look. It's just it's just not a good look. Like it's like, okay, let's have two to three portions a day and fit all our macros and instead of having our, you know, carbs from oatmeal, we're going to fit it in with, you know, you know, grape juice or we're going to fit it in with whatever the hell we want, but a carb is a carb, a protein protein is a protein, and a fat is a fat. So, you're gonna they're getting their fats from, you know, Pop-Tarts. They're getting their, you know, carbs from Pop-Tarts, you know, and they're just they're just fitting it in and they all look like [\h__\h] Then you got to wonder like is science like So, do you really look at yourself in the mirror and be like, "Yeah, science is working." Like, I don't know. Like, I honestly don't know what these guys go through their head. I mean, but they all look like [\h__\h] So, shout out to all the shitty looking picture macros. And uh that's my that's my little little rant. Boston Lloyd, appreciate you bringing it tonight, especially at the 11th hour. Chris Aceto, we go back over to you now for FaceTime. Partial reps, dude. I can't even believe I cannot believe that people claim that partial reps are are reps at all. Partial reps is when you can't do the real reps, meaning you've done the whole thing. And now to try to tax the muscle a little bit above and beyond where you you normally could, you do halves. But I see well-known bodybuilders, amateur and professional, too, on the damn hammer chest press machine and shoulder press machine doing half of half reps. And you know, some of the guys are winning shows, some of the guys are placing high at shows, but it's a joke. I mean, if if you it it it's akin to some guy coming to work for me and working half a day. I said, "You know what? You're not getting paid. Pay you to work the whole damn day to work, not fake work." So, uh, you know, I I I can't believe that people are Well, I can and you know, we still do this. You know, where are the Wheelers? Where are the Levers? Where are the Sunny Schmidts? Where are the Aaron Bakers? Where are the '90s guys? And the '9s guys didn't do partials. They did real reps, real weight, real barbells and dumbbells. And this is part part of the the not evolution, but the the devolution, the the regression of the physiques that we're it's it's a small piece. Besides overeing and taking a ton of stuff, people don't even know the basics in terms of how to train. They're doing partial stuff which creates not even a partial physique. So Chris Aceto pointing out the partial reps and giving a tip of the hat to the old school training techniques. Chris bringing it as always on this show. So for our final FaceTime, we go to the boss Dave Palumbo. Chris and I seem to be like psychically synced, you know. So I'm gonna take off where he left off because my pet peeve is the fact that no one does compound movements anymore. I was watching a video Jay Cutler and and Kai Green and they were training together at Bev's gym and they were talking about, you know, how, you know, what the best mass movements are for chest. And Jay is saying without a doubt bench pressing, you know, uh, even though he doesn't do them anymore because he's got a well-developed chest and he uses the Smith machine. And meanwhile, Kai's banging out reps on the hammer strength machine. And, you know, you just don't see guys bench pressing anymore. You know, when I first started lifting, that was the movement we did. flat bench press, incline bench press. That's what builds a big chest. And I don't see I don't see anyone doing that anymore. I see everyone on these machines and and like Chris said, they're not even doing full reps. Uh I got to tell you, I saw a video the other day and we talked about this on Muscle in the Morning. Uh Akeem Williams was incline bench pressing 465 pounds for about four or five good clean all the way down full repetitions. And I was so impressed that thank God someone's still lifting heavy basic movements. And you know what? His physique shows it because the guy's been gaining 10 15 pounds a year for the last five years. And he he's like a looks like a freak. He reminds me of a Ronnie Coleman. Ronnie Coleman was doing heavy dumbbell presses, heavy incline presses right up to the end of his career. And it and it showed in his physique. And I I wish more guys would go back to that. But I don't know if it's a laziness thing or if people just it's more glamorous to just go in the gym and wear cool looking clothes and cool looking sneakers and maybe take more, you know, supplements rather than actually trying to push yourself hard. Take more supplements, taking more selfies at the gym. That seems to be the way that everything is progressing or as Chris said, regressing. That is going to do it for another edition of Iron Debate. Reminder, big show tomorrow night, Heavy Muscle TV. It is going to be a celebrity edition of Heavy Muscle TV. We are going to be joined in studio by Rosario Dawson. You'll remember her from the Sin City movies, Clerk's movies, uh He Got Game, Men in Black 2, and in addition to that, Chris Aljuri, the light welterweight champion of the world. Just last night, it was announced he will be taking on Manny Pacquiao on November 22nd. He will be live in studio. You're not going to want to miss that. tomorrow night, 8:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, right here on rxmuscle.com. Special thanks to Johnny Styles, our director and producer, doing the magic behind the scenes, making sure we get on air. I'm Sadique Farooqi, wishing you good night. Make sure to keep it locked on our Facebook page and Twitter feed. Keep it locked to rxmuscle.com. Have a good night.