I feel that the Pittsburgh Pro is going to be what I would call a legacy show. Meaning, if you have that Pittsburgh Pro title, that is a real notch in your belt. The position that I'm in right now, having just come off of the Arnold Classic win, to do the Arnold Classic, to do the Pittsburgh Pro, and to to do the Olympia all in the same year and be victorious in all three would be another monumental historical moment in bodybuilding history. I'm Dave Palumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believed in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palumbo here with an RX Muscle news update. Many of you might have heard already Derek Lunsford going on the record announcing that he will be doing the IFBB Pittsburgh Pro due to take place in May of this year. He just came off that spectacular comeback, winning the Arnold Classic at $500,000. That was kind of a retribution and a little bit of I guess you could call it revenge on Samson Dou for beating him at the Olympia late last year. A lot of people felt, myself included, that Derek would shut it down after the Arnold Classic until the Olympia because obviously the main goal for this year would be to win back his Olympia crown that he lost last year to Samson. That's not going to be the case. Derek committed to doing the Pittsburgh. I think even before he might have even committed to doing the Arnold this year and he is standing by that commitment. He feels and and this is, you know, something that has never been done before. There have been years where bodybuilders have won the Arnold and the and the Olympia. Ronnie Coleman did it in 02, but there have never been a year where we've seen a bodybuilder win the Arnold, another mid-season show, and then the Olympia. It just hasn't happened. Uh the reason it hasn't happened is because it's very hard to peak your body three times in the same year, especially spread out by, you know, several months in between. It's not like you're hitting a show one week and then a week or two later you're hitting another show. That's that's been done. I mean, that's easy because you're already in shape. But to hold on and then have to deprive five week four or five months and then and then do it again for the Olympia uh is is unheard of. It's never been done. It might not ever be done. And Derek Lunford wants to be the first man to do that. So that would be mean that he would win the Arnold, 500 grand there, win the Pittsburgh, 100 grand there, and then go to the Olympia and win 600,000 there. That would be a really, really nice year for him. That would be a $1.2 million uh year for him moneywise, but it would also give him the record of having, I guess, you know, the most significant uh wins and the most money ever made in a single year by a bodybuilder. I don't think it's so it's one of these records, you know, that might never be broken again if he can pull it off. He's only he's only pulled off one. And you know what? If he does pull it off, we might actually call this the Grand Prix of bodybuilding, right? You know, they have it in other sports in tennis. You have to win Wimbledon and Australian and then the u the US Open and the uh I think it's the French Open. Those are the four. You get the Grand Slam title. Maybe in bodybuilding we'll have a grand slam as well. If you can win the Arnold, win the Pittsburgh and then win the Olympia later in the year that will could be called the bodybuilding grand slam. And you know what? For good measure, I mean, seriously, if Derek does the Pittsburgh and wins that, it's it's it's a no-brainer to go to New York the week after that and win Steve Weinberger show the New York Pro. And that that would certainly cement his legacy as cleaning up. Matter of fact, he will have taken away, you know, if he did that, three qualifying spots for the 2025 Olympia because he won obviously he didn't even need to to take any spots because he's already qualified since he is a former Mr. Olympia. But he will have taken the Arnold, the New York Pro, and the Pittsburgh away from the the qualification series. But hey, that's the way it goes. Can he do it? That's the question. It's it's going to be tough. I think it's going to be I think this second show is going to be easier. I think the Pittsburgh he'll be fine for because he he really hasn't gotten out of shape from the Arnold from from the pictures I've seen that Chris Cedto has told me he looks wacky. He's still very fresh in terms of his mental state. He's coming off a real big high winning that Arnold and all that money and getting that, you know, beating Samson. I think he's going to coast right into Pittsburgh and have no problem with that show. The question is, can he beat Nick Walker? Can he beat, you know, Good Veto there? Can he beat, you know, the uh what's his Martin Fitzwwater? It's going to be a good lineup. He's beaten them all already. So, I don't think he's gonna have any problem doing that. Then the question becomes how much does he left have left in the tank to get all the way to October to do that Olympia and look his best because it's going to take his best to win that Olympia against guys like Hottie Chopen who's taken off the entire year and is resting against Samson Dou who looks like he's shutting it down you know but you never know with Samson you can jump into a show for the rest of the year after the Arnold guys that are you know going to be well rested we don't know maybe Derek looks better with the more shows he does. Some people are like that. Some people get better from show to show. I think he's going to have a very difficult time with the Olympia. I think he's going to, like I said, coast into Pittsburgh. I think he's going to clean up there and uh, you know, make a lot of guys very upset, which is going to force guys like Nick Walker and and Martin. Well, Martin's already re-qualified because he did a show at the end of 24 where he beat Seabbum and Seabbum's only open show he had done. So Martin's qualified already, but Nick is gonna have to qualify. Good veto ostensibly will qualify in the Arnold Brazil, which is going to be taking place in a few weeks. So I don't think he's gonna have a problem, but Nick Walker might have a problem. Nick Walker is going to have to go to New York. If Derek beats him, or if he doesn't win Pittsburgh, and if Dererick decides to go to New York the week after that and win that, then Nick Walker's in trouble. Then Nick is going to have to do yet another show to qualify, which is fine because I think Nick Walker gets better and better from show to show, too. So that might not be a bad thing uh either. So maybe Derek's doing Nick a favor. I don't know. But it seems like if you're a betting man, the the good money would be to put on Derek Lunsford who's on a super high right now at his all-time best. He's locked and loaded. He's ready to do Pittsburgh. He feels very he looked very confident in the video where he posted what he's going to do and he obviously has a goal to win all three of those shows, the Olympia, the Arnold, and the Pittsburgh. Can he do it? We'll have to wait and find out. I'm Dave Palumbo with an RX Muscle news update.